Watching the first episode of 'Better call Saul' just plunges you right back into the world of 'Breaking Bad'. If you watched the latter of course, nostalgia will be an inevitable delicacy. I do hope that it will unfold as greatly as its father and though not walk in breaking bad's path of making you love a narcissistic anti-hero, this one will prove to be of quite the same flavor. To top it off, feels good seeing old faces. I just wonder if they have in mind to converge it with the breaking bad time-line which would be just plain awesome.it sure seems that Saul and Walter are opposite sides to the same coin. Bob Odenkirk's acting is as always genuine and just awesomely good, for those of you who watched Fargo, the series, you'd know he is fairly versatile and to up the task of being the main character of his own series.Do note that Better Call Saul is utterly different from your traditional law drama. To top it off, feels good seeing old faces.


                
BCS isn't as good as Breaking Bad, it's a different show, with a much slower burn, it's "quirk" overpowers what BB used to fill with "tough", and that's not a terrible thing, but it does leave me wanting. Feathering in the BB crew much too slowly for my liking, Chuck was an interesting character but glad he's gone. Want to see a faster paced season this time around, not sure if we're going to get it.


                
gosh ,, i really didn't expect the show to be that exciting, it started a bit slow,, with two skaters blah blah ,, but just when you think nothing is gonna happen a Surprise :D the story telling, the cinematography and the camera movement is just as they were in breaking bad ..Tho seeing the story from Saul's point of view is fascinating, it was so vague in breaking bad and not that interesting but now after three episodes gosh it escaped out of breaking bad's net so smoothly . Apart from the commercializing process that happened before it premieres, breaking bad is so small part from the story of Saul Goodman. seeing Saul, mike , a Mexican gang and Hoping to see Walter and Jesse would be a rate lift. Things so far are going smooth, easy to understand, they building up to the Saul we knew from breaking bad , things still rough for Saul , so the writers are making him the hero of the show making us to feel for him , being him with all of that money problems. that moment of surprise still there,, which i think will make this series as good than Breaking bad. but overall and by the first look of it it seems like AMC is having yet another TV Hit. ;) Bravo,


                
Whereas Breaking Bad, the cult-status, Emmy-rich Vince Gilligan show that begat 'Saul' kept fans on the edge of their seats nearly every segment of every episode, Better Call Saul takes its sweet time. Several seasons into the spinoff, Odenkirk has yet to evolve into the titular character. So far he's been 75% Jimmy McGill, a well-meaning but corner-cutting loser-turned-attorney, always in the shadow of his bizarrely eccentric brother, who's a mega-successful-law firm founder. Typically, in 'Saul,' the epidodes and segments therein accomplish only hints at plot twists that may take several more episodes -or seasons- to fulfill in any significant way. Thus, now in the 2018 season, to appreciate the spinoff, one must still savor the personalities and quirks of characters like not-yet-Saul (Jimmy); 'fixer,' Mike, 'drug kingpin,' Gus Fring, and Jimmy's increasingly more interesting, legit-attorney girlfriend, Kim. 
I was growing impatient for the Saul we all grew to relish as a memorably tacky antihero, to emerge until this season. Looks like halfway through.. we're well on our way. Great things are yet to come.


                
I'm probably writing what a lot of people wrote before me with "After watching breaking bad this ... " obviously there is this connection to make but after three seasons (this is what it took for me) Better Call Saul is its own, very great thing, which is different but in no ways worse or better then breaking bad, its just really great and everybody who likes intelligent storytelling should watch it. Theres a lot to write about it, especially if you discussing a comparison to breaking bad but I just keep it like that: great, great show, must watch.


                
Better Call Saul as a prequel to Breaking Bad is an interesting show that keeps you watching, with great acting. Yet when the last episode in season one ends you seem to know how and why Jimmy AKA Saul Goodman ended up the way he is shown in the opening scene of the first episode. The entire series in fact is one big flashback.Of course this depends on one having seen him depicted at the shyster lawyer in Breaking Bad. But, seeing how he has his ideals smashed in the last episode and seeing what he has become in BB, you feel it may be a downer to watch any subsequent Saul series on the basis of knowing how he winds up.But as a prequel it's one of the better shows on TV right now.
Director Vince Gilligan gives me another fix with Better Call Saul. It's early to say that Better Call Saul is better than Breaking Bad, but I am all in on the new spin off show.The two shows have a very similar feel however Better Call Saul seems a bit sharper and faster paced. The consistency between episodes is still evident, which made Breaking Bad beautiful.Another reason that I love the new show is the dark humor. Jimmy is pulling himself up from his bootstraps trying to start his on business that begins in a nail salon closet. Gilligan shows scenes of realism when Saul psyching himself up in a courtroom mirror. There are sad moments offset by a dark sense of humor that Bob Odenkirk plays perfectly.Saul's actions speak louder than his words. Talking to himself in a mirror and chasing clients deep into the night shows how desperate Jimmy really is. He's a nervous mess who tells himself, "It's showtime!" in the mirror before every courtroom appearance, but he bursts through the doors with all the confidence we know him to possess as Saul Goodman.Jimmy is a far more entertaining character than Walter White. Jimmy moves a lot quicker than Walt ever did.You can't help rooting for Jimmy. His patience and compassion for his brother will tug at nearly every viewer's heartstrings. He will work any line of legal work to make a buck, even dreary elder law.I love how Gilligan decided to take the prequel way back before the times of Breaking Bad so that there are more opportunities to develop characters. The beauty of the show is about transferring from Jimmy into Saul Goodman, "criminal lawyer." I love the way Better Call Saul opens. True to how Saul left Breaking Bad, he ends up working in a Cinnabon in Omaha. The scenes are filmed in black and white and Saul didn't even mutter a word! It was really sad to see a character I loved in Breaking Bad who merely added comic relief, brought down by Walter White.Another thing that Better Call Saul has going for it is that Skylar White isn't in it. She was terribly melancholy. There are some great cameos including Mike from Breaking Bad and Tuco. It's great to see familiar characters in a new setting and without the baggage that they have in the Breaking Bad. It's part of the magic of the show.I am on the edge of my seat to watch the transformation from Jimmy to Saul. Dare I say it, I'm addicted to Better Call Saul.
Breaking Bad lovers - take heart. The team that brought you Walter White is at it again. Bob Odenkirk in "Better Call Saul" is delivering. My buddy and I discussed this - there are times when supporting characters should stay that way - they cannot pull off a leading role. Not so in Saul's case. The jury was out the first two episodes - I was not sure the plot really was intriguing, but by the end of episode 3, I was hooked. Ultimately it is the writing that carries these types of shows and the plot, characters, writing (and quirkiness) is working again.People are trying to compare it to Breaking Bad - that is like trying to compare the Monkees to the Beatles - ridiculous. Not sure this will make my top 10, but it is entertaining - I love the embezzling family - so common, so trite (and 50 ish) - perfect for big time embezzlers. That is the kind of dichotomy we have come to expect from Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould.Bringing Mike Ehrmantrout in as a former cop - now a "no rule bending" parking attendant is great. I'm sure his role will expand. I am looking forward to cameos from BB - especially, of course Walter and Jesse. They will not be able to resist bringing Walter's story in as a big part of Saul's history - probably in an oblique way. We shall see.If you are not Breaking Bad fans - What's up with that??? - to each his own, I guess. If not, "Saul" will probably leave you cold. But if you are - have at it - I think you will enjoy it.


                
You're most likely gonna like Better Call Saul. This show has all the characters we grew to love and the background stories the original hinted at, it doesn't have that academic edge to it that Breaking Bad had. What I do love is we get to see how and why Saul became "Saul - The sleazy attorney" and how Mike got his start as Gus's right hand man. I still think Breaking Bad is the better show but the Better Call Saul ranks right up there In terms of entertainment.


                
I really liked Breaking Bad and have been pretty happy with Better Call Saul even though at times it feels like its building at a very slow pace. When binging a show like this you tend to see some of it's weaker moments, which was for me the repetitious nature of some of the scenes. There are these scenes that seem so drawn out, there were at least 3 that I can remember and probably more since I found myself skipping through some of these. I won't give anything away but imagine someone looking for something in their house, maybe its a gun (or whatever) they show this person going through each drawer, turning over each pillow on the couch etc. At first these types of scenes felt like they were building drama but for me turned to an annoyance to be skipped and after I noticed it annoying me it was like a dripping faucet I started to fixate a bit too much on them. It seemed kind of like the producers were stretching the show out with these long drawn out sequences. They weren't so bad that I couldn't watch the show but they did annoy me (except with the last one).Even with that this is a top notch show that even someone who didn't see Breaking Bad could be a fan of, it might actually be better to watch this show first then BB.


                
This is an amazing spin off series from Breaking Bad. It's not as good as that show but then again very very few series ever will be, but it stands on its own and is a great series in its own right and funnier than that show if not quite as impressively dramatic and dark.


                
My whole thought is that, if the story progresses faster and he becomes "Saul Goodman" then the series will end. This is the time they can go in depth and touch on details.You will still get the same visual appeal as breaking bad, but you get a completely different storyline. Jimmy McGill is trying to find his place as an lawyer, but also acting upon criminal requests. I'm just as impatient as everyone else to start seeing the flamboyant colored dress shirts and meeting the big guys (such as Gus). But let us sit back and enjoy the detail, without it going overboard. If I know how Vince Gilligan writes, it's only going to continue to escalate.
Firstly I have to say, that this has nothing on Breaking Bad. But then not much ever will. So if you're expecting the same level of intensity and sheer class of this show's big brother then get that out of your head straight away. However, this show is 100% true to itself. It doesn't try to be anything else other than what it is and it doesn't try to live up to the high expectations everyone has of it being as good/better than Breaking Bad, which is what I love about it. What it does do though, is keep the same style as its big brother. The camera work is still sublime and the script is brilliantly thought out. And it's these similarities that are keeping me happy, as I was a totally lost man after Breaking Bad. I didn't know what to do with my self! I couldn't sleep. My speech had gone to pot when talking to friends and I was an all round mess. Luckily for me, I finished Breaking Bad just as Better Call Saul was released, and this kept me from going cold turkey. The pace of BCS is much slower than BB and on a few occasions I found myself marginally frustrated at the lack of content in a few episodes. On the other hand it's the slow, easy speed that makes it rather pleasant to watch and in some ways therapeutic. As more and more episodes went on and as I cruised through season two I found myself connecting more and more with it. I loved the sarcastic humour, the relationships between Jimmy (Saul) and his co-workers/family and of course it's great to watch Saul's 'used car salesman's' attitude towards a serious profession. Conclusion: I cannot give it more than an 8/10 as it is just nowhere near as good as BB. It's slower tempo and less erratic story line leaves it slightly flat. But it's the little details which will keep a fan in love with it and Vince Gilligan. If you are not a fan of BB then this may not be the show for you. But if you are, then it will keep that neutron star alive, left behind by the super nova that was, Breaking Bad.


                
Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk) returns for another season of mischief and clever scams. I really enjoy how they started both seasons with a black and white flash forward to Saul (or Jimmy) working in a Cinnabon in the middle of nowhere. This season stresses that his life has become a miserable substitute to the flashy lawyer that protects criminals in the Breaking Bad series.The story resumes with Jimmy making a change in his decision to do good things. He gave up the chance to get away with a lot of money. Now Jimmy is using fake names to scam hotels and bankers. The scene with the expensive tequila brings the show right back into the realm and shows Jimmy's cleverness.The other character that I can't get enough of and I'm glad is back in the show is Mike Ehrmantraut played by Jonathan Banks. He is hired out to protect idiots doing crimes and has encountered a client that doesn't think he needs Mike's services anymore. The world of the show is unforgiving, and anyone that gets too overconfident often gets knocked down.After season two: The saga of Jimmy McGill transforming into the loudmouth, smooth-talking, corrupt lawyer Saul Goodman raised the stakes in the second season of this cool entertaining spin off of the hit crime drama Breaking Bad. Bob Odenkirk reprises his critically acclaimed role as Jimmy just as his law career has taken a turn with his big case against the nursing home facility.Jimmy is disillusioned after the death of his good friend back in Chicago so he returns to New Mexico and continues his scamming ways until he is hired to work for a prestigious law firm in Santa Fe. The future Saul does not fit in with the staid atmosphere, and they do not appreciate his theatrics in a silly commercial that Saul Goodman will eventually be known for. I do love how all of this comes back to a time period after Breaking Bad with small black and white segments in the first episode.After season 3: The highly entertaining Breaking Bad spin off pushes closer to the original story with a familiar villain showing up and more backstory coming forward. Jimmy McGill (Bob Odenkirk) works to start his own law practice with his partner Kim Wexler (Rhea Seehorn) while his brother Chuck McGill (Michael McKean) has collected evidence against him. Meanwhile, Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks) hunts down whoever left him a note on his car preventing him from killing Hector Salamanca (Mark Margolis). Ehrmantraut follows a trail that leads him to Gus Fring (Giancarlo Esposito), the chicken restaurant owner and drug smuggler. Chuck takes his evidence to Howard Hamlin (Patrick Fabian) and they conspire to disbar Jimmy with a lawsuit. Jimmy finds his business booming with popular advertisements that display his flamboyant nature. Chuck pushes Jimmy to a breaking point with his recording and Jimmy ends up in jail. Mike and Gus end up creating a new partnership when Mike starts to cut off Hector's supply line by getting his ice cream trucks stopped at the border. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
After Breaking bad i was really concerned how possibly i can like BCS. As even after watching first episode i was not very much thrilled as it was missing the flair and suspense which breaking bad offered. But as i kept on watching , it keeps getting better and better and style of Vince of leaving the audience in suspense after each episode end it just amazing. I am binge watching it now, completed 8 episode in two days and just as soon as i finish one, i jump to the next episode , its the kind of feeling breaking bad has. The mike character is very wisely introduced and its going really well in the direction. nothing looks out of the place and James is doing really really good job with his acting. i am still not able to figure out relation between James and kim. its so confusing and so is james own character too much mystery.Its one juicy season 1. looking forward for


                
After watching season one of this series I have to say it is another promising opening season for a multi-season series. After watching Breaking Bad I wanted to see will the script writers keep up with the freshness and ingenuity of the Breaking Bad. I have to say that we have a promising start. I have to say that Bob Odenkirk is fantastic as a principal actor and that the whole crew really lives up to the expectations. I liked most of the episodes but the pilot sticks to mind from other episodes.I will recommend this series, it is very entertaining and full of interesting and funny gigs. Watching it is time well spent!


                
The series is a great spinoff from Breaking Bad. SAUL is a unique character that definitely deserved his own series. I'm glad that Breaking Bad universe didn't have to end!


                
You wouldn't easily say a spin-off can even be compared to the original, though Better Call Saul can. While I initially began watching Better Call Saul with a certain amount of skepticism, I eventually became to love it. Bob Odenkirk is just an amazing actor, and carries whole the show by himself. I won't spoil anything, but if you liked Breaking Bad, you'll love Better Call Saul.


                
The detailed and sometimes obscure and achingly slow methodical build up that clears like a mist to that panoramic plot, finally the plot that we waited 50 minutes for and that climatic moment where Mike stakes out his car, and turns from prey to hunter again, that is a trademark Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould twist. However...and it is a valid however, are they going to end this moment as a cliff hanger every episode as I can see this becoming monotonous and predictable. We don't need cliff hangers and I would rather that when the excitement finally begins it doesn't become the point where they add the cliff hanger. Let us consume some of the desert please.


                
I was neutral as I started to watch. A black and white prologue greets you, and then, after the quirky title, it rolls to the beginning of the story of the lawyer we (I'm guessing you have watched Breaking Bad) know as Saul Goodman.Within few minutes, the vibe started dawning in. The same vibe we are so accustomed with. The setup, the cinematography, the direction, and everything is reminiscent of its parent show. However, Bob Odenkirk is the sole master here. His nervousness as a former rookie is brilliant. I am a fan of Odenkirk's marvelous ability to pull of the different required airs, which on another note, introduces an intrigue into our minds. And since we know it is a happy ending for the lawyer (from the prequel point of view), it is entertaining to see how amateur he started. The struggle is what the pilot captures, mainly. The second episode throws light into how Jimmy McGill continues as a Public Defense.Uno has everything a pilot would need to ignite a spark. Mijo is better, and confirms that this spin-off has something true in its store for the fans of one of the greatest shows on Earth. Lots of implications also opens a window of speculations about the supporting characters.BOTTOM LINE: Nothing can be predicted at this point, and it will take at least two more episodes to understand this series. Watch out for the surprise at the end of episode one. Honestly, episode one doesn't disappoint. And two is better. Brilliant!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESNOTE: This review will be edited after every new episode. Current status: Episode 2.


                
On its own I don't see this show as strong enough to make it through an entire season, even on basic cable. In the context of having deeply loved a previous AMC series which serves as the inspiration for this one, I have very much enjoyed Better Call Saul. Perhaps I enjoyed more as a thank you to fans of that previous show than for its virtues, but I was happy to see each new episode pop up on the schedule. It's not perfect. The subplot with Michael McKean is not my favorite. Michael McKean seems to cause the show to grind to a halt every time he enters a scene. On the bright side the scenes we've been treated to of Saul in his current sad existence as a fugitive working in a mall in Omaha have been tantalizing. Maybe we will see a little more of these. Hopefully the ever-resilient Saul will snap out of it and reinvent himself out of this hellishly bland life. Unlike the previous series I'm not seeing any signs of genius in this one, at least not yet. But I am happy to have it back for another go.


                
Better Call Saul is not another Breaking Bad. This is a good and bad thing. Good in that it's something original and different from Breaking Bad in some positive ways while keeping a lot of the BB "style" and bad in that fans of BB will at times be frustrated by new characters who at times are less intriguing, story lines that don't have as much action, and different (slower) pacing from the old BB.One of the first things we learn from BCS is that Saul Goodman had a previous life as Jimmy McGill. McGill was a conman who would use the slogan, "It's all good, man!" before making his move. He made a small living with this, but ultimately wasn't happy. He moves to a more legitimate business, working in the mail room of a major law firm, where his older brother Chuck is one of the partners. During this time, he takes correspondence courses and passes the bar. However, the firm won't hire him. McGill works as an attorney on small claims cases for defendants who can't afford an attorney, but still is just scraping by. It's when he watches an episode of Matlock that he finds a niche in elderly law and starts making a decent living.Unlike the somewhat cartoon-like and one dimensional Goodman from BB, McGill has some depth. He works extremely hard, wants approval of his older brother Chuck, as well as his on again, off again girlfriend Kim Wexler, and wants to do anything possible to help his clients. At the same time, shades of the conman he once was are still in his DNA, and likely is his Achilles heal to what turns him into Saul Goodman. That's one of the things I really like about this show is that the character developments seems a bit more deep and complex than some of the character development on BB. Also, McGill seems like a good guy deep inside, which with Walter White, while he wasn't always evil, he always seemed to have an edge to him.I like that this show focuses more on the black comedy than BB did. At the same time, there's less action than BB. That makes for a slower pace, but it's a very unique structure. Also, I'm happy that the show didn't fall into a "case of the week" procedural format that most law shows fall into. The show requires patience and feels like a good wine that takes time for the flavor to bloom. It seems the closer we get to the season finale, the better each episode gets.Also, it's great to have Mike back from BB and see how that partnership was formed.BCS isn't BB, but there's a lot of potential here for it to be a modern day classic. We'll see how the show unfolds, but so far, I'm a big fan.
Bob Odenkirk created the breakout character of Saul Goodman in "Breaking Bad" and was so popular, he was given his own show."Better Call Saul" - even though so far he's using the name Jimmy McGill - is a prequel to the Breaking Bad days, which makes it extra fun. We are able to see Jonathan Banks (Mike Ehrmantraut), Mark Margolis (Hector Salamanca), Giancarlo Esposito (Gustavo Fring), Raymond Cruz (Tuco Salamanca), among others.At this point in the story, we're entering the "Breaking Bad" territory but haven't quite gotten to Jimmy's name change. We have however, seen what happens to him in the future thanks to some flash forwards.We see Jimmy as a not quite honest attorney in Albuquerque, New Mexico, representing petty crooks and doing some civil liability. He does find a niche working with the elderly, though, helping them with their wills and taking on a class action case when a nursing home has stolen from them.His brother Chuck, it turns out, is a senior partner at a big firm but is housebound and living in the dark thanks to some kind of allergy or trauma associated with, he thinks, electronic devices. When you enter his house, you leave your cell phone outside. Jimmy delivers the groceries and runs errands for him.Despite some problems that Jimmy had back in Chicago, Charles gets him a job at his own law firm, which leads to major problems.Mike Ehrmantraut is an ex-police officer working in the courthouse parking lot, so we find out how Jimmy's and Mike's stories dovetail. Now, Jimmy has a patient albeit nervous partner, Kim Wexler (Rhea Seehorn). She tries very hard to believe in Jimmy. Since his name winds up being Saul Goodman, I don't think she can.No one can think up schemes like Jimmy - he has a brilliant mind that, rather applying that brain to the law, comes up with get rich quick schemes and other things not totally above-board.You can't help but love him, and you can't help wondering what's next and how he became Saul.For fans of Breaking Bad, this still gives us a piece of it. If you never saw Breaking Bad and watch this from the beginning, and like offbeat shows, you should enjoy this. Odenkirk, with his natural style, is just great.


                
It is a strange coincidence that I should start watching this series after bailing out of Breaking Bad at the end of the first episode already.'Better Call Saul' is down-to-earth realism with plenty of irony and the odd piece of farce. The story is adequately unpredictable in spite of being realistic. The characters are well-developed - much more so than the average TV show, with the main character well balanced between altruism and selfishness.The incidental characters are all very real and the writer manages to present different sides of the same situation as seen through the eyes of the different characters in a way that maintains tension throughout the dialogues.All in all my favourite show in its genre.I have just one minor gripe: the background music is cut and paste rather than original. The choices are good, with a wide range of music, but it is never as good as a purpose-written score.


                
I just saw the show right now , and here are my final words uptil now . First of all i really didn't like the opening of the 1st episode . Especially if you have seen Breaking Bad , where it starts in the middle of some desert with nude Bryan Cranston . But here what you'll see is just a plain black and white picture with somewhat plain and 'boring' music at the start . Later on we can see that it represent "James McGill " a.k.a Saul Goodman , who is bankrupt and in despair . And not to mention that i couldn't find anything interesting , considering the show as the 'little brother' of Breaking Bad . However the reason why i couldn't help myself and give it a solid 8 rating was just because of the ending . Oh boy ! Remember Tuco from Breaking Bad ? Well seeing is believing , & his role in this show make me wonder that probably in the very near future we'll get to know Breaking Bad in a wonderful manner .


                
