****Spoilers Inside****I watched this so-called masterpiece for a class assignment (and I was actually looking forward to it, so I can't be held to expectations of poor quality), and I can only think of one word to explain my feelings on this movie:WHY?Why is this considered one of the best movies of all time?  Why do people continually bow down to something just because it's "the definitive classic?"  Why did they leave the unnecessary 30-45 minutes in there?  Why was this film so horrendously acted, directed, filmed, and edited?Where to go on... Ah yes.  The plot:The plot was a wonderful concept.  A nice couple of twists, the story set up well and ready to hand off for a touchdown, but somewhere along the way, the runningback decided he should run a few laps around the field, in randomly alternating directions, before finally meandering in and taking a knee at the one-yard line and settle for a field goal.The acting:  Stiff, over-done, "no-sir-audience-i'm-not-reading-my-lines-from-cue-cards" crap.  James Stewart was quite possibly the worst choice.  He only has one speed: "Merry Christmas Bell Tower!"  Every movie I've seen him in he's been the same idiotic dimwit.  His intended affable, lovable goofy exterior only irritates, frustrates and makes you want to set fire to the videotape or DVD it sullies.  Kim Novak was hardly any better.  Her cookie cutter character, "I-dare-you-not-to-love-me-NOWAIT-I'm-untouchable-NOWAIT-help-me-NOWAIT-i'm -insane" would have been served up more convincingly by James Stewart himself in a dress.  At least he has a whopping two modes to his emoting.Editing and Directing:  Why did Midge exist?  She provided no conflict save for that weird thing she did with the painting.  She provided no resolution. She didn't even serve as a voice of any particular sway (i.e. the viewer, the voice of reason, the voice of emotion etc).  An amazingly sexist viewpoint (I know, surprise, it was the 50's) pervades.  The women are stupid, naive, weak-willed and two-dimensional.  There were so many unnecessary camera shots, such as nearly all the various scenes during the "I'm-following-Madeline-with-my-intense-stare-of-concern-and-intrigue" car sequences.Quite frankly, I'm so disgusted with this movie, I can't really go on with any intelligent critiquing.  I wish I could say that we've grown as an industry and learned our lesson about contrived, pointless plots with big names displaying less than tolerable acting capabilities, but only a fool would ignore Pearl Harbor.Maybe we can salvage the concept.  Do a remake.  Anything today would vastly improve upon this sorry waste of my time.My score: .08/10 for the potentially breakthrough but saddeningly mundane plot.
It staggers credulity to read that this dull, plodding film with its embarrassingly silly plot has now been rated as the greatest movie of all time. I have watched it three times: in the early 60s when it was first released in the UK, again some 10 years ago and once again last night. Nothing has changed. Vertigo doesn't merit high rating even among Hitchcock's prolific output; to elevate it to all-time supreme status is an unspeakable act of self pomposity from the critics concerned.A film like Vertigo depends almost entirely on raising the viewer's interest in its characters. Disappointing, then, that its two principals play their roles as if they're half-asleep on drugs. James Stewart has many times played with success the seemingly slow-witted, slow moving character who's aware of a lot more than it appears. In Vertigo this Stewart stock persona is inappropriate. One wonders if they first shot the scene where he's mute, staring and unresponding in the hospital and he decided to continue in this mode but mouthing the script lines as they came along.How anyone could begin to fall in love with such a frigid, boring personality as played by Kim Novak is beyond comprehension. She is consistently out-performed by trees, buildings and props throughout the piece. Far from conveying an intriguing, sexually arresting character, she leaves the viewer marvelling that nobody thought to save budget by substituting a tailor's mannequin.Had Vertigo been directed by anyone without Hitchcock's reputation (one that's deserved but which, most unusually, seems to encourage enthusiasts to believe he never makes a clunker) it would have been written off as poor stuff — indeed it was correctly regarded as mediocre when it first came out. It isn't a bad film, in the sense of godawful, laughably inept. It's just so far from good that people with normally functioning eyes and ears will shrug and say "ho-hum!"


                
I finally watched this old chestnut. I read somewhere that it was a flop when it came out but later became recognized as a classic. Apparently Alfred Hitchcock blamed James Stewart's being too old for the part. The two never worked together again. Well, Stewart wasn't the problem. The problem was the script, which is simply asinine. The public was right the first time: the movie is terrible.The hero falls in love with a woman who is supposed to be nuts and who gives him no reason at all to fall in love with her. She has a few mad scenes with him but never engages in any conversation of any substance on any topic, never does any activities with him, etc. On top of that, she is his old friend's wife. Her only attraction is that she is good looking, but lust for a pretty woman isn't love, which is what the hero is supposed to feel. Totally implausible.The movie runs 2 hours. There is a great deal of boring driving around San Francisco and the nearby California coast in the first half of the movie. I started looking at my watch at around 1:15 into the movie. Was this thing ever going to end? At about 1:30 the main plot is revealed. It is pretty silly and quite routine. The remaining 1/2 hour is torture. The plot gets more and more ridiculous, all the while getting more and more predictable. My impatience got more and more intense. When the truly idiotic end finally came, I was both relieved (over at last!) and outraged (what a waste of 2 hours).


                
The use of colour is probably the only good thing about this slow and boring, overlong, dated film. The first half is much too long and slow and the repetitive driving scenes quickly become very tiresome. Kim Novak was always a poor actress, and looks ridiculous with her bleached platinum blond hair and thick dark eyebrows. Far too many scenes take place in the studio on very fake looking sets with painted backdrops. The opening scene is ruined because it is so fake, not that cops would be chasing a criminal over rooftops anyway. By far the worst thing however is the dreadful miscasting of Grandfather Stewart as Scottie. Stewart was clearly far too old to be playing romantic leads at this point in his career and he was actually more than twice Kim Novak's age (she was 24 and he was 49, though he looked at least 55). His grey wig is laughably bad and he just looks like an ugly old man chasing after his granddaughter. With a younger, better looking actor like Marlon Brando the film might have at least been watchable.


                
This film is exceedingly annoying to watch - unless you happen to be one of the multitude of pretentious fools who think their intellect is better than everyone else's because they "get it". Well, I have news for those dumb-asses: There is nothing to get.Vertigo is plodding, annoying, and the pacing is terrible. The characters do not act like real people; it's yet another film where this is the case. What makes it all the more infuriating is that there IS a clever story buried under all the sewage, clawing to get out. And it never does. Even at the end, there's a brief moment where things actually make sense - where there is some semblance of reality - only for it to be dashed by one of the most ludicrous finales I HAVE EVER SEEN. It's THAT BAD. That ending would be laughed out of the cinema today (and probably was back then), but because this film is considered a 'classic', it's applauded as some kind of masterpiece. It isn't. It's just an exceedingly daft finale to a grossly unrealistic film.The only way I could possibly enjoy Vertigo is if I had very little logical thinking. Unfortunately for all the die-hard movie buffs masturbating in unison, I am not a conformist who feels a need to nod their head in agreement, just because society says I am in the presence of brilliance. I was not in the presence of brilliance, just stupidity. The emperor has no clothes.My rating: 1/5.


                
I first saw this film in the mid-'80's and again recently. The words which come immediately to mind to describe it are "tedious" and "pointless", words one does not normally associate with Hitchcock. "Overrated" does not even come close. Perhaps someone will produce a restored version of Vertigo , with an extra hour or two of San Francisco street scenes. Vertigo is already more like a travelogue than a narrative.


                
Well, this movie was a nightmare to me. I actually liked first 30 minutes. But that's it, i might not be fan of old movies, but i seen better that i enjoyed a little. This one was just boring. And not any kind you mostly meet, it was one most BORING things i ever watched. If i could choose between watching this and doing almost anything else, i think you know the answer. Anyway, this movie was just too long. It could have ended in first hour. Just roll the credits. And even if not in one hour... It should have taken much less time then it did, mostly because you saw how it will end 45 minutes before it happened. At least it had interesting start.


                
I love North by Northwest, Birds and Psycho.But Vertigo is too long and too boring.The story in it self is interesting enough but it should have been at least half an hour shorter. Especially because the ending (Judy and the Madeleine is the same person) is obvious from the moment he knocks on her door. Also why would they pull off a staged suicide that well and she would be dumb enough to stay in the city in the exact same room? Why didn't they just made it seem like the wife was murdered and frame John for the murder? How can John just leave a place where he's been committed? And most importantly: why did Hitchcock insist on using crappy studio shots for almost every outdoor location, whenever the actors were talking?? This actually annoyed me so much that I had a hard time concentrating on enjoying the movie!! Even in 1958 those awful background matte paintings must have looked so fake. Or the scene in the forest or by the ocean or the bay where it's all studio shots!! Or the night painting of the city in Midges apartment!! Or every shot of an actor driving with a fake background in the rear window.It seems profoundly stupid, when they had already shot a lot outside!! I just don't get why???
This may come as a shock, but you have a warped perspective. Shocking isn't it? You thought you were making decisions about films using your own opinion and feelings, your not. You like Vertigo because Alfred Hitchcock directed it. Hitchcock who directed Pshyco and The Birds, two other films you love purely because of Hitchcock's master direction. Im now going to show you that Hitch isn't a master director, far from it. You have been brainwashed by the cult following that heralds Hitchcock as a genius of cinema. With a genius everything he produces is gold, sadly Hitchcock does not qualify for this status because Vertigo adds itself to the list of poor films that plague the auteur's career.In terms of a coherent plot you can forget it; the film opens with the unnecessarily dramatic beginning that is full of enigmas to keep your interest - the fact of the matter is that this is the only way he can keep your interest, and the stroke of 'genius' that allowed him to leave most of these enigmas unresolved just adds to the horror that is Vertigo. The plot rides on these enigmas until, inevitably the audience begin to loose interest, but don't worry with a master like Hitchcock at the helm surely he'll be able to save this with a clever technique; unfortunately not; instead James Stewart's vertigo is used again and again just as the plot begins to thin. This however, is not the full extent of the problems that have ravaged this film. The fact that the audience are supposed to suspend their disbelief so that James Stewart is able to 'not realise' the woman at the beginning is the same one as the one at the end is frankly insulting.If you have any sense of pride, or dignity, or, well let's face it any self value whatsoever you will avoid this film as it assaults all five senses, often at the same time, leaving you with a desire to end not only your life but those of everyone involved in both the creation and appreciation of this film.
This is the most boring film I have ever seen and you will think the same if you see it. This movie goes on forever and never stops ever until it ends. I wish this film had stayed away from me.It's all about an old guy in a car who is chasing a woman and that's it. There is more car driving in this film than in maybe a hundred other films all put together. He never even catches her! What a waste of time. I'm not allowed to tell you what happens later in the film but trust me you don't want to know. It's rubbish.The film looks so fake like a cartoon and it was about to make me laugh until I remembered how bored I was. I'd rather tidy my bedroom than see another minute of that old guy driving. I don't want to see this film or anything like it ever again.


                
This was one of the stupidest movies I've seen. How anyone thinks this is a classic is beyond fathom. 'Scotty' rescues a married 'Madeline' from drowning and instead of getting her medical attention, he brings her - passed out - to his home, UNDRESSES HER COMPLETELY and puts her in his bed, naked. Two days and very little conversation later and they are suddenly desperately in love. Scotty forces 'Madeline' to kiss him even after she begs him to stop and runs away. The disappearance of 'Madeline' from the hotel is never explained, so the hotel keeper must have been in on the scheme? His friend Midge serves as little more than a semi-jealous prop. His stay in the mental institution is totally superfluous and pointless to the plot. He 'just happens' to see Judy walking by the same flower shop 'Madeline' would get her flowers from (that just happened to be carrying the same specialty bouquet she used to buy).Judy hides all the evidence of her crime from Scotty but then just 'forgets' about the dead woman's necklace (that was part of the plot to kill the real Madeline as she had sat staring at it in the painting for days), and wears it right in front of him...? Then (after submitting to a complete makeover to 'please her man'), 'Judy' accidentally flops out a window to her death when she is startled by a nun. Flopping out of Scotty's embrace, through a window, and over a ledge at least 3 feet from where she was standing. Scotty has to take a few steps to reach the ledge to look down at her, but she just tumbled out from the same spot? Then Scotty and the nun just stand and stare at her (presumed) corpse and 'The End'. The kissing was uncomfortably weirdly fake, the emotion was unnatural, the music was intrusive, and the plot was incredibly stupid. I thought it would never end. This movie is the epitome of 'overrated'.I went into this movie wanting to LOVE it. My mom loved Hitchcock, this was recently voted 'best movie ever', and I love San Francisco. Ugh. This movie was a complete letdown and I think the people who love it so much have very low expectations and/or are blinded by the 'classic' and 'Hitchcock' labels and their romanticism of the good old days of sexist tedium. This is the modern day version of some over-hyped dribble such as Battleship or Twilight.
Vertigo is considered a masterpiece yet I found it one of the most boring movies ever. The reason is very simple. There is one thing missing: "cinema".Those opening credits are terribly annoying with something continuously spinning. The movie is slow, so slow that I have the impression of watching a school play. The direction is amateurish, with no style at all. Flat. Technically poor. That camera doesn't move. Rouben Mamoulian way back in 1932 (Dr. Jekyll) was 10 times more fancy whilst movie making was just at dawn.The actors are either plastered or made of wood. Kim Novak has a terrible make-up. The events and the story are absolutely improbable.The movie is old, obsolete, tedious but on the other hand it is so nice & clean and self-satisfied! The result? It is even more unbearable.Forget about those panoramic scenes. It is my impression that for at least a couple of them they were filmed indoor with the actors standing in front of a screen.Other terrible things: I didn't know if I had to laugh or cry when James Stewart was about to faint after standing on a chair (Vertigo!) The scene of Stewart jumping in the bay to fetch someone that fell in it is so poorly filmed that even a kid could have come up with something better.No, I do not like Hitchcock. I prefer directors like Ed Wood. They are more sincere.


                
Some of Hitchcock's silents are a little slow, and his genius began to decline in the '60's -- Topaz, Marnie, The Birds -- but none of these are serious challengers to Vertigo for the title of Worst Hitchcock Film. Maybe if Hitch had cast Grace Kelly, or Vera Miles, or Shirley Temple, or someone from a Bay Area high school production ...


                
