Vertigo divides audiences more than any other Hitchcock film.For one critic it is "one of the four or five most profound and beautiful films the cinema has yet given us." A poll of 150 international critics has three times voted it the second greatest movie ever made (after Citizen Kane). However, many viewers find it a crashing bore.I have sympathy for both camps.Vertigo is the film in which Hitchcock comes closest to dealing directly with his own personal demons. The surface story makes no sense by itself and only works if you respond to the powerful undercurrents in its subtext. But Hitchcock still has to get the surface story right. It must fully embody the subtext and engage with its audience. For many people, it doesn't quite do either.The prologue leaves Scottie hanging over an abyss. By not showing his rescue, Hitchcock effectively leaves him hanging there for the rest of the movie and his vertigo becomes a metaphor for his spiritual condition; he is poised between a longing for life and a longing for death. In rejecting the (real) life-affirming Midge and in his infatuation with the (illusory) death-obsessed Madeleine, he makes his fateful choice.However, the prologue also supports a literal interpretation of his vertigo and the next scene doesn't really establish that Scottie's problems go deeper than his understandable fear of heights. We learn that he and Midge were once lovers but there is no follow through that explains why he broke off the relationship or why he becomes besotted with what we later learn is just a fantasy women.The next scene, with Elster, is even more unfortunate and its defects reverberate throughout the movie. Elster could have been depicted as a sort of Mephistopheles, who sees Scottie's weakness and tempts him to his doom. In fact, he is thinly-sketched and is just a device for kicking off the story.More crucially, he tells Scottie too much about Madeleine's obsession with Carlotta. This virtually forces Scottie into being the level-headed sceptic and makes his subsequent neurotic behaviour even more arbitrary and difficult to believe. It also undermines the ten-minute wordless sequence of Scottie trailing Madeleine around San Francisco.If Elster has simply asked Scottie to investigate his wife's aimless wandering, we would have started out expecting something mundane (like an affair) only to be drawn into the much more intriguing mystery of her identification with Carlotta and her apparent sleepwalk towards suicide. As it is, the sequence merely confirms what Elster has already told us and often tries the patience of the audience. For many, the picture never recovers.Moreover, because Scottie's character is under-developed (and Stewart's performance is unable to realise what the story implies) the rest of the movie can be viewed as the tale of an ordinary man who becomes infatuated with an attractive, troubled, woman whose life he has saved. The shadow of Carlotta then becomes an incidental detail and we get only a weak sense that Scottie's love is an unhealthy obsession. His eventual break-down is then under-motivated and seems imposed on the picture rather than being integral to its structure (a feeling reinforced by Hitchcock's decision to present it in an abstract, symbolic way).I don't view Vertigo in this way, but I can sympathise with those that do.With Scottie's breakdown, the picture reaches a second turning point. When Midge walks down the hospital corridor and the screen fades to black, it feels as if the movie is over. Of course it isn't and what happens next is crucial. Nothing up to that point makes any sense without it. But a second structural flaw immediately emerges. We are three-quarters of the way through the movie but only half-way through the story. Just when Vertigo needs time to re-engage our interest after the false ending it suddenly accelerates.We get a montage that establishes Scottie's continuing obsession with Madeleine, then he spots Judy, follows her home and we are immediately plunged into a flashback that 'explains' the plot. This meeting needed much better preparation and the subsequent relationship needed more time to develop.By revealing the plot twist so early, Hitchcock is inviting us to see how self-defeating Scottie's neurotic behaviour really is: in recreating Madeleine he is inevitably destroying his own illusions. But he rushes through this process. We have no time to get to know the real Judy before we are confronted with Scottie's bizarre plan to transform her. Then, at the very moment the transformation is complete, Scottie immediately spots the deception so the picture gallops to its climax and then slams to a halt.As a good professional, Hitchcock was wary about letting any of his pictures run over two hours, but if he wanted to impose this discipline on himself, then he should have been more ruthless in pruning the first half of the story. In fact, he should have just accepted that this story couldn't be told effectively in two hours and have let it run on longer.We rightly admire Hitchcock's movies for their great set pieces, but tend to overlook their fragile story sense and relatively weak dramatic structure. Mostly, that didn't matter, but in an ambitious picture like Vertigo it is a fatal flaw.There is much more to Vertigo than its detractors acknowledge, but it is far from being the near-perfect masterpiece that its most fervent admirers would have us believe.
(((((SPOILERS)))))I don't think that I have made an effort to like or, at least, respect any movie more than I have Alfred Hitchcock's VERTIGO. I have seen it maybe half a dozen times on the big and small screens, read reviews and analyses of it, as well as essays about it in a couple of Hitchcock biographies. I recognize just how it fits into Hitchcock's filmography and how it details his notorious obsessions. It is an important film as far as the study of Hitchcock is concerned. But, in the end, VERTIGO is just not a very good movie. I don't see why it is considered to be one of the greatest films of all time; indeed, I wouldn't even place it in Hitchcock's top twenty. Instead of appreciating it more each time I view it, I find myself resenting the way it distracts from Hitchcock's better efforts.The premise -- basically a variation of "Frankenstein" by way of a dark and brooding "My Fair Lady" -- involves a man's attempt to reshape a woman into the image of a woman he thought he loved and lost, not realizing they are the same woman. The concept is intriguing in theory, but largely unbelievable in execution. The film is told in two halves, the first being a detective story. It involves the type of ludicrously contrived murder scheme that only works in old self-mocking whodunits ("'You see,' explained Nick to Nora, in between sips of his martini, 'Gavin had to use Scottie as his patsy, because a man who was not deathly afraid of heights might have climbed to the top of the bell tower and discovered....'") You get the idea. Almost like a trial run for the far superior PSYCHO, Hitchcock concocts a convoluted thriller storyline which ultimately only serves as a set up for the psychological drama in the second half. This may be the only aspect of the film that shows Hitchcock's genius: using a far-fetched mystery narrative as a way of luring the viewer into the murkier melodrama that is the real center of the story. But, it seems Hitchcock was so fascinated in elements of the latter part of the story that he wasn't concerned with the plot holes and dubious logic that make the first half largely unbelievable. And, unfortunately, part two is hopelessly entangled in the clumsy web spun in part one.It is part two of the story that also fascinates the film's admirers (who tend to ignore or forgive the sloppy set up of part one). Having established that James Stewart as Scottie, has fallen in love with Kim Novak's Madeline, only to see her apparently commit suicide, the film introduces Judy, also Novak, who is a dead ringer for Madeline. On meeting Judy, one would think that a trained detective like Scottie would immediately be suspicious and begin to investigate her past, instead he starts playing Henry Higgins and begins training Judy to again look and act like "Madeline." Judy, who should realize that Scottie can implicate her in a murder, plays along, presumably because she has fallen madly in love with Scottie. But basically, no one does anything logical in this film, everybody being hopeless enslaved by the rather silly plot, rather than by obsessive love or psychological turmoil. The film just doesn't stand up to close scrutiny, either dramatically or psychologically.Okay, films, especially Hitchcock's, are less about plot than style. But even so, the film is substandard, especially for a Hitchcock film. There are a few clever shots and striking images, but that is overshadowed by slow pacing, a very hokey dream sequence and stilted dialogue. And there are some odd choices involving the use of color that prove particularly annoying. At first, I thought the muddy, muted look of the film was the result of badly aged prints, but seeing the restored version proves this not to be the case. And for some reason, Jimmy Stewart's face seems bright orange in every print of the film I have seen. The look of the film is so annoying, that the last time I watched it, I turned the color off on my TV set. The film actually plays better in black and white, reflecting its pulp film noir elements.It seems that the reason the film's reputation has skyrocketed over the years has less to do with Hitchcock's skill at making it, than that VERTIGO represents a convenient checklist of all his phobias, fetishes and obsessive visions. Those who have laboriously defended the film seem to skim over the gaping holes in its logic, dwelling on the film's paper-thin psychology: The film's protagonist Scottie representing Hitchcock and his not-so healthy desire to control and abuse women of a certain type. Okay, maybe that is so. But a psychological profile is not necessarily the same as a work of art -- or even passable entertainment. Hitchcock may -- or may not -- be revealing his psyche more in this film than in any other he ever made, which makes it Jim-dandy for discussion of his entire career, but that doesn't mean VERTIGO stands up on its own.Rather than representing the epitome of what the name Hitchcock stands for, VERTIGO should represent some sort of embarrassment. The story is poorly plotted and poorly told. Novak and Barabra Bel Geddes give solid performances, but Stewart is just terrible in the central role; it just may be is worst screen performance. And Hitchcock's stylistic touches seem self-consciously obvious, detracting form the drama rather than underscoring it. But, as a dress rehearsal for what he would soon accomplish, VERTIGO works decently enough. The red herring first act, the unexpected death of the leading lady, the psychologically scarred protagonist with necrophilic leanings (played by an actor with an established boy-next-door image), the denial of a one woman's death by creating the illusion she exists in another person's body; these are all elements that would rise again in PSYCHO, Hitchcock's true masterpiece. PSYCHO realizes the vision that VERTIGO only promises.
Vertigo has all the makings of a masterpiece except one: a compelling story. The twist is blatantly obvious twenty minutes into the film, and the romance of the film falls completely flat, so to speak.  Ultimately, for all of Hitchcock's vibrant colors, striking camera angles, and the thrilling dream sequence, we simply do not care whether the characters live or die. Overall, a very disappointing film, but worth watching nevertheless for fans of Hitchcock's work.  Vertigo is a remarkable instance of the whole being less than the sum of its parts.


                
(Spoilers. My advice: read them and save 2 hours of your life.) I watched "North by Northwest" not too long ago, and found it to be a grueling chore; Hitchcock spun a continually jerky screenplay into an equally jerky, emotionless film. Cary Grant was completely miscast as the wisecracking wrongfully accused, and James Mason was utterly wasted in the role of the heavy. I picked up "Vertigo" based on the recommendation of a coworker, and while I went in aware of the film's highly-esteemed reputation, I tried not to let that influence my opinion.Turns out it wasn't a problem at all. For all its glowing praises, "Vertigo" is an incredible bore, actually a more grueling view than "North by Northwest." Once again, Hitchcock spins a convoluted--and, quite frankly, uninvolving--plot well past its welcome: retired P.I. Jimmy Stewart (warbling more than a turkey) is enlisted by a wealthy industrialist to find out what's eating his eerily remote wife (Kim Novak); when said wife commits suicide, Jimmy spies a female who is a dead ringer for the deceased; he becomes involved with the doppleganger, only to discover that she is the same woman, who was the co-conspirator/lover in the industrialist's scheme to off his wife. The End."Vertigo" would have been better titled "Slow-Go," as it stretches the very fabric of celluloid to its breaking point--the whole story feels padded, which wouldn't be so bad if the dialog were interesting and the characters not so lethargic. But Stewart's neurotic, obsessive detective had me nodding less than an hour in, and Novak's drugged delivery didn't help, either. That the duo possess no chemistry is the ultimate kiss of death for this pseudo-noir.The film only comes to life when Hitchcock shows off his then-innovative (now dated) technical flourishes, as illustrated in the disorienting 'vertigo' POV shots, and an out-of-the-blue dream sequence that doesn't serve any discernible plot function, but is interesting to watch.Overall, though, "Vertigo" is uninteresting to the point of tedium. As of late, I have been wondering whether Hitchcock was really all he was cracked up to be (I love "Psycho" and "Frenzy"), or if, like Stanley Kubrick, he merely caught the eye of those pretentious lovers of style and technique, and spun a legacy from it...
I do not understand why James Stewart spent basically the entirety of his early career allowing himself to be typecast as nice, respectable, clean-cut (albeit a bit goofy) young guys, only to later be cast by Hitchcock to play touchy, ornery, grouchy older guys who, despite their actual younger age, act like 80 year old men whose neighbors are playing the music too loudly. That's a huge, number one issue with Vertigo, and maybe the only issue (for me) with Rear Window.In Vertigo, Stewart plays a detective newly suffering from Acrophobia (fear of heights) and of course, Vertigo. He's asked by a friend to investigate his (the friend's) wife, odd behavior, and see what she gets up to during the day. Meanwhile, in a basically unnecessary subplot, Stewart's old flame (played by Barbara Bel Geddes) is yet another obviously far younger blonde who just can't seem to get enough of the guy, vying for his attention, although she never can quite seem to get it right, either infuriating him with a painting, or simply by not being as interesting as Kim Novak.There are several problems I had with this movie, one being the gigantic lack of chemistry between the characters. In order to make the insane obsession thing that ends up overpowering Stewart work, he needs to actually seem into Kim Novak when she's Madeleine, but what he does doesn't really come off that way, he seems angry a lot of the time, even when he's just tailing her, seeing what she's up to. The only time I saw his "love" for her was when she came by his apartment to drop off the thank-you note. He seemed genuinely enamored of her, although not nearly enough so to justify the ludicrous obsession that drives him to transform Judy into Madeleine later on. Barbara Bel Geddes' has an obsession of her own with Stewart. This makes sense in the way that most of the pairings do in these movies: they're Hitchcock's fantasies. Although the scene where Stewart sees Bel Geddes' painting and totally overreacts really didn't make any sense to me, at least it was good for a laugh.Another issue is the timeline. Not so much that things aren't in the right order, but more that the first "half" of the story, takes more than half the movie. "Madeleine" doesn't fall off the roof until past half, yet there's still the whole "Judy" storyline to get through. Both story lines are upsetting and creepy, but I'd say the scene in the department store with Judy takes the cake.One thing this movie really has going for it, however, is the setting. There's a remarkable amount of on-location shooting (in San Francisco). Considering the lengths Hitchcock went to avoid having to leave the comforts and control of the studio, it's pretty impressive to view this movie. The Palace of the Legion of Honor Museum is showcased a few times, a nice treat for those who have been there (you can even see statues out front that remain there today) the interior seems to have changed since, but it's still interesting to see. There's real footage of streets, storefronts, graveyards, buildings, forests, ocean/seaside areas, missions, etc. and it's all extremely beautiful. The scene in the forest is effectively creepy and eerie, and the scene by the sea was effectively dramatic. Ludicrously fake as they were, I liked both Stewart's and Bel Gedde's apartments. For me, a movie can be somewhat redeemed if the setting feels good, and in Vertigo's case, the setting was the only reason to watch.
Alfred Hitchcock has a reputation as one of the outstanding film-makers of his era; but to a modern viewer, 'Vertigo' disappoints. The plotting is as torturous as any modern thriller, but the 1950 production values continually let it down: one grows tired of out-of-doors scenes transparently shot in the studio (and even the scenes actually shot on location are curiously devoid of passers-by), there's a very clumsy (though admittedly innovative) dream sequence, even the fact that the two leads are unable to even kiss each other properly starts to grate after a while. This might suggest that Hitchcock's only failing with this movie was over-ambition, but unfortunately, it isn't so: for he also fails to get decent performances from his leading actors, stiff-as-a-board Jimmy Stweart and icy Kim Novak (a typical Hitchcock blonde) generate absolutely no on-screen chemistry. And both have complex roles to play: one of them undergoes a kind of nervous breakdown, while the other simulates the same thing; but neither can play their roles with sufficient depth to make this story work as psychological melodrama. There is one interesting female character - played by Barbara Bel Geddes - but she is mysteriously written out half way though for no good reason. Compare the performances in this movie to those being put in by the likes of Marlon Brando or Orson Welles at the same period in time, and one has to pass harsh judgement. There are still a few interesting details: it's amazing how little dialogue Hitchcock dares get away with, and the very bleak ending is surprising for a mainstream film. But it's impossible to invest any emotional feeling in the story; and that's surprising, given Hitchcock's towering legend.


                
First I thought I'd list my top 10 Hitchcock films 1) Under Capricorn 2) Notorious 3) Rear Window 4) I, Confess 5) North By Northwest 6) Frenzy 7) The Lady Vanishes 8) Rope 9) The 39 Steps 10) Spellbound I consider myself a big Hitchcock fan I've got over 35 of Hitchcocks films and for me Vertigo is near the bottom I've never understood why this film is hyped up, Stewart puts in a poor performance, for him, so he's still pretty good but Kim Novak is abysmal.  The story has massive plot holes and is incredibly slow I can usually watch slow paced talkies as I've pointed out above I think Under Capricorn is his best film and that's slow and talkie but Capricorn is always interesting and has the fantastic Ingrid Bergman with Joseph Cotton.  For me after Rear Window Hitchcock lost the plot a bit and often his films started to drag with Vertigo and the Birds being the worst offenders.  The only films he made after Rear Window that are worthy of his great name are North by Northwest, Psycho (well the first hour) and Frenzy.  I wish I loved this film, I thought I would, but I've seen it 3 times now and still think it's a bit of a dog.  3/10


                
I am a big fan of Hitchcock but how this hits the high ratings is a bigger mystery than the film itself. The first 20 minutes or so give's you an indication that its going to be another classic. Sadly, like me you will be wrong.If you are looking to watch your first Hitchcock film to see what all the fuss is about then don't watch this. The directing of the film isn't I suppose the problem but the story has the excitement factor of a roller coaster climbing slowly slowly for over an hour, levelling out for 20 minute's before hitting a few promising bumps which will then lead you to being chucked off with nothing more than whiplash from your chin hitting your chest as you continuously nod off.Without going into detail or being a spoiler, this film laboriously drags out with a retired detective (James Stuart) being paid to follow his friend's wife(Kim Novak)employed by the friend himself as he has concerns for his wife's mental stability due to strange reasons. All the obvious things happen boy/detective meets girls sort of stuff and you will begin to build your theory of what's going to happen which may or may not be correct, but you wont care either way as disappointment will set in long before the end. If you do manage to stay awake to catch the ending be prepared to shake your head, re-write it your self and wonder why you didn't listen to me and save your self a few hours in the first place. I suppose their is a twist which you would expect, but theirs not enough depth to the mystery to make it worthwhile.I advice if you intend to watch this film from start to finish indulge with ample amounts of caffeine and be prepared to shut out the whiny music that begins to annoy.In my opinion not one of his finest hours as you may of gathered, nor a must see film. I do hope people don't give films good ratings for the Hitchcock factor as a film should be rated on more than its branded logo. I actually hate writing this review because to be negative about Hitchcock goes against one of my all time legends.3/10


                
As I was looking through the IMDb Top 250 I recognized Vertigo ranked on a very high position, knowing that I have found out about some of my favorite movies by the Top 250 and hearing all the hype about Vertigo I thought I'd give it a try. Well as far as I can tell, Vertigo was not that kind of 'brilliant classic' I heard about. It was a 2-hour cheese marathon without any suspense. The love-story featured in that movie is overly dramatized and absolutely horrible. There weren't any values that managed to impress me. Ironically Alfred Hitchcock defined the term "MacGuffin" and Vertigo was a single 2-hours long MacGuffin! There are many better movies which do not get the credit they deserve while Vertigo is called an instant classic. I give it 3 out of 10 because the ending was done very well but if you really want to see a brilliant 50's classic watch "Witness for the prosecution" Nuff said


                
"Terrible" is the word that comes to mind to describe this movie.The overall plot and interaction between characters is so implausible that at one point I began laughing at how bizarre it became.The main character (Scottie) is a retired police detective/former lawyer. He comes off as a gigantic dimwit. Clueless throughout the entire film, clumsy, unsure of himself and completely gullible. He doesn't act, talk or carry himself like you would expect someone playing the role of "clever detective" to. It would have made much more sense to cast him as something more mundane like a professor or accountant. At least then it would give credence to the irrational decisions you wouldn't expect a detective/lawyer to be making. Of course, the reason for this character's profession was to give reason for his friend's request he act as a private investigator (which could have been just as plausible with any profession, in my opinion).For example, if you're going to covertly tail someone you probably shouldn't stand 3 feet behind them staring at their hair.The script was rushed and I agree with criticisms that Hitchcock did so to fit it within 2 hours. For example, Scottie falls in love with Madeleine even though he's met her only several times. We're supposed to believe he's truly in love with her but from my perspective he comes off as a guy with a hard-on for a hot blond. Even the most desperate romantics would be wary of a woman exhibiting psychotic behavior that you don't even know that well, right? I also think if the viewer is expected to care about Scottie's despair/struggles, they probably shouldn't have made him what most today would be considered a home wrecker. There wasn't even an "oh gee, I feel kind of bad for starting an affair with a married woman, let alone married to one of my friends".The acting is over the top. I thought "Midge" delivered the best performance but unfortunately her role served almost no purpose to the overall plot.The facial expressions became an annoyance. It was almost insulting that the viewer can't be expected to notice something without doing close up shots followed by Scottie's overly exaggerated eye-squinting and head cocking.This was all set to the most annoying part of the film: suspenseful violin music. It was like a 5 minute track set on loop for the whole film.Overall, I was just purely disappointed. The plot didn't make sense. The script was over the top. The acting was terrible. I couldn't find much about this film I found entertaining.
I decided to see this movie because I was interested in getting into Hitchcock and a friend was making a fuss about it. First of all, this already long movie feels even longer. The first half is nothing more than a drawn out courtship, with some supernatural elements thrown in. I feel like i was watching James Steward drive his car for at least half an hour.But the kicker is that the movie's "secret" is given away long before the climax of the film! So when the main character finally realizes what is going on I was thinking"So what, I already knew that!"An ok, but flawed and overhyped movie.


                
I couldn't wait to get my hands on the remastered DVD and finally see what everyone was talking about. While I think this is truly a Wonderful movie (especially for the time) I found the ending to be very anti-climatic. With all of the leading up with the sub-plot of the "Ghost" I was certain at the end when they returned to the top of the tower and we see a "Ghost Like" image slowly appear just before Novak falls, we would have seen Bel Geddes character appear to really be the "Ghost" and in a fit of rage push Novak to her death. Her own obsession with the Ghost story and with Scottie would have taken her over the edge and wanting to be rid of Novak. I still don't get when Scottie followed Novak to the Old Inn and sees her in the upstairs window only to be told by the Innkeeper that sometimes she indeed does stop by once or twice a week she was not there that day and confirms it by showing him the room which was indeed vacant, I just didn't get this at all. I just didn't find the whole plot to come together like I thought it would. I guess I'm the only one who feels this way. Enjoyable nonetheless.
Bring up the title Vertigo now and no doubt cinema elites will immediately fall into rapturous descriptions of its brilliance. This is interesting largely because for many years, Vertigo did not even rank very highly in the Hitchcock milieu until its re-evaluation as a "classic" in the past two decades.For those unfamiliar, Vertigo tells the story of John "Scottie" Ferguson, a police detective whose brush with death while chasing a culprit over San Francisco rooftops results in another police officer falling to his death while trying to save Scottie and Scottie's now being afflicted with a paralyzing fear of heights. On leave from the department and struggling with his recovery, Scottie is offered a detective assignment by a former college acquaintance Gavin Elster to shadow his wife Madeleine, who he fears is losing her mind and may be suicidal. Scottie falls in love with the enigmatic blond Madeleine, but finds himself unable to stop her when she races to the top of a convent bell tower and takes a swan dive off. Emotionally fragile and psychologically shattered, Scottie develops new purpose when he runs across shopgirl Judy Barton who physically resembles the late Madeleine, and he starts to remake her in Madeleine's image with tragic results for all involved.Strangely, for many years, if you asked anyone to name their favorite Hitchcock films, there was a strong chance that Vertigo would not even crack the top ten. Now, it seems marketing makes it essential to include it at the top, but I am uncertain it earns this newfound glory. Certainly the film contains some of Hitchcock's hallmarks and some notable elements. The cinematography is gorgeous and Bernard Herrmann's haunting and menacing score is one of his best. Hitchcock also includes some memorable dream-like sequences. That said, I find little else to recommend the film.The film starts off well enough and it seems that it is gearing up to be one of Hitchcock's trademark mysteries, but then the mystery element is completely dropped midway through and the film becomes an overview on unhealthy obsession. There are no real surprises on the road to the film's tortured climax. Anyone familiar with prior Hitchcock work and genre conventions will know exactly what is going on long before Scottie lumberingly figures things out. Hitchcock lets the cat out of the bag on the Madeleine/Judy connection fairly quickly (in fact, almost immediately after introducing Judy), so there is no chance for the viewer to play around with various views on it.Hitchcock's work with the actors here is more miss than hit. James Stewart is an actor I normally love, but I find him a real endurance test here as Scottie. He is sympathetic enough in the opening as a man trying to conquer his fears and get his life back on track. Unfortunately, he starts to grate once on the tail of Madeleine. His stab at conveying his increasingly unhealthy interest in Madeleine largely has him glowering at the camera and furrowing his brow much like someone combating intestinal discomfort. There are endless scenes of him behind the wheel of his car with this fixed expression. The fact that there is several decades age difference between Stewart and leading lady, Kim Novak, is made even more uncomfortable by the fact that Stewart often looks old enough to be her grandfather rather than her romantic foil. Novak is beautiful, but stiff and undoubtedly directed by Hitchcock to be the embodiment of his trademark blonde ice queen. Barbara Bel Geddes has little more than a cameo as Stewart's girlfriend, who sticks by him through his rehab and then disappears without a mention.Another problem with the film is that it is hard to be emotionally involved or have sympathy with the players. Scottie is initially sympathetic and focuses as our entry into this world of voyeurism and obsession. By contrast, Madeleine is so calculatedly weird that the narrative purposely never allows one to get a handle on her solely so that Hitchcock can manipulate the viewer (and Scottie). After meeting Judy later on, Scottie turns into a rampaging and unlikable jerk. Judy clearly likes him, but balks at Scottie trying to turn her into a replica of a dead woman, and Scottie demonstrates no remorse about forcing this woman to bow to his will. Worse, we are made aware fairly early on and Scottie ultimately learns that there was indeed a well-orchestrated murder plot in play, yet both Hitchcock and Scottie seem completely unconcerned and ambiguous about justice for the victim or bringing the perpetrator to the law. Instead, Scottie (and Hitchcock by extension) seems far more obsessed with bullying and terrorizing the increasingly frightened Judy, who now elicits more sympathy than does the unbalanced unappealing Scottie.I also have a real problem with the conclusion. Even many of its most devoted fans will admit that the conclusion is unsatisfying, downbeat and absurd. The murder plot is not resolved at all. If the underlying theme is that all men are beasts underneath, then Hitchcock undermines that by taking too much delight in the psychological and physical abuse heaped on Novak's Madeleine and Judy characters. Perhaps we are to be impressed that Scottie's acrophobia is cured, but the fact that it takes a needless and ridiculously staged further death in order to cure it makes that a bitter victory - especially considering that Scottie lost our respect long ago so that few will even care.No - I have to say that Vertigo does not cut it as a classic. As for Hitchcock, Vertigo falls well short of some of Hitchcock's many lofty peaks. I would go so far as to say that it pales in comparison with Rear Window, Rebecca, North by Northwest, Psycho, Strangers on a Train, Shadow of a Doubt, The Lady Vanishes, The Birds, Foreign Correspondent, Saboteur, Spellbound, The Man Who Knew Too Much and Notorious.
This movie is crap......highly overrated.I wouldn't give it a 6. Why the heck was the movie so long.Whatever dude! My opportunity cost is too high for this kinda crap. ...major let down I must say What was that frisking...nagging background music all about by the way? I left the movie for 15 minutes...came back....and the movie was still where I had left ...incredibly boringly painfully slow .....got carried away by a 8.6 on IMDb .....oh well.mistakes made..lessons learnt......The best role was played by SCottie's secretary


                
Why the widespread adulation of Hitchcock ? Vertigo requires one buys into the totally unbelievable plot and sub-plots, which is only possible if one possesses no critical faculty whatsoever, thus for the discerning viewer, the only possible judgement on the film is that the whole affair is 'daft', and a waste of time, and unworthy of the generous acclaim heaped on it by the so-called 'learned critics'. In many of his films Hitchcock sneers at his audience, promulgating his personal distaste of the human race, investing his films with misogyny, viciousness, scorn and his own sense of omnipotence in manipulating characters with scant disregard for any valid sense of human feeling. In 'Vertigo', the two main characters are lonely losers, who, unaware of their own failings, who look for redemption where there can be none due to their unredeemed flaws.


                
"Vertigo" is often hailed as a masterpiece, but it's difficult to see why. The film runs 128 minutes, but feels like 240 while it pursues ultimately unimportant mysteries involving long-dead non-characters.  The logic-defying plot, as many have pointed out, is convoluted to the point that it makes almost no sense, and the abrupt ending comes out of nowhere.  The ending is so bizarre that I couldn't help but burst out laughing the first time I saw it.  Stewart's performance is OK, but his character borders on the psychotic, and one can't help but wonder why Novak didn't just tell him to get lost.  Barbara Bel Geddes turns in a nice performance, and then abruptly disappears for the last half of the film.  Herrmann's score is noteworthy, but not as memorable as those of "Psycho" and "North By Northwest."  I've seen 35 of Hitchcock's films; this one ranks near the bottom, right alongside "Rich and Strange" and "The Man Who Knew Too Much" (1934.)  Pass on this one; try "Frenzy" instead.  Two stars.


                
Yaaawn. Oh, is it finally over? Man that was boring. I was bored to tears.I don't like the romance genre in any fashion: romantic comedy, romantic drama, romantic thriller, etc. This movie was entirely too much lovey dovey romance and too much extremely boring set up for the ending we got.


                
This rather plodding thriller suffers from the horrific miscasting of James Stewart. His quacking voice is way to warm and comical for this role though he does his best.An inauspicious amount of talk about "possession" leads to the core of this story: demanding you to just believe that the male and female lead totally fall for each other. If either had a real personality between them it might have been interesting.There's actually a bit of intrigue but a shameless scene of self spoilering just emasculated the whole picture.The rest is a predictable and laboured story of unexplicable obsession.Vertigo actually has very little to do with it; it's like a metaphor or something.An embarrassingly fake dream sequence and attempts at comic asides only increase that.


                
