This is the funniest show currently on television. All you need to enjoy this show is an appreciation for high-quality acting and incredibly hilarious writing. Jason Bateman as Michael Bluth is perfect as the under-appreciated do-good guy who's just trying to keep his family together and himself sane. Other highlights of the show include Will Arnett as GOB (George Oscar Bluth II), Michael's lame-excuse-for-a-magician brother; Jeffrey Tambor as George Sr., Michael's incarcerated father (he was jailed for "shifty accounting practices"); and Michael Cera as George Michael Bluth, Michael Bluth's perpetually nervous 13-year-old son (who just happens to have a strange infatuation with his cousin, Maebe, played by "State of Grace"'s Alia Shawkat). All in all this show is sure to be a hit, at least with those people whose level of understanding of comedy is above slapstick and bathroom jokes. TREMENDOUSLY hilarious writing and outstanding performances by the whole cast will have you laughing the whole time. Ten out of ten!


                
You've doubtless heard fans rave and rave about this show, and may have even checked it out. The camp is sharply divided, people either absolutely love it, or tend to just "not get it." In that sense it may not be for everyone (great television, and great art in general, rarely is), and to each his own. But after watching each season multiple times, I can easily say that it is the funniest show that I have ever seen by an ENORMOUS margin. Even after many repeat viewings, I still end up in tears all the time.DVD treats this series well simply because it suits itself to rapid digestion (and after getting hooked, you won't be able to get up). The writers include many, many running gags that persist through entire seasons, or even the entire series ("I've made a huge mistake." "Her?"). The entire cast is extremely WELL cast and everyone's comedic timing is spot on. The real stars are David Cross as Tobias, and Will Arnett as GOB. Their physical comedy is drop dead hilarious as well. But Jessica Walters and Jeffrey Tambor are phenomenal, the former most especially in the third season.As others have stated there is no laugh track and this is part of what throws some of the "we don't get it" camp off. The humor is very fast paced as well, and many of the biggest laughs are very subtle physical comedy, or a line of dialog that is dropped in the midst of a conversation. Some of the music that was written for the show is absolutely hilarious as well, especially the song that plays often when George Micheal is put in an awkward (sexual) situation ("whatcha trying to say to me??").Start with season 1, give it 4 episodes (go through at least the episode "key decisions" which I believe is ep 4). If you're not hooked, or at least intrigued by then, its likely you wont be at all. But if you're like me, and MANY others, you'll find that you've just stumbled upon one of the greatest shows ever made. VERY highly recommended. 10/10


                
The first three seasons which originally aired on Fox from 2003 to 2006 were truly a landmark for TV entrainment and for comedy in general. They set the bar high for everything that followed. The 4th and 5th seasons (which were the product of a 2013 Netflix reboot) however, aren't even in the same even same league. It's not that they're unfunny, but it just seems like by now, the creators of the show are just capitalizing on what made the first three seasons so great without putting an effort to develop the humor and take it further. An increasing portion of the newest episodes is taken up by flashbacks accompanied by Ron's voiceover to explain things, or to fill the gaps in narrative, and it's just too much. Moreover, because of the way the latest season is written (5th as of the time of writing), it always seems like everything that's happening in the show is supposed to lead towards something big that's going to unfold in the season finale, which weakens the viewing experience, making it impossible for any single episode to stand on each own.
I'm still giving the series a 10.. pretending the reboot never happened.


                
There was a time during what is commonly known as The Golden Age of Television when the medium was used to communicate. It was used to entertain, inspire, and evoke a connection with the people. There was time in television when the programs would challenge not only the standard, but also the viewer. It started with things like Sanford & Son and All In the Family. Then the Richard Pryor Show shook people to the bone. From these gems came further explorations of the comic genre. We were treated to things like The Simpsons, Married With Children, and Seinfeld. Shows that broke the mold of the typical sitcom formula. They found their actors and made them stars. They didn't take washed up has-been film actors and try to turn them into the affable characters that they obviously were not. They simply took fresh talent and gave them the environment to get better and eventually captivate. Then something terrible happened in 1993. A show, on what was supposed to be a music video network, got the idea to film real people living together in a house. From the first episode of The Real World, the Golden Age of Television was over. From this little show spawned a countless number of reality TV Shows that have paved the way for mind numbing experiences of watching people acting "real" while they are being filmed. It showed us all that not only is this medium of television completely unoriginal, but that it also provided people with insight into just how far somebody will go to get themselves on the airwaves. In 1994 something else happened. A little show called "Friends" hit the desk of the execs at NBC. From that we now have an endless string of formulaic, hokey, poorly written buddy sitcoms, all focusing on the same issues that plague the "poor" yuppie world that these people all seem to inhabit. Gone was the time when you didn't really need the laugh track; gone was the time of multi-plot line programming.And then, something truly amazing and inspiring happened. In a collaborative effort from the Hurwitz Company and Imagine Entertainment came a brilliant piece of intelligent programming; a show that had no precedent. A truly talented ensemble cast, a brilliant writing team, and an amazing staff of directors and photographers that changed the art form like never before. Gone were the days of traditional, canned laughter sitcoms. It seems that we had all been saved from another infinite line of weak programs, and by whom? The FOX Network. Who would have thunk it? But then again, it made perfect sense. FOX brought us The Simpsons, Married With Children, and Family Guy. They had been known to challenge the bar that was set by regular programming. But instead of living on with those classics, it was forced to willow away in the doldrums of cancellation alongside other brilliant yet failed shows, like Action, Titus, and Greg the Bunny. Some people like to watch clichéd, overplayed, over done formulas every week. Some people like the safe humor, the one-two camera angles, the boring sets, and the canned laughter. Some people just don't want to think. The rest of us<U+0085>the rest of us watch Arrested Development.


                
This is, without a doubt, the greatest TV comedy in capturing the 2000s. It mocks the paranoia surrounding the Iraq War, the 24-hour news cycle, the housing boom and bust, and the cult of reality television without missing a beat.It does all of that without ever seeming preachy or losing its charming sense of humor. There is no scene in the series that lacks the self- referential humor that characterizes the show, and almost every episode builds on the quirks of either one of the main characters or one of the many background characters of Orange County. Jason Bateman (Michael) does a solid job, but the real stars are the other members of the family. Michael Cera (George Michael), David Cross (Tobias Fünke), and Jessica Walter (Lucille) are particularly memorable.I will never look at a seal, model homes, or Southern California itself without thinking about the wonderfully dysfunctional Bluths and the time that I spent watching them on "Arrested Development."(I have seen this show several times over the years, but I have mostly recently watched in its entirety in June 2017)


                
Annyong (Hello)! I absolutely love this show and so will you!  If you haven't seen it- give it a second week and you will be laughing at all the subtle things and be caught up on the storylines.  I usually tape it and watch it a second time with friends so I can catch the things that I missed the first time around or just because I like to watch it again!  Yes, that is Ron Howard narrating the show.  In an early episode the did make an Opie reference and last week Henry Winkler did a trademark Fonzie move in front of a mirror when they were combing hair.  Don't let FOX cancel another brilliant show!  P.S. Annyong is the Korean boy that Lucille adopted because Buster would not eat his cottage cheese (it might be one of those had to be there to understand)!  His name really is not Annyong- Annyong means Hello in Korean!


                
Seasons 1-3: 10/10
Seasons 4-5: 6/10This show really dipped in quality once Netflix picked it up. The new seasons still have their moments, but it never lived up to the original episodes.


                
You know how Pixar movies are sprinkled with growed-up jokes that the kiddies won't get? But there's lots there for kiddies, too?Arrested Development is like that, except that the episodes are sprinkled with jokes that geniuses will get, but there's lots there for normal people, too. AD is rich with layers that I have missed 3, 4, 5 times only to finally "get it" on the 4th, 5th, 6th viewing.For instance, I can't quite get over how the show is riddled with jokes that depend on stuff that hasn't happened yet. That's absurdly difficult writing. It's like comedy the way God would write it, full of double and triple meanings, palindromic, executed with an masterful awareness of the whole project. It's ridiculous. As a writer myself, AD makes me want to sit in a corner and weep, because I have no hope that I will ever write anything this good, or even this complex.Sigh.I'm glad someone else did, though! Great stuff!


                
I think this was greatly overlooked by the viewing public primarily due to it's layered humour, and self-referencing. In the vein of Seinfeld (but much better), it staged jokes woven within jokes that often had to be caught by the perceptive viewer. Coincidences were fashioned together to great hilarious plot elements and numerous sight gags are incorporated to emphasise the jokes. The narrator carries the story forward and often adds amusing commentary with sarcastic wit.A must see and highly addictive! If you liked Seinfeld, The Office, Curb your Enthusiasm, you'll love Arrested Development. It will sorely be missed.


                
When I first started watching AD I just thought it was very funny, but about halfway through the second season I realized I was seeing something of exceptional quality. It was more than just funny; it was so wonderfully crafted on every level. Here're my reasons for why it could legitimately be argued that this was the greatest comedy series to ever air.-EVERY SINGLE CHARACTER WAS IDEALLY CAST.It would be stating the obvious to say that the writing was great. We already know that. But the characters just wouldn't have been the same had they been played any other way. Just imagine Gob or Tobias played by other actors and you see right away what I mean. And if you go back and look at the pilot, you'll see that David Cross had the character nailed right from his first scene. On the other hand, other actors grew into their roles. Maeby changed the most throughout the series, and it was a pleasure to watch her evolve. And George, Sr and Oscar were each such well-defined characters that at times I found myself forgetting they were both played by the same person.-STORY WAS PUT FIRST OVER GIMMICKS Whereas most sitcoms are built around some sort of premise designed to stand out, the focus of AD was just its continuing story and characters. AD feels like an entirely different planet from Friends or Everybody Loves Raymond where plot points were designed to be as simple for the audience to grasp as possible and the focus was more "How do we keep the audience from thinking hard for 22 minutes?" AD on the other hand rewarded the audience for paying attention and gave them something to follow. Sadly, this resulted in the show having a hard time finding an audience, since you would miss a lot of references if you just watched an episode mid-season.-CREATIVE USE OF THE FORMAT Of course substance is more important than style, but it's always nice to have style and do creative things. AD went the extra step. Another show, such as The Office, would be content to just use a mockumentary technique. AD pushed the mockumentary device further to creatively use cutaways, flashbacks, archival footage, website screenshots, self-reference, and clever ideas like the "On the Next" segment. Tons of other shows, from Sex and the City to Scrubs, use voice-over narration, but AD used its narrator in the most creative ways imaginable, providing a commentary that is itself tongue-in-cheek. The show took on a life of its own and seemed to always be playing with its audience.-CREATIVE USE OF GUEST STARS AD built a pretty impressive roster of guest stars over just three seasons, but it never felt like the show was resorting to gimmicks. The guest stars played characters suited to them or that advanced the story instead of just being the guest of the week. Again, totally different from Friends or Will and Grace where you would have "the Brad Pitt episode" or "the Matt Damon episode," etc.-FOCUS ON TOPICAL ISSUES WITHOUT REALLY BEING ABOUT THEM I love how the show made so many references to Iraq and the war, yet never actually made any commentary on it. In that sense, it was a bit like MASH; building absurd situations about an absurd issue and lets it stand for itself. I also don't think there's been another sitcom in which the characters actually travel to Iraq, as the gang does in "Exit Strategy." That episode made me go: "Dang, this show has balls."-PRESENTING Risqué MATERIAL IN NOT-SO-OFFENSIVE WAYS The defining episode that made me first realize I was watching a truly great show was "Sad Sack," which has the funniest twist ending I could ever have imagined (it's what the title refers to). Yet the joke was done in a way that you actually bought it and accepted it within the terms of the show's reality. South Park would have done the same joke very differently. A lesser show would not have been able to pull it off at all. Overall, it was similar building of the characters and attention on the details of each storyline that allowed the audience to accept the show's crazy situations as being plausible.-FAST-PACED HUMOR, CUTAWAY JOKES, SIGHT GAGS, POP CULTURE REFERENCESMany reviews I've read of The Simpsons (and to a lesser extent Family Guy) point out these attributes as well. But those reviews also point out that it was due to being animated that those shows could do it so well and get away with it. Well, here's a live-action show that did it equally well.-CINEMATIC FEEL Almost every episode had enough material to have been movie. I'll admit that not every episode is great, but there was an overall consistency throughout the three seasons. One of the very best episodes in my opinion was "Meat the Veals." The climax of that episode alone felt like the climax of a big action comedy feature. It was hard to believe that a mere sitcom went to such lengths. And it wasn't even a season finale.and, above all else...-IT WAS FUNNY! The humor was often tongue-in-cheek. The jokes were well-planned in advance. The whole thing was self-referential and post-modern, in a style similar to St. Elsewhere, except that was a drama. In such a short run, AD was able to find its voice.And that is that!
Arrested Development is a half-hour comedy that focuses on the Bluth family; a very affluent southern-Californian family who are forced together when their father George (Jeffrey Tambor) is arrested. Michael (Jason Bateman), his son, is ostensibly the protagonist, and he is the only one in the family who is by any definition "normal". Michael, a widower, is the only one with a job; he runs the Bluth Company in his father's absence in his own compulsive way, and is constantly thwarted in comedic ways by his family. Michael's older brother Gob (Will Arnett) is a magician - sorry, an ILLUSIONIST, who takes himself very seriously. Unfortunately for him, nobody else does. His botched attempts at performing his illusions are always hilarious, and always preceded by one version or another of the opening melody of Europe's "The Final Countdown". Michael's younger brother, Buster (Tony Hale), is a 30-ish mama's boy. He is socially awkward to the point that he fits the profile of a serial killer. Buster has no job, instead going to school after school to pursue various interests as strange and unrelated as Native American drumming and cartography. In the pilot episode he mistakenly identifies the blue area on a world map as the land. Lindsay (Portia de Rossi) is Michael's twin sister, an extremely vain, self-centered and sexually frustrated woman whose loveless marriage to Tobias Funke (David Cross), a frequently unemployed ex-psychiatrist/wannabe actor, is precariously balanced, to say the least. Tobias is a "never-nude" who wears cut-off jean shorts into the shower. Needless to say, this puts a strain on their sex life, and the couple are never happy; always in one form or another of therapy, or trying an "open relationship" and racing to entice members of the opposite sex into trysts that, for one reason or another, never work out. Lucille Bluth (Jessica Walter) is the matriarch of the Bluth family. She is rarely seen without a drink in her hand, and her biting wit and cruel barbs toward her children are doled out relentlessly. She is shrewd and manipulative, Michael has to work hard to stay ahead of the various plots and scams she is always concocting, which usually center around money and keeping her public image up to par. Michael has a son named George Michael (Michael Cera) who is studious and naive. He is wholesome and quite awkward, constantly striving for the approval of his busy father with his intense work ethic, and trying his best to suppress his lust for his cousin, Maeby (Alia Shawkat), the trouble-making daughter of Lindsay and Tobias.The central plot point in Arrested Development is the imprisonment of George Sr. and the legal and financial problems the company encounters in his absence, but there are always so many subplots that there is something new and engaging happening in every episode. Nothing feels forced, in fact everything feels as if it was planned from the very conception of the show, though there is enough improvisation from the actors, particularly from comedian David Cross, to strongly suggest otherwise.Arrested Development is, without a doubt, one of the best television shows that has ever aired. Every actor is perfect in his or her role, the dialogue is fantastic, the cameos and guest appearances are well cast and never lack substance. The narration by producer Ron Howard is always excellent and ties the story together expertly. The show is filmed in a natural, mockumentary style, usually with one camera panning from character to character rather than several cuts, in the vein of The Office. There is no annoying canned laughter, and the humor is cutting edge and sophisticated. There is a joke for everyone, nothing is taboo and nothing is wasted.Despite it's overwhelming popularity, critical praise, and enormous fanbase, Arrested Development was canceled by Fox at the end of its third season, even having to cut it short by several episodes, due to poor ratings. It's cancellation is a testament to how out of touch Hollywood executives are. Everybody Loves Raymond can air for 10 years of formulaic mediocrity, but a show as brilliantly witty, daring, and relevant as Arrested Development can be cancelled after only 3. It's a travesty, and one in which the pain can only be lessened by repeated viewings of the old episodes on DVD. Do yourself a favor and buy the entire collection, it has great replay value and the joy of showing it to people who have never seen it cannot be stressed enough.This is a superb show, down to the last detail, and deserves every ounce of praise lavished upon it. What are you waiting for? Go and watch it!


                
*Note: My review refers ONLY to the original series (seasons 1-3).What can I say ? This is a flawless and brilliant character-based gem of a comedy. The show's premise (how rich people would cope if they lost all their money) is ground for massive potential, and the show's creators do not disappoint. This show is also in a sense prophetic as it cleverly anticipated the boom of reality-TV, being shot in brilliantly amateurish fashion. The story revolves around the super-wealthy Bluth family, rendered penniless after the patriarch is jailed for embezzlement. The one 'normal' son, Michael, tries to salvage his eccentric family as they get into blunder after blunder. This includes his elder brother Gob (a 'magician'), younger brother Buster (an 'academic'), twin sister Lindsay (an 'activist'), brother in law Tobias (an 'actor'), niece Maeby (a slacker), mother Lucille (sharp-tongued socialite) and son George Michael (an innocent). The show is brilliant on so many levels, and the writing is incredibly smart. The show is highly quotable, and throughout its original 3 series never lost momentum. The beauty of this show is definitely the delusional characters. They all clearly suffer from a delusion of still being rich, and each character has a particular quirk. Even the supporting characters are brilliant (nods to Liza Minelli as Lucille Ostero, Henry Winkler as Barry Zuckercorn, Julia- Louis Dreyfuss as Maggie Lieser, and Ben Stiller as Tony Wonder). Brilliant brilliant show, but I advise against watching Netflix's 2013 4th season. The 2003-6 run was epic.


                
Furthermore, an even worse decision was show writer Mr. H's refusal to stay on so that the show could be picked up by Showtime. I was willing to buy Showtime just for this show. This show was a breath of fresh air among cookie-cutter sitcoms, mind numbing reality shows and overdone law/medical/forensics shows. Who are these people with the Neilson boxes and what are they thinking? How many Law & Order and CSI spin-offs/ clones are they going to make? I hated the originals! Reality shows lower your IQ by two points with each episode, and very few sitcoms are truly funny or original anymore. This was one of the few. The writing, direction, production, acting, and every aspect down to the music and camera-work were all top notch. Despite FOX's lack of advertising, this show won 6 Emmys on its first season. I didn't even know about the show until Season 2 was out on DVD. I bought Season 1 based on word of mouth (and immediately went out and purchased Season 2 after watching only four episodes of Season 1). I wondered how I had not heard about such a brilliant show through 2 whole seasons. It was as if FOX wanted it to fail. I learned FOX kept cutting the seasons short and bounced its scheduling around putting it in the line up against other networks power shows- it even put it up against Monday Night Football- then wondered why the ratings were poor? This show was destined to be another 'Cheers', a show that had poor ratings during its first seasons then went on to become one of the longest running hits of all times. It makes me want to cry that such a truly genius show won't continue. I purchased Season 3 on DVD and watched the entire two-disk set, all the extras and episodes with commentaries a second time in one sitting. This show is that good! The clerk at the store from which I purchased the DVD even commented on what a smart purchase I was making, and then we discussed how saddened we were that it was canceled. I pray DVD sales will force FOX or Mr. H to reconsider, and if there is a God, he will bring this show back from the dead.


                
Few things are funnier than really smart people acting really silly, and that pretty describes everyone involved with Arrested Development, from the cast and writers down to the cameramen and editors. It's a show that contains some very witty, complicated and obscure humor but also gleefully dives into slapstick, goofy visual gags and general absurdity. Rather than feeling like a clash of different comedic styles however, the different elements mesh into a completely unique brand of humor. It may take a few episodes for you to get into the tone of the show and learn the quirks of all the individual characters but once you do the laughs are pretty much nonstop.Speaking of the characters, they are by far the best thing about the show. The whole cast is great, and they all work together flawlessly. If I had to choose a favorite it would be Jessica Walter as the mom, Lucille Bluth. Every line she says is clipped with the perfect degree of icy rudeness. She's crude and manipulative, but she manages to see herself as classy and victimized. One of my favorite lines in the whole series is when GOB is tackled for bringing bees into the prison and she pointlessly chides him "They don't allow you to bring bees in here." It's a throwaway line that could easily have been cut from the script but it suits her character so perfectly (it's such a heartless and useless thing to say) that it becomes laugh out loud hilarious.I also love the performances of Will Arnett as the macho and aggressive but very very needy GOB Bluth, Tony Hale as the weird and lovable yet creepy younger brother Buster and young Michael Cera as the nervous goody-two-shoes teenager George-Michael (one of the best teenage actors I've ever seen). The other actors are all great too, those are just the ones that stand out most to me. And of course Jason Bateman has the most screen time and holds everything together perfectly as the most normal family member, Michael Bluth.I could go on for pages about how much I love this show. I'll just end by saying, if you're going to start watching it be prepared to watch all 3 seasons because you probably won't be able to stop. With so many people touting Arrested Development as "the best show ever" it's tempting to say that it's overrated. But the more I think about it, the more I really don't think it is overrated, because in all honesty nothing else that I've seen is this good.


                
I might be this shows biggest fan, and I can list for you the reasons that this show didn't reach its full potential.1. Fox has a horrible marketing department and has never learned that the way big shows are made is by treating them like they are a big show before they are. This show got so little positive marketing it's mind-boggling. Fox made no attempt to get people to watch it, that weren't already watching it. They treated it almost like it was a variety show, rather than the incredibly written and interwoven brainy comedy that it was.2. A show like this that includes an overall season story arc as well as smaller multiple-episode story arcs has to be promoted out the wazoo. The only reason Lost ever got off the ground is because ABC promoted every episode like it was the "Roots" finale, and they showed every episode multiple times so that if you missed it, you could catch it the next time. This show required that kind of care, but didn't get it.3. I'll admit the first time I watched the show I didn't like it. I had a friend buy the first season and told me to watch it. I watched the first six episodes and didn't like it. It seemed too hectic for a weekly comedy. I stuck with it, and by the end of the first season I realized how good this show actually was. This show is almost tailor-made for DVD. If you watch one episode and have to wait another week for the next, you kind of miss out on the subtle genius that weaves through the whole series. I've watched it several times and see jokes or gags that I missed the first few times I watched it even now.4. The title. Once you've watched an entire season or the entire series you realize how appropriate the title is, but as a show that you've not seen and are deciding whether to watch versus something w/a reputation for quick humor, you won't pick "Arrested Development". It sounds like a house flipping show on the Home and Garden Network. Which is too bad, because this show missed a lot of potential devotees with the name.5. The humor. This show had everything that makes comedy funny. If you were to try and be impartial and write up a list of everything that is funny in life, this show had it. Wordplay, mistaken identity, slapstick, characters of fickle moral character, parody of both classic and pop culture, ambiguous sexuality, innuendo, teen angst, language barriers and misunderstandings, and anything w/Tobias. I think this show was too funny. The majority of viewers in America have short attention spans, and can only concentrate on one aspect of humor at a time. This show could throw five or six of these humorous events into one 90 second scene. It was too brilliant for network television.This show truly was so far ahead of its time that America wasn't ready for it. It gets compared to Seinfeld or other ensemble comedies, but it surpasses all of its contemporaries by never wasting a line of dialogue or one single opportunity for a plot twist.As despicable as the characters were, you liked each one, and rooted for each of them every episode. No matter how convoluted the plot, no character was left out and every character was funny. Even the theoretical "straight men" had hilarious dialogue. A bright light went out when this one got cancelled
Hands down best comedy of all time. Shame on FOX for canceling it! However, they at least released all 3 seasons of DVD! Maybe sales of the DVD will show FOX that they made a huge mistake. Perhaps a Family Guy-esquire revival will be in the works!? After, they did cancel Family Guy....only to bring it back after soared in DVD sales. We should all keep our fingers crossed and hope for the best. The writers did such a fantastic job portraying the Bluth family. And the documentary-style filming was perfect for the atmosphere of the show. The show was witty and addicting. I'll probably be hooked for life. I don't think I've ever laughed so much.


                
Incredibly hilarious, clever and original comedy (just ignore Season 4).The trials and tribulations of the wealthy and dysfunctional Bluth family, brought low by the family patriarch going to jail on fraud charges. One son, Michael (played by Jason Bateman), is determined to get them back on their feet, but, due to ignorance or stubbornness on their part, he is struggling to get the other family members onboard...Very funny. Dialogue is very clever and there's hardly a dull moment. Each character is so well-crafted and formed with their own oddities and these blend in a glorious stew of dysfunctionality, selfishness, misinterpretations and mixed signals.One thing though: don't watch Season 4 - it doesn't do the show's legacy any good. Season 3 aired in 2006 and at the time appeared to be the show's last season. However, creator Mitchell Hurwitz revitalised it seven years later, in 2013, for Season 4. Unfortunately, Season 4 is nothing like the the first three seasons - the dialogue seems weaker, the clever sub-plots are gone and the plot is all over the place. Avoid Season 4.


                
After all these years the writers and cast did a great job of bringing back such an original series with out cheesing it out. This new series had to be told differently, because of such a long stretch in time. It still has many story lines and jokes on top of jokes that make it still Arrested Development. It had me and my husband on the edge of our seats for hours and we can't wait to watch it again--mainly b/c you have to. I see a lot of posts on here that say they didn't like it after only watching 1/2 of the first episode. I think those people must have expected it to be exactly the same. You can't be exactly same after so many years. It's weird, it's strange, it's funny, it's dark, it's creatively genius. If you can't handle change, then you might not like it, but if you love the characters and the craziness that Mitch and the actors bring to this show, be patient, take the time to watch it with total focus. If you like cheesy jokes, this is not the show for you. If you like intelligent, mind bending stories--you'll appreciate this 4th series. I will say this, the weirdest part was how they ended it. Another cliff hanger, they obviously leave room to come back again. IF you are a true fan of AD, you'll love it. But don't expect it to be the same as the first 3 seasons.


                
Arrested Development is a work of pure, unadulterated comic genius. I simply don't understand how anyone can not find this show funny. First, the dialogue is extremely witty, delivered with flawless timing with superb acting by an excellent cast. All of the regular actors and actresses give stellar performances, especially the snappy and deadpan Jason Bateman. Even if dry humor isn't your thing, the show features many types of jokes, including slapstick. All of them well integrated into the show despite their variety. Two of the foremost strengths of Arrested Development are the hilariously zany situations and the narration. Provided by Ron Howard, it applies the advantages of comic prose to a video format. Many people think it's annoying, but hell, I'll take it over a stupid laugh track any day. There are also numerous pop-cultural allusions, but the show thankfully does not use referential humor as a crutch. Arrested Development also has very sharp and relevant satire, not the preachy, clichéd invective that often passes for such. In fact, it's rather moderate in its political humor, and its creators wisely resisted the temptation to make partisanship compromise the integrity of their comedy. The jokes in this show often force you to pay attention. You really need to watch this show from the beginning to understand the complex serial plot lines and humor. The show's intricate continuity is a strength, but unfortunately it's also a deterrent for many viewers. This feature also makes the show a good parody of bad soap operas.One of the criticisms of this show is that it lacks relatable characters, but this assertion can't be any farther from the truth. In fact, Michael and Buster are strikingly similar to my brother and me. Michael, though exceptionally flawed in some ways, is one of the most sympathetic sitcom characters I've seen. A recovering widow, he is corrupted by his involvement in his father's unscrupulous business, but he is dedicated to his son and wants to raise him as an honest, intelligent person. He eventually defeats temptation and redeems himself at the end of the series by leaving his corrupt family with George Michael. Even Lindsey and GOB seem human, despite how selfish they are. Unlike some lesser comedies Arrested Development does not sacrifice characterization for cheap gags.Arrested Development is my favorite TV show of all time, and it's a shame that it never got the ratings it deserved. FOX certainly deserves blame for its inability to sell the show, but the main problem was probably that most people just don't have a sense of humor and they'd rather watch hackneyed sitcoms and vapid reality shows.
I really liked the first three seasons like most of you. I was happy they decided to continue the series.Like the guy below who gave it 1 star said he couldn't make it through the first five episodes of the 4th season I'd have agree with him: they are a set up. I also thought it was crap. I really did. You learn the story, what happens, this and that, you get bored a lot. But what happens then starting with the episode 5 the show opens up and everything starts making sense, you just get blown away by the amazing writing. I must say it's the BEST sitcom of this and last decade so far. It feels like a dozen Seinfelds were working on this show.By the episode 15 you'll be drooling from happiness - that finally somebody has managed to make a decent sitcom in the last 10 years.The moral of the story: watch the whole season 4 and you'll be blown.


                
THE best show I have ever seen. Too clever for its time evidently! I hate seeing good shows end prematurely due to poor management at networks. Other great shows that have bit the dust thanks to poor promoting and time-slots. How can great show like this one, like Greg The Bunny, like Father of the Pride be flushed down the toilet by these stupid people. Comedy is an art, it doesn't have to have canned laughter or live audiences to be classed good. True laughter is infectious but people are wising up to these pathetic attempts to make people laugh at jokes or scenarios that are completely the opposite. This shows downfall was the fault of Fox, just as Family Guy was a few years ago. The reason for Family Guy being cancelled was due to Fox continually changing the time-slot and not promoting it, but what happened next could and should change the face of television. The Fans fought back, DVD sales proved how inept these people are. The first scene in the first episode of Season 4 Family Guy makes a very valid thought. So come on people, we have got to pull together and shift the balance of power away from these network execs and towards the viewers. Or unfortunately if we choose to do nothing then we will be stuck with shows like Stacked and Two and a Half Men whose writers are living in the past (e.g Friends) using stupid antidotes, stupider people delivering them, and even more stupid one liners.Arrested Development rules! Power to the Viewer!


                
Comical greatness aside, what does make Arrested Development so unique?I started pondering on this after realizing I'm always raving about Arrested Development: Oh! It's so great. Oh! It's such an achievement. Oh! It's at the level of Seinfeld and Monty Python. For every new comedy I come across, I start to compare it with Arrested Development, mostly trying to discover how close to its greatness it actually comes. They inevitably fall short. Way, way short.And why is that? What is so great about this show? Well, it's obvious: It is written by the best, has the greatest jokes and puns. It's witty and clever and sharp. While I could proceed in this adulation, until I run out of adjectives – by "I", I mean "Microsoft Word" – it would be pointless. A lot of shows have those same features. To a degree. So what makes it stand apart?Read the rest at: //t.co/vzEdLhCk


                
Every single Bluth family idiosyncrasy and every storyline in Arrested Development never fails to get a laugh or thirty, and Season 1 and 2 in-particularly are works of comedy genius and are, in my view, two of the most hysterical seasons of any TV show ever! Every character is utterly hysterical and each star is a famous face, but you'll forget that when you immerse yourself into the funniest family ever on TV, particular personal highlights include David Cross's colourful Tobias, Will Arnett's arrogant and stupid GOB and Michael Cera's awkward and well-meaning George Michael Bluth.After I watched this shows pilot episode I'd fell for it completely and was addicted; the show is smart, with hysterical quips, ingenious episodes and scripts (too many to include, but one choice would have to be S1, Ep 10- Pier Pressure). The story itself follows a very wealthy family, in which the only level- headed, dare I say normal, one is forced to take care of them all after his father is arrested for fraud, and what ensues is complete and utter television brilliance- what makes it special is not just the smart humour but the running jokes amongst the family- like the relationship between George Michael and Maeby the supposed cousins and youngest family members, the Chicken Dance or 'Her?' which Michael incessantly spurts in regard to George Michael first girlfriend. Some jokes aren't even resolved until the next episode. Perhaps the shining example of how good this show really is that it got reprised for it's forth season after one of the world's most devout fan-bases and critics everywhere brought it back from the dead for another gut-busting series, but there are plenty of other reasons.Everybody should watch this show and sit there, laughing and generally being made to feel great by the story of the Bluths. Binge watch to maximise the fits of hysterics and for every joke to settle in and pack the ultimate comedic punch, but in honesty a single dose of this hilarious show will cheer anybody up and I guarantee it'll make you laugh!
Have to say this is my all time favorite comedy series. Get past the first few episodes, and as you see every character for what they are you will not be able to stop watching it.A great crew and a well written screenplay makes every episode a laughing 20min long marathon. The humor comes from the cast of characters, every single one reaching a new low of common sense, intelligence and in considering the feelings of others.The Bluth family finds itself in various situations and somehow manages to handle every single one as bad and as degrading as possible and usually blind luck is what gets them out of it. Family values emerge slightly and get quickly shot down by greed, envy and a never ending struggle for power. All this creates hilarious scenes that are believable because the characters are believable.My only regret is that they stopped making it so early. Would have loved to see a couple more series.


                
Arrested Development, in my opinion will go down as one of the greatest shows to bless our screens in television history and also FOXs biggest mistake in epic proportion. Why they cancelled it perplexes me and deeply aggravates me, although I am aware that Fox have a reputation for prematurely cancelling anything that isn't watched by millions, but come on be reasonable, this show won six Emmy awards, one Golden Globe, had a spot on Time magazine's 100 greatest shows of all time and not to mention has a huge cult following of loyal fans. Well at least there will be a movie and that is the least AD deserve. I think I'm just going to have to accept that they will always favour ratings over quality and desist this rant about FOX.Arrested Development is an American sitcom that ran from 2003 to 2006, throughout the entire shows time on air it was constantly under the threat of being cancelled, a topic that AD frequently joked about. The show was different, it wasn't the average drivel that is churned up day-in and day-out, like for example Two and a half men, The big bang theory or 30 Rock.I am going to list a few things that made the show so brilliant.All of the characters were cast so perfectly, I couldn't imagine any of them being portrayed by another actor. There are the obvious ones Tobias, GOB or Michael, but I have to say my favorite characters are Maeby and George Michael, they constantly had great story lines, their chemistry was fantastic and were both perfect for their roles. Davis Cross as Tobias Fünke the utterly oblivious actor wannabe or GOB, the moronic older brother who becomes hilariously needy, all of them were PERFECT.As well as being a producer, Ron Howard is the narrator. He pulls off a stupendously funny dead pan commentary, explaining the situation and frequently calling back to past episodes. The thing that is so engaging about his narration is that he is not on anyone's side, he explains whats happening and makes subtle jokes or comments about the characters and his subtleness is just impeccable.The guest stars on Arrested were part of the winning formula. Liza Minnellis' Lucille Austero the severe vertigo suffering mess, who has a odd relationship with Buster, Henry Winklers' Barry Zuckerkorn, the Bluths perverted lawyer or even Scott Baios' Bob Loblaw (Purely for the name). Even though they were guest stars, they didn't seem like it. They were always part of the story and always in character, not just making a cameo appearance to get air time.The camera work resembles the style of reality TV and this makes the show seem real and gives the show a personal touch if you will. I think its one of the reason it got critical acclaim from so many critics, the camera work is edgy and fast perfect for the feel of the show.One more thing is that they didn't employ canned laughter, something I find annoying and a bit disrespectful to the audience. I don't need to be told when to laugh or when something awkward is happening, its just a testament to a show when they don't need to use canned laughter to make the show seem funny.It didn't and still doesn't get the recognition it deserves, but I am glad they are making a movie as I feel that it needs to be wrapped up and honestly cannot wait till its out.


                
