The first few episodes of Arrested Development are funny, then it just gets repetitive. Every episode, everyone is ragging on everyone, there's next to no character development, and it's not really that fun to watch. I enjoyed the first few episodes, but after that it was just a chore to get through.4 out of 10Below average


                
Watched 11 episodes. The narrator keeps repeating himself. Also pointing out the most obvious things we've just witnessed. It's beyond dumb and annoying. The show could have been great without it, but it ruins it. It's like the narrator is made to help dumb people who can't understand what the heck is going on. It's sad. Really sa, since it had big potential.


                
First of all there is now way that this series can compare to Friends, How I met your mother, Prison break... With current 9/10 stars it is complete disaster. It is immature and not funny. I watched all 4 seasons released by now. Forth, recorded after 8-9 years was horrible, no point, no understanding, total failure. I do not recommend it to no one. When I started with season one I was like OK there are some funny moments, but later season 2 and 3... It is just like some teenagers was writing the script. This series reminds me of some low budget films produced during '90s. But OK first 3 seasons are 10 times better then season 4. Because of those seasons I gave it 3 star, season 4 is for 1 star.
I've watched a lot of sitcoms, but this is one of those that I just can't get into. I can't figure out what's so appealing about this show, why everybody likes it so well. I just don't get what's so funny. I'm lucky if I crack a smile once in an episode, much less actually laugh. So why is it so funny? And why are all the carachters completely retarded? I can't stand those guys... Buster, Job, and Tobias. They're really annoying. The one part about this show that redeems itself to me is the fact that Michael is at least somewhat normal, and also a really good actor. But there aren't hardly any story lines involving him. He seems to be always just in the background, while the camera spends most of its time focusing on stupid, annoying Buster or Job. And Lindsey is a carachter that's just plain painful to watch, IMO. Her spoiledness and hypocrisy make me cringe. So can anyone tell me... am I missing something? What is so great about this show?


                
