This is a very well written and well acted show. The characters are very well thought out and interact in the best ways possible in order to create priceless comedy. I think it's too bad that the type of comedy in this show isn't valued very much by the American public. Here in Europe everybody loves and watches the show. In Great Britain it was a hit. I'm still hoping they make another season. Even if they have to find a new producer. Fox just dropped the show, as they do most good TV shows that come to surface. All in all it's worthwhile to buy the show on DVD! Great DVDs to have!


                
First three seasons were like best thing you could see in a sitcom ever. But from 4th season it's all going downhill. I couldn't even get through season 5.
If it wasn't for last two seasons, this show would have been my favourite sitcom.


                
Everyone like sitcoms in California. And since Arrested Development is based in California it's already won half the battle. But it still sticks out as quite probably one of the best sitcoms any of us are going to see, right up in the ranks of Seinfeld.Although unlike Seinfeld, it has a plot. Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) is naturally, unfairly put in the position of having to take care of his rather incapable family, as well as his own son, his father's housing business and his own problems. Each episode generally exists around a core conflict between one of the many cast members, either a family member or a family friend. As expected in any great sitcom, story lines weave in and out of episodes and fresh new material is put in to the show. The writers quite simply; extremely good.Each and every character has their own personality and they feel, look and act real. Every character is just as spicy and well-developed as the next. Even the narrator is as heart-felt as the characters. The conflicts range from your typical comic plots to a few things that just might take you by surprise.-- One thing that does stand out the fact there is no laughter audio in the background. Something that seems like a really good move and gives the show a distinct, more personal feel. It fits perfect in with the type of humor the series delivers. One more trademark is the re-run value. There are a bunch of things in the episodes, from props to lines that'll take a few viewings to actually notice they were said, making you maintain a level of interest on the show whenever you watch it again.So all in all, Arrested Development is one of those shows that anyone can enjoy, whether you like this kind of thing or not. . . Not to be missed by anyone.


                
The best way to describe the new Arrested Development season is this: You are all excited about taking a train ride with friends that you haven't seen in nearly 10 years, to somewhere, maybe a vacation of something. After the first hour of the train ride together you realize how slow trains are and start to get bored. By the 4th hour though something changes. Whether it be a loose bolt on the tracks or a penny on the rails, the train begins to crash. Everything is in turmoil, the one exception is your seat. Your one seat seems to be the only constant on this engine of turmoil and destruction. And you can't. Stop. Watching. By the last 3 hours of this you have completely forgotten about the slow and subtly boring start. You remember that in order for their to be a payoff, there has to be a set up. And it's at about this time that you stop panicking about the series being ruined and the 4th season being a failure. You finally get to appreciate all the set ups, all the subtleties, and you hold on for your life as the story comes to it's highest points. When it's over, you are left with a sense of euphoria and just a little bit of "What the hell just happened". The best part is that once you finish the season, it isn't over. The first episodes become more in depth and clear and are an entirely new experience to watch. You can basically watch the season twice and have two different experiences. The only constant is you, sitting in the middle of a train wreck, with your eyes widened in horror and delight, and you can't. Stop. Watching


                
I first saw an episode of Arrested Development after coming back from a few drinks at the pub. It was on at about midnight on BBC 4, perhaps the first time I've ever looked at that channel, and I would never have watched it had I not dropped the remote control in my drunkenness. That was perhaps the first time in my life that I've been grateful for alcohol induced clumsiness.In the few seconds it took me to pick up the control from the floor I heard a joke that made me laugh so hard that I was hiccoughing for the next fifteen minutes. BBC 4 were showing a double bill of the series and after it finished I went straight onto Amazon and ordered the DVD.When it arrived I was slightly concerned that, now sober, I would be less than impressed. That was not the case. Instead of a show that appeals to the drunkard in me I found myself watching a programme of such subtlety, ability and humour that I couldn't tear myself away for the four hundred or more minutes of the first series.Just about everything on offer is incredibly good. The casting and acting is amazing, the dialogue hysterical, the scenarios uproariously funny and the programme's heart, something I've often found missing in some of the more well known American TV shows, is well and truly live and kicking.Some have suggested that Arrested Development is too clever for its own good and certainly the fact that the BBC have put it on their arts channel late at night suggests that they believed it to be 'above' the comprehension of the masses, but that says a lot more about the snobbery at the BBC than it does about the show.Looking online suggests that this programme appeals to a broad spectrum of people all of whom can take different things away from it. Rather like the Simpsons there are many levels of humour that come out from repeat viewings with different people. One friend of mine made me look at Gob in a whole new light, one of greater sympathy. Another suggested that Michael, the main character, wasn't nearly as nice as I'd suggested.I've yet to be convinced of that but the main thing is that two very different people both not only loved the programme but both went out and bought the first series on DVD. If that isn't an example of the show's broad appeal I don't know what is.Faults in the show are based on the punchability of most of the characters and the frustration that comes from poor Michael's attempts to keep his family and sanity intact, all of which seem to be pulled apart by the very people he's trying to help. However, the fact that the show never feels bitter and seldom makes you hate any particular character is one of Arrested Development's great achievements.In short, this is one of the best programmes to emerge on television and, alongside Scrubs, represents one of the funniest, cheeriest and most addictive things currently on TV. My only concern is that it seems there is a Series 2 out somewhere which is still many months, even years, away from arriving in England.
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT," in my opinion, is an absolute FOX classic! I haven't seen every episode, but I still enjoyed it. It's hard to say which episode was my favorite. However, I think it was always funny when a mishap occurred. I always laughed at that. It's nice that every main character stayed with the show throughout its entire run so far. It seems that no one stays with a show throughout its entire run. If you ask me, Lucille Austero (Liza Minnelli) is absolutely hysterical! Everyone always gave a good performance, the setting was spectacular, everything about the characters was well-done, and the writing was always very strong. In conclusion, I hope some show bring this show back so I can see every episode.


                
Let me first say Arrested Development aside from any animated shows (Boondocks, Archer, South Park) is what I'd consider one of the very best and original comedic TV show America has to offer. It's smart , funny, great characters, moves at a rapid speed pace and delivers a laugh a minute with great dialogue and great performances. Fantastic. It also has one of the most interesting dynamic or subplot between two of the characters that made me feel uneasy that I cheered on. I have a few VERY minor complaints that I only bring up in relation to the fourth season. Certain characters with less is more. Gob and Buster always work best to me personally in the background with minor roles. Another minute thing that's not even really a complaint more of something I realize in retrospect the show's main story can be super convoluted. It doesn't help the show has a hilarious twist on the conventions of sitcoms at the end of each episode I won't ruin, but that's not something I notice while watching.The new season of Arrested Development has as much care and fan service as the original show. As a matter of fact it's even more clever and the only reason it's not as funny is because a majority of the jokes went completely over my head. There are callbacks to the previous season and a return of pretty much every character I could think of. This Arrested Development is for Die Hard Fans. I consider myself a huge fan and as i mentioned earlier some of the callbacks missed me, but that's not a problem with the show that's a problem with me and I think it's a good way to let fans know they still care.Everything's still in tact, but there's a major problem that stems from the series of the whole. The first 3 seasons had at least 3 main subplots going on outside of the main story. If one wasn't funny the other two picked up slack. The new season has a Lost style of having one character having one view point and using multiple view points to tell one story. This does not work very well until the second half where there's a better sense of the overall story. It's convoluted and this was not my fault this is just how the new structure of the show works. At it's worst it's pretty confusing and headache inducing. At it's best it's actually pretty epic and kind of hilarious. These episodes span 2 years. Bringing in another problem they feel really long and they drag. HARD. The episodes felt like they were an hour long and I tried to finish them in one day and I couldn't do it. My brain was melting. But on the positive side this adds a level of rewatchability. I honestly could see myself one ever few months sitting down and trying to piece together this massive storyline, which does require charts and a lot of patience.Overall it's rare for a show to come back after so long this strong. And the season gets better as it goes along , which is usually the case and it tells me they found their stride later. I give the overall series a 10 out of 10, but the fourth season gets an 8. Any new fans start from the beginning and work your way up , I promise it'll be your new favorite show.


                
It's addictive, it's hilarious, it's lovable and it's honest. So this is one of the best shows TV has ever exhibited. A strangely dysfunctional family with just one guy holding it together, is what the show is about. How we easily love Michael Bluth (played by Jason Bateman) and feel sorry about his family. How the family ventures into misadventures and how everything goes south.With a great star-cast and amazing story-line with a subtly humorous narration, one can easily love the show. I recently finished season one an hour ago and it took me not more than 10 hours straight. Now my eyes are red and my head is craving for some rest but i'd say it was totally worth it. Now after i finish writing this review , i will be running to my nearest rental store and renting season 2 of the show.I know you might say that after praising the show so much i still haven't given it a ten.. Well i've seen just season one, who knows the next few seasons might get this show a 10 from me.In my opinion watch the show, whenever, however, just go and watch it if you haven't already.


                
In the wake of the "Enron" scandal and others like it, but before the giant banking crash of 2008, it was amazing that such an unfunny subject could be made so hilarious. The Bluth family, in spite of the advertising to the contrary, has hardly "lost everything". What they have lost is the ability to charge their personal living expenses to the company after the company founder and head of the family, George Bluth, is arrested and charged with embezzlement and fraud. They still have one poorly constructed model home - with nothing but sand surrounding it - plus the Bluth Development company, which actually is a legitimate business, it just hasn't been run that way up until now. They also have Michael, the only family member with a conscience and a work ethic, who works to keep the family and the company together in his father's absence. However, for the spoiled Bluths, losing access to the company jet and cars, having their country club membership downgraded to a pool membership, and having to share the roomy yet shoddily constructed model home as living quarters has them all acting like they're stranded on Gilligan's Island.The results are 53 episodes of great comedy. There are sight gags and inside jokes galore, making this series perfect for DVD where you can watch over and over until you catch everything. After you watch this you'll never again see The Blue Man Group, model homes, Mrs. Doubtfire, cut-off shorts, Michael Moore, or the phrases "Mission Accomplished" and "Justice is Blind" without thinking of this show and laughing.It may have not had stellar ratings, but it was funny and fresh up to the end.


                
Arrested Development is unbelievably witty, charming, and uproariously funny. I don't think I can add much to what has already been said about it, but it is just so unbelievably enjoyable to watch. Some comedies you just set on and watch people do uncomfortable things and you might chuckle once or twice. Arrested Development isn't like that. It is so tightly-written and well-paced. It's hysterical.I can only think of two flaws - the story isn't especially compelling (what can you expect, it's a comedy show); and if you laugh a lot while watching run-of-the-mill comedy TV, this show might actually send you to the hospital.


                
I watched 2 episodes in season 1, and was repulsed. I didn't watch another until I saw the last season's 3-part finale, at the urging of a friend, and found myself rolling on the floor (literally) with laughter.Now I'm renting them from the beginning, and I love them all! I even laugh out loud when I watch the same episode again! I never thought a sitcom could match the manic energy and wit of The Simpsons, but this one exceeds it.I haven't found much intelligence in TV sitcoms since Seinfeld left the air. The characters in Arrested Development have the perverseness of those in Seinfeld, but the dialog is wittier. It also has more levels of meaning and more references, both to previous shows and popular culture and society. This makes it entertaining on repeated viewing. It even makes it interesting to see all the little jokes I missed the first time around.


                
I am not really a huge T.V fan and often struggle to find something above mediocre. I read a lot of stuff on the internet and find out about a few shows getting huge critical acclaim and would like to see them, but usually don't get around to it (a few of the emmy award winning US shows seem to not come to Australia too often or if they do they're not always on primetime). however a friend recommended it to me and lent me the 1st season.I watched the first episode last night and i was immediately hooked. it was hilarious and brilliant characters. i have since watched 3 other episodes each of them very near the same quality as the first.This show is very well written and very interesting in the various plot lines for each characters. ron howard also serves well as a great narrator.i'd recommend this to all fans of comedy and those who love witty dialog and if your a sitcom addict then i really see no reason why you wouldn't love this.


                
It's a good show but for some reason I feel like the series should have ended where it did instead of keeping going. Jason Bateman is a dream - love his portrayals in everything he does


                
"I've made a huge mistake."One of the most highly rated comedy TV series has returned for a fourth season after a seven year gap. And, while there's no doubt that the first three seasons are must sees, the latest season is a bit lackluster. However, the fourth season sticks to the comical roots and ongoing gags that has made the show what it is today – an offensively dynamic comedy that we all used to love unconditionally.Arrested Development focuses on the lives of a dysfunctional Bluth family who've lost their company wealth. Michael Bluth attempts to save his family's business while putting up with his outrageous kin. The interaction between the family members trying to make things work is what drives the show forward without losing sight of what the series is really about – looking out for your crazy family. No matter how many times George Sr. and Lucille trick their son and despite the petty fights that Gob forces upon his younger brother, Michael always comes back to solve everyone's problems with his egotistic attitude. Through the lies, deceit, and vanity, the family would always reunite back together, incorporate a hilarious continuous joke, and solve their outlandish (huge) mistakes. That's what made the first three seasons work so well: a counterproductive family that exchanges favors and somehow works together. This is where I feel season four went terribly wrong.Right from the start, Michael finally cuts ties with his family and the real estate business, and goes off to work as a Hollywood producer for a movie based off his family (possibly hinting and also destroying the idea of an Arrested Development movie in the near future). His motto of "family first" deteriorates, leaving the Bluth family to scatter and deal with their own problems separately. Perhaps this is why season four is a bit distant from its predecessors. The story no longer circles around Michael – instead the show is made up of nine different parts (one for each family member) and slowly pieces together the narration of misunderstandings and many coincidences. The Bluths are no longer a family attempting to gravitate together towards the "sun," but a family distancing themselves from one another. Even Buster has his own episode displaying his independence from the family (or simply just his mother).However, even with the unstable atmosphere of the layout of the plot, the show still shines at moments with old and new reoccurring drollery. Unfortunately, because the series isn't exactly made up of standalone episodes, the season requires a lot of start up time in order to really integrate the jokes into the story to make you literally laugh out loud. Season four is kind of like a broken chainsaw: Episode 1-to around 10 is when the engine is struggling to start, and then, once it's running, the show commences and is able to cut right to the funny bone. Gob's constant use of forget-me-now pills, and the cue of the song, "The Sound of Silence," whenever he makes a huge mistake is hilarious. George- Michael's blanking out, along with various other new gags, can easily remind you of a once flawless comedy.Seven years later, most of the actors obviously look a lot older than how they use to look before, which is why it seems a bit strange that the show decided to pick up where they last left off. It's not a big distraction but it can be a little awry to see a 25 year old Michael Cera play a newly graduated high school student for brief parts within the season. At least it's not as bad as seeing Daniel Radcliffe in his early 20's play a thirty something year old father.So to sum it all up, season four of Arrested Development isn't the pinnacle of the show. A few of the first few episodes can be a bit painful to get through (especially Lindsay's first section); however, the episodes only get better as the show goes on. So it's really up to the viewer to decide if plowing through the first few episodes or so is worth the trouble to enjoy the last remaining few. And it's not like you can directly skip to the later episodes due to the format of the narration – that would only make the season more confused than it already is. Now I understand why the episodes for season four all came out at once, instead of one per week. The series as a whole would be a 5/5, if not for the extremely slow and uninteresting start of the fourth season. Season four made a huge mistake.http://www.mrwickedproductions.com/wickquoting/


                
Arrested Development was an awesome show and I still can not believe that they would actually cancel such a great show as this. It won and deserved to win even more, tons of awards. It was the best comedy series I have seen on TV in a very long time and all the actors were perfect in their roles right down to just the small guest parts they would bring in, the style and narrative was awesome. I can't wait for the movie to come out but I'm afraid it won't be as good, other shows that got cancelled too soon like Futurama and Family Guy have been less good or even terrible since they came back so I hope the same thing does not happen to this brilliant TV show.


                
Arrested Development is a zany show with a likable cast. When I first tuned in, I wasn't sure if I liked the quick shot style and the wacky premise, but after seeing a couple of episodes I really fell in love. The characters are absolutely nuts, and the plots are strange as well. I think all the actors play their parts well. They really work well as an ensemble playing off each other. I love the banana stand, it is so funny. The name George Michel is priceless. I'm not so sure about the cousin incest, but I suppose it's sort of funny. The Magician brother is crazy, his character is so random. I can image how a writing session for this show went. Throw out a random word then just build a plot around it! Maybe is a really funny name too. I like her a lot; she is very spunky which works for her. This show is so absurd, but it works for me as a sitcom. Somehow this nutso family has found a way to work together and build relationships with each other. Even though they are all very weird and the plots are weird their characters are somehow relatable, and I think that is why the show is so great and funny. It's a shame it only lasted as long as it did.


                
Still, after two years of this show being off the air, it still breathes life! The characters--brilliant, the writing--brilliant, the chemistry--brilliant. My friends and I agree that if Arrested Development would have been on such a network as NBC it may still be rolling! The downfall was that FOX is a horrible network that caters to morons. Shows with no creativity at all can live on for years, but a show with such wit and timing never had a chance. Most TV viewers don't have the patience or the memory to truly appreciate the intelligent humor that was Arrested Development. It really doesn't make sense that FOX would have canceled this show that racked up 38 award nominations with 22 wins. It fostered new careers, brought old ones back to life and it made us laugh at Scott Baio again. The characters had such depth and representation that pages and pages can be written about each one. Tobias, a repressed homosexual who loves this family that rejects him so much. His career paths are crazy, but the man has passion, and never succumbs to the constant negativity that always kicks him in the backside! Although he is totally naive to reality, he does mean well. His characters from Dorothy (while in jail) to Mrs. FeatherBottom (or as Maeby calls him "FingerBottom") are classic examples of his multi-faceted persona. God, I could go on forever. But, you get my point, this show is hilarious and until the movie comes out, will live on through DVD...


                
George Bluth (Jeffrey Tambor) runs the family business of property development. He gets arrested and puts the family out of its comfort zone. His widowed son Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) returns with his son George Michael (Michael Cera) to run what's left of the family business. Lucille (Jessica Walter) is the spoiled matriarch and Buster (Tony Hale) is the hopeless idiot son. Son GOB (Will Arnett) is an unsuccessful magician. Daughter Lindsay (Portia de Rossi) is married to weird former psychiatrist Tobias Funke (David Cross). Their daughter Maeby Fünke (Alia Shawkat) catches the eye of George Michael who has inappropriate feelings for his cousin.I love this family of dysfunctional selfish people. It would easy to hate these self-obsessed narcissus but the show keeps them weird and fun. Their misadventures are comic gold. The rapid-fire dialog keeps the jokes coming. Even the Ron Howard narration works to keep the quirky tone light and full of life. Normally, I don't like narrations but it's perfect in this case. The three year Fox run is some of the best TV around. It's too bad that it never got the ratings despite the critical acclaim. The Netflix continuation is a flatter, less energetic version. It's not as sharp as the original run but it's still fun.


                
This is a very interesting TV series. The acting is somewhat of a hybrid of the office and a slap stick comedy. Everything in the show is very ironic. I can tell you basically the plot to every episode. But I wont. The writers of the show knew what they were doing. Often times the characters would end up in the same building with totally different story lines. --Seems too good to be true-- that is the only thing I don't particularly like. But it adds to the comedy. I rate this show at 9 out of 10 because of the originality of it. I cannot say that this style of show has ever been done with any other entertainment every. Or at least from what I seen. If you're reading this and wondering if you should take your time and watch this, DO IT. It's way worth it.


                
I had just started watching Arrested Development a month a ago and I LOVE it!!!! Finally there will be a Season 4 and a potential movie. After watching sitcoms such as HIMYM (How I Met Your Mother) and The Big Big Bang Theory I finally know were all the source material comes from. Material such as the cutaway gags and running gags all comes from Arrested Development.I still don't understand why It was taken off the air seven years ago. At least there will be a forth season with a great developed storyline with those amazing funny characters such as Gob Bluth (Will Arnett), Tobias Funke (David Cross) and the gorgeous Linsay Bluth (Portia De Rossi).WELCOME BACK ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT!!


                
First, allow me to nominate Arrested Development for the "Police Squade! Memorial Award" which pays homage to hilarious TV comedies canceled well before their time by network Chuckleheads. Somehow I missed "Arrested Development" during most of its original run on FOX. Luckily I've been able to tune in on a Canadian channel and make up for lost viewing. It's maddening that such a terrificly funny show was killed of by such short sighted executives. Even at only 6 episodes "Police Squad!" was hands down the funniest TV show of the 1980s. Arrested Development is clearly the funniest show of the new millennium thus far. Every spoken line has a twisted meaning that always pays off in a way that has me laughing until it hurts! The whole cast is brilliant in their respective roles so I won't single any particular character/actor. Clever, hilarious stuff this is! What really kills me is that "Seinfeld" and "Friends" were mediocre at best but received the kind of accolades in their time that A-D should have gathered in its time. Yes, it won an Emmy, but never garnered the respect it deserved. One of my greatest hopes for network TV is for Arrested Development to make a comeback like "Family Guy" did. A smart network (yes, that IS an oxymoron) would put the show back into production. They could easily pick up where the Bluths left off! BTW, www.saveourbuths.org is still active. "Family Guy" made it back, and on FOX no less, due to the show's building a fan base long after it met with the network wrecking ball. In addition to that, my all-time favorite show, "The Rockford Files", even came back in a series of new TV movies almost 15 years after cancellation. And "Police Squad!"? Even that came back in the form of three theatrical films so it can be done. Give your best shot! Go to www.saveourbluths.org and pile on. If it's worth the effort to post here and complain about how A-D was unjustly canceled, then it's worth the time to try and bring it back! S-O-B Save Our Bluths!


                
The series ended strong, with a run of some truly fantastic episodes, and the "conclusion", or what a conclusion for the show is, was great. Overall, I do think that the series lost some of its steam as it went on, and Season 1 was the only one that was truly amazing. I still very much liked this show, a lot, and am pleased that there will be a fourth season. The cast is great, always consistent and always likable, but the plots and jokes weren't as strong in the latter half or so of the series. So while I may not be in love with it like a lot of people are, when looking at all of the praise it gets, I do like it a lot and appreciate the bridges it formed for later comedies (and I do think Community is better).


                
Arrested Development portrays the life of a dysfunctional wealthy family fallen in disgrace. The premise is simple but the series is far from simplistic. It manages to present the viewer with a number of seemingly mundane situations that often lead to surreal outcomes. The characters are well written and have plenty of wealth to add to the situations that they are put in.The cast is very good and the quality of the writing is extremely well accomplished. The humour is clever and understated. The viewer is not told when to laugh by a prompt but led into different situations and allowed to make his/her own mind about them. It is not a show for anyone interested in slapstick comedy. Viewers looking for a fast paced, physical or obvious displays of comedy will find the show boring. A very good show that probably will not get you rolling off the sofa laughing but that will surely give you plenty to laugh and think about.


                
