I used to think that I knew a thing or two about marriage having been married for as long as I have but nothing from my experience had prepared me for the merciless and deep dissection of Marriage: Bergman Style. When we meet Johan and Marianne for the first time, they have been happily (or so it seems) married for ten years. They have two daughters; they are still young, very attractive, healthy, educated, well off, and they seem to love each other very much. But Bergman is not interested in happy families <U+0096> all happy families are happy in the similar ways. Like Tolstoy many years before him, Bergman explores the second part of the formula <U+0096> All unhappy families are unhappy in their unique ways. Bergman and his leading actors Liv Ullmann and Arland Josephson give one of the most truthful, honest, heartbreaking and credible portraits of a couple, one of the most intense character studies ever done on film. For five hours, we share twenty years from the lives of Johan and Marianne as well as their love, hate, misunderstandings, insecurities, anger, jealousy, denial, sadness, pain, despair, and loss. We witness the moments of incredible tenderness and unexpected and shocking violence, both physical and mental. There are no depth that they have not descended in the search of themselves and the meaning of their relationship. There are actually four marriages Bergman studies in "Scenes from a Marriage" <U+0096>none of them is happy, all are miserable. Bergman does not deny the possibility of finding a soul mate but his opinion on the modern marriage is quite pessimistic. It felt like Bergman was saying - marriage is dead, long live love. For hours after the film was over, I could not shake off the sadness and pessimism of it. Only later I realized that even if four marriages in Bergman's film were disastrous, it does not necessarily mean that all couples in the world are or have to be that miserable. Bergman wrote and directed Scenes from a Marriage in 1973 when he was in his 5-th marriage, the one that would last for 24 years until his wife died. He brought in the screenplay (I think so but I may be wrong) the bitterness, resentment, anger and disappointments from his previous four marriages - maybe that's why the film is sometimes almost impossible to watch? "Scenes from a Marriage" is a masterpiece but it may leave you devastated and emotionally exhausted. I watched the original 5-hours TV version and did not even bother with three hours version. 10/10


                
Scenes from a Marriage (the TV version, even as the theatrical cut is still very good and worth the time if the only copy available) is an intimate, naturalistic portrait of a couple, who at first are seemingly happy, then aren't, then try and find out where they go wrong. It's involving drama at its nexus, and for those who love the theater it's an absolute must see (aside from the theme, no music, all talk). Johan and Marianne are two of Bergman's most interesting, true characters (among his countless others) that he's ever presented, and like many other film artists, you can tell he's lived through at least some if not most of the emotions and trials these characters have been through. Along with several supporting characters, two of the more notable ones played by Bibi Andersson and Malmjso are a perfect contrast in the first episode of the series. The conflicts that are established throughout the series never pay-off in a mis-fire. Craft-wise there is almost no style except for the minimal lighting by the great Sven Nykvist. And the dialog that goes on between the two leads goes from amusing to tragic, from romantic to bleak, and with all the emotions that I (as one who's never been married) can only guess can be as so. Bergman's script would be just that, a poignant, very profound lot of bits between two people more or less on paper, if not for Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson. They turn on the emotions intuitively, like they've been these people somewhere else at some other time. Or rather, the husband and wife don't have very complicated jobs or economic situation, but the problems lie on the emotional plane, and the intellect they try to put to it. Johan loves another woman, how does that affect Marianne? Marianne asks for a divorce, how does that affect Johan? What will they do to cope? These are questions Bergman poses for his actors, among plenty of others, and they pull off the emotional cues off of each other like the most wonderful theatrical pros. It's hard to find anything wrong with their acting, cause they don't over-do it (unless you're not into Marianne's changes in feeling in some scenes, which could be understandable), and the bottom line is that despite it being in Europe thirty years ago, it's highly possible these people could be in your house, or in your neighbor's house. Ullmann's Marianne is the 180 of her character from Persona, who could only let out emotions once or twice, mostly as an observer. Josephson's Johan is complex behind is usually sarcastic and simple demeanor- what drives him to do what he does in episode three, or in four? What will the conclusion lead to? Bergman creates a drama that is never boring, never diluted, and asks us to search for ideas about love and relationships we sometimes try and push away. It's a superb, concise treatise about the nature of falling in and out of love, how to differentiate what love is, and essentially what a marriage is. I can't wait to see the sequel, Saraband, which is Bergman's (definite) last film.


                
Johan and Marianne have been happily married for ten years. Following the rough choice to abort their child, the marriage begins to fall apart. Theirs is a marriage of convenience anyway, so it is no surprise that they have looked elsewhere for love and comfort. One day, Johan runs away with another woman, and the process of divorce begins. "Scenes from a Marriage" (Scener ur ett aktenskap) is an intense and personal look at the sanctity of marriage in a world where divorce is in vogue."Scenes" begins with Johan and Marianne being interviewed for a magazine article about their perfect marriage. Johan is confident in his happiness. He loves his wife, has fathered two children, and has a well-paying job. Marianne is sure of nothing, other than that she's happy. She tries to talk about her future, but the photographer cuts her off for a picture. She never gets to finish her thought. One wonders what she would have said if she'd gotten to same amount of time to speak as Johan did.During the course of an epic five-hour ride, the two will switch places. Johan will become uncertain of what he wants, and Marianne will become liberated and truly happy. It's what happens in between that fascinates. "Scenes from a Marriage" focuses on the in between moments in life. Most of the time there are only two characters on screen at a time. Filmed in an intimate, documentary-like style, the film gives us the feeling that we're watching a home movie about the down time in the couple's life. This is when they real emotions come to the surface. Johan reveals his passion for Paula, the woman who has seduced him away from Marianne. Marianne, reserved in public, let's her anger, pain, and jealousy flow freely when they are alone together.It is this that makes the film work. The film was written and directed by Swedish master Ingmar Bergman, a man who knows how to create arrestingly real drama. Bergman knows that the little moments in life are utterly more fascinating then the overblown public moments that most movies show. By allowing us into these personal moments, Bergman allows Johan and Marianne to become like old friends to the viewer, and that makes the story all the more impactful.The performances by Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson as Marianne and Johan are nothing short of revelatory. Let's face it, most actors don't shoot for the stars in television productions. Ullman and Josephson treat "Scenes" like any one of their theatrical films. This approach is much appreciated. I only wish they could teach American TV actors a thing or two. Ullman and Josephson deliver more meaningful and powerful performances in the course of five hours than half of the American network line-ups could provide in 5 seasons.Take, for example, the scene where Marianne discovers that she is the last person to know about Johan's infidelity. The camera gets in close on Ullman's face to reveal all the little details of her expression. Ullman's face is a mask of horror and shame. Her eyes are crying out in despair much louder than her voice can.There is another fantastic scene in which Marianne who, in the ultimate irony, is a divorce lawyer listens to a client discuss her loveless marriage. The comparison to Marianne and Johan's marriage is undeniable. The look on Marianne's face as she sees her future self in her client is hard to describe, but undeniably affecting.Johan has less emotional depth, as one of the main plot points is that Paula saps the life out of him as the relationship progresses. However, look at the earliest scenes of the film, where he is overflowing with happiness. The joy in his eyes and his voice are so real it's hard to believe that the whole thing was carefully scripted by Bergman rather than improvised by Josephson.It is said that, following the initial airing of "Scenes from a Marriage" on Scandinavian TV, the divorce rate in Scandinavia grew immensely. More surprising is that Ingmar Bergman was, and still is, delighted by this fact. The film does provide somewhat of an argument for staying together (Johan and Marianne bounce back and forth on th divorce issue several times) and ultimately, as far as I understand, says that even the most strained relationships can be helped. I suppose it is all up to individual interpretations.I think that "Scenes from a Marriage" is a film about communication. The lack of communication, and the inability to communicate at all, are the major contributing factors in the breakdown of Johan and Marianne's relationship. It isn't until the divorce papers come that the communication begins. A lack of communication with their own emotions prevents the two from seeing any way out other than divorce--they simply assume that it's too late and that all is said and done. It doesn't have to be that way, and "Scenes from a Marriage" will provide a wake up call to anyone who thinks it does.


                
Scenes from a Marriage is a film about a breakup. We are not talking about some ephemeral youthful relationship, but a happy marriage of many years between a couple who truly feel they are happy together.Yet cracks become visible, and soon the whole structure comes tumbling down as the once happy couple spends the next 15 years of their lives trying to make sense of it all. The film (aired in Sweden as a 6 part miniseries) is 5 hours of the most intense, painful, emotional conversations ever committed to celluloid. It is filmed almost entirely in close-up with sparse lighting and no music. I have watched it multiple times and by the end of the emotionally grueling experience it feels as though you have lived through each moment Johan and Marianne have experienced, no matter how far from your actual life any one detail might be.That may not seem like the most pleasant viewing experience, but I should add that the film is not quite as harrowing as my description might make it seem. Yes, intense doesn't even begin to describe it, but Bergman has created the film with such honesty that there is no manipulation or unnecessary suffering. Even the immortal Eric Rohmer has never displayed this level of understanding into basic human relationships. Again, there is no manipulation here; Bergman would never stoop so low as to include suffering merely for the sake of additional drama. What is actually present in every second of the film is simply many lifetimes worth of wisdom on love, loss and moving on.There are no easy answers in Scenes from a Marriage. The film is an emotional roller-coaster from start to finish. The person who is handling things the best will just as often have hit a new low when they are revisited down the road. The couple's bond will never disappear and yet they can never be what they were to each other. Old feelings resurface, old wounds reopen, old passions return and throughout it all Sven Nykvist's camera does not flinch. No film has done more with such a stark palate of images.What elevates the film to "second favorite movie ever" level for me is not just the insight into human interaction, though that is my favorite subject matter in film. Scenes from a Marriage is not content to merely show what the loss of a loved one is like, Bergman also has a point beyond a simple documentation of the dissolution of a marriage.By the final chapter, perfectly titled "In the Middle of the Night in a Dark House Somewhere in the World", an epiphany is reached. Johan and Marianne do not necessarily "get back together" or "never see each other again", but a certain level of acceptance is reached. That which can never be understood, which no one can put into words, and which has no solution is somehow grasped in the final scenes of this magnificent movie. Like a fleeting glimpse of the sun from inside a cave, all the mysteries of life and love briefly make sense.While I never leave a viewing of Scenes from a Marriage feeling any less confused about the grand questions of life, I can't help but suspect that for a time during its brief 5 hours I almost had it. What more could any artist want from their viewer?


                
Ohmygod. Liv Ullman really deserved an Oscar for this one, as did Bergman. WOW- not many movies are this honest, this heartbreaking, this true, and this tumultuous- we see two people, in and out of a relationship over fifteen years, experiencing all the pain, loss, love, hate, anger, jealousy, denial, sadness, and so on that finding one's soul-mate brings, stretched out long-term.Not many movies even come close to this one's brutality in its genuine awareness of people. Most modern films (and television, for that matter) cannot even come close to the psychological precision of Bergman's films. Perhaps "Scenes from a Marriage" is his best work- more accessible than "Wild Strawberries", more compelling than "Persona." This is definitely a film to seek out.


                
The lawyer Marianne (Liv Ullmann) and the professor Johan (Erland Josephson) have been married for ten years, having two daughters. One night, Johan tells Marianne that he met a young woman, Paula, and he will travel to Paris with her for eight months. Caught by surprise, the perfect world of Marianne falls apart, and she starts living alone. Along the next ten years, they meet each other in different situations, in a relation of love and hate for each other. The first time I watched this theatrical movie I was single and was less than twenty years old. In that occasion, I loved the performances of Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson, but I found the story too long. Today, with twenty-five years of marriage, I have watched this film again on video: what a masterpiece! Ingmar Begman presents an amazingly credible and honest story of the relationship of a couple along twenty years of their lives. Liv Ullmann is so beautiful and has such a stunning performance that impressed me. Erland Josephson also has a magnificent performance as an insecure but sensitive man, full of contradictions and without knowing how to make a decision about his feelings. Unfortunately the VHS spoken in Swedish distributed by Concorde in Brazil has many dialogs without subtitles. Sometimes, four, five sentences are omitted in the translation,  or a long speech of a character is resumed to a five or six words sentence. A crime against the viewer! Highly recommended for married couples as a lesson of life. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): `Cenas de um Casamento' (`Scenes From a Marriage')


                
One of Director Ingmar Bergman's great talents was his deep understanding of women and his love for them. In Liv Ullmann he found a woman who could express that passion so that it could be felt by others. In the cinema that I most admire there is a collaboration of love and adoration between the director and the star that is expressed in the performance. We see this in the work of Krzysztof Kieslowski and to a lesser extent in the work of Roman Polanski and Roger Vadim. And I guess I might mention Benoît Jacquot and Andre Techine who first directed, respectively, Judith Godrèche and Juliette Binoche. But with Bergman there is a wider expression of this love and admiration to include the experience of pathos and tragedy. To understand what a woman is in the fullest extent of her being is what Bergman strives for, not just the revelation of a pretty girl. In Bergman we find the kind of all encompassing psychology characteristic of Shakespeare or Ibsen, in which the characters are fully fleshed and expressive of a wide range of human experience.This begins slowly as a stage play and continues as something seen on television and then suddenly springs like a trap and we are immersed in a compelling drama about people who are interesting and alive, people like ourselves who have the longings and the frustrations that we live but seldom express. As Marianne and Johan watch their friends expose the sordid details of their failed marriage, they are understanding and quietly smug that they are different, especially it is Marianne who is proper and conventional, always alert to the necessities of propriety, who feels this way, and is so happy that their marriage, while not perfect, will last. And so it appears. And then we have the scene in which Johan tells her that he is in love with a younger woman. It is nothing short of magnificent, one of the most memorable in all of cinema, and done with such subtly and power, infused with a deep underpinning of a wild and desperate, yet cunning expression of love from Liv Ullmann that would win over the devil himself. This is a woman at thirty-five, when everything that means anything to her is suddenly threatened, and this is how she responds, with genius.Or, some might say, with madness. Johan's dull indifference is absurdist, and Marianne's incredible tolerance and "understanding" of his behavior is stunning. Yet when it happens to us, sometimes we are just a bit ahead of ourselves and we realize what has really happened, and like Marianne we are generous and sad instead of insanely jealous. And Johan's insufferable arrogance and "worldly" understanding of himself makes us want to scream. And then it turns and he says, "I'm beaten," and there is just a trace of a triumphant smile on her face. At forty-five, he is a beaten man. "You win," is what he is saying. And now he becomes a bit pathetic. His behavior, when it is she who has the upper hand, is crude and ugly. Of course hers was cunning and desperate when he had the upper hand. And then it turns again and then again, and we have twenty years of a marriage.One thing I must say, this is a little too intense for TV! (The entire production, six hours worth, was originally made for Swedish TV.)I was pleased to see the photos of Liv Ullmann as a child and then as a little girl and then as a teen and then as a young woman worked into the script. She is so beautiful and wholesome in a distinct way, like no other actress, and yet I knew her in the ninth grade in the person of a girl with the same red hair and the same white, reddish, freckled skin. The range that Liv Ullmann displays in this film is remarkable, but she is not alone. Co-star Erland Josephson is also outstanding. And they had better be since they command the screen for most of the 170 minutes this version runs. What Bergman does that keeps us glued to the tube is he tells the truth. It's a Bergman truth, but it is a truth so beyond the contrivances and superficialities of most movies that we are fascinated.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)
Bergman set the standard for commentary on relationships with this film. Liv Ullman & Erland Josephson are extraordinary as a couple viewed over the course of their marriage and breakup thereof.  Bergman and cinematographer Sven Nyquist do an absolute masterful job following both -- Liv Ullman truly has one of the most expressive, beautiful faces in cinema, and Bergman's genius is that he captured every nuance of her perfect performance masterfully.Don't expect a single extraneous, out-of-place shot.  Expect the perfect cinema-plus-verite of long-term relationships that various others, including Woody Allen in his efforts (Annie Hall and onwards,) have tried to riff on -- but never as well.


                
Film discreetly mellows down the glorified myth of marital bliss, but at the same time gives you realistic, deep yet paradoxical association of two troubled souls. An ideal portrayal of human nature that cannot exist without hurting those who mean so much, especially those who are bonding in matrimonial. Well settled careers and added years to age make them no exception from the likes of those adolescence who are suffering from identity crisis And film exhibits that uncertainty of inexpressive emotions. Blend of love and hatred, growth and vulnerability of characters. Great performance by the two main characters, a lesson for married couple. In your face blatant reality that goes and finds it roots too deep within us. End is so imperfectly perfect like love of those two<U+0085> A masterpiece and must see movie for all.


                
I have a tendency to mistrust shortened "American release" versions, so of course I watched the five hour miniseries--and now I need to watch the three-hour theatrical release just out of curiosity over what could possibly have been cut out. "Scenes from a Marriage" is one of those impeccably written and directed works where every line has its power, fascination, and importance. Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson acted so well, I can't help but feel that the more self-conscious elements of the series (the end credits read aloud, some of the ways the camera readjusts its composition) were put in there just to make sure people knew it wasn't really happening--otherwise it would have been too painful.In terms of specific moments, there's a little too much to get into, but I think an important thing to notice is that the two characters never really lie to each other. They change their minds, they lie to themselves, they try to hide the truth sometimes, but never do they really say anything that the other person doesn't understand (or hopelessly misunderstand) correctly.--PolarisDiB
Scenes From a Marriage, the ultimate screen love story, in its fullest rendition in a sequence of six parts, each its own self-contained play, could not strive for more in whatever it has. It's the story most universal to the world's shared culture, the desire to be loved, to question the meaning of it, to be involved in the most universal tradition according to that perceived basic human need, hope and expectation in the form of marriage, and to blindly take on all further bricks for the wall between you and the freedom you once had. This is the epic for day-to-day life, and as like any one of the Roman Empire or the salvation from any historical holocaust, it both intensifies and elaborates every dimension of itself to create the ultimate spectacle and sets the highest standards for production value, not just in general but the talent and delivery on any level technical, aesthetic, or otherwise. But a historical event or biography, depicting a state of overt and momentous chaos which forever changes lives and society, never has and probably never could have the same degree of emotional and cathartic impact of the same kind of magnified, impassioned ode rendition of the worst fears, most crushing emotional devastations, crippling inadequacies, and distilled sense of loneliness of any and everyone's love life in whatever guise. And this is not a saga of good and evil but a saga of two deeply imperfect layman professional people.Each scene has the deliberate intimacy which extends our sense of how long we are spending in the given time and place with this married couple, so by the sudden cut from the first scene of Episode 1 to the second, we feel we have delved quite far into the nature and character of these two people, and yet we virtually haven't seen anything yet. Nevertheless, each Episode, or Scene, affords merely a snapshot in the lives of these two thoroughly normal, wholly and completely identifiable people. We are repeatedly lured with a sense of looking at their lives through a microscope only to discover we are under the microscope with them, sharing the experience of time and space in their lifelong daily landscapes. Alternately, we are also stunned by the remarkable simplicity of the entirety of situations that comprise Scenes From a Marriage, because they are nothing at all but natural, reflexive, rudimentary. Had the film lasted two hours instead of five, however neatly condensed, and indeed it surely is in its theatrical cut, it would nonetheless be simply two fifths of the experience. Since when can one's present life experience be delineated by one beginning, one middle and one end? There are countless beginnings, middles and moments that seem like the end, because nothing much else is new to the table at the time.Still, we only see moments in time for these two people where they're involved with each other. Most often, we only see the two of them in one room for a very long time talking to each other, or sharing time. That's the key. They're alone together. They feel alone together. They doubt their feelings because no matter how much or little they love someone else, they're so preoccupied with escaping the feeling every one of us can share with them: The feeling of being lonely.Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson move us in every way an actor does, by producing tears with the most honest and aching emotional pain, making us identify with the widest array of demeanors and mannerisms. Ingmar Bergman's script so deeply enmeshes the reality of their characters that it has them running the gamut of individual moods and mutual vibes in an average of a very short time. It's the sole natural effect that the two powerful leads completely embody the truth of the dialogues they exchange and the actions they make. One of the two is hardly vastly superior to the other, but both actors provide strong performances in different ways. Josephson plays Johan, a middle-aged man so used to his insecurities that he's no longer aware enough that they show and doesn't know that they are accepted, and continues to not think that they could be. An actor who has always tempered his presence purely by the level of a character's significance, he becomes so fixed in his nature as older men generally do that he always seems just as convincing when he deflects declarations of his flaws with rationalizations. Ullmann, on the other hand, is a powerhouse of transformation as Marianne, who at one point well into Episode 5 says that she feels like the people she and he were earlier are strangers. That is how we feel about them as well, not necessarily because they've changed, but also because we have seen them confront long-buried sides of themselves in exorbitantly dynamic roles that require actors of truly tireless talent, perspective and discipline.They're occasionally joined by their peers or family, and each of these performances too are memorable all by themselves. Ullmann shares the screen again with her Persona co-star Bibi Andersson, and as in that film, Sven Nykvist's compositions are completely controlled, but only in its endeavor to depict the actresses doing exactly what they must do. Jan Malmsjo gives a disquieting performance that, don't ask me why, called to mind a Bruce Dern as he was in Black Sunday and the end of Coming Home, Malmsjo playing Andersson's vitriol-spewing alcoholic husband. Gunnel Lindblom has almost the feel of Ingrid Thulin in her brooding undercurrent, playing a colleague of Johan's who isn't used to being polite or tactful but she's endeared by the same dysfunctions in him that Marianne loves and has had to learn to love. There are more, but one should discover them on one's own. Because no matter how wrenching it gets, we are always returned at the end of each episode to obligatory, reassuring images of Faro Island's natural Nordic beauty.


                
Leo Tolstoy once opined that all happy families are happy in but a few ways, while those that are not suffer in many unique ways. This apothegm was never more well evinced than in filmmaker Ingmar Bergman's five hour 1973 Swedish telefilm Scenes From A Marriage (Scener ur ett aktenskap), a miniseries that was even more influential in Europe than the American television miniseries Roots, which captivated American audiences only a few years later. Bergman's miniseries was repackaged for foreign markets into a 169 minute film version that, in 1974, was almost universally lauded by critics in America. Although, because it started out as a TV show, it was ineligible for Oscar consideration in America, it did win the National Society Of Film Critics Award for Best Picture, and, in 1977, PBS aired the entire uncut series. In many ways, it had more in common with such offerings as the U.K.'s Up Series documentaries, or PBS's An American Family, which chronicled the ups and downs of the real life Loud family. It was a film that also radically departed from many prior Bergmanian paradigms, even as it continued his in depth exploration of the interior human landscape.Gone was the poetic and dazzling cinematography of Sven Nykvist, as it was replaced by an even more obsessive look at the human mien, especially the gloriously radiant features of actress Liv Ullman's face. Ullman portrays Marianne, the female lead of the series, a thirty-five year old liberal leaning divorce lawyer who is married to a more culturally conservative forty-two year old professor and researcher at the Psychotechnology Institute, as well as a wannabe poet named Johan, played by Erland Josephson. We never learn the couple's surname, which only adds to their everycouple iconography, and the intimacy viewers feel with and for them. The couple's two daughters, Eva and Karin, make only a brief appearance at the start of both versions, although they are mentioned a few times more in the series. As the film version opens, the couple is being interviewed by a female writer (Anita Wall) for a woman's magazine, after ten years of marriage, and there are some awkward moments that belie the problems awaiting them just under the surface of their claims of being almost a too content couple. We are not sure whether this scene is the present- meaning 1973, or ten years earlier, for the series will progress over a decade. The TV version goes farther than the film version, and the first scene, or night's viewing, is titled Innocence And Panic. We see more hostility bared- overtly and covertly, and find out the interviewer is a passive/aggressive old schoolmate of Marianne's whom she is not too fond of<U+0085>. ultimately, Scenes From A Marriage is a great work of art, and one that will still have relevance as long as human beings involve themselves in mating rituals. While it details a marriage, that marriage fails not because of the husband's midlife crisis, nor does it even fail because of the wife's first infidelity and over-compensatory smothering, but because the two characters were simply ill suited for one another- personally, emotionally, politically, sexually, and philosophically. No matter how well they knew each other, and we know that they know each other all too well, basic incompatibility cannot be overcome. Thus the greatest lesson the film teaches is not how to act during marriage, but to choose well before entering into it, because that is the single most important choice a would be spouse can make, and gives rise to the maxim that Tolstoy spouted. Were that not so Scenes From A Marriage would not be as engrossing, insightful, and relevant a work of art as it still is, as it would be like so many other marriages and films in the real world- thriving on the low hum of ignorance that its participants and viewers enjoy.
Having loved The Seventh Seal, Wild Strawberries, Fanny and Alexander, Cries and Whispers and Persona I was hoping that Scenes from a Marriage would be on the same level. I do think after watching it that it is. In terms of cinematography it is simpler than The Seventh Seal for example but it is still interesting and never static. The scenery and lighting are top notch also, as is Bergman's direction. The music is resolutely haunting, while the story is hard-hitting but very moving, especially when Liv Ullman's character finds that she is the last person to know about her husband's adultery, and the writing has a very bitter but also refreshingly honest and powerful tone. The characters are not the easiest characters to like, but at the same time they are compellingly real. Liv Ullman is radiant and moving, and despite what you'd think I actually didn't find myself hating Erland Josephson's Johan, despite what he does to his wife there is an insecurity and sensitivity to him that ensures that there is more to Johan that meets the eye. Bibi Andersson is also compelling as the "other woman". All in all, the whole film was impeccable in all areas, though not everybody is going to like it. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
An amazing exploration of the decline and fall of a marriage, and the change, regressions and growth of the two people in it. While a few other characters appear briefly, this is almost entirely a 2 actor piece, taking place in small rooms, shot mostly in close ups. Brutally honest about its characters' considerable shortcomings, it also extends to them a generosity and grace, The two central performances by Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson are uncompromising and uncompromised, completely honest and truthful, as if we were eavesdropping on a real couple. Quite astonishing work by both. It's also an interesting portrait of a social moment – the early 70s – when women were finding their voice as equal partners in marriage and society through the women's liberation movement. The piece feels dated, but only in an interesting way as a look back, and yet seems to have paradoxically lost none of it's relevance. Styles and social customs may evolve, different countries may deal with sex or affairs with somewhat different attitudes, but the desperately complex mix of needs, wants, hurts, resentments and true love that make up a marriage seem to transcend time and place. A very few moments feels forced or untrue, and another very few feel extraneous, but this is a remarkable film. It also ushers in a new phase in Bergman's career, as the ever evolving artist moves into a kind of simple, naturalistic reality that marked a lot of the work from this point on in his career. Gone are the heavy (if often tremendously effective) symbols and surrealistic touches. This is life; raw, painful, rich and uncompromised.


                
In 1973, Ingmar Bergman took a less than optimistic look at marriage through his mini-series depicting the lives of a couple, married for a decade, in Scenes from a Marriage. Starring Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson, Scenes from a Marriage takes an almost documentarian eye on the lives of a marriage as it is on the precipice, several times, of either falling apart or falling together. The interactions between the couple are filmed in such a claustrophobic way that the audience becomes voyeurs watching the most intimate details in the lives of others. Despite the audience feeling as though they don't belong in the innermost crevices of these lives, Ingmar Bergman films each moment in such a gentle humanist way that perfectly explores the stages of a relationship.Marianne (Liv Ullmann) and Johan (Erland Josephson) have been married for ten years when the audience first meets them, and they describe themselves as a happily married couple. Johan works as a college professor and Marianne as a divorce lawyer. They revel in the fact that their marriage is nothing like their friend's Katarina (Bibi Andersson) and Peter (Jan Malmsjö) who they often see carrying on one of their many open arguments. Despite not having an outwardly volatile relationship, there is a clear detachment between Marianne and Johan, and a sense that they are not as happy as they have convinced themselves that they are. The camera checks in with them over the next 10 years as they encounter extramarital affairs, differences in developing the lives of their children, and the constant back and forth about whether or not they will divorce. Throughout each trial and tribulation, what Marianne and Johan truly need to solve is how exactly they feel about each other. Do Marianne and Johan love each other, have they just tolerated with each other out of a level of comfort and routine, or do they actively dislike each other? While attempting to discover their true feelings for each other, they also must figure out how to relate to each other as they continue to navigate their lives and care for their two daughters. As the pieces of their lives are about to fall, it is unclear whether or not they will end up being married, friends, or strangers.Full disclosure: There was scarce a doubt that I was going to love this. I greatly enjoy slow, dialogue-heavy films with brooding emotions percolating just beneath the surface. Scenes form a Marriage had all of the above characteristics and was carried out in such a sincere way thanks to master director, Ingmar Bergman. The slow, "talky" film perfectly illustrates the idea of marriage. Most of a marriage is what happens in day-to-day life and isn't punctuated by much in the way of grand happenings. Only when we reflect on multiple years spent together do we recount the larger issues that have taken place during a marriage. Those larger issues are few and far between with proximity dictating a married couple sharing the banal existence of everyday life as long as their marriage lasts. It is this preoccupation with daily lives that allow people to see beyond what drew them to their partner in the first place. When two people become comfortable in their unchallenged existence, they begin to look for excitement beyond their homes. Such a quest for excitement may lead to an affair, as was the case for Johan in Scenes from a Marriage. Conversely, close proximity allows us to learn about our partner in a more intimate way than anyone else. Living with someone may also create a bond so strong that partners become devoted to one another and are most taken by an image of their partner in everyday life that reminds them that there is no one else they'd rather be with. As depicted in the final scene when Marianne begins to cry as she watches Johan singing after cleaning up the house, it is often in the moments that our partner is most "themselves" that we find the most alluring. There's something about knowing that no one else gets to see the one we love in this particular way that allows us to look past all of the daily annoyances. Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson give pitch-perfect performances delivering actions and emotions that perfectly allow the viewer to read beyond what they are saying to understand what they are truly feeling. Scenes from a Marriage is an emotional exercise that almost feels voyeuristic to witness, yet is one that we are blessed to experience that will stay in the minds of the audience long after the credits roll.


                
Early in 'Scenes from a Marriage', Ingmar Bergman's inspiration August Strindberg is quoted: 'I wonder if there is anything more horrible than a man and wife who hate each other.' This film -- which was originally a TV mini-series in Sweden and subsequently complied into a feature-length film for international markets -- is about a husband and wife who love each other.This is no happy marriage, however, for that would make for dull viewing; instead, this is a married couple (Erland Josepheson and Liv Ullmann, as 'Johan' and 'Marianne') who begin by internally doubting their love for each other; they live passionless, routine-filled and conventional lives and joke with each other about how marriage should come with a ten-year contract to be renewed, but deep-down -- perhaps even on a subconsious level -- really meaning it.The aforementioned Strindberg quote is provided by a male guest at the couple's dinner party -- a man who gets drunk and starts arguing with his wife and berating her to such a venomous conclusion that they decide upon a divorce right there and then in front of their hosts. He and his wife are the dark mirror to Johan and Marianne: they are Strindberg's couple who hate each other; there is no redemption or hope for survival inside their union.Marianne and Johan are a couple with two young daughters (both of whom are absent from almost the entire film) who openly admit with good humour during an interview in the opening scene that their successful marriage was not initially founded on passion or love. They married because it was convenient; because they were lonely; because their parents were friends and believed it was a good match. Marianne, a budding lawyer, and Johan, a doctor, were made for one another -- what was romance in the face of practicality? Over the film's two hours and forty-seven minutes, after inflicting mental and physical abuse upon each other, cheating with younger lovers, experiencing shifting sands of power within their damaged relationship, lengthy periods of separation, agreeing upon a divorce, marrying new lovers and lots of glasses of whisky, Johan and Marianne learn that they truly love each other -- something they might never have known had they never strayed from each other to begin with.What's so impressive about this work is the extreme minimalism: there is no music, the chamber-drama sets are barren and sterile, and with the exception of brief cameos from the earlier mentioned unhappy couple at the dinner party (the wife played by Bergman regular Bibi Andersson) and Gunnel Lindblom as Johan's work colleague, Liv Ullmann and Erland Josepheson are the only actors featured in the entire film. Already two of the finest actors of their generation before this film, their performances here take their status to a new level.'Scenes from a Marriage' is a beautiful, brutal film. At times tender and moving, at times almost unbearable: a more honest film about romance and doubt within a marriage has surely never been made. Ingmar Bergman, one of the finest film-makers to ever live, surpasses even himself with the intensity and honesty of this work.


                
This is an actor's masterpiece. The two leads are about as adept as any I've ever seen. This is also about what love is, that unexplainable, elusive, unpredictable thing that sometimes can't be fathomed. The two characters go about their business of caring for each other despite the incredible mistakes and baggage each has. There is physical abuse and verbal abuse and serious of catastrophic events and bad acts. Sort of like life, right. We soon realize that it doesn't matter if these characters aren't like us. They are displayed as amazingly well developed people who have our interest every minute of the film. Some may say it is incredibly talky, but that's the central issue: the talk is what they are about and the nuances of their conversations and interactions is important to the viewer. The pacing is excellent. We get to see them in their most primal and most painful. They never stop loving each other or, in one sense, hating each other. This movie will be with me for a long time and it will haunt (in the best sense of the word) the relationships I find myself in. This is a true masterpiece.


                
I am relatively new to Bergman, though I have seen his movie about his parents (Best intentions, 1992) and loved it. So I had already had high hopes with 'Scenes from a Marriage', and I have to admit it even went beyond all my expectations.There is a bitter-sweet beauty in all biographical stories that span through decades of the life of a man and a woman. A good example is 'One Day' (2011), an equally good example from my country is 'Love Film' (1970) by István Szabó. We see the same here, share two decades of the couple's life with them. By the end, I got to love them both, and got to love all genuine attempts of us, ordinary people, for a relationship.10/10


                
Ingmar Bergman's "Scenes From a Marriage" covers a span of ten years in the lives of Johan and Marianne, ten tumultuous years chronicling every kind of experience that either enriches or poisons marital life. The result is the most complete, insightful and disturbing philosophical essay about marriage, its affect on life and life's affect on it. It is also one of Bergman's greatest films, served by two stellar performances from Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson.I used the word 'disturbing' because whether you look at marriage as a lifelong partnership or a sacred contract based on love and mutual respect, the movie will have an indubitable pedagogic value. Indeed, each of the six fifty-minute episodes reflects a situation that is critical to our understanding of the sacrifices implied by marriage, which leads to a torturing dilemma: if we relate to Johan and Marianne, we might fear their misadventures strike our couple, if we don't, we must ask ourselves whether we're not unconsciously blinding our eyes. And the first episode sets the tone when Johan and Marianne are being interviewed for a press article. We discover a solid, relatively young bourgeois couple, married for ten years, with two daughters. He's a university teacher and (fitting irony) she's a lawyer specialized in divorces. The idyll is too conveniently irreproachable for a couple that even admits it wasn't love at first sight but rather a mutual consent supported by their respective families. They don't brag about love and passion anyway, more about peace, satisfaction and achievements. Liv Ullman's hesitance contrasting with Josephson's confidence, leaves us with the feeling of a successful marriage but a successful registration to the ordinary formula of life providing an ersatz of happiness. Many times they have to remind themselves how understanding and affectionate they are to each other, would they insist that much if there was no problem? The film hints the eventual dangers awaiting the couple in the following sequence, one of Bergman's greatest scenes.During a dinner, an argument starts between their two friends Peter and Katarina (played by the energetic Bibi Andersson), and gets out of control. All they have is hatred and contempt to each other, physically and psychologically, but professionally, they're partners and business would suffer from a divorce. Their argument is so intense in its obscenity it reduces the lead couple to the role of passive observers. But it's Bergman's masterstroke of directing to let Peter and Katarina monopolize the screen while we have quick shots on Johan and Marianne. Bergman cleverly lures us into feeling exactly what Johan and Marian feel, a mix of embarrassment and consternation induced by voyeurism, with the fear that this scenario might happen to them in a next future. Like them, we're less disturbed by voyeurism than the insightful warnings it conveys. And the first warning is given when Marianne discovers she's pregnant and doesn't know what to do. The scene contains the film's most defining shot: Johan and Marianne in bed, talking to each other, but not looking at the same direction, as an unconscious way to avoid hurting truths. They don't give the right answers by hiding them but by not asking the right questions. Why not a baby? It's not a material problem, since they can afford it. It's obvious Johan and Marianne's lives are meticulously constructed since Marianne's efforts to change the vacation programs or cancel a family visit are fruitless, a baby might break the routine for better or worse? Then she listens to a woman who wants a divorce after twenty years. She admits then that she never loved her children, which rings as a less shocking statement when we keep in mind that it was loveless marriage."Scenes from a Marriage" highlights the eternal dichotomy between love and hate, especially in marital relationships. Marriage is an institution, often conditioned by family and society. The resulting conflict is that while loving someone is a genuine feeling, being married implies some duties whose applications might interfere with our inner personalities. Whether it's sex life, success and dreams, they can sometimes be undermined by marital life. The danger is to stop looking at the man or the woman of our life, but as the one who's destroying it or sinking it into the abysses of routine and conventions. The trigger comes from Johan, who reveals a much more artistic and passionate soul, openly flirts with some colleagues, and finally decides to leave Marianne for a younger student named Paula.The film takes off for a rich, gripping and powerful two-character study, two fascinating evolutions, exuded through haunting and magnificently written monologues and powerful close-ups, Bergman's most recognizable signatures, transcended by Sven Nykvist' minimalist cinematography, indispensable to convey the realism of a documentary format. As Marianne who, after humiliating herself to prevent Johan from leaving, finally blooms and discovers her inner strength, Liv Ullman displays the widest range of emotions in one of the greatest female performances ever. "Scenes from a Marriage" is mostly set after the separation, but that's not a misleading title, it's always about a couple, facing a painful but necessary tragedy. It's necessary because love shouldn't be at the expenses of self-esteem and that, I guess, is the most important lesson. Marianne told the journalist in the beginning: "fidelity is only possible if it's obvious". It stops being obvious, when people are unfaithful to their own personalities, their own personas in Bergmanian language. At the end, both Johan and Marianne admitted, they wore masks all their lives and could never take them off. A successful marriage is one where both care for each other without sacrificing their own self. That's why the movie concludes with a light of hope: the separation allowed Johan and Marianne to get rid of the artificial limits that suffocated their lives and ultimately their marriage. The core remained intact through affection, complicity, respect and mutual caring built on experience, wisdom<U+0085> and even marriage after all.


                
This has got to be one of the most realistic, honest, truthful and incisive studies of human relationships ever committed to film. Ingmar Bergman really makes his case here that all you need for a movie are skilled actors and an interesting script. This has got to be one of the best screenplays ever. The level of depth, complexity and nuance to these characters is astonishing, and the performances of Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson more than match the script. Liv Ullmann in particular, is an acting God, and this is instantly one of my favorite female performances ever. The characters just feel so real and complete, and many times during the film I related so much to their trials and tribulations, to their anguish, their fears, their confusion and longing that sometimes I felt like I saw a big part of myself in these characters. It's that personal and that real. The level of intimacy and minimalism achieved by Bergman and DP Sven Nykvist is awe-inspiring. The 5 hours flew by so quickly that when it was over, I was bummed because I would've been more than eager to spend another 5 hours with these characters.Just an amazing, incredibly understanding, moving and perceptive masterpiece.


                
An unflinching, sometimes depressing, but ultimately hopeful look at human love. One of the best films I've ever seen.Bergman made a sort of "sequel" to Scenes with the same actors, Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson, which I haven't yet seen, but it sounds fascinating.I hope this is long enough for IMDb. I don't feel like writing anything longer, dammit! oh crap, they'll make me add a few more words. OK, so here goes. See this movie, see this movie, see this movie, Bergman is god, Bergman is god, Bergman is god, I will go make myself some coffee now. Thank you IMDb.


                
