Platoon is to the Vietnam War as Rocky IV is to heavyweight championship boxing. Oliver Stone's story of the experience of a US Army platoon in Vietnam in 1968 is so overdone it's laughable. While most or all of the occurrences in Platoon did occur over the 10+ year span of US military involvement in Vietnam, to portray these things happening to one small group of men in such a short time frame (weeks) gives a horribly skewed picture of the war. In Platoon, the men of the platoon see all of the following in the course of a week or two: US soldiers murdering civilians, US Soldiers raping civilians, a US Sergeant murdering another US Sergeant, a US Private murdering a US Staff Sergeant, US soldiers killed/wounded by friendly fire, 90%+ killed or wounded in the platoon. For Stone to try to pass this film off as the typical experience of a US soldier in Vietnam is a disgrace. Two Vietnam War films I would recommend are We Were Soldiers (the TRUE story of arguably the worst battle for US soldiers in Vietnam) and HBO's A Bright Shining Lie.
What a lousy, over-hyped movie this is. It was little more than a series of overacted performances exaggerated to the point of being ridiculous. The horror of war was not evident in this movie, only the horror of ham performances. Constant screaming, lots of blood and profanity are no substitute for good acting. Defoe's character is shot twice almost point blank by Berringer and yet he manages to survive and stagger around, one assumes this is Stone's attempt at dragging emotion out of his audience, although the emotion was humor and not sadness. These actors can be grateful that they were so young at the time of the movie and can use that as their excuse.
I'm both amused and disgusted by the people who claim that this movie is so accurate about Vietnam, and WERE NEVER THERE. This movie is about as true about the whole Vietnam war as the Rodney King beating is true about ALL police officers. Yes, bad things do (and did) happen, but in general the people there are just like you and me. They have morals, they are not killing machines, they do not all do drugs. Atrocities were the exception in Vietnam, not the rule. They happened far more infrequently than the "hype" would lead you believe. Oliver Stone has a knack for making movies that show the Vietnam war as this brutal bloodbath, but are based as much in reality as Star Wars. If you honestly believe the stereotypes of Vietnam, do yourself a favour and learn the truth. Fact: the Viet Cong and NVA did far worse things to the South Vietnamese than ANY soldier in the US Armed Forces ever did. Fact: the soldiers in World War II treated the enemy far worse in general than the soldiers in Vietnam did, and they were WELCOMED when they came home. The fine Americans who served this country in Vietnam deserve our respect; though the war was badly fought from a political standpoint, no one could have asked for more from our soldiers, and it is a great disservice to assert that this kind of "mostly true" fiction is the way things really were there.


                
It's ridiculous to compare Platoon to Saving Private Ryan, and idiotic to say that the former is better than the latter. Nevertheless, I will compare the two, if only to counter some of the more ridiculous user comments written on this site. Ryan has a far better-written script than Platoon. Its storyline isn't all over the place (Platoon seems to take its group of soldiers and put them into every single situation faced by Americans in the Vietnam war, which is okay in concept, but not done too well here). Ryan's has a path and moves smoothly and interestingly from one event to the next.
Next: The combat sequences. I consider myself open-minded, but I have to seriously doubt the intelligence of ANYONE who says that in this category, Platoon is better. It cannot possibly be--Platoon is simply too low-budget. The visual effects are unconvincing (don't tell me those explosions look real) and the sound (which won an Oscar!) ranges from tinny to annoying.
And what's up with the tiny platoon? When we get to a lot of the combat sequences, there are hardly any soldiers. It's like there's Barnes and a handful of American privates. For that matter, the problem of not enough soldiers (was this supposed to be a WAR, or what?) exists on BOTH sides. Ryan outmatches Platoon not only in terms of intensity but in terms of scope as well, showing fights between large groups of soldiers, which made it look... REAL. Platoon makes a false promise to put you in the war. I've seen street gangs with more members.And to anyone who says, "Oliver Stone was there. He fought in Vietnam. He knows what he's showing," just please stop. STOP. All you know is hearsay. Just because someone served in the war doesn't mean they saw everything that happened in the war, now does it? I guess Oliver didn't know that the Vietnamese frequently strapped time bombs to their own children during this war, then sent them out to American soldiers, who were promptly blown up because they couldn't shoot a child.Where am I going with this? Well, a lot of the things that happen in this movie make no sense, and a lot of people will think they know something and say Stone must be right--after all, he went through it. No one platoon could have seen all the events (combat and otherwise) that this one does. It was like Stone was putting the platoon through the whole war in a week. Stone didn't see everything that they did. Not by half. The result is that Stone is directing what he DOESN'T know, what he DIDN'T see, which is, in part, why a lot of the movie doesn't make sense. An objective viewer will look at this movie and see a whole bunch of parts that are just plain stupid. (And the cinematography's not that great, either)In addition, I'm really put off by the fact that this movie makes monsters out of the Americans and heroes and martyrs out of the Vietnamese, showing only the atrocities committed on our part and none of theirs. Didn't we enter the war because the people portrayed as innocent townspeople (and badly camouflaged soldiers) invade South Vietnam to put the populace under dictatorial communist control? We came there to save them and WE'RE the bad guys? If Stone were making a truly objective film, he'd show what crimes the Viet Minh and Viet Cong committed against us. This movie isn't anti-war, it's anti-American.On a positive note, the acting is great, the good cast masking the inadequacies of a thinly written script that brings forth every possible kind of conflict with the flimsiest of segues between them. And the music is truly beautiful, unlike the overall film. I do not lambaste it because it's disturbing (my favorite movies include Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan), but because it's unconvincing. Best Picture? I wouldn't give this Best Picture over anything short of the 1998 American Godzilla movie.


                
Not much to say about this film, which I detested on first sight and which has not improved over time.  Oliver Stone is a film maker of great technique--unfortunately, since technique substitutes for other virtues such as intelligence and balance.  At this best (in, say, JFK) Stone achieves a kind of demented grandeur--you can't possibly take it seriously (unless you believe in UFOs, the theory of Atlantis, and the Bavarian illuminati), but it's geat fun.  Platoon is glumly allegorical and depressingly schematic. Good=black, takes dope.  Bad=white, drinks beer.  Spend your time on the few great Vietnam films--Full Metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now.


                
...Platoon is right up your alley.  The first 2/3 of this film are rock-solid, but not spectacular.  The last 1/3 is cartoonish, silly, weepy, and downright goofy.  Someone really needs to rein in Oliver Stone; his films all have some merit, but his frantic attempts to beat his messages into an apparently undemanding audience invariably drive his films into a ditch.


                
I can't believe why this piece of garbage is so high rated. I have watched for hour and half waiting for any intimation of plot or idea of film. I'm not from USA (and also I'm not from Vietnam)and I'm not old enough to remember Vietnam war. I do not care for how good or bad US soldiers were, which I thing is the topic only mentioned in all this comments. From film I look forward to have an interesting plot, idea or at least something like that. Here is nothing. Nothing - plot of the film should be said in approximately five sentences. Scenes are - US soldiers smoke weed. US soldiers kill others. US soldiers are being killed. Maybe idea of this film should have been that this film is such stupid as Vietnam war was... Well but it should be said in two minutes. This should not even be called movie.
Ignore everyone who praises this leftist piece of crap. I've talked to many Vietnam veterans, and they all hated the film, denounced its many historical inaccuracies and its negative portrayal of them. Here's a hint: Oliver Stone directed the shlock. He's an admirer of Fidel Castro. So, obviously this movie is loaded with Communist propaganda. Sick, vile, poorly written, poorly made, etc. I could go on all day, but I have better things to do then contemplate this terrible film. Avoid it all costs. Most of the men who fought in Vietnam were (with a few exceptions, of course) tough, courageous, valiant men who fought honorably. By watching the movie, by praising it, you are only giving aid and comfort to the murderous Communists who were the true villains and butchers of that war.


                
The Samuel Barber string piece is terribly overused. It seems to be played about every two minutes regardless of appropriateness. In this and other areas I think Full Metal Jacket is a vastly better movie.Also, I've nothing against Charlie Sheen or Tom Berenger, but they're not very good actors. But it's an OK film overall I suppose.


                
When I watched this, I noticed that "Best picture winner" was on the cover. I thought that someone had written this on there as a joke, but upon closer examination, I realized that it was actually printed on the case. Why???I never understand why people enjoy this movie.  Probably because it's so realistic.  Personally, I think it's depressing.  I know that war is actually like this (I'm a soldier myself), but this movie just takes that idea way too far.  Best war movie ever go to Pearl Harbor, with Saving Private Ryan a close second place.  This one is close to the bottom of my list.Although this is actually Oliver Stone's best movie.  That should say something about all his other films...


                
This is by far the worst, most overrated movie I've ever seen. There is no proper character/background introduction and the opening dialogue is very bland; as a result, the opening is quite stagnant and rather uninspiring. Throughout much of the film, tension is constantly built via brutal atrocities and blatant crimes against humanity: events such as the killing of innocent civilians with grenades, non-threatening people's heads bashed in for no reason, and a woman shot in the head for apparently yelling a bit too hysterically. The prime villain responsible for this happens to be in command of the platoon and few dare question his authority. Those who do are either killed for no reason (with regard to the 'plot') or are simply too helpless and timid to do anything about it, so that the second half of the film does nothing to properly resolve this tension. The result is a movie with no real justice. On top of this, the sound was cheap (as the firing of guns sounded like plastic toys), the action scenes were unimpressive (with actors running around aimlessly), the acting was petty, and the picture quality was mediocre. Overall, the movie comes off too preachy, contrived, and dry with really two-dimensional—good or bad—characters, and in essence, just isn't worth it. Some alternatives with better stories are Apocalypse Now, Behind Enemy Gates, Predator, and Full Metal Jacket.
The film has as its core the supposed moral rift between two fundamental attitudes to war, represented by the two officers in the protagonist's platoon. But that conflict does not exist in real life, only on film. If the aim of the film was to say something about human nature, it failed. The characters are caricatures, nothing more. In real life, most soldiers simply don't care. They want to survive, they do what they have to do, and that's it. War is about survival, not philosophy. Soldiers don't spend their free time between battles thinking about good and evil. They think about how much they miss home. And when civilians get killed, no one has the time or strength to worry about it. You are too busy being on the edge of a nervous breakdown, or thanking God you didn't die. You just don't care.


                
