Platoon is a 1986 American war film written and directed by Oliver Stone one of the most strongest realistic anti war films of all time. It is one of the best Vietnam war films I have ever seen that won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1986 and best Director for Oliver Stone, as well as Best Sound Mixing and Best Film Editing. Stone's Vietnam film portrayed a real life human been on his point of view of the story telling that went on in his real life that he experienced after his tour of duty in Vietnam ended in 1968, Oliver Stone wrote a screenplay called Break: a semi-autobiographical account detailing his experiences and the life he was in Vietnam. The characters were portrayed more then a few soldiers they were portrayed more as a human been than been soldiers obeying an order.Platoon shows the Vietnam War was a big mistake, but being a fictional documentary on Vietnam is far from its purpose. It is one of my personal favorite war movies. I love this movie to death. Those of us who did make it have an obligation to build again, to teach to others what we know, and to try with what's left of our lives to find a goodness and meaning in this life. In Platoon, Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) is a young, naive U.S. soldier who, upon his arrival to Vietnam, quickly discovers that he must do battle not only with the Viet Cong, but also with the gnawing fear, physical exhaustion and intense anger growing within him. While his two commanding officers draw a fine line between the war they wage against the enemy and the one they fight with each other, the conflict, chaos and hatred permeate Taylor, suffocating his realities and numbing his feelings to man's highest value... life.Chris sees his platoon fragmented into two halves, each aligned with one of two men -- Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe) and Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger). Those two soldiers are really two positive good things to see in the film because it sets the viewer on the seat of the edge. They both have nominally the same enemy (Viet Cong), but, really, it doesn't take long to realize that Elias is Good, and Barnes is Evil (the "enemy" does not enter into the moral equation of this film, at all it's an outside threat, same as malaria-carrying mosquitoes or even friendly fire). Elias feels the futility of the war and has respect for life; Barnes fights the war doggedly and has no compassion, period. Both are efficient soldiers fighting the same enemy, but really as is at one point aptly put by Chris Taylor himself,they are fighting for the souls of the platoon members, as the outcome of the war is never really in doubt.The platoon reaches the village, where a food and weapons cache is discovered. While questioning the village chief, Barnes loses his patience and senselessly kills the man's wife despite his denials that they are aiding the Viet Cong. Barnes is about to murder the man's young daughter to force him to tell them to where the enemy is. Elias doesn't take kindly to this kind of behavior. Elias and Barnes come closer and closer to open conflict, as Taylor becomes a veteran, obviously siding with Elias. Meanwhile, the fate of the platoon comes closer and closer to them, culminating in an explosively shot action conclusion. The end is dark, but morally satisfying.Platoon is a legendary film. A film that I will always cherish, and a film that I will never get tired of. And the last Vietnam film worth a damn to watch. There isn't any War film today that was filmed as really human drama war today in 2015. It respectively represents the very essence of purposefully haunting powerful cinematography in the history.-- It is representing admirable cinematic craftsmanship and storytelling. A film that is sometimes impossible to watch for its frighteningly intense and emotionally draining account of the Vietnam War as it is waged both on the battlefields and within the very souls of men.The best real human drama portrayed on screen anti-war film in Vietnam from the 80's, It is my favorite film that I will always love to death to see. I also don't watch this film for an action ; I actually see it for the war and how it everything was, what is more valuable and it is life: The film also have a message in it. The actors portraying the characters did make a believable performance as the real team of squad soldier fighting the Enemy the Viet Cong.The battles with Viet-Cong are shown realistic mostly on the end of the final battle. 10/10


                
Why I think Platoon is probably the best war movie Hollywood ever made? Because it's very humane. I mean it. The director sees all his characters as victims of war rather than heroes or villains. Have a closer look at 'em.Taylor has no power inside himself and is torn between the two fathers; he ends up with a physical act of revenge. This is not what one father taught him - and the other father is actually murdered by him. Sgt. Barnes would never fit the postwar life and knew it damn too well himself; after all, he is not a fool although might seem a senseless killing machine at first sight. Vietnamese bullets could not kill him, his talent for survival being his enemy. So, he attempts kinda suicide twice (at least) begging others to kill him and thus end the pain tearing him from inside: first, in the potheads' bunker scene after Taylor's accusations; then, when Taylor finds him in the final scene.Sgt. Elias was far too good to survive the Nam and maybe even challenged and annoyed lifers on purpose, waiting for some bob barnes to hit back :) It's a pity Stone excluded the stars' scene monologue which explains pretty much about Elias' ways and view of the future. In fact, for himself he sees no future. Not in this world that is all about betrayal and killing.Bunny and Junior, one the embodiment of somewhat sadistic bravery and the other of cowardice. Their deaths are partly a morality, partly to show that it does not matter if you're black or white, brave or cowardly, war makes no difference wiping off everyone it can. King, Big Harold, Francis are survivors yet victims, too. What is awaiting them in the "real" world where nobody understands and nobody respects anything? They are dreaming of a comeback to music, girlfriends, fun time - but reality bites, and who knows, will they find their spot under the sun or will be forced to use the skills obtained in the Nam and get engaged in crime and drug abuse?Red O'Neill talking about his ability to predict if a guy is gonna make it or not. A reflection of his own fears: shall I stay alive and get out of here or not. The odds are that he is not, and Stone nails him to the place with Captain's order to take over what was once the Platoon... Bye Patsy.The idea that Stone has been trying to bring forward to us is NOT (to my mind) a story of struggle between the good and the bad for the possession of Taylor's soul (remember, the boy became a murderer in the end), but: where is war there can be no escape. Leave hope everyone who enters.Highest rate ever for that.
I watched Platoon when I was 17 at 1987. I was on the edge of questioning everything and ready to uprise with a small move. Of course I was fascinated after watching the movie and I remember I was that close to cry. I can definitely say Platoon is one of the best war movies of the history. It has many incredible scenes and it reserves a great story of brotherhood inside also vandalism and senseless of war. Charlie Sheen , William Dafoe and the great Tom Berenger can easily be considered as one the best combination of actors to tell a story of faith and betrayal in a movie. Oliver Stone did a great job as writer and director. I remember that I was really touched with the letters that Taylor ( Charlie Sheen ) writes to his grandma. Also with the amazing music of the film you feel many different things. I believe that on the last scene the picture of William Dafoe with his hands open on his knees with hundreds Viet Congs coming after him is a masterpiece work and unforgettable.I watched this movie at Osmanbey Gazi movie theater at Osmanbey-Istanbul and i believe 70's and 80's are the best time in Istanbul for watching a movie with big saloons and with great atmosphere. With 90's big movie theaters started to turn to couple of small saloons and with shopping malls movie theaters started to locate at malls. I really miss a lot of 80's and the taste I get from the legend movie theaters like Osmanbey Site-Sisli Kent-Osmanbey Gazi- Pangalti Inci-Harbiye Konak and Harbiye As.
Platoon left me absolutely numb after watching it. Oliver Stone,(Who in fact did serve in Vietnam) did a fantastic job telling this story of the horrors and the insanity of the Vietnam war. What's to be admired about this film, is that Stone doesn't sweet-talk the story, with the good old American boys fighting for their country and facing brutality, instead he brings up a strong morality and humanity issue. It's wasn't all black and white, it wasn't one person was wrong, one was right, there was all shades of gray in between. He uses the characters of Sergeant Barnes and Sergeant Elias (both played brilliantly) as symbols of good and evil clashing into one another. Charlie Sheen (Chris, the narrator of the story) is in a sense torn between both, they are both a part of him as he tries to deal with things falling apart all around him. Vietnam was a senseless war, and Platoon tries to understand why we went through it and how we ever got through it.


                
A+ Undoubtedly one of the best war films ever made, if not one of the THE best films of all time. Where to begin with such a film? A lot of this goes to Oliver Stone, who actually served in the God-forsaken jungles of Vietnam. The film really brings to light the atrocities and pointlessness of the Vietnam War full force, all cleverly represented by the soldiers who fought these not so courageous and valor-filled battles.The conflict is simple at a glance; Chris Taylor, played superbly by Charlie Sheen, is a young recruit who in a similar trait to the Civil War novel "The Red Bade of Courage" is naively eager to be a proud and loyal soldier fighting against Communism, as he believes, nobly. However, he soon finds that "the 'Nam" is nothing like he thought it would be. The Vietnam is portrayed as realistically as it will ever be here: as a chaotic, dark, and all to real nightmare. It is within this hell he realizes that there are only two ways to truly endure the war: Give into near animal instincts, discarding all morals and perspectives of decency or find ways to escape the war at least for short bursts. Taylor decides to choose the latter, but regardless the platoon is divided by these two choices, on one side being Barnes, who will let the war consume them completely. The other is Elias, who represents Taylor's last grasp to his humanity. Many choose one path and never turn away from it, despite the fact that many of these men will die regardless. The underlying conflict is how you spend those last remaining days, minutes, instances of life. And all along the Vietcong are just an outside force who the soldiers have no real chance of understanding or negotiating with , just one of the many hazards they will have to survive.Tom Berenger is endlessly great as Barnes, and Willem Dafoe is no less stunning. Every performance is stunning and captures the very real fear of war. Among the many other stand out performances in this picture are Kevin Dillon as the sadistic Bunny, John C. McGinley as Sgt. O'Neill, Francesco Quinn as Rhah, Johnny Depp as Lerner, Forest Whitaker as Big Harold and Keith David as the unforgettable King. And the coup de grace, an unforgettable and heartbreaking score by the late Georges Delerue and Samuel Barber, such beautiful and yet clearly pained music. "Platoon" will never cease to be my favorite war flick ever.
Platoon is a must see for any fan of war movies. The film that put Stone on the map, Platoon is considered by Vietnam Vets as the most realistic (my father having been one of them). But in keeping the maxim of giving credit where credit is due, much of the success of Platoon belongs to military adviser Captain Dale Dye, who has been linked to pretty much every great war movie in the last twenty years. Much accolades to Tom Berenger as well, whose performance as Sgt. Barnes is the tour de force of his career (the scene in the village towards the end of the movie is brutal, befitting the character). With a great script, great performances, and awesome cinematography, Platoon is a surefire classic.


                
Every once in a while I will watch this film again and see if maybe I have grown tired of it.  Surely after "Saving Private Ryan," "Titanic," "Crimes and Misdemeanors," or "Schindler's List" I have seen a better film.  Well, after every viewing there is something about Oliver Stone's masterpiece that keeps me saying that I have never seen anything better.I am a sucker for Vietnam pictures.  "Apocalypse Now" and "The Deer Hunter" also rank in my top ten of all time.  Stories about Vietnam can run the entire gambit of human emotions.  "Platoon" is not only a documentation of America's sordid involvement in a foreign civil war, it is also a dramatic story of human response.  A life developing in the most horrible of places.There have been films put together better.  There have been films with more detailed and interesting plots.  But none have ever told a more touching story of human development set in the backdrop of bloody violence and inhuman suffering.Rating: 10 out of 10.


                
Still after all these years, platoon is my favourite movie. Sheen, Berenger and Dafoe are so good in this. No lie seen it 15 or so times. Highly recommended. Awesome music soundtrack and memorable scenes like when Elias is running from the enemy alone
Platoon is still one of my favs as the best war films of all time.Directed by Oliver Stone in superior fashion, this film will put you in the war zone with the characters, and will leave you with a twisted feeling in your stomach. Very impactful and an edge of your seat action thriller.The performances by Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe are outstanding!It's a perfect 10/10 from me!


                
Platoon is one of the most realistic war films already made <U+200B><U+200B>, is the kind of film that have neither protagonist ( Charlie Sheen may be even considered a protagonist, more in my opinion there is no ), the direction of Oliver Stone is very good, cast is very good, Charlie Sheen , Willem Dafoe , Forest Whitaker , John C. McGinley , Kevin Dillon and even one participation of Johnny Depp , the soundtrack is excellent , especially that is played at the opening of the film, excellent theme, the picture is very good, the costumes are good, the film is realistic in showing the terror of war , especially in the scene of the village of Vietnamese , the script is good, have catchy phrases and striking scenes , Platoon is perhaps the best already war film made it has striking scenes , very good performances , and shows very competently the terror of war . Note 10


                
I own the Blu-ray version of this movie and watched it some time ago but can't find it right now. It's somewhere in the closet and I write this review by memory. I don't remember what director Oliver Stone said in his commentary; actor Charlie Sheen made his great debut with "Platoon" (1986) but I don't remember whether he had a featurette in the Blu-ray disk. Hence young generation now-a-days are not prompt to watch Blu-ray, they have everything on-line. Valuable detail from IMDb - the Film was shot at locations in Luzon, Philippines. It's all Jungle there, after all!Have other things. Me and Charlie Sheen are one and the same age. I know the spirit of 1980s and although I made first step in U.S.A. at year 1990, I can declare that we lived "happy as pigs in those times" /citation not mine/. I have to confess that I didn't stay and came back home, but my brother have a breed in America and my nephew is an American. Those young people have to know, but unfortunately I can't speak to Sam very often.The Vietnamese population are Buddhist by religion. Almost 90% of those are dumb found. They didn't understood that War Inc. was imposed on them by Great Powers. Soviet Union and Communist China did well in Vietnam, they dragged the Americans for whole 10 years and bleeded them 50 000 troopers. More were lost as P.O.W. and no one can figure the exact number. Total deployment of U.S.A. and Allies were 500 000 soldiers. My personal opinion is that drafting procedure was a total shame - what do you mean by every odd number in Birth Certificate becoming a conscript. Else, many people doved.A share in documentary literature are the, so called, "Pentagon Papers" on United States Vietnam Relations 1945-1967. Issued by U.S. Department of Defense, commissioned by Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara. Those "Pentagon Papers" became a banned book since revealing Congressional Records. Things like that. Enjoy it!


                
Perhaps Oliver Stone's most well known film Platoon is a masterpiece to it's genre, the movie tells the story of a young recruit in the Vietnam War who faces a moral crisis when confronted by the horrors of war and the duality of man. The movie stars Tom Berenger as Staff Sgt. Barnes a soldier who only cares about killing. The movie also stars Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe, Johnny Depp, Francesco Quinn, and Forest Whitaker. What Oliver Stone tries to teach us with this Vietnam epic is of the horrors of the Vietnam War and what a horrible event it really was in our history. The acting is complex, the music score tries to make us think of the horrors of all wars, the cinematography is terrific, and my gosh what a great movie this really was. Not only Oliver Stone's direction was really good but he was an actual veteran of that war, and this is a great movie to remember those who died during the Vietnam War.A definite A+
Film Review: "Platoon" (1986)When I recall my first of several each time differing experiences of watching "Platoon", when the first time had been somewhere in the mid-1990s on crappy television set, I had been hooked to this War-Action-Drama directed by Oliver Stone, whose film made such an immensely-intense impression on my emotional state of existence that the universal themes of Yin and Yang, Dark and Light impersonated by the ingeniously-written characters of Sgt. Elias and Sgt. Barnes, portrayed to career-defining proportions for supporting cast Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger respectively, who both had been honored with Academy-Award nominations for a motion picture history-making conflict of dealing with utmost stress situations in the middle of an inglorious "Vietnam War" ranging from 1965 to 1975, when chances were that the United States became front-running in a world-wide way of living for all people; which then just got shattered by infusions of enraged society of rich-kid students and returning crippled as emotionally-handicapped war veterans.Director Oliver Stone, who had made military service on his own in the war-time season 1967/1968 for the benchmarks-stretching U.S. American government under 36th President Lyndon B. Johnson (1908-1973), had written the original screenplay on his experiences in "The Vietnam War" by implementing on main character Chris, performed by 21-year-old pitch-perfect-cast actor Charlie Sheen, who like no others had been able to portray the loss of innocence from the very first arrival at an SouthEast Asian airport in hazardous as blinding sand-corn-dust swirling in mid-air under a tear-draining piece of music by Samuel Barber visualized by the director's brother-in-arm cinematographer Robert Richardson, when they join forces to shot film-roll after film-roll on an remote jungle island within the splintered soils of the Philippines in spring/summer of 1986 to chaotic but highly creative scene coverage in favors for a beat-pushing director over producer's Arnold Kopelson's concerns on his six million dollar budget, which then in Fall 1986 becomes miraculously a knock-out of a picture to be present to critical as box office successes in this razor-sharp two-hour final-cut editorial by Claire Simpson to be recommended to anyone, who cares for the art-form of cinema and wants to learn more on the eternal human condition of fighting not each other but ourselves.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
This is a very, very hard film for me to review. I was too young to be in Vietnam (thank God) and I have no idea what the real Vietnam War was like. Was it like John Wayne's THE GREEN BERETS? I am sure it was not! But, was it like PLATOON? I just don't know. Did the soldiers in the war do drugs, kill civilians and run amok? Yes, but whether or not it was the norm (like it was shown in this film), I just can't say. Some Vietnam vets I've spoken with say this film is accurate, others say it over-emphasizes isolated incidents because it has an agenda. I just don't know, especially since director Oliver Stone does have problems, at least in some films, with fictionalizing events (such as in JFK and Alexander). Regardless, it is a very powerful film.Unlike FULL METAL JACKET, this Vietnam War film begins in Vietnam. The film opens with Barber's "Adagio for Strings" providing an appropriately somber and dirge-like musical introduction--newbie Charlie Sheen arrives as body bags are being loaded into a plane. This is the perfect music for the intro, though I must admit that later in the film it is overused just a bit--losing some of its impact.The film revolves around young Sheen and the men serving with him--soldiers on the front lines and in the middle of the action. Over time, the whole reason for them being their and their humanity all comes into question. This struggle is epitomized in the two sergeants. One, Tom Berenger, is a bit nuts. He's willing to break the rules, kill civilians and become an animal. The other, Willem Defoe, is an equally skilled soldier but cannot allow himself to give in to his darker side. This all comes to a head when Berenger and several others viciously kill several villagers--villagers who could easily have been completely innocent and certainly did not deserve this. When Defoe swears to file a report about this, you know that eventually there will be a serious confrontation between these two men. However, it's Sheen who eventually finds himself in the middle--and you are pretty sure that it will be him or Berenger that must die. Yet, there is STILL almost an hour left in the film! The final hour is one of the most harrowing in film history. It consists of one hellacious firefight after another--culminating in a battle along the Cambodian border that ultimately kills off most of the men in the platoon--and further dehumanizes the survivors. For sheer violence and terror, I can't think of another war film that can even come close. It's practically non-stop and will keep you on the edge of your seat.So what did I think about the film? Well, watching it was certainly among the most unpleasant experiences I have ever had! The extreme violence, the pointlessness, the horrible language and the drugs were all pretty awful and didn't make this a film for little kids, that's for sure! But, you certainly must admire it for the intensity and realism you lack in many films--traditional war films that make war seem fun or manly. You certainly can't watch this film enjoy it--and that really is a good thing when you think about it.So, for a film that shows war in all its awfulness, you can't find one quite like PLATOON. Once again, I can't attest to the voracity of the portrait of the war, but for a vision of what war can be like, it can't fail to have a huge emotional impact. My only quibble, and it is minor, is that Charlie Sheen seemed a tad young in his role--so much so that I had a hard time accepting him as a soldier among all these men.
Recently, over the last few days, I will have commented on a triumvirate of Oliver Stone movies. "Platoon" is considered his greatest movie ever!! I thought it was extremely compelling!!! "Platoon" won the academy award for best picture in 1986, and, Oliver Stone won for best director for this film that year as well!! I would have to say that my favorite Oliver Stone film is "Talk Radio"... With regard to all of Oliver Stone's movies, "Platoon" is the most critically acclaimed, hence, this is his trophy!! "Platoon" deals with the laborious tragedies of the Vietnam War, and how one horrifying conundrum had the ability to vitiate so many soldier's sense of naivety!! While the vast majority of Americans were reticent to criticize the United States involvement in Vietnam, they also did not have the clairvoyance to envision the idea of how we as a nation would get so involved with such a sustained and prolonged occupation in this archaic nation (Vietnam) either!! The precarious political agenda of our constituency on Capital Hill cultivated an intransigence with worldwide decorum, as well as with the wishes of the American people!! This movie is an incredibly astute depiction of how some young soldiers became victims of congressional blundering!! A war should be fought for national cause and not for political agreement!!! The movie "Platoon" articulates an uncanny ability to purvey a moral dissonance with the unfortunate plight of so many Americans during the Vietnam War!! Oliver Stone is once again very cunningly successful at depicting human atrocity to it's ultimately dire and absolutely abhorrent level of socially conscious pitfalls!! The acting in this movie is spectacular, the actors include, Tom Berrenger, Charles Sheen, Johnny Depp, and John McGinley!! AFI ranks "Platoon" as one of the top 100 movies ever made in the American cinema world, and, this website ranks it amongst the top 250!! YOU MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!!! IT IS FABULOUS!!!!


                
In 1967, U.S. Army volunteer Chris Taylor arrives in Vietnam and is assigned to an infantry platoon near the Cambodian border. The platoon is officially led by the young and inexperienced Lieutenant Wolfe, but in reality the soldiers defer to two of his older and more experienced subordinates: the hardened and cynical Staff Sergeant Barnes, and the more idealistic Sergeant Elias.Taylor is immediately sent out with Barnes, Elias and veteran soldiers on a planned night ambush for a North Vietnamese Army force. The NVA soldiers manage to get close to the sleeping Americans before a brief firefight ensues; Taylor's fellow new recruit Gardener is killed and Taylor himself lightly wounded. After his return from hospital, Taylor bonds with Elias and his circle of marijuana-smokers while remaining aloof from Barnes and his more hard-edged followers.
Oliver Stone for me is a really interesting director, he stands by his opinions no matter how divisive but this film is far from divisive it paints a picture of real men struggling to survive in a situation they have no idea how to and Platoon is a masterpiece. Easily in my top 50 of all time I adored this movie. From the opening scene of this movie we can tell that the main character played by Charlie Sheen is not even trying to hide his regret or fear he is in constant fear for his life and this was a very bold choice and a very good one, it's clear that Stone took from his own experiences in Vietnam to make this film seem more real and it payed of. This is an extremely atmospheric movie, you can practically smell Vietnam through the screen, every time it rains you feel the soldiers cold and discomfort and has action sequences rivalling that of Saving Private Ryan. Charlie Sheen was excellent in this movie he does a really good job at portraying his character as a vulnerable and inexperienced soldier and it allowed the audience to relate to him more as a character and his one man war between his two sergeants is riveting to watch and gives us an impression as to how the war effected everybody in different ways, take Willem Dafoes character an upbeat sergeant trying to make the best out of this situation or Tom Berengers character a wounded, damaged soul having lost all hope of every regaining the humanity he lost. Both Dafoe and Berenger are amazing in this move and both worthy of Oscars and career highlights for the both of them. This film has some truly disturbing and brutal sequences committed by both sides of this war, it could have been easy for Stone to paint the Americans as the good guys in this conflict but he doesn't there's a lot of scenes where they are truly committing atrocities that will leave an impression on you. Few times have a combination of Screenplay, acting and directing come together so perfectly, I love this movie it's one of the greatest and most realistic war films every made, platoon is one of my favourite movie and one of my favourite best picture winners. A+/100%


                
This is one of the best movies of 80's, and one of the strongest, most influential movies ever made. I was very young when I first saw it and it had a very strong, moving influence on me that have stayed to this day. I saw it today again, it was a while since last time, but I'd never thought it would move me, shake me and still have such a strong influence on me still today as hardened and weathered as I am today. It really depicts the hell on a personal level as few war movies has ever done since. It is a movie that has an educational value for each and everyone today that has an interest in what war does to a human being and the scars it leaves on both sides, and shows the hell like it really is. In that way it is really understandable why it was so controversial and shook the establishment as it did when it released. Many of the famous actors we see today basically made their real debut in this movie and it is interesting in that way too. Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe are spectacular as the two main adversaries of the story, and each and every one of the cast portrays their characters in a great way. If you have any interest in modern history, war and how it affects people this is a must see for anyone, not least the younger generations that wants to know about the pain and hell real war really is. A masterpiece.


                
I have seen many movies over the years however the epic war drama "Platoon" is by far my favorite for many reasons. The cast is somehow perfect for each of their roles, evoking strong emotional responses at every turn. "Platoon" also does a fantastic job showing the horrors of the Vietnam War through a moving plot, clear internal struggle, a dark color scheme, and the utilization of heart wrenching music like the Adagio for the Strings. This film is also excellent on a much deeper, metaphorical level. Upon multiple viewings, it becomes apparent that Elias represents Jesus Christ (good) and Barnes represents Satan (evil) which creates a whole new level of interest in the film. Even after watching it a hundred times, I still find myself moved by the powerful, undeniably beautiful work of art that is "Platoon".


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Platoon" (1986) is without a doubt Oliver Stone's best film. It's easily the most accurate Vietnam War movie ever made, and one of a few best. Fighting sequences are done in a way like you are always in the center of fight, rather just watching it from outside. There are many good actors here, and all of them did a great job. Directing is also terrific - it's definitely directors most straightforward movie, without all the fancy or stylized editing - it's just a great film making on all accounts.Overall, "Platoon" is a great war movie and one the few best in it's genre. Craftmenship is terrific - once seen this movie is impossible to forget one. A true classic.


                
Superb.1967. A fresh-out-of-training recruit, Chris (played by Charlie Sheen), arrives in Vietnam and within days is out on patrol in the jungle. His platoon sergeant, Staff Sergeant Barnes (Tom Berenger), is tough-as-nails and a hard taskmaster. His squad leader, Sergeant Elias (Willem Dafoe), cares for his men and tries to help Chris learn and survive. Unfortunately, an incident occurs which sets Barnes against Elias and causes a large amount of friction within the platoon. This, and they still have to fight the Viet Cong...One of the greatest war movies ever made. Certainly in my top 3 Vietnam war movies (the other two being Apocalypse Now and Full Metal Jacket). Incredibly gritty and realistic, with a great sense of what those that fought in Vietnam it went though. A good examination of the morality of war and how war changes people, especially in the heat of battle.Deservedly won the Best Picture Oscar in 1987 with Oliver Stone picking up Best Director. Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger got Best Supporting Actor nominations.


                
This is my first review on IMDb - Hope you find it helpful Oliver Stone's career speaks for itself to anyone interested in what this man has to say. His view of the U.S. politics and his realist touch is present in any of his films (and screenplays, look up Scarface-1983). So, when talking about this director, it's either you love him or you're not interested in his message. But he has voice, he has the raw energy and the impulse to make a change, be it social, political or in the film industry. "Platoon" is a very personal movie. Simply put, it's a must watch. The reasons for me saying this are : I am very fond of war-movies placed in the 20th Century since all the major conflicts of the modern era created the world as it is today, and you will find this one to change your perception about the Vietnam-War that you thought you knew; if you want to see Charlie Sheen's best portrayal of his life you might want to check out this movie; there are a lot of young actors (at the time) in incredibly convincing roles; you have Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger as opposite archetypes; you have intense fight scenes with an outstanding cinematography; the movie is filled with likable characters and even some funny moments and, to top it all - there is compassion, realism and a true sense of revelation through insight present in the story! The fact that the director himself was a soldier in Vietnam (his first film - in 1971, is about his experience) provides a knowledgeable geometry of feelings about the subject - War in all its vast, vicious and vulgar "splendor". The good guy Chris (Sheen's character) is transformed by the horrors he witnesses, by the people he meets and most of all, by the decisions his fate seems to have taken for him - to be a part of this infernal conflict that seems to consume the spirits of everyone involved. This is a movie best watched alone, for you to analyze it in detail and to allow it to "leave its mark" upon your perception, because that is what it does. I would compare it to "The Deer Hunter" or "Full Metal Jacket" in its nerve-shattering effect of how a man, noble in thought and kind in action, is a participant in an abominable, absurd yet absolute conflict that will forever change his universe. For a mature viewer, with plenty of time to digest and discuss it, "Platoon" is one of those rare films that show us the true extent of our violence, vanity and visceral impulses. Man cannot conquer the world if he can't even conquer himself. I give it a 9.8 out of 10. Enjoy!
This movie was downright unbelievable. Very well done and kept you interested throughout the entire movie. It shows the horribleness that went on in Vietnam and how it was truly a life changing experience. The veterans over there went through very little sleep and had to go through fear almost every parts of the day. I personally did not go in the Vietnam war but from what I heard this is the most realistic movie of what happened in Vietnam. The ambush scene where Taylor is just waiting in fear with his hear pounding that the Vietnam soldiers would not see him. I also love the final battle scene it had lots of action and was very intriguing. When Elias was running from the soldiers was a very emotional scene. Charlie Sheen was magnificent along with Forrest Whittaker, Willam Defoe, Tom Berenger, and others. Taylor had to witness murder, rape, and injustice by his fellow soldiers or as he put it "he couldn't tell what was right or wrong anymore. It was truly grew and I highly recommend it.
I am 15 and not a big fan of war movies because of mainly the violence and gore and lack of emotion. this movie is one of the greatest movies ever made and it's the most perfect war movie because: it shows both a 'sensitive side to war' and a 'violent side of war', it's not to gory yet it has a lot of action, all the characters make you believe you're amongst them and the movie shows that war can emotionally cripple a man let alone physically. willem defoe and tom berenger are so awesome and played there characters so well that you might of thought that you were there with them.seriously if you're a student or an adult (it doesn't matter) see this movie, i %100 believe that you will not be disappointed. rent it, buy it whatever!! just see it.


                
It takes a master filmmaker like Oliver Stone to find real beauty in chaos. The two are of course polar opposites, and yet the talented director fuses them in a movie that is both haunting and amazing.I saw this film two years ago when I was only fourteen. Usually I wouldn't make personal comments in a review, but I think its important to understand what effect this movie had on me. I was young and knew that I wanted to be a filmmaker but it was this film that really encouraged me to make movies. I was spurned on by the artful camera-work, brilliant screenplay and dynamic acting that, as clichéd as it sounds, really created an unforgettable screen experience.The movie still haunts me. Despite scenes filled with drug abuse, violence and an overall sense of menace, there are some moments which speak volumes to us all. There's an attention to detail usually lacking in war films: characters actually sound like real people instead of cardboard cuttouts.All in all this is a movie I'll never forget.Watch it and you'll see what I mean.


                
