Did Platoon actually win Best Picture? Please tell it didn't because if so, HOW BAD WAS EVERYTHING ELSE RELEASED THAT YEAR? This film is the epitome of a sub-par movie and I practically feel as though I'm being polite for saying so, considering the numerous flaws this one has. The acting is okay, but nothing more than that, the characters are dull and the "heroes" are beyond non-sympathetic, the script lacks depth, and the ending is terrible. Why people can pan a fine movie like "Limbo" for its ending and not this is beyond me. I've never seen such a terrible message given, but what can you expect from a movie where the heroes bond during a big drug circle? Even the film's one really good scene(where they're in Vietnam and freakishly shooting just about anybody) literally goes nowhere. I think it was merely supposed to reflect the 'goodness' of Captian Elias and the monstrosity of Tom Berenger(pathetically the most interesting character), or something, but who knows, considering nobody in the movie is even mentioning anything about it 10 minutes after it happened, though one would have thought it was supposed to be a great plot twist? That, along with a "shocking" scene where a helicophter flies away, leaving an important character behind(so ridiculously done that I couldn't help laughing aloud)and this is real "Best Picture" fair alright. What a taint to the Academy Awards.


                
The first scene is of recruits landing in Vietnam. Among them is an  enlisted soldier (Charlie Sheen) who we follow throughout the film.  Sheen does this because he thinks it's the decent thing to do. When he  gets to Vietnam he is in horror. Of course any good war film would show  horror, but this one would rather just do that than show some respect.  Every word in the film is practically **** and the soldiers' attitudes  are terrible. There is a scene when they go through a village and  slaughter civilians. Now of course Mey Li is true, but unless your  making a movie about that, or only disrespecting some soldiers you  should keep your mouth shut. Oliver Stone decides because he was in Nam  for a year that all Vietnam War soldiers were a terrible evil force.  When the soldiers of Vietnam got home, arrogant, idiot protesters  condemed them. This film is a bunch of worthless protesters. A lot of  them knew that they were fighting for nothing, yet they still did it  anyway because their country asked them to. These honorable men go  through so much, and what do they get besides ever lasting respect that  they deserve? Trash thrown at them like this movie.  Besides being disrespectful it is also depressing beyond belief. Now of  course it's okay to have depressing war films, ("Apocalypes Now" was a  masterpiece) but this film has empty depressents. Maybe that last scene  was suppose to touch people, but it just tried to make something that  it was not. When was it ever in the books that Americans fought against  themselves viciously?  If you want to develop a disrespect for very honorable people and make  yourself totally depressed go out and get "Platoon." If you want to see  a great version of what Vietnam was I urge you to go out and get  Francis Ford Coppalas epic "Apocalypse Now" or for good respect of  Vietnam War veterans see "Hamburger Hill." Don't even think that this  film has any right to be the least bit near at all to Steven Speilbergs  epic "Saving Private Ryan." Platooon definitely didn't deserve that  Oscar.
I read one other review that expressed the view that Platoon was a never ending cycle of marines killing people, being killed, taking drugs and talking trash.I don't agree with that because the film actually had more to it, but it a way, I can see what this person is trying to say: this had no real plot - which is a point i agree with.It is self-indulgent Stone at his best. He really wanted to show, not only how war leads to death, but also how it is extremely traumatic on those who survive. Unfortunately, the film seems to over "glorify" this aspect and the grand finale is just way too champagne, grand-standing, Oscar-hunting "let's create an enduring image" for my liking.The problem I have with Stone and other film-makers of his ilk is that they fail to understand this simply concept: depicting the terribly bloody deadly waste that war is only says that war is bad - which is pretty self-evident, isn't it? World War 2 was horrible, incredible waste of human life, yet a necessary path to take in most people's opinion. It's clear Stone wants to say that the Vietnam war was wrong (which is fine) but argues this point by simply saying it was wrong because it was violent and traumatic. If you want to challenge the Vietnam war, make a film focusing on how it started rather that 100 minutes of people getting blown apart!This says nothing of the fact that the ending or the final big "twist" was a bit stupid. However, this is not Stones first oddball departure. Wall street was a magnificent film, up until the last 30 minutes or so when it made a dreadful "wrong turn." JFK is probably one of the few films Stone did that actually ended very well.But it hardly matters in this one because there was very little plot up until that point of the film to twist around. And this is why i gave it such a low mark. It was virtually story-less and ultimately boring - unless you fell for the manufactured poignancy.


                
When "Platoon" premiered, Time Magazine ran a cover spread with the title "Vietnam as it really was". Other pundits applauded director Oliver Stone for his "truthful account of the Vietnam War". Of course, these songs of praise largely occurred in America. Elsewhere in the world, such films were viewed as just more tedious propaganda, which served only to further rob entire generations of a right to factual information and further mythologise a deliberately obfuscated war.But what's worse is the way these films purport to be "anti-war", but then treat war as a coming-of-age ritual, a rights of passage into manhood in which our heroes endure exciting action sequences and then, at least in "Platoon's" case, benefit from these experiences (as explained in "Platoon's" excruciating final voice-over).These films covertly endorse war, serving up tales of a rag-tag bunch of racially diverse guys who "don't know what they're fighting for" but are nevertheless "willing to die for their brothers". Elsewhere the "horrors" which these soldiers commit are simply dismissed as acts of temporary insanity, rather than systemic atrocities ordered from above. Worse still is the way these films tend to treat Vietnam as a lost war, but a noble one, America simply guilty of being overly generous to a point of naivety, the Vietnamese population – portrayed as primal and barbaric - ultimately to blame for the pain inflicted upon the American psyche. The historical truth, of course, is the opposite: the US sided with French Imperialism before the war, was neither supported by Northern Vietnam or the South, did everything it could to scuttle elections and unification, disobeyed Geneva mandates, propped up puppet dictators, artificially and deliberately divided a nation, killed over 4 million Vietnamese, raped the country, engaged in large scale torture, bombing, war-crimes and detainments, faked terrorist acts, funded and armed warlords, forced the displacement of five million, and violently subverted the will of a 80 percent majority who wanted democratic communism. But that's how the US, in tandem with the Imperial powers of yesteryear, habitually operates: vote for who we don't want and we crush you. The truth is, most films touted as being "Vietnam war films", aren't really about the Vietnam War; they're simply about confused and anguished Americans. "Platoon", like "First Blood", presented itself as an attempt to reconcile Americans with what had happened in Vietnam. But unlike "First Blood", which brought Vietnam back home and forced Americans to confront the scars, "Platoon" yanks us back to Asia and invites us to experience the everyday "truths" of how soldiers experienced the war, the film designed to heal the wounds of a "great nation" undeservedly "defeated" at the hands of a poverty-stricken third world country (the notion that America was "defeated" is itself mythology. America achieved its real goals in Vietnam, in much the same way it did in Iraq, another supposedly "failed war").So at its core, "Platoon" is a fairly straightforward morality play. Chris, played by Charlie Sheen, is a young soldier who must (like his character in Stone's "Wall Street") choose between two fathers. The first father is Sgt Elias, a tough but gentle sergeant, and the second is Sgt Barnes, an evil brute. Elias represents the mud-stained American ideal, whilst Barnes represents a kind of corrupt devil who believes that men of principle are weak and that evil is within everyone.The film ends with two successive apocalypses. In the first, Elias is abandoned and dies like Christ, a horde of Vietcong devils engulfing him whilst Chris betrays him and angelically rise up into the skies. But this is a false resurrection. The last good man – the moral heart of America – has been left behind to die on the cross, leaving Chris alone with Barnes, a kind of demonic God.To salvage his soul, Chris must thus venture back into the jungle-hell, avenge Elias and kill Barnes, an incident which takes place in the film's final apocalypse. Here, amongst the devilish shadows of the Vietcong, Chris confronts Elias and kills him, before being once again lifted up into the skies. In Stone's mythology, America is neither fighting Vietnam nor defeated by it. Rather, America is struggling to confront and dispatch its own demons, that of collective memory and national guilt. She then re-learns how to be a good warrior nation.The devil sergeant destroyed and the Christ hero avenged, Chris(t) frees America and is then lifted off into the sunset like a body resurrected into some easier, more comfortable tomorrow. "I have felt like the child of these two fathers," Chris then says. "We did not fight the enemy, we fought ourselves, and the enemy was within us. Those of us who made it have an obligation to build again, to teach to others what we know and to try with what's left of our lives to find a goodness and meaning to this life." And so "Platoon" dissolves defeat and serves up a cathartic experience in which memory is erased and the American dream persists. Elsewhere the film is resolutely goofy, with Barber's "Adagio for Strings" overused (cribbed from "Elephant Man"), too much romanticised insanity, goofy poetry, high-school symbolism and the kind of macho posturing that now seems silly post "Tropic Thunder", "Hot Shots" and "Full Metal Jacket's" self-aware caricatures. Furthermore, Stone throws in every cliché (the village trial, the racist, the southern soldiers, the ineffective officer who almost always gets their men killed, the dope smoking, the war-as-being-high aesthetic etc) known to man. He'd direct the superior "Born on the Fourth of July" some years later.6/10 – An ingratiating film, rewarding in a very superficial way. See "The Quiet American", "Walker", Pontecorvo's "Burn" and "Go Tell the Spartans".
The focus here is on 'realism', at the expense of the drama and cinema...in fact, all of those values are crushed out by the slavish devotion to 'telling it like it was'.There are two obliquely related stories; the story set in Vietnam, and Sheen's framing narration...they're an honest mismatch, so the two are forcefully melded together, in order to drive home the moralizing tone. Most of this movie is visually unimportant...the only attempt at worthwhile visual narrative is the juxtaposition of Elias' (botched) death scene against Barnes' demonic rage. Conrad's 'Heart of Darkness' is implied (more effectively expounded upon in "Apocalypse Now", and of course, "Aguirre, der Zorn Gottes").How many vets bore such an existential crisis? No matter, this is the one that got the most thumbs up from the servicemen. Stone was out to overturn the perspective of things like "The Green Berets"; they just weren't real enough...in doing so, he started the trend of all successive war films (whether about this war or any other) needing to establish plausibility through tedious attention to detail.So all we get is a morality play, nothing that needs to be displayed on film. This was all nicely deflated in Seinfeld's "The Fatigues" episode (the overuse of the 'Adagio' theme music).


                
A rich kid joins the military out of guilt and is appalled by the behaviour of the underclass who he selected as his comrades.George Orwell said, "I have known numbers of bourgeois Socialists. I have listened by the hour to their tirades against their own class, and yet never, not even once, have I met one who had picked up proletarian table manners. Yet after all why not? Why should a man who thinks all virtue resides in the proletariat still take such pains to drink his soup silently? It can only be because in his heart he feels that proletarian manners are disgusting."George Orwell spent less than a ha'penny on the production of that quote. In true socialist style Oliver Stone spent millions of dollars of other people's money illustrating it with the intention of doing the opposite.
