I don't usually like war movies, at all. Platoon was an unexpected exception. Oliver Stone's first of three Vietnam War films, for me it really came down to an educational expose of the psychological trauma unique to war. With an all-star ensemble cast, the performances were exceptional. From what I have read, this can be attributed to training from a retired Marines Captain as well as director Oliver Stone's personal history as a Vietnam soldier. I believe Platoon to be an accurate representation of war on a micro scale, but not a macro one- any and all of these events could have and probably did happen at some time during the war, but it is unlikely that this much could happen between such a small number of men in such a short amount of time. The protagonist is played by none other than a young Charlie Sheen at his prime. Taylor's words of wisdom throughout the film are a testament to the long lasting effects of war. Veterans have a stereotype personality: more often than not, someone more logical than emotional; a lover of order, rules, and regimen; individuals willing to sacrifice for the greater good; a cool, collected, logical decision maker and leader even under high-pressure circumstances. As with all stereotypes, it is rooted in truth. Studies have shown that individuals attracted to the military tend to, overall, be a little less agreeable, extroverted, and friendly than those who do not seek it out. One study in particular finds them to be "more aggressive", "interested in competition rather than cooperation", and "less concerned about the feelings of others". These particular personality traits, whereas obviously not so great for romantic relationships or for forming lasting friendships, are often an asset in career success. For example, these individuals are more likely to make the difficult decisions sometimes necessary for success. Psychologists claim that our personalities do not change dramatically over the course of our lifetime. Interestingly, the military is one of the only exceptions to this, as various research has shown. An exception, though, that couldn't be more understandable. After all, what one experience is more immersive, uncompromising, and invasive? A prominent aim of military training is to disseminate your preconceptions, views, and outlook of the "outside" world. They want to, literally, break you down and build you back up as a soldier. The aggression, the rules, the logical coolness of higher-ranking officials? Not only welcomed, but expected. If you cannot handle yourself under pressure, cannot brace yourself for both physical and emotional war, you will not survive training, let alone deployment. Ironic, then, isn't it, that once a soldier signs his/her contract, they are bound to their word for the next several years? What if he realizes he is too sensitive? She realizes she hasn't the strength, either emotionally and/or physically? At some point, it's just too damn bad. In this way, individuals are often forced into an extreme situation; unexpected, life-altering, and personality-changing. After the all-immersive experience of military training, an individual has had to harden themselves even more; close off their emotions in order to endure trying physical tests and emotional assault from all angles. And if they are chosen to actually go to war? Well, I am certain that the personality shift will only be that much more ingrained. Once they return home, it's easier said than done to just smoothly transition back to who they once were, how they once responded and reacted to life. And Taylor is no exception to this. It has been a while since I felt so moved watching a film, in both positive and negative ways. Scenes depicting the cold, ruthless killing of others, friend or foe. Empathizing with soldiers wishing to be killed or injured in order to be sent home. Taylor trying to save some young Vietnamese girls from being raped by his own men. Imagining the psychological trauma of watching people you yelled at yesterday, got high with last night, bonded with this morning, die in your arms. The palpable loneliness of these men, writing home to their loved ones, or even as they vie for the any emotionless type of physical intimacy. Watching Taylor transform from a positive, optimistic young man wanting to do the right thing for his country into an old soul, enervated and jaded, murder becoming a daily occurrence rather than the unbelievable nightmare it should always be. In the penultimate scene before he is rescued, Taylor serving personal justice in taking the life of the heartless Staff Sargent Barnes. So, I wonder, is it any surprise that soldiers return home that much more emotionally closed off, their minds almost accustomed to the idea of everyday trauma and constant panic, with an inability to open themselves up to others or allow themselves to succumb to emotional weakness?
The Vietnam War has been one of the controversial wars in history and was an unpleasant experience for everyone involved. Oliver Stone harnessed these experiences to make Platoon; a film where he could illustrate to everyone what Vietnam was like from his perspective.In my opinion, this is the best war movie ever made. The sheer horror of war is captured so well in everyway. The fear of death, compatriots dying, divisions in the platoon, guilt of killing; it's all there and Stone doesn't try to disguise it. Platoon is very honestly written and it is this honesty that makes the film so great. Platoon isn't an anti war movie and it certainly does not glorify war in anyway, it is simply how war is in its entirety. There are some shocking scenes such as the one in the Vietnamese village but there are also more light hearted moments such as where the troops on Dafoe's side are partying and having a good time. On base camp, there is great contrast with the mood but on the forest, it is just fear, aggression and blood, nothing else.Taylor's (Charlie Sheen) story is very good as he experiencing war at the same time of the audience. Before the war, he was a rich kid who loved his grandma and it is how war changes him that is truly fascinating. The character story that always receives most praise however is that between Barnes (Tom Berenger) and Elias (Willem Dafoe) is very compelling and leads to some great scenes with them and carves an interesting divide within the camp. This film is big on character and explores many relationships but (take note Jarhead) doesn't sacrifice any action time for these scenes. Stone struck a perfect balance between action and story.Acting from everyone involved is very good. Sheen as the naïve newcomer is very good and after this, should have done much better for himself than he did. Dafoe and Berenger, once again steal the attention off the lead. Their extreme contrasting personalities is brilliantly done and raises the standard of the film. Berenger is truly terrifying, he didn't hold back in this one. Dafoe is much more sympathetic and will speak his mind to anyone. Johnny Depp makes one of his early film appearances with a small, yet memorable role. The way Sheen is wearing Depp's bandana after Lerner (Depp) gets taken by the chopper is discretely done but touching.Platoon is the best war movie there's ever been. Stone wrote and directed this film with such passion that it couldn't be anything but good. A great mix of characters, a great cast and such well crafted action scenes are all what you need for an exceptional war movie and they're all here. The film ends perfectly as we are given a chance to reflect and take it in before the credits start rolling. Stone, who often misses the point with his films, hit the nail on the head with this one.


                
This certainly rates as one of the best Vietnam films of all time. What I especially enjoyed was the realistic atmosphere of the film, entrenching the viewer into a world which seems surreal yet believable. Oliver Stone's real-life experience in Vietnam brought a gifted outlook to this film, one drawn by experience, not common Hollywood conventions. While this proved be a lesser film to the equally amazing Full Metal Jacket, it was not by much. The performances by Tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe, Charlie Sheen and John C. McGinley were exceptional, capturing the plight of the tortured soldiers.


                
Many great war films of the Vietnam conflict are centered around these themes of blurred morality and the uselessness of war, and Oliver Stone's Platoon is among the most well known. Stone, who wrote and directed the film and also served as an infantryman in Vietnam, first rose to fame for his war films that dramatized the infamous Cold War conflict. The main premise of his magnum opus are the inner conflicts within US forces deployed to southeast Asia, rather than the actual physical conflicts between them and the Communist-allied Vietnamese forces. More broadly, Platoon analyzes the "duality of man" concept that has been studied in numerous other works, from fellow Vietnam War films like Full Metal Jacket (1987) and Apocalypse Now (1979), all the way back to the latter's source material and inspiration in Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness. Platoon focuses on the moral decay of soldiers in American units, and how this contributes to their inability to fight their Vietnamese enemies. Charlie Sheen sums up this theme with his on-the-nose voiceover, "We did not fight the enemy, we fought ourselves... and the enemy was in us."Vietnam War-movies tend to be even harder to watch than most war flicks, as the lines between the "heroes" and "villains" are blurred more than in any other dramatized period of warfare in recent human history. In wars like World War II, which are widely known for being as black and white as military conflicts have become, the contrasting features between the heroic forces we are meant to root for and their opposing enemy platoons are well defined. That is almost never the case with the United States-North Vietnamese/Vietcong conflict in Vietnam during the overarching Cold War.That is not to say that most wars throughout human history have not been many shades of grey, with the winners and losers not always corresponding with the righteous and evil. But because of the guerrilla nature and infamous legacy of the Vietnam War itself - namely, the immense public protest against American involvement - the Vietnam War remains by far the most unpopular war in modern American history. With that said, most of the film is fantastic, from the aforementioned narrative to the grim lightning of the southeast Asian jungles that emphasize the film's tone, to the poignant, melancholic score.


                
"Platoon" was my first introduction to wartime reality.I was just a kid when first viewing it and the film left a powerful impression in me.Before that,I had only seen a couple of Rambo films and thats what I expected to get here,pretty much.It turned out to be something quite different from that,although it would take me a few years to realize just how different."Platoon" is Oliver Stone's breakthrough picture and a landmark in Hollywood history of the 80's.It features almost every well known actor on the rise from that era,most notable ones being Forest Whitaker,Johnny Depp,Willem Dafoe,Francesco Quinn and Charlie Sheen.Why is it a landmark film?It helped to bring more understanding into the hot issue of Vietnam war,although "Apocalypse Now!" had already worked out that subject in the most stunning way.Yet there was still something left to say for Stone.It was pretty much the same as Coppola said,but in another,more harrowing and less complex way.We got a closer glimpse of how it is to die,for one.Dafoe's heroic end is one of the most dramatic scenes in history of war films.A strong issue here is the abuse of military codes and discipline.Tom Berenger's sadistic,disturbed sgt. Barnes is the perfect example of a warrior playing god,or angel of death, and fighting a war by his own rules.Berenger plays Barnes so well that it really gives you the chills watching him and you want him dead.Sgt. Elias is his counterpart in every way,as he really cares for his men and is in touch with the human in him always.He is not popular among the lowlifes like the redneck psychopath Bunny (great early role by Kevin Dillon) and the spineless racist O'Neill in John McGinley's incarnation.Another spineless character is the young lieutenant,who on one hand is a greater sinner than Barnes.He has no control over the men under his command whatsoever and refuses to take responsibility or even feel the guilt for not doing anything to prevent the massacre of the village committed by Barnes and his butchers.Here we see the effect that the horrors are having on private Chris,as he in a fit of frustration and anger over the situation he is in tortures a sick and frail creature of a man and ends up in tears.Its a powerful and riveting scene which highlights the film's message against war,showing its inhumanity and absurdity in the most shocking way.The final battle is very brutal and well shot.It sums up the whole Vietnam war and the strategy of the American army.The napalm kills not just the Vietcongs but also Americans.Ironically,it saves Chris' life as he is about to be killed by Barnes during their confrontation.Bunny gets what he deserves and Junior,who is the most despicable of the black characters here,also dies.This may be seen as director's own judgment.The only other sympathetic character still alive by this time,the underground lord Rah, is left alive.Francesco Quinn shows here that he is capable of taking over his father's legacy.In the end,this film is not flawless,but it is a perfect document of the madness that occurred in Vietnam 1964-73.And its consistent to its very end,which by the way is very touching and almost made me cry the second time I watched it.It is funny how one can feel both happy and sad about leaving a war torn place.Such are the feelings that a war conjures up in a man.It is almost like Chris was sad he was leaving,or maybe the emotions that were bubbling under surface just came out for real.Any which way,this film will always be remembered as the one that gave a true and unpolished picture of mankind at war at a time when Hollywood producers made an attempt to glorify the US army and cast an eclipse on its disgraceful stain,transforming the killing into culture.Ironically they succeeded.8/10
A very strong and tough Vietnam war film made by Oliver Stone who has directed his film in the form of Patrol Drama , a formula much beloved by filmmakers of Hollywood , War and western movies , and revived successfully by this great director . As a shy soldier , Charlie Sheen in the lead , arrives as a rookie in a veteran platoon led by two very different sergeants , the good boy : Willem Defoe , and the bad guy : Tom Berenger. They are accompanied by a motley group of soldiers as John G. Mcginley , Kevin Dillon , Tony Todd , Francesco Quinn , all of them are resplendent , among others.A Grunt's view of the Vietnam war is provided in all terrible , bloody and violent detail . Blundering and interesting Vietnam war film pre-dating the flood of the eighties and early nineties . It describes a pretty crude portrayal of America's thunderous days in Vietnam . Including a realist and thought-provoking dialog plenty of profanities , bad taste , sexual remarks and dealing with foreign intervention . Wooden acting by Charlie Sheen as naive soldier , it made a star out of Sheen and Stone cast him in his followup film : Wall Street . Charlie Sheen is the central figure in this exciting story through whose shell-shocked eyes we watch the violent events , slaughters , crossfires and atrocities. But here stand out Dafoe and Berenguer , both are top-notch as , respectively , the good and bad sergeants . Support cast is frankly excellent , as you will spot stars and prestigious secondaries in waiting as Johnny Depp , Forest Whitaker , Mark Moses , Tony Todd , Dale Dye and Kevin Dillon brother of Matt Dillon . And brief cameo by Oliver Stone himself . Bloody final reflects the bitterness and disillusion felt by most Americans about Vietnam war .Colorful and evocative cinematography by Robert Richardson . Perceptible and sensitive score by George Delerue , adding the famous adagio by Samuel Barber . Very good and graphic violent direction from Oliver stone who based the movie on his own GI experiences . It won Oscars for best picture , edition , sound and best director , being highly considered ; that's why it is deemed by many to be the most realistic and violent portrayal of the war on movie . It forms a trilogy about Vietnam along with ¨Born on the fourth of July¨ and ¨Heaven and Earth¨ directed splendidly by the fearless Oliver Stone . He gives a sour description about Vietnam war , a brutal vision of the conflict as witnessed first hand by the ordinary foot soldiers or Grunts.


                
Continuing my plan to watch every Johnny Depp movie in order, I come to Platoon (1986)The first of Stones Vietnam trilogy. Stone wrote the screenplay based upon his experiences as a U.S. Infantryman in Vietname to counter the vision of the war portrayed in John Waynes The Green Barets. Platoon was the first Hollywood film to be written and directed by a veteran of the Vietnam War. Stone fought for years to get this movie made. Studios didn't want to make another movie about the unpopular war and considered Deer Hunter and Apocolypse Now as the definitive Vietnam movies, and saw no reason to make this.This really is harrowing viewing, but it's not only the best movie of 1986, its one of the best of the decade.This movie reminds us, that before he became a tabloid fodder and punchline on late night talk shows Charlie Sheen was once a very promising young actor. His voice-over is eerily reminiscent of Martin Sheen in Apocolypse Now. Willem Defo, Tom Berenger (both playing against type and both Oscar-nominated) John C. McGinley, Kieth David (an actor I always enjoy seeing on screen) and Forest Whitaker are all superb. The part of Sergeant Barnes was originally offered to Kevin Costner. Although pretty unknown and a few years away from fame, he turned it down because he didn't want to disrespect his brother, who was a Vietnam veteran. Depp (his helmet reading, "Sherilyn", a tribute to Sherilyn Fenn, whom Depp was dating at the time) is OK, but he fades into the background against the bigger performances, despite a key scene.Not only did Platoon win Best Picture and Best Director for Stone, it grossed $138 dollars at the domestic box office to end 1986 as the 3rd highest grossing movie of the year.


                
Platoon is often cited as one of the most realistic war films ever made. It's about the true experiences Oliver Stone had in the Vietnam war. It shows war on different levels including men from the same side turning on each other. It has a lot of power because of this and it gives it an emotional aspect. This movie has a lot of heavy material and is sometimes hard to watch at times. The violent battles show the soldiers getting transformed into killing machines after many frightening experiences and close calls they have. The movie both looks and sounds amazing. I really like the film's score. When it's played, it really helps us get immersed in the scenes due to the notes and beats in it. Sure, some of their choices of actors are a bit questionable like putting Charlie Sheen in an emotional role but I didn't seem to mind it that much because they played the roles with such great emotion and power that it didn't seem to bother me. This is a great war film and it will be remembered throughout the ages. It's unforgettable, violent, sad, and moving.


                
We see in this film the horrors of war. We see a platoon where did factions ultimately leads to murder among the men of the outfit.Oliver Stone vividly shows the social problems created by war- human prejudice, the fact that in Vietnam most of the inductees were poor with little hope for a successful life, religious and racial prejudice, and an attempt to show the famous My Lai Massacre, although not in the numbers of that horrible event.There is much needed graphic violence here to further dramatize the idea that war is basically hell.Tom Berenger is terrific here as the ruthless sergeant, as well as Charlie Sheen, the young soldier faced with a moral dilemma.
PLATOON is a movie that didn't really impress me much when I first watched it, but I found that it grew on me after a few more viewings. I've never been into war movies but there's always been something about the Vietnam War that grabbed my interest. It didn't play out like a normal war. It was deep in the jungle and the soldiers that experienced it encountered more than your average wartime strain. The jungle is a beast all it's own and to find yourself battling in it's nightmare terrain where the enemy can and will come from all sides at any moment is terrifying. I love a good Vietnam War film, where the focus is on the experiences of the soldiers as opposed to achieving victory. APOCALYPSE NOW is one of my all-time favorite films period, and FULL METAL JACKET is an intense view of a soldier's life from boot camp through the horrors of the war. So when I sat down to watch PLATOON, my questions was: how well did Oliver Stone's vision of the war stand up to Coppola and Kubrick? PLATOON follows the experiences of one soldier, Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen), as he arrives in Vietnam. An idealistic college student, Chris believed it was everyone's duty, not just the poor, to do their part in the war. Once he arrives, he discovers that nobility doesn't even enter the picture. It's all about survival and the law of the jungle, and he's caught in the conflict between the gung-ho Sergeant Barnes and the liberal Sergeant Elias.I suppose my initial disappointment with the movie was all a result of personal biases. At first glance, the movie wasn't as visually impressive as Kubrick's 'Nam, and especially not Coppola's. Coppola had an incredible artistic vision when he created APOCALYPSE NOW. Every scene, every shot, every line of dialogue in that movie is powerful (in my personal opinion, anyway). And Kubrick's film was brutal in how it depicted the dehumanization of soldier's in the war. Oliver Stone's movie didn't feel as artistically influenced. It had an almost generic feel to the movie from the very beginning with the jungle-green opening credits over the shot of a passenger/cargo plane dropping a batch of fresh recruits in Vietnam. As I watched the film again, I found myself drawn into it's vision more and more. I still find Stone's vision less visually impressive than the others, but I am pulled in by the characters of the film (more than Kubrick's at times). PLATOON is an intense character piece where we experience the war through the eyes of someone going into a nightmare situation without knowing what to expect (just like the viewer). You sympathize with Chris and his comrades and feel the tension between the Elias and Barnes sides of the camp. You watch as Chris's idealism is slowly chipped away until there is nothing left but an almost feral nature and a code of honor when he seeks justice for one of his fallen friends.My second problem with the film on its first viewing was the main character. I hadn't seen this movie until very recently, after the whole public meltdown of Charlie Sheen in the media. So my image of Charlie Sheen is that of a bizarre tale of how celebrity life and eat your sanity. Watching him as a bright-eyed, optimistic private was a hard pill to swallow. I just couldn't buy into it. I eventually overcame my views on Sheen and actually believe he did a better job than I originally gave him credit for. He's still a little hard to buy in such a powerful dramatic role (I mean, he did do HOT SHOTS) but he puts in a good performance. No where near as good as his father in APOCALYPSE NOW, but a good job regardless. There are actually a lot of great performances here<U+0085>Keith David, Kevin Dillon, Forest Whitaker, etc. I admit Dillon did feel a little over the top as Bunny, but he remained in the realm of plausibility. You believe him as a someone who was probably a small-town jock back home but gets to stretch his legs a bit and goes a little far with the freedom to act in Vietnam. Speaking of over-the-top though, no one fits the bill better than John C. McGinley as O'Neill. It's OK though, because I've come to expect him to ham it up. The real powerhouses in the film are Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger as Sergeants Elias and Barnes. These man are the real center of conflict in the picture. These two men have very different views on running the war in Vietnam and it's their head-butting and eventual confrontation that drives Private Taylor's final descent into total loss of innocence. It's truly a great story. Sure, I still don't believe it rises to the ranks of Coppola and Kubrick, but I definitely count this as one of the most iconic visions of Vietnam to come out of Hollywood.


                
Probably the best Vietnam war movie I've ever seen. Most are too depressing to really enjoy and this one is depressing too but it works for me. It shows all the terrible side of this war even men turning on each other and probably the best character killed by someone in his own crew. It's raw and not uplifting but it's really well acted and I like it more than the others I've seen. Apocalypse Now is one of the other classics for this war and I really didn't like it at all. Willem Dafoe was great.
At the height of the Vietnam War, America's teens are drafted into the war effort to find themselves in the middle of hell. One such young man is Chris Taylor. He is placed in a squadron where two sergeants have different approaches to the war – Elias is more about surviving without being brutal or cruel, whereas Barnes is crueller, more ruthless and more violent. During the course of his term, Taylor's very soul is torn between the two men as he deals with what he must do.The first film in Oliver Stone's unofficial trilogy is arguably the best of the three. The basic story not only shows us what the war was like for those serving but also how the different personalities come out of those involved in it. As we follow Taylor we see him change as he is influenced by those around him and by his situation. It makes for an uncomfortable film but one that's worth watching. It's certainly a better war movie than things like Wild Geese or The Dirty Dozen, simply because it's a little more real to what happens than those ones.Charlie Sheen has never been better than when he's acting for Stone. Here he gives one of his best ever performances as the innocent who is changed. Willem Dafoe is a great actor and here is no different – he also gives us one of the film's most enduring images so I'm a little biased. Berenger is another one for whom it's hard to think of a higher point reached than when he did this film. He is brutal and ruthless but he makes us support him in a strange way. The support cast are all good and contains a few famous faces (John C McGinley, Whitaker, Depp) however this is really a three man show.
The only military conflict that was in the American experience similar to Vietnam was the Phillipine Insurrection. I doubt that any of the characters whom Oliver Stone created for Platoon would even have known we were in a five year war in the Phillipines battling elements wanting independence after the Spanish-American War made the territory our's.This was a war without uniforms or battle lines. No one knew who was friend or foe. That bred callousness of an extreme kind into our troops. They learned to shoot first then fake a story for the official report. This is what we see in Platoon.Charlie Sheen is a newly arrived private in Vietnam and through him Oliver Stone the director/writer of Platoon tells the story of his war. He gets caught in a power struggle between Sergeants Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger who are presented as good versus evil. Dafoe is a professional soldier who has managed to keep some semblance of humanity. Berenger has totally lost it. A Yin and Yang of personal valor.Other films like Casualties Of War and Apocalypse Now have given their Vietnam stories. I like Casualties Of War as a favorite Vietnam film of mine, but Platoon certainly has its merits. I think an awful lot who were there will say Platoon is the real deal.Some familiar people are scattered through the supporting cast. One that stands out is Matt's younger brother Kevin who plays a kind of Berenger in training. I doubt this kid from small town USA ever imagined himself doing the brutal things he does. He learned his lessons from Vietnam well and Berenger was a good teacher.Platoon got several Oscar nominations. Not my favorite Vietnam war film, but a very good one.


                
as far. this is the best work from oliver stone. epic, panoramic, and well-acted. for me, it is considered as one of the best war- movies ever made. it is on par with "saving private ryan", "river kwai", and "iwo jima".this movie give us another type of storyline. it tells us the bad things about American army in Vietnam-wars while the others (movies) only tell the good things and patriotism. we can take the conclusion that the storyline was fresh and original. with real set-place, this movie really taking us to real Vietnam. so many scenes describe the danger of this tropical country, like when a soldier biten by ant and how deadly it is, also when a soldier tell the other to not drink the water from the river because it will bring malaria. these scene was intended to describe us about real condition of tropic country.the other hands, great acting from every lead and supporting make this movie considered as one of the best. with rich script, oliver stone already doing a superb work here. there is one quote from it's lead character that i remembered the most. "The real enemy is not them, but it's us". What a deep conclusion in the ending. that one quote describe everything in the movie.


                
I know many will probably disagree with me, but personally I consider Platoon to be the definitive Vietnam War movie, and I say that after taking into account Apocalypse Now. Although Apocalypse Now had a number of moments of brilliance, but on the whole I think it suffers due to a disjointed script. Platoon on the other hand is intense right from the get-go. Like many of the other films dealing with the Vietnam war,in this one too,the dark, gloomy and unrelenting jungles of Vietnam serve as a separate character in itself. The soldiers find themselves trapped in the hell that we call war. Oliver Stone executes a detailed analysis of why soldiers tend to lose their sanity and their minds in the torturous conditions. There are a number of soldiers in the film who commit heinous acts and behave hideously, but considering the circumstances, it is understandable as in a hellish environment, it is not strange if people lose their humane qualities.For me Lt. Wolfe represents the leaders and the politicians who are supposed to lead and serve ordinary people, but they have no idea what they are doing and innocents lose their lives due to their incompetence and lack of vision. Barnes and Elias represent the two schools of thought in society that generally clash at the time of war and Chris is caught in the middle who is uncertain about whom to follow.The direction is brilliant, the cinematography is great, the scores are hauntingly beautiful,the action scenes look as realistic as possible. I think the only negative aspect for the film is that Charlie Sheen is a bit weak and unconvincing in some of the scenes.This film brilliantly gives you a bird's eye view of the terrible experiences that soldiers had to face during the war. I felt psychologically drained just by watching this, I can't even begin to imagine how it affected the real soldiers.


                
Oliver Stone directed this powerfully told account of the Vietnam war that stars Charlie Sheen as recent recruit Chris Taylor, who arrives in Vietnam with enthusiasm, but quickly realizes that this war is not what he expected, as he is disrespected by the more seasoned soldiers for his inexperience, and shocked by the lack of purpose he finds in the conflict, which is personified by his two non-commissioned officers, Barnes(played by Tom Berenger) & Elias(played by Willem Dafoe) who hate each other, and are polar opposites in philosophy and approach. Chris will eventually bond with his fellow soldiers, which will be painful later when so many are killed... Realistic and believable film with fine performances and direction, though isn't always easy to watch. Won the Academy Awards for best picture and director.


                
I am a big war movie fan and It think that this is one of the best war movies I've ever seen. It may not be as good as Apocalypse Now, but I think that this is defiantly one of the greatest war movies of all time.I first saw this and didn't notice that the main character was 21 year old Charlie Sheen, star of the TV show Two and a half Men, but I did recognize William Defoe from the movie Spiderman and I didn't recognize Tom berenger. But I think that the acting in this movie is so passionate and the reflection of their performances which is what makes this movie so realistic and tells the story of a awful war which should have never happened. The story is based on the actual experiences of Academy Award winning director Oliver Stone. What an experience that man had. Like I can't believe that the war was that bad and that in the jungle could make the soldiers lose their mind.It won four Academy Awards and well deserved for Best Sound, Best Editing, best director and coveted Best Picture of 1986. The soundtrack was defiantly what made this movie so dramatic and emotional for some. every time I hear that soundtrack, my heart just sinks. The soundtrack just hits me so fast and gets me caught up in the movie the moment the music starts.In the Top 250 with a rating of 8.2/10 and is in my top 20 favorite movies of all time. I just love this film whether it's been caught up in the dramatizations of how emotional this movie is or the fact that I love watching a movie with a lot of gun fighting.Great movie with passionate acting which expresses the very real dramatizations of a very emotional war and deserved the four Academy Awards it won.


                
If we talk about the war in Vietnam, we should talk about Platoon. It is certainly one of the best films about Vietnam War and in my opinion, it's absolutely Oliver Stone's best film since JFK and Nixon. Overall, apart from the credibility of the film director and also the authenticity in the depiction of the war, I find the screenplay, editing and film direction stand out above all, not to forget the all star casts of two famous method actors, Tom Berenger (possibly his best performance ever) and Willem Dafoe. To be honest, deep within my heart, "Platoon" ranked somewhere among "Apocalypse Now", "Full Metal Jacket" and "The Deer Hunter" (the latter isn't a war film) because of its raw visualization of the war horror that some consider a crime against humanity. I always get carried away by the spectacular music scoring, saddening, beautiful as well as frightening. The best music sequence would be "Adagio For Strings" by Samuel Barber and it's your task to find out which sequence. Oliver Stone really did well in bringing us the rich psychological portraits of soldiers who fought the popular war from a very interesting perspective, through the eyes of a rookie soldier (Charlie Sheen) who volunteered to defend his country, in a fight against communism. We witness the harsh time they faced as soon as they landed on the Saigon combat zone, in the jungle, with a simple mission of staying alive from day to day. The line between good and evil is the spot where Oliver Stone places the personal stories of the men whose horror and fear were their daily foods, real men who fought and died in the Vietnam War. This unnecessary war was taped in brutal realism. Awesome combat scenes, frank, hard and strangely beautiful. Robert Richardson as the cinematographer created a jaw-dropping atmosphere combining gray and bleak apocalyptic tones of the great wild landscapes. In conclusion, this is one of the greatest war films of cinema history, it contains some moving scenes and offers a realistic and cruel story of one of the greatest atrocities of humanity: wars.


                
In one sense this can be seen as Oliver Stone's attempt to account for the massacre at My Lai for which Lt. William Calley was famously court-martialed. One recalls a statement made at the time by somebody in close concert with the logic of the Vietnam War: "We had to destroy the village in order to save it." But more inclusively, Oliver Stone's film addresses the question of what war does to us as it focuses on Pvt. Chris Taylor, played by Charlie Sheen, who gave up his student deferment, joined the army and volunteered to fight in Vietnam as his patriotic duty. How the twisted logic of war changes him and corrupts him and others in his platoon is the story of the film.To Oliver Stone's credit it can be said that this movie, first released in 1989, helped to shock a new generation of Americans into understanding just why our involvement in Vietnam was a tragic mistake and to warn us not to do anything like that again. The fact that recent military adventures by the US have been limited engagements with limited objectives (instead of the vague and unrestricted policy of stopping the spread of communism, which was the rationale for the war in Vietnam)--engagements that have been carefully orchestrated to avoid becoming mired in the kind of hand-to-hand combat favoring the side defending its own turf as shown in this film, owes something to Stone's vision and to that of other film makers. One also recalls Senator Barry Goldwater R, Arizona) who advocated "winning" the war in Vietnam by "bombing them back into the Stone Age." Stone's film suggests just how impossible that would have been.Tom Berenger gives a splendid and somewhat horrific performance as Sgt. Barnes, the "War Lover" (the phrase is the title of John Hersey's WWII novel), who kills both friend and foe indiscriminately. Willem DaFoe plays his opposite, Sgt. Elias who is the model of the good soldier. The rest of the cast gives fine support while the script by Stone, partially from personal experience, is full of authentic dialogue and veracious detail. The clash between our civilized nature and our baser instincts is well presented.It is impossible to fairly compare this to other excellent Vietnam War movies such as The Deer Hunter (1978), Full Metal Jacket (1987), Apocalypse Now (1979), et al., because they are all so different. I do believe that Platoon was more of a throwback to World War II movies in the sense that it focused on the dynamics of the soldiers immersed in actual battles with the enemy. Yet on the other hand it falls completely within the Vietnam War genre by looking beyond the battles to address the larger question of why, and the war's consequences. In World War II movies, the why was never in doubt, and the consequences were not an issue.The theme of this movie has been expressed as the loss of innocence, and that is a fair assessment; but I think it wasn't so much the soldiers themselves that lost their innocence, although many did, but a nation that lost its. We were a different country before Vietnam. We have never been the same since, and we will never be the same again.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
So I'm really not in to historical war films. They just don't do much for me. I'm the guy that watched Pearl Harbour for the love story between Ben Affleck and Kate Beckinsale.However, with Platoon I was totally engrossed. I completely forgot I was watching a 30+ year old movie. Visually it balances gritty realism with occasional Hollywood cheese, Oliver Stone finds a way. Oh and the thing about good practical effects is they mean the movie never looks old. With an excellent cast and some truly unnerving scenes but brilliant scenes, this one is a classic.


                
If you want to see what happen when tow countries start a war, you should watch this movie.
Just blood and poor soldiers who kill for nothing...


                
Good scenario, very poor weapon shot effects. all this red lights like in star wars. i dont know why but it was in fury(with brad pit) film too.
sound is 3/10 weapon sound hearts my ears
for 1986 it is not best movie in technical.
i could remove 1 point for plane effects and bomb effect. but ok. using real planes and real napalm( which i want to see) is for best films.
director showed difficulties of vietnam like snakes, ants etc so +1 point for that. i didnt see that much
i felt vietnam my own, so 8/10 from me


                
Painting a very grim but also realistic portrait of the horrors of war and also illustrating how it affects the psyche & moral ethics of even the bravest, Platoon is a terrific blend of expert direction, compact screenplay & engaging performances that is counted amongst the finest examples of warfare filmmaking and deservingly so.Set during the Vietnam War, the story of Platoon follows a young American who drops out of college, enlists in the US army & volunteers for combat duty in Vietnam. Upon arrival, he finds himself caught in between two non-commissioned officers who are constantly at odds with each other, and has to battle with not just the enemy but also men within his own platoon.Written & directed by Oliver Stone, Platoon presents the director brilliantly penning down his personal experience of Vietnam on the paper before bringing it to life in the form of moving images. Stone's direction is truly commendable for he knows what he wants this film to be and what it needs to reflect about war & the deep scars it leaves on anyone who ever was a part of it.Vietnam is brought to life in detail thanks to its clever set pieces & well-chosen shooting locations. Cinematography keeps a safe distance from all the unfolding drama yet every captured moment has a story to tell. Editing is nicely carried out for the most part & provides a good pace to the narrative. And as for the music, 'Adagio of Strings' by Samuel Barber is a perfect companion piece to go with this war drama.Coming to the acting department, Platoon features a splendid cast in Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe & Tom Berenger and all three of them shine in their given roles. Sheen plays the naive kid who volunteers for war in Vietnam where he undergoes a psychological meltdown of his own and his performance is compelling. Also adding more strength to the acting aspect are stellar inputs from both Berenger & Dafoe, with the latter being the most impressive of them all.On an overall scale, Platoon is Oliver Stone's plea for humanity in the face of something as harrowing & psychologically damaging as war and is a heartbreaking illustration of the loss of innocence, morals & ethics that also says much about the duality of man. It's technically accomplished yet its real strength lies in the its script, direction & admirable performances from its cast. A memorable war drama that works even better as a powerful meditation on morality, Platoon comes highly recommended.


                
To be quite honest, the first time I saw Oliver Stone's "Platoon" I was disappointed. Perhaps it was the fact that the presence of Charlie Sheen in the lead role invited comparison to "Apocalypse Now", starring his dad. However, even though both are war movies set in Viet Nam, comparing them is like comparing apples & oranges.Stone's film is, first and foremost, a movie about the experiences of 'grunts' in this bloody conflict. In place of the surreal nature of "Apocalypse Now", Stone and technical adviser Dale Dye brought a sense of realism to the picture. That being said, while realism was enforced, Stone still managed to imbue his script with deeper meaning.The story revolves around young volunteer Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) as he arrives in Viet Nam and quickly becomes acquainted with the horrors of war. Apart from the enemy, there's conflict among the soldiers themselves, as a rift develops between the compassionate Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe) and the ruthless Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger).Despite the fact that Charlie Sheen is in the lead role, the acting is actually pretty strong. Berenger & Dafoe were both nominated for Academy Awards but they ended up losing to Michael Caine. The large ensemble cast includes several recognizable actors, often contributing memorable performances. Notable names include Keith David, Forest Whitaker, John C. McGinley, Kevin Dillon and even a young Johnny Depp.Stone's direction won him one of the film's four Academy Awards. Another Oscar deservedly rewarded the sound department for their contribution to the film. Also notable was the extensive (and effective) use of Samuel Barber's "Adagio for Strings". Both visually and sonically, the movie is impressive.Ultimately, "Platoon" isn't quite perfect but it's definitely good enough that I'm glad I gave it a second chance. The movie's realism is commendable and the storyline is thought-provoking. It may be no match for "Apocalypse Now" but that only means that it's just a very good movie and not a masterpiece.


                
"First real casualty of war is innocents; the first real movie on the war in Vietnam is Platoon"That is a quote from the trailer that I felt encompassed what I felt about Platoon to a T. What makes Platoon so realistic is that it is part of those rare occasions where you have a story born from a director's firsthand experience, but that's what you get with Oliver stone, who served as an infantry soldier in Vietnam, allowing him to create an almost autobiographical account, and in some instances a documentary into the under belly and less glamour side of war – and by glamorous I mean not a place where you shot bad guys, then come home to a giant marching band and a handshake from the president, but instead it's actually a place where real and sometimes innocent people die. With so much realism it should be no surprise that Platoon won four Oscars in 86 in the best director, picture, sound and cinematography categories. Platoon tells the story of a student named Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) in the late 60's who joins up for the army believing in his heart that he is fulfilling his patriotic duty, and I feel in some part that deep down he believes that he will go to Vietnam fire a few bullets and return as a hero. But upon reaching, he joins up with a diverse platoon of men, in the outside world would probably never rub shoulders with, but here they move as one, lead by two men; Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger) a man with a scared appearance, that adds to his mystical aura of being a man that cannot be killed and the other Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe) who through the use of mind altering drugs is able to maintain an air of calm. But Chris Taylor's dreams of heroism are quickly obliterated as they delve deeper into enemy territory, witnessing acts of despicable evil towards his fellow man by the very same men he serves within the same platoon, making him quickly realises how naive his ideas of war as they are not a rite of passage he once thought but instead war is actually hell on earth where no side wins, captured perfectly in dark and sinister cinematography. Reading of the credits was like a who's who of Hollywood icons, it was probably one of the most successful bringing together of star names up until then, with the likes of; tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe (Born on the Fourth of July), Forest Whitaker (The Last King of Scotland), Keith David (The Thing), Johnny Depp (Pirates of the Caribbean) and Kevin Dillon. You are guaranteed to find a name amongst them that is one of your favourite actors. But in a sea of big names and future big names, I still felt Charlie Sheen (Hot Shots) was able to stand out and deliver a convincing portrayal of a conflicted man, caught up in the ultimate battle with himself as he has to choose between what's right and doing whatever it takes to survive, so basically choosing between safety of the body or safety of the mind. I also felt with such complex emotions he had to show at a drop of a hat, and doing them so well that it was a surprise and travesty that he wasn't nominated for a single big award. I really do feel that a man's innocents is truly lost in a war, and it is a shamed you don't get to see it played out on film, but that is what also makes Platoon so special because unlike previous films based on the war in Vietnam such as; Apocalypse Now, The Deer Hunter or Coming Home. Platoon is the very first not to look at the war from the wide perspective, and not get caught up in the big budget special effects. Instead it takes a profound and uncompromising leap into the very depths of the human condition; never shying away from exposing the sinister side to us such is in the case of Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger) and penetrating through the sense of false bravado to leaving a film offering a sincere exploration of self.


                
