Platoon is generally regarded as one of the strongest anti-war films of all time. While this is certainly true, what's often overlooked -- at least after only one run through the film -- is that it's chiefly a tale of God vs. Satan, and the war is there to set a perilous backdrop. No doubt, Platoon shows the Vietnam War was a big mistake, but being a fictional documentary on Vietnam is far from its purpose.The story is told from the point of view of Chris Taylor (solidly played by Charlie Sheen), a middle class kid who goes to Vietnam to do what he thinks is his patriotic duty. In the first ten minutes, Chris is shown in the uncomfortable jungle, struggling just to survive in the natural environment, let alone do any actual damage to the enemy. Quickly we're introduced to the well-known facets of the Vietnam War: The lack of sense of purpose, the wraith-like enemies, the obvious prevalence of the uneducated and poor among the fighting grunts -- and, soon, we see how these factors combine to cause widespread low morale and some actions of more than questionable ethical value.Chris sees his platoon fragmented into two halves, each aligned with one of two men -- Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe) and Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger). These two really are the driving force behind the film. They both have nominally the same enemy (the Viet Cong), but, really, it doesn't take long to realize that Elias is Good, and Barnes is Evil (the "enemy" does not enter into the moral equation of this film, at all -- it's an outside threat, same as malaria-carrying mosquitoes or even friendly fire). I won't deny it is a very black-vesus-white relationship, but this polarity does not feel contrived. Elias feels the futility of the war and has respect for life; Barnes fights the war doggedly and has no compassion, period. Both are efficient soldiers fighting the same enemy, but really -- as is at one point aptly put by Chris Taylor himself -- they are fighting for the souls of the platoon members, as the outcome of the war is never really in doubt.Elias/Barnes' hold on the platoon, and the viewer, is developed through several war sequences. A chilling scene takes place in a village, where our soldiers find no VC, but they do find a cache of VC weapons. The inhumanity of certain soldiers, including of Sgt. Barnes, is unflinchingly shown here. It leaves the viewer with an empty feeling that is hard to shake, reminding of the similarly empty look on a woman's face after she sees her son killed in front her.Elias doesn't take kindly to this kind of behavior. Elias and Barnes come closer and closer to open conflict, as Taylor becomes a veteran, obviously siding with Elias. Meanwhile, the fate of the platoon comes closer and closer to them, culminating in an explosively shot action conclusion. The end is dark, but morally satisfying.Don't watch this movie for the action. That's not to say it's not well shot, or unrealistic. On the contrary. It's quite convincing. But it doesn't show war as a fun sport, and it's never a question of good guys versus bad guys. There will be no cheering for the "good guys" or anyone else in this one. Stone succeeds brilliantly at putting the viewer into the middle of it all, and it's not a pretty sigh (and definitely not for the squeamish, either).On the other hand, if you want great acting, it's here. Dafoe and Berenger do incredibly well, with the incredibly good (and seemingly authentically sounding) script. Barnes is horrific as he challenges three men to kill him, drinking hard liquor out of the bottle. They don't make a move, and neither will you, though you'll hate him just as much as them. Dafoe is a ray of light in the dark as Elias. The cast is rounded out with many characters, all well played, and adding another dimension to the film.The technical aspects of the film are superb, though one never thinks about them much, as the movie is completely engrossing. The production values seem quite good, as well. The most stunning peripheral aspect of this film, however, is the music. It's emotional and draining, and used to great effect -- listen for the main theme as you watch the village burn.Watch this one a few times, and you'll likely be quite moved each time. I'll be surprised if you give it less than what I gave it: 9/10


                
The 1980s in general and the mid 1980s in particular aren't highly regarded where pop culture is concerned , this is most especially true in cinema where films seemed to be written around their soundtrack in much the same way as Hollywood movies nowadays seem to be written around their special effects . PLATOON is one of the very few films from that period that has an emotional impact , an impact that it still retains while watching it in 2003. Everyone else seems to have mentioned what makes PLATOON a classic anti-war ( Note it's anti-war , not anti American or anti soldier ) movie along with being a classic movie , so I won't go over old ground except to say THAT death scene is up there with all the other tear jerking scenes from 20th century cinema , don't be ashamed to say you cried If PLATOON has a flaw it's in its duality , there's the good Sarge/bad Sarge , good officer/bad officer , good white guy/bad white guy , good black guy/bad black boy etc which is maybe a bit clichéd and possibly leads me to believe Stone is making an excuse/reason that the Americans lost in Vietnam because that spent so much fighting each other rather than the VC ( Though I do concede I'm possibly misinterpreting that as an excuse or even a reason since no one will confuse the politics of Stone with the politics of John Wayne ) while Taylor's character comes across as being more of a literary device rather than a real human being , but these are minor flawsIt's a shame to see war films from the last few years devoid of scathing anti-war sentiments like the ones seen here . PLATOON screams at you " War is hell and whatever the rights and wrongs of conflict you need a bloody good reason to wage war . Vietnam wasn't a good enough reason to sacrifice human lives "


                
I may be over analyzing the film.  It certainly appears at first glance that other than the deer appearing after the battle, and the talk of soul in Chris's/Charlie Sheen's final narration there is very little symbolism in the film<U+0085> basically every thing is what it is.However, I believe that even if Mr. Stone didn't intend it, the fact that Chris picks up an AK-47 to kill SSGT Barnes is important.  There are weapons (and bodies) all over the battlefield but he picks up the AK-47.  It must be noted that the Armalite Rifle or M-16 as it became known had become the weapon of the ARVN forces and the US troops (and is still the primary issue for US forces today.)  This weapon then, represents the `establishment' or the status quo power.  The silhouette of an AK-47 on the other hand, had come to represent revolution the whole world over.  Chris's use of the AK-47 was not to hide the fact that Barnes was killed by an M-16, as Bergerud's book points out, <U+0091>friendly fire' casualties were a fact of life in Vietnam.When I combine the integrated `potheads' dancing to <U+0091>tracks of my tears,' I wonder if the tears are related to the civil rights struggle back home. Taylor's `I volunteered' speech when he gives his reasons that it shouldn't just be black kids and poor kids doing the <U+0091>s**t jobs' also add to my belief that the AK-47 is relevant as a taking up the opposition to fight the establishment.  Barnes also represented the `lifer' or career military and from there one can extrapolate that to include the Pentagon establishment who tenaciously clung to the belief in some kind of victory in spite of evidence that the population rejected the Saigon government could be had. By killing Barnes, it seems Oliver Stone might shed a different light on the comments Chris Taylor/Charlie Sheen makes at after the rampage at the village and the divisiveness it brought the platoon: `<U+0085>I can't believe we're fighting each other when we should be fighting them!'  In this view the <U+0091>Them' could be the establishment that created a world in which a Vietnam could take place.    His platitudes at the end don't dissuade me from seeing Chris Taylor (as Oliver Stone) having undergone a personal sea change. `We didn't fight the enemy we fought ourselves<U+0085>'Stone could very well express these sentiments, `The war is over for me now<U+0085> but it will always be there the rest of my days<U+0085> as I am sure Elias will be fighting with Barnes for what Rhah called the possession of my soul... Those of us who did make it have an obligation to build again and try with what's left of our lives to find a goodness and meaning to this life.' `<U+0085>To teach others what we know<U+0085>'This obligation statement is almost a verbatim reprise of the defeated Japanese soldiers in the movie `The Burmese Harp' (1956.)  They say the same thing about a duty to go home and rebuild after the war, though there isn't a statement accepting or even acknowledging any wrongdoing. Thirty years separate these films.  I would not exactly say they claim <U+0091>war is senseless,' though they both overwhelm the viewer with the senseless waste of lives caused by war.Other points of note: when we see the APC (armored personnel carrier) roll up behind the patrol looking for survivors after the battle, there is a Nazi flag on the top of it (it is very close to the top of the screen and hard to make out, and is not the typical hakenkruz on the white circle in a red field, but the one that was meant to express a <U+0091>pan-Aryanism' with the Scandinavian people by having a red field with a black cross outlined by a white cross and the swastika in the crux.)  Is Stone implying a fascist nature to this war?Secondly, we briefly see the men who are the despicable `ear collectors' I had read about in a 1981 book called `Nam.'  They would string the ears on their dog-tag necklace as a show of bravado of how many <U+0091>confirmed kills' they had.  (Though there are some interesting perspectives brought out by <U+0091>Nam' much of that book reads like war crimes<U+0085>)The shot of the lynched soldier was a strange inclusion, considering the Blacks marching against the war at home carrying a banner that stated, `The VC never called me a nigger'.  I wondered why Stone did that.  Furthermore, except for a glimpse at a suspected VC in the tunnel shot by Elias, we never actually see a VC in the film.  The person shot by Elias is not attacking. We see their tunnels, the arms caches, their posts, campsites and bunkers. It's always only hints of them.  The only Vietnamese we see attacking are NVA regulars.  Is this saying Stone does not blame the popular Front forces for attacks on US troops?`Gook' is also used through out the film, as it was in Vietnam.  This word entered the GI lexicon through the Korean War.  <U+0091>Han Gook' is Korean for Korea/Korean.  The Korean's would see the American's and say `Mi Gook' which is Korean for America/American.  The GI's thought the Koreans were saying they were <U+0091>gooks' Me Gook.  The carrying of the word from Korea to Vietnam shows the tendency of latent dehumanizing racism <U+0091>they all look alike'<U+0085>
Speaking of Human, David Lynch, the director of The Elephant Man (1980) was furious that Stone used Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings since he had used it in his film and hoped when people heard it they would reflect on it.  He must have sensed that people are now more likely to associate Adagio with the <U+0091>Elias crucified' scene.  However, there is another connection to the Elephant Man.  Think of Taylor stopping the gang rape.  The GI's respond, `she's an animal!' to which Chris shouts back, `She's a HUMAN BEING, man<U+0085> a human being!  This is an echo of John Hurt's line in Elephant Man, `I am not an animal! I am a human being! I...am...a man!'There are a few more interesting points worth comment, but I will close by mentioning the suicide attack.  Stone himself was the actor playing the Battalion Commander in the bunker that suffered the suicide attack.  It is interesting that In response to the suicide attack, Captain Harris, the Company Commander calls in an air strike right on his own position.  In other words it is as though he answered the suicide attack with a suicide attack.  This seems analogous to the continuing inflow of US troops to Vietnam as a suicide.  I will leave it off here in hope that someone else discusses the intentional inflicting of wounds on oneself as a means to be sent home.


                
... and for good reason! Platoon is a unique war film in that it almost plays out as more of a morality tale and the inner conflict that eats away at the insides of man rather than focusing primarily on the conflict with the enemies. In Stone's film, we are given in-depth examinations into both the atrocities of the war and those committed by the Staff Sergeant supposedly on the 'good side' of it all. Played to perfection by Tom Berenger. his terrifying portrayal of a heartless Sgt. becomes all the more frightening when contrasted with the compassionate, caring nature of Sgt. Elias, portrayed by William Dafoe. The film is unapologetically outspoken in its depiction of the horrors soldiers faced in the war and with razor-edged editing that nabbed Academy Award honors, it really does immerse you, almost uncomfortably so, in the hell these men endure. One of the best.


                
Ever since Steven Spielberg wowed the cinematic world and changed the aesthetic of the war movie forever with the exceptional opening 25 minutes of 1998's Saving Private Ryan - the film went downhill from there - audiences have come to expect the same grainy camera-work and ultra-realism of Spielberg's breathtaking vision whenever a battle is depicted. Anything else would be 'unrealistic', and many movies dated horribly almost overnight as a result. While Oliver Stone's Platoon, which was once considered difficult to watch due to its unflinching depiction of the insanity of war, may not seem quite as brutal as it used to, it possesses one thing that no war other movie can boast - the guiding hand of a veteran.Stone did a tour in Vietnam which ended in 1968, changing the future writer/director forever. Starting out life as a screenplay focusing on a soldier's experiences both before and during the war which had Jim Morrison touted for the lead, it evolved into a movie focused solely on a young volunteer's time spent in the sweaty, eternally damp jungle. Charlie Sheen's Chris Taylor is an obvious stand-in for Stone, and he arrives fresh-faced and eager to fight for his country. By the end, he is dazed and confused, and angry at the country who would send such "bottom of the barrel" men - invisible in society - into a world of such horror and meaningless bloodshed. It's an experience that moulded Stone into the one of the most outspoken voices in cinema.The casting of the two sergeants vying for Chris' soul is a stroke of genius. The platoon is made up of two main groups - the 'juicers', a collection of beer-swilling meat-heads seemingly intent on violence at every opportunity, and the 'heads', a more laid-back and weary bunch who are happiest when getting high and having a singalong. At the head of the juicers is Sgt. Barnes, played by Tom Berenger, an actor known for his heart-throb leading-man roles but here cast as a dead-eyed, heavily scarred brute. While Willem Dafoe, who was and still is known for his crazy-eyed villainous roles, plays the wiser, gentler leader of the heads, an all-round good guy battling his own demons. By toying with expectations, Stone adds layers to their characters, and they both received Best Actor nominations for their efforts.Yet what makes Platoon truly stand out 30 years after its release is the way Stone manages to transport the audience to that terrible place. It's teeming with dangers at every turn, be it the ants, the snakes or the Viet Cong better equipped for the harsh surroundings, the most frightening moment is when they fall asleep. And even when they awake, there's something moving in the shadows. The film never allows you to ever be at ease, despite the fun to be had with spotting the many famous faces dotted throughout the supporting cast. There are flaws, especially with some overacting from some of the supporting cast - in particular John C. McGinley - and Chris' unnecessary, rambling narration, but the movie packs such a punch that it's easy to forget these quibbles. It's a true insight into the mind of a grunt and how combat can have a lasting, eye-opening effect on those on the ground, and undoubtedly one of the most important war pictures ever to come out of the US.


                
Of all the war movies I've seen, this is probably one of the most honest and non-romantic depictions of the 20th centuries longest war I've seen. Its a hard movie to watch but its meant to be as it shows the war for the hell it really was, its authenticity cannot be praised enough thanks to Oliver Stone's personal experiences that he went through when serving in the war. The actors put themselves through a tough boot-camp in order for an accurate portrayal and it showed, they didn't have to act exhausted and weary as they genuinely were. Charlie Sheen's depiction as the naive bright eyed college kid who joined up for romantic reasons, but quickly learns the harsh realities of the war is one of the more memorable. likewise Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe as two battle hardened but morally very different veterans are also very memorable. The fighting and battle scenes again are unforgettable and accurate and the show just what the American solders were up against and how slippery and how hard the NVA and the VC could be to pin down. One aspect of the movie which I found refreshing was it didn't attempt to picture the Americans as angels, it showed that they could be no better or sometimes worse than the enemy they were fighting. Now in comparison with Full Metal Jacket, this movie is no better or worse, as it depicts a different aspect of the war than this movie, this movie depicts the type of fighting the soldiers had to do before the Tet Offensive, jungle warfare, where-as Full Metal Jacket depicted urban warfare in the Tet Offensive. So if you want an non-sugar coated, accurate and authentic portrayal of the Vietnam war, then this movie is for you.
This is actually rather intelligent, both in its plot and technical execution. It's the Vietnam War, we follow a platoon of US soldiers as they attempt to wipe out the enemy. The question that this film raises is: who really is the enemy? You have the conflict of the war itself (America against Vietnam) but within the platoon is a conflict for authority. Split between what is right and what is wrong, the moral implications of this war have taken effect on several soldiers as they question their choices. This was a smart element to include within the plot, it was easier to establish character development and build some tension. The majority of the characters were sufficiently developed and their personalities had charisma. This was mostly down to the great cast. Willem Dafoe was easily the best performance, Tom Berenger was also decent and the heated chemistry between them was well conveyed. Charlie Sheen however, didn't work for me. His acting ability consisted of monotonous dialogue delivery and shouting, perhaps he was overpowered by the rest of the great cast? I don't know, just felt meh. Didn't help that his biggest battle was with nature...we're talking ants, leeches and other insects. Obviously, animals love abit of Sheen. Oliver Stone's direction was solid, very realistic and gritty. The makeup effects were practical, the wounds and blown up limbs looked pretty damn realistic. A standout scene was the raiding of the Vietnamese village. This was the turning point where actually the American side were perceived as the antagonists, clearly communicating with our inner moral compasses. Effective, very effective. This is easily one of the best war films I've seen and winning Best Picture was fully justified.


                
The Vietnam War is a conflict that garnered tremendous controversy as many condemned the war as a futile and lead to what people called needless lost of thousands of American lives. The purpose of the war was to the fight against communism, a long going threat occurring during the decades of the Cold War. Director Oliver Stone who was a Vietnamese War veteran himself makes a brutal, but utterly effective portrayal in this war drama based on his experiences in the Vietnamese battlefields. Charlie Sheen plays Chris Taylor, a young man in his late teens who drops out of college and voluntary for active duty in Vietnam. With no combat experience compared to the other men in his platoon including the hot-tempered Staff Sergeant Robert Barnes (played by Tom Berenger), the more kind- heart Sergeant Elias (played by William Defoe), the aggressive and ruthless Lieutenant Wolfe (played by Mark Moses), and fellow African-American Big Harold (played by Forest Whitaker); Chris faces the dehumanizing effects of the war and the moral dilemmas of men in active combat as the platoon fight their through the grueling environment and atmosphere of the Vietnamese battle front.War is ugly, and this movie certainly shows it. Shooting the film in the Phillipines which serves as an authentic backdrop of wartime Vietnam, Oliver Stone uses his experiences in active combat and puts into grueling prospective, giving viewers on a haunting and gritty taste of the horrors and atrocities that ignited during the years of active duty in Vietnam. From the bloody and gruesome combat sequences, to the deteriorating psychological health of the fellow soldiers, to the loss of innocence in humanity in the characters; Oliver Stone pulls no punches when expressing the reality of what the deadly conflict overseas was like with convicted realism and powerful emotions. One scene in particular features a raid in the Vietnamese village where members of the platoon, Lieutenant Wolfe in particular torture innocent civilians and the way they treat these civilians is an eye-sore and quite unsettling to watch. Most importantly, it shows the psychological impact on Charlie Sheen's character and his fellow comrades and they become robbed of their moral compass. It is a real powerful issue that goes on in active combat today, soldiers overseas are pitted with not only their desperate feat to survive and protect their country but dealing with their ethical sense. The story focuses not exactly active combat itself but the effects it has the soldiers, and the story progresses through how the main character changes as person, a character who you come to care about. Charlie Sheen gives an incredible performance, easily one of the best if not the best roles in his career. And let's not forget William Defoe, an actor who isn't well known for placing good guy roles, yet manages to show pure charisma and humanity in his character; and Tom Berenger as Sergeant Barnes, a soldier with a cold heart against the both his comrades and the Vietnamese.Platoon is brutal, violent, and quite disturbing to sit through, but it is very effective and honest in portraying the horrors of the Vietnam War. Oliver Stone does a tremendous job on capturing the brutality of the hellish environment of active combat. His directorial efforts pay off and the cast is outstanding. This movie would make a great pick for anyone in the mood of a powerful war flick.


                
There are no grandstanding heroics in Oliver Stone's 'Platoon'. No back-patting reassurances that the Vietnam War was ever remotely considered a noble cause. This film is an act of courage. Stone, the gutsy writer-director, records in a devastating barrage of images the relentless horror and the senseless carnage experienced by far too many Americans in Vietnam. The movie is, in fact, so emotionally powerful that you can practically feel the same gnawing fear that can bring out the savagery in the most decent young men. Platoon, to a large extent, is a replay of his own harrowing, wartime experiences - Stone was a medal-decorated former "grunt" who served with the 25th Infantry in Vietnam.From the very first shot - where newly arrived troops recoil at the sight of body bags being loaded onto their returning plane - you plunge directly into a blazing jungle inferno. The film is structured as a Dantesque descent into hell, following the progress of a young foot soldier, Chris Taylor (a commendable Charlie Sheen), as he penetrates further and further into the blind terror that is his experience of the war. Chris, as Stone himself was, is a well-to-do college dropout who volunteered for Vietnam out of a sense of patriotism and a vague desire to prove himself as a man. He's expecting a WWII movie; what he finds instead is a nightmare. It's a war where there seems to be no master plan, no big picture and no advances. There is only terror, bone-deep exhaustion, nighttime patrols and the humid jungle, crawling with snakes, insects and the silent Viet Cong. This is, unquestionably, what Vietnam must have felt like to the foot soldiers.The movie, with its hallucinatory, nightmarish visual quality, captures the moral confusion and the increasing disintegration of soldiers who escape by getting stoned together. This mercilessly intense movie is definitely not for the faint of heart. The atmosphere remains highly charged from beginning to end. There's no letup, nary a suggestion of humor to break the tension. It's not unlike an Indonesian shadow play in the sense that the evil god, scar-faced Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger, his face a road-map of scars, extremely dynamic as the fighting machine), collides head-on with his moral pole- a heroic God fearing man, the disillusioned Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe making a strong impression). There are images in Platoon so powerful that they seem, rather than simply imprinted on celluloid, to have been burned into memory. This bold combat movie projects Vietnam with such ferocity that no one can ever doubt that that war was indeed anything but a living hell.Decades later, Platoon remains an intriguing blend of the political and the personal, with Stone turning his memories and his opinions about Vietnam into a potent drama. Platoon continues to be lauded as a film of inspiring empathy and implacable force!


                
Platoon was a deserving winner of 4 Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Sound and Best Editing. It was a shame it didn't net more Academy Awards. Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger and Willem Defoe are brilliant in their respective roles. Platoon was also notable for being the first film about the Vietnam War to be written and directed by a Vietnam veteran.Based on Oliver Stone's experiences in the Vietnam War when he served in the US Army, Platoon is told through the eyes of Chris Taylor played by Charlie Sheen. Chris Taylor is an idealistic and naive college dropout who enlisted in the US Army to serve in the Vietnam War. When he arrives in Vietnam, he is worn down by the exhausting and terrible conditions and his enthusiasm to serve in the Vietnam War wanes. Chris Taylor also narrates his thoughts and feelings via letters to his Grandmother. Taylor also meets Sergeant Barnes and Sergeant Elias, two Platoon Sergeants with contrasting personalities. Tom Berenger plays the battle scarred, world weary, callous and bad tempered Sergeant Barnes, and Willem Defoe plays the compassionate, caring and free spirited Sergeant Elias. The platoon is led by the fresh faced and inexperienced Platoon Commander Lieutenant Wolfe (Mark Moses) who struggles to assert his authority over the battle hardened platoon yet it is shown that the men look up to Sergeant Barnes as their leader. Taylor meets a variety of soldiers in his platoon including the cowardly and sycophantic Sergeant O'Neill (John C. McGinley), Bunny (Kevin Dillon), Junior (Reggie Johnson), King (Keith David), Rhah (Francesco Quinn), Big Harold (Forrest Whitaker), Lerner (Johnny Depp), Crawford (Chris Pedersen) and Francis (Corey Glover). The personalities vary from compassionate, good-natured and affable, to angry, ruthless and sadistic. Taylor finds himself conflicted when the horrors of the war take its toll and following a raid on the village which many villagers are beaten, killed, and raped, Taylor and the platoon find themselves taking sides with Sergeant Barnes and Sergeant Elias.Charlie Sheen puts in an unforgettable performance in one of his early movies as Private Chris Taylor. You can't help but feel that he is channeling his father Martin Sheen who previously starred in another Vietnam War movie Apocalypse Now (1979). Charlie Sheen has been embroiled in numerous controversies recently including his (in)famous falling out with the producers of the TV series Two and a Half Men in 2011 and appearing in highly publicized interviews displaying his bizarre behaviour and stating his catch phrase "Winning!". Controversies aside, many people forget that Charlie Sheen was brilliant in Platoon.Tom Berenger was previously known to play very likable characters but here he deserved an Academy Award nomination for his role as Sergeant Barnes, a man who refuses to be killed in the Vietnam War. Willem Defoe who made his mark frequently playing villains was also very memorable as the likable and compassionate Sergeant Elias.It was also great to see Johnny Depp (Pirates of the Caribbean), Forrest Whitaker (The Last King of Scotland), John C. McGinley (TV's Scrubs) and Kevin Dillon (TV's Entourage) in early roles.Oliver Stone who previously wrote Midnight Express (1978) and Scarface (1983), made his mark as a director with Platoon which saw his career skyrocket with hit movies such as Wall Street (1987), Born on the Fourth of July (1989), The Doors (1991) as well as controversial movies JFK (1991) and Natural Born Killers (1994). Oliver Stone hasn't had the same success in recent times with the mega flop Alexander (2004) and mixed success with World Trade Center (2006), W. (2008), Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010), and Savages (2012). Platoon is definitely his best movie to date as a director.Platoon's theme song Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings has been permanently imprinted into my memory. Although Adagio for Strings has been heard frequently on film and television, it is a perfect theme for Platoon which sums up the bleak and depressing outlook of the Vietnam War.Platoon is an excellent though bleak movie that shows the horrors of the Vietnam War and soldiers as flawed human beings which will stay with you forever. Platoon definitely shows Tom Berenger, Willem Defoe and Charlie Sheen at their finest and Oliver Stone's best movie as a director. Platoon earns its spot as one of the best war movies of all time right up there with Saving Private Ryan (1998), Black Hawk Down (2001), Full Metal Jacket (1987), and Apocalypse Now (1979).9/10.


                
Yes, it was the Vietnam movie, in a trilogy of three, ala 1987. What I read about it, and seen briefly through, clips, yet when I went into the cinema, I still yet was disappointed, but respectfully it is a great film. I just expected more realism, I guess. The opening is haunting, and leaves an imprint in the memory for those who would of seen it. Told through the eyes, of a school dropout Chris Taylor (Sheen, very good), who sighed up for the Nam, we follow his eye opening journey of hell, how with fresh eyes, how it perceived, the terror of Vietnam, no holds barred. Granted, there are some really tense moments in Platoon, concerning Charlie, the enemy, one indisputably tensely charged scene, with Sheen on watch, where he's in close proximity of them. Another scary moment had a gentle humble, Sergeant Elias, wonderfully played by Dafoe in still one of his best performances, going into a bunker underneath which is like cavern where he explores it, with a little bit of company. Of course, it's Berenger's show in the life of the story and his performance, as stout hearted and uncompromising Barnes, the head Sergeant, running the other platoon, where he butts heads a lot with adversary Dafoe, and in one shocking moment towards the end, Not only with this whole outfit fighting the enemy, both platoons are fighting each other. I couldn't stands Barnes's platoon, that partly consists, of a fawning type, John Mcginley who went on to become a very and sought after commodity as character actor, while Kevin's Dillon's borderline psychotic Bunny, will live on in my mind, probably, secretly, one of the film's best performances. As in Casualties Of War the death of innocents related to the enemy are again, sickeningly disregarding, as in court marshaling, brushed under the carpet stuff. Ironically the same actor who sided with Penn and his boys, in this, he's the other way intent, on seeing, this unlawful killing by Barnes goes to trial, if proved. The scene with Bunny in the tent, was sickening, though the violence was implicit here, where he was smashing the brains of a gook civilian's head in with the butt of his rival, splots of blood, staining Bunny's face. Platoon, with a crafted script by Stone and A grade performances by it's actors, is a film to see cinematocally, the photography is excellent and does work. May'be I really got carried with the realism aspect of the film, but it's still a pretty real and effective that will scar the memory years after seeing it. For a war film, trying to win an Oscar as best film, is war itself. This was one that did.


                
Platoon is clearly one of director Oliver Stone's most inspired films. Stone volunteered for the army in 1967 as a college drop-out. He wrote the screenplay for Platoon in 1975 but it took over ten years until he was able to film it. What separates Platoon from other American films dealing with the Vietnam War is that it depicts wartime massacres. Films before that, like The Deer Hunter (1978) and Apocalypse Now (1979), only focused on the shattered psyches produced by the war. Keep in mind though that Platoon is a mainstream movie, so it doesn't come anywhere near the brutality that the Americans sometimes demonstrated. The 1968 My Lai Massacre, in which as many as 504 unarmed civilians were killed, is just one of many examples. The Vietnam War is considered to be the greatest trauma of 20th century American history, but a few decades later the USA savagely attacked Yugoslavia and Iraq. Platoon made a lot of money at the box office, mainly because Stone has the ability to make a film entertaining no matter what it's about. The film's partial blindness to the war was another reason for its success. It's not made clear who the American soldiers are actually fighting and why they invaded Vietnam in the first place. Let's also not forget that Stone dedicated the film to the men who lost their lives. So, when Stone is accused by some people of being anti-American or a leftie I can just laugh at their foolishness. What's most interesting about Platoon for me is that Stone brought his own experience of being a soldier in Vietnam. When Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) said that you don't really sleep even when you do get time to sleep I was immediately reminded of what my father told me. My father served in the army. Even though he didn't see combat he told me that he still stayed awake. In Platoon Stone looks at the war from his educated middle-class point of view. He shows the behavior of under-privileged blacks and of "white trash" from middle America. Stone's direction is very good, so it's not a surprise that he won an Oscar. With cinematographer Robert Richardson he managed to capture some impressive images. He also brought intelligence to the film by depicting a war between two sergeants, Barnes (Tom Berenger) and Elias (Willem Dafoe). It's pretty much Jesus (Elias) fighting against the covetous shadow of the American dream (Barnes). The performances by most of the cast are very good. Berenger and Dafoe are terrific. They're clearly the standouts. Historian Carroll Quigley thought that what happened to Western civilization in the first half of the 20th century was a tragedy. It's clear why. There were two big wars, a depression, and the coming of fascism. In addition to that the Russians foiled the plans of the Germans and the British and captured Eastern Europe. Yet Quigley still had hope when he wrote his famous book in the 1960s. But, as the Vietnam War dragged on, he began to lose this hope. He began to think that Western civilization is nearly finished. I think that there's still hope for Western civilization, though the Vietnam War was yet another example of the crisis that this society is going through. Platoon isn't my favorite war movie. I like Come And See (1985) and Apocalypse Now (1979) more, but I easily recommend Platoon too.


                
Hello fellow readers, this is a review of a film I had already reviewed but decided my old review was too dull so here is my new and improved Platoon review. Platoon is one of my favorite movies of all time for numerous reasons which will be shared throughout this review. First of all, it has my favorite soundtrack ever produced in a film, and shows you the real truth of what really happened in the war. There was a grotesque village scene which was hard to watch somehow. Willem Dafoe, Tom Berenger and Charlie sheen give on of their richest performances in my favorite Oliver stone film ever! The film was brilliantly done and can very well be the closest film which I could consider my favorite. The film is a great piece of cinema and will always be...


                
The movie is about a young man (Chris Taylor), who in his efforts to find out his place in society, decides to enlist as a volunteer in the American army, during the Vietnam War. Chris, at the beginning, faces a lot of difficulties concerning his survival in such a cruel and harsh environment. While he is beginning to acclimatize, he has to deal with important ethical issues that come along with his more active involvement in the battles with the Vietnamese. Two men, Sergeant Gordon Elias and Sergeant Robert Barnes, are the two voices in Chris' head, just like the little angel and the little devil flying over our shoulders, that shape him and his moral code throughout his stay in Vietnam and stigmatize him for the rest of his life. Oliver Stone in a masterful manner in this movie, demonstrates the alienation, caused by such a bloody war, to those who wage it, whether they are high rank officials or just a private. The movie is a cry for the poor youth of his country, that was wrongfully wasted in this war, but also for the civilians, who are the ones who suffer the most by the hands of the two sides fighting this war. A very strong cast of actors, who all give their best selves to succeed in passing through the message the director was trying to send with this exceptional movie, but the point of interest, as far as acting is concerned, is Tom Berenger's powerful performance.


                
"Platoon" is hardly an obscure movie, and I guess the reason it's taken me so many years to finally see this is - I dunno, you see enough war movies over the years (not to mention having seen "Full Metal Jacket"), how affecting could this actually be? That's a stupid reason, and the joke's on me; "Platoon" is devastating. This is probably as anti-war as they come, and that it's partly somewhat autobiographical just gives it more punch.I don't think I've ever seen a movie of this type that really emphasizes the dehumanizing effects of war. Charlie Sheen's fall from wide-eyed grace isn't so much heartbreaking as it is tremendously dispiriting. And putting him between two opposing symbols of embittered soldier (Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger) makes for a clever storytelling hook. I really don't want to give away any spoilers, but when one of these lead actors is killed, it is deeply sad.This one absolutely lives up to the hype.9/10


                
This film follows Chris Taylor from the moment he arrives in Vietnam until he leaves. He was a college student, so didn't have to fight, but he thought it was wrong that it was the poor kids being forced to serve so he enlisted<U+0085> it isn't long before he questions that decision. Nobody wants to know the new guys and they are seen not to matter. As time passes he becomes accepted in the group but at the same time it becomes clear that there are deep divisions within the platoon with those half behind Sgt Barnes, the brutal but effective platoon leader, and half behind the more sympathetic Sgt Elias; these tensions deepen when Elias reports Barnes for a war crime committed in a Vietnamese village; Taylor will have to choose his side if he is to survive the conflict between the two sergeants as well as numerous fights with the North Vietnamese Army.Writer/director Oliver Stone isn't trying to explain the war; he is trying to show us the war from the point of view of ordinary infantry soldiers<U+0085> the generals may be fighting for an overall cause but these poor grunts are just trying to survive their year in Vietnam. He brilliantly captures the fear and confusion of war in the jungle where one moment soldiers are worrying about insect bites and the next they are in a fire fight. These fights aren't shown as exciting; they are confused and bloody and when people are hit they are shown to suffer rather than dying silently. The film doesn't shy away from showing the dark side of war as we see soldiers murdering Vietnamese civilians. The division within the platoon seems like a metaphor for the divided opinions of people about the war at the time. The cast does a great job; Charlie Sheen puts in his best performance as Taylor; our guide to the life of US soldiers in that war. Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe also excel as Sgts Barnes and Elias; the former is particularly frightening as a character who is almost evil incarnate at times yet at others seems like the man who is keeping his platoon alive. The rest of the cast, which includes several people who went onto bigger roles, do a fine job making all the varied characters believable. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to anybody interesting in films about war; just don't expect gung-ho excitement; this is gut-wrenching and very tense<U+0085> and if you enjoyed this check out the less well known 'Hamburger Hill'.
"I think now, looking back, we did not fight the enemy; we fought ourselves. And the enemy was in us."If all war films were as good and sincere as Platoon it would probably be one of my favorite genres, but there are very few exceptions where the material is treated right as most directors tend to either be incredibly biased debating either in favor or against the war. It's strange I make this claim since Platoon is obviously an anti-war film, but it treats the material with an honesty you don't find in other films of the genre. It is much easier to make a statement like this in a war that everyone considers was a terrible mistake to get into. What Platoon has going for it however, is that it was written and directed by a man who actually served in the Vietnam War and decided to share his experience of what really was going on. Oliver Stone handles the material with incredible honesty not shying away from the horrors and senseless deaths in war and he delivers a film that never feels sermonizing (with a few exceptions). Even the villains (not the Vietnam soldiers, but the dubious Sgt. Barnes and his band of brothers) are portrayed with some sort of empathy. Platoon isn't actually a film that focuses on war between Vietnamese and American soldiers, but rather the civil war that was going on inside the mind of these soldiers that Stone fought alongside with. He wasn't afraid at pointing out who the real enemy truly was and for that reason the Vietnamese soldiers are barely portrayed in this film. It seems that with Platoon, Stone was able to cope with the effects that the war had on him and the result is a passionate and sincere film. In the very opening scene we are introduced to Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) as he has just been deployed to Vietnam and is arriving at the war zone. He narrates the film through voice-over as he is writing letters to his grandma informing her about the war. Unlike most of the soldiers, he wasn't forced to go to the war, but volunteered after giving up on college. During the first few weeks he is struggling to keep up with the pace of war and no one seems to care too much for him since he's the new kid who hasn't yet been exposed to all the carnage they've experienced. Chris is currently serving two noncommissioned officers who couldn't be more different from each other. On the one hand there is scar faced Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger) who seems to have been in the war forever and on the other there is Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe) who is much more lighthearted and easy going. Both are experts at war who know they are fighting with unexperienced soldiers. When a village raid gets out of hand both Sergeants take opposite sides and the platoon is divided between those who support Elias and those who take Barnes's side. Evidently the war has taken a toll on all these men and some begin to question their very participation in it when they realize the enemy is inside each of them. There are also supporting performances from Johnny Depp, Forest Whitaker, Kevin Dillon, and John C. McGinley who are all in the platoon together.There is no denying the emotional buildup during the scene of the village raid and Johnny Depp's face says it all during one of the killings that takes place there. It is one of the most intense scenes I've seen in a war film. The performances in this movie are what stood out for me. Charlie Sheen is great in the lead role, but it is the confrontation between Berenger and Dafoe that truly stands out. Both deserved their Oscar nominations despite not winning, but Platoon still took the top honors for Best Picture in 1987. My only complaint with the film perhaps was that it didn't really need the voice-over narration from Charlie Sheen. Stone could've had enough faith in the audience and let them see what he wanted to say with the images alone and not spoon feed them with the narration. The excuse for its inclusion is that he is writing his grandmother, but there are things as the movie goes on that are evidently thrown in there so the audience could understand what he was thinking. It's just a minor complaint because his character was still the easiest to identify with. The score and the cinematography are both effective and they enhance the horrors portrayed in this film. Platoon still manages to have an impact almost thirty years later and that is why it is a classic.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/


                
This movie grips you right from the start to the end. As much cliché as it sounds, i didn't blink once throughout the movie as this movie will be a through entertainer and a sad remainder of the past. As both the director and the writer for this masterpiece, he has successfully and accurately depicted the horrors of the Vietnam War taken out straight from his memory lanes when he volunteered to joined to fight for his country. Charlie Sheen is amazing with his voice narration and genuine facial expressions. Williem Dafoe is surprisingly the good guy here and he is amazing too. But most importantly Tom Berenger gave the performance of a lifetime as an insane but ruthless leader and a true fighter. The score has served it's purpose of providing dark, serious atmosphere and combined with the voice narration of Sheen who has dialogs that hit right in the feels , this movie is a must. It's not just the acting and the dialogs that are moving but the story itself is touching. With characters struggling to cope up with this new found freedom, they inch closer and closer to insanity each passing day. The war has turned some into maniacs as it titillates their darker propensities of those, exposing their inner demons which, in turn, gave birth to animistic behavior like raping children , killing innocents as a 'revenge' and burning down villages . And they enjoyed doing it. Not a feeling of guilt, not a single regret.The question that haunts me is after the war, those lunatics who survived , what did they do with their lives? How did they adjust back to the society? Well, what i think is that most of them ended up in the streets as those homeless , drunk , vets that are found so much in abundance in the States. States.
Platoon is loosely based on real life situations that writer/director, Oliver Stone went through when he was in the Vietnam War. This is also parallel to Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 masterpiece, Apocalypse Now. I'm going to start out by saying that I found Apocalypse Now to be a much better flick. Platoon is practically the same story with everything inferior, which is why I'm not giving a perfect score. When compared, Platoon is inferior. Even when not compared, this movie gives a great sense of deja-vu. "Haven't I seen this before?" Both movies are about a Sheen enlisting in the Vietnam War and transcend into madness and insanity while partaking in the horrors of war. Apocalypse Now has Martin Sheen on a mission to assassinate a demigod while Platoon has Charlie Sheen's mental state wearing thin after a massacre occurs. Apocalypse Now has build-ups and gets somewhere with the plot, and has an overall better look. Platoon is certainly not bad. Heck, it IS as good as everybody says. It won Best Picture and Director of 1986, but I think Aliens should have won one of those. I think that any war movie is a great movie. Think about how it takes the action sequences to do and make-up to put on. Platoon's action sequences are excellent. But what makes Platoon the extravagant film that it is, is it's accurate depictions of life in war. While movies like Rambo made war seem fun and cool, Platoon was back to reality. The whole idea of transcending into madness is shown so well by all and is always relevant.


                
This is the most tangible movie I have ever laid my eyes on. I could almost smell the crap from the latrines and the sweat-soaked clothes on the soldiers.It also one of the most tense movies I have seen. It has a lot of quiet times when people are just waiting or walking around and those moments are no less tense than the action filled ones.The action....well it is not really what this movie is about and I have seen better but it is still quite good. You will get your load of explosions.It is hard to talk about the story as there isn't really one. The movie is generally about people's characters coming out over the course of their time in the Vietnam war and the way those characters change, interact and clash.To make that non-story story work, there is whole star cast. Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger are the two strongest roles. Some of the acting can be a little cheesy, but this was probably Tom's best role ever.The only problem I have is with the main protagonist, Charlie Sheen. His acting and his narration feel forced. I am not surprised that he would later start playing in comedy spoofs of action movies because that is how a lot of his acting felt like in this one. I expected him to loose it and suddenly start laughing.Platoon is one of the best if not the best war movies of all time.


                
Platoon is one of my favorite war films, right up there with Paths of Glory. A young Charlie Sheen plays a new soldier who volunteered to fight in Vietnam. This film traces his journey, along with his platoon, over months of fighting.The action seems realistic, the cinematography seems realistic, the cast are excellent, especially Tom Berenger (Barnes) and Wilem Dafoe (Elias) who are battling each other while they battle for the hearts and souls of the squad. Meanwhile, they need to get the squad functional enough to battle the North Vietnamese Army NVA.Incredible action, highs and lows, while Sheen does a decent job of portraying his moth-like change from a newbie to a hardened warrior. The music adds soulful feeling to the powerful fighting scenes and recovery. It's like they fight, recover, and are thrown back in again for more and more. The film wears you down, as you can imagine the men being worn down at the same time. You will experience this movie like few other war films.Great film that the Academy rewarded with a well-deserved Best Picture and Director. Enjoy.


                
I turned 18 in 1971 and got a nice high draft number. Naively I had figured if I got nailed I'd just volunteer for Nam and get it over with.I started hearing from the vets on campus about how bad it was and I was skeptical. By the time Platoon came out, I knew better and watching this movie solidified it.Combining combat conditions with futility and hopelessness has to be one of the most stressful conditions a human can be exposed to. Platoon quite accurately suggests only the extremely naïve and the sociopaths can find anything of value in such a situation. The rest come to realize they're trapped in a deadly environment where they can trust no one and expect only bad things to happen.Platoon gave me a more concrete vision of what Viet Nam was really like. I've tried to imagine myself in that war as a combat soldier where I would have feared my fellow soldiers and officers as much as the enemy and it isn't pretty. I have a much better appreciation for why so many vets came back so damaged and realize how easily it could have been me.This movie changed my view on war forever.
It was rather too long, personally. But when I think about plot, it seems that every scene was necessary. Perhaps, this is the reason why some scenes were cut with Johnny Depp. Actually, was really painful to watch it, because there were some inhumanely cruel scenes. But this is reality, history. And it's very good that director and actors did their job fantastically. Not unnecessarily rating is high. I don't really like films about war, but there are two good things about it. When this genre of film is appointed for war heroes, it's really very nice. It makes me to pause and think about those people. Second thing - I love facts. And facts were in this film. Chosen music ,of course, revealed mood. This movie made me to be tense. To be quite honest, I have never watched a film about war. "Platoon" was the first. But now I know how should look good film about war. One more thing, that scene with thunder was amazing, it gave me the shudders. I really was empathized. My heart bit together with characters' hearts. Plot is full of stress, it's very complicated and tense, it shows the reality, as I said. Also, was sad and tearful to see how brutally soldiers behaved with those poor Vietnameses. Actually, I always said that Charlie Sheen isn't good actor, because after "Scary movie 5" he looked "to cheap" for me. But I changed my mind. Now I think that he's really very good actor. "Platoon" and Chris Taylor from the film changed my mind once and for all. I gave 9, because film was rather too long for me.


                
Real, gritty and well-captured picture of the Vietnam War in all its entirety. Any war movies relies heavily on the sincerity of its soldiers, and in this case the cast is compelling, embodying the humanity and damage that was evident in so many affected by the terrible war.


                
This movie might leave the viewer unsatisfied. No heroes, no happy end, no winning, even the humorous scenes are disturbing. Instead, this movie shows the main character's, a man of privilege, education and conscience, transformation by war and military service. War, an extraordinary circumstance, can bring out the best or worst in men, transform them according to their disposition and also change the warring nations en suite. All this and more is incorporated here, underlined by a marvelous score, convincingly acted in almost every role, scarring to watch, thought provoking and honest. On the downside, there are some minor continuity errors, lack in realism and typical Oliver Stone-esque transcendental scenes, though non of these infringe on any of the premises of this film unless you are a stickler for every last detail. This is deservedly amongst the best films about the U.S. Vietnam war ever made.
