I think it has just the right amount of tech humor to stay true to its name, but anybody who's ever worked in an office of any kind should appreciate this show hugely. Big laughs for me every single episode... and I don't ususally laugh outloud. "Others" in the house made the comment of me really enjoying myself watching these crazy episodes. I've loved every episode through 5, though to be perfectly honest here and there I found myself wishing for more techie jokes, but i guess they can't chase away the non-techies just yet.Personally, Moss is my fav. The voice, the look, his whole line of thinking. Way cool and ridiculous. Happily, all the other characters are top notch too. Very very refreshing and laugh outloud show. Don't miss it!


                
My new all time favorite show. Expertly performed and brilliantly written this is the funniest show I have seen for as long as I can remember. The cast is so perfect, from the nutty Denholm (the boss man) to the eclectic pair of nerds that was the IT department. I am so lucky to have seen an episode on the net, because I would have never seen this on the BBC as I live in the US. You do not have to be a computer nerd to laugh until your sides hurt. However, having any exposure to life inside a company of any modest size will certainly make you appreciate what goes on at this company. Even the elevator, or "lift" as the Brits call it is a source of much laughter, as are the bathrooms and many other props. But the real genius of such great writing and comedic delivery on the part of the cast is magnificent. Please continue to make more, and pretty please produce a DVD that I can buy on Amazon.


                
I never meant to watch The IT Crowd, I stumbled upon it by accident when I was at a friends house and I decided to watch it as there was nothing else on and boy was I glad to have watched it! It was so funny, you must admire the emergency services scene! it was a total shame to have only 6 episodes in the 1 series! I hope series 2 comes out soon because this is by far the best series i have ever watched and will be my all-time favourite TV show ever! Moss is a great character and definitely suits the program well as his witty funny lines fits everywhere they are mentioned! "If there were such a thing as a drudgeon, that is what we'd be to them." Class ;) The IT Crowd is A perfect 10/10 a must see.


                
Considering the brain dead material on TV these days, including all the "reality TV" garbage, The IT Crowd is probably the best show to come along in a very long time. The characters are well developed, the humour is dry and witty and the cast is amazing. There are so many nuances that you have to pay special attention or you'll miss them, which is difficult to do when you are busting your gut laughing with tears pouring down your face. You have to watch the episodes several times to get it all and each time you howl with anticipation of what you know is coming up next. Favourite parts have to be the tarty red shouza (shoes) and when Roy has to explain to Moss about "High Tide" - First scene of Carrie Moss. Richmond is OTT. Brilliant. Can't wait to see series 2.


                
This series is so good. The cast is wonderful and it made me laugh and cackle in a way that I haven't too often. Really good stuff. I love the reality of all of the wires and all of the keyboards around... etc. The mess of the place/office is heartwarming - and the randomness of the "relationship manager" is really funny. The show has a 70's look to it - It kind of looks like my old shows growing up, like the Jeffersons - so it has this feel to it like there is some kind of art going on.Brits rock.The show is hilarious at times, and I don't just throw that word around. :-)


                
This is truly a comedy of pure genius. All the elements involved are spot on, and combine to make a show of pure brilliance. Brilliant scripts, wonderfully acted, the mix of Chris O'Dowd, Richard Ayoade and Katherine Parkinson combine outrageously well. Huge credit to Graham Linehan too, previously successful with Father Ted and Black Books his pedigree is there for all to see. The out and out funniest episode in my humble opinion had to be The work outing, which I can watch again and again and still be belly laughing, it's immense, other top quality episodes include The Speech, Calamity Jen and finale The internet is coming. Very few dips in quality.What a shame it had to finish, this was gold. 10/10


                
this show is like the British version of seinfeld for the it lovers, extremely intelligent, well written and most importantly well acted. The actor who stands out is def Richard Ayoade, explosive performance. Although 10 stars, i think people ages 17-40 might like the show better, than older or younger crowds, because of the intelligence of comedic tones, and also the it parts. The first episode, might be hard to understand for Americans, because of the British English vs American English, but by video two, it takes you to it's world. Work place, co- workers. overall, this show hits between left and right in comedy, between two intelligent guys, and a co-worker, with barely any It knowledge who's an idiot at IT but brilliant at people, and IT guys, that are brilliant at IT but idiots with people. I love the automated phone message, to shut off and restart the computer, is a classic. Hilarious.


                
The IT Crowd is brilliant thanks to not only Graham Linehan's clever writing, (he also wrote the Irish classic Father Ted), but also because the actors have such a great chemistry. Absurd scenarios and quirky, over the top characters are the signatures of this show. Chris O'Dowd has become a Hollywood star, but Richard Ayoade, Katherine Parkinson and Matt Berry are equally talented. Having them all together in one show is really a treat. I'm so glad they came back for a final episode to give the series closure. If you are fond of British humor, or you work in IT support, you should definitely give this show a try. In my opinion, it is in the top ten, (or even the top five), shows of all time.


                
I first saw The IT Crowd after a friend recommended the show to me, and I'm glad I watched it. I was hooked onto the show right after the first episode, and each episode kept getting funnier. The IT Crowd is definitely one of the funniest comedies I have seen in a long time. I have even recommended it to friends and family and they have found themselves hooked.The IT Crowd is about three staff members from an IT Department located in the basement of Reynholm Industries which everybody from the office relies upon but frequently ignores and often looks down upon the staff as inept losers. Roy Trennerman (Chris O'Dowd) is a laid-back but very lazy Irish IT worker a love for wearing geek T-shirts that represent the latest trend in computers which reflects his personality however he goes to great lengths to avoid work so he can do nothing but play video games, read comics and play around in the office. Roy puts in very little effort in helping others in the office which is evidenced by his standard IT suggestions such as "Have you tried turning it off and on?" and "Is it plugged in?" whenever someone calls up the IT Department with a computer problem. He also proves to be luckless in love. Maurice Moss (Richard Ayoade) has a brilliant technological mind when it comes to computers yet he is very socially inept when it comes to dealing with people. Moss struggles with basic communication skills and also lives with his mother who also dresses him and packs his lunch. The attractive Jen Barber (Katherine Parkinson) was a new worker assigned to the IT Department as the boss after she claims on her CV she has experience with computers however it is shown throughout the series that she has zero technical or technology management experience. She even lacks basic computer knowledge such as not knowing what IT stands for, how to plug into a computer or telephone, infecting her laptop to make it look attractive, as well as making outlandish statements about the internet.The original director of Reynholm Industries Denholm Reynholm (Chris Morris) has very little IT knowledge but always thinks up of new and often ridiculous initiatives aiming to improve performance and morale in his company yet he frequently makes impetuous and rash decisions and pays little attention to other workers, unless they were attractive. Later in the series his long lost son Douglas Reynholm (Matt Berry) takes over Reynholm Industries. Douglas speaks very loud and dramatically, and also has uncontrollable sexual urges to other females he finds attractive which has resulted in a history of many sexual harassment accusations levelled against him. He has also seemingly inherited his father's impetuous and arrogant personality.Chris O'Dowd and Richard Ayoade made a great duo as the socially inept IT workers Roy and Moss. In particular, Moss was my favourite character out of the entire series as there was never a dull moment with Moss. Katherine Parkinson was great as Jen, the new manager of the IT Department despite her lack of knowledge of basic computer skills. Chris Morris and Matt Berry were hilarious as the father and son of Reynholm Industries.I've always has a soft spot for British comedy. It doesn't try too hard and there is no overacting required, but it's kept simple yet the humour is brilliant and clever. The IT Crowd is an excellent example of comedy kept simple and does not rely on over the top humour nor does it rely on sexual jokes or strong profanity yet it works perfectly on all levels.10/10


                
Each episode well written, performances by Katharine Parkinson (Jen), Chris O'Dowd (Roy), and Richard Ayoade (Moss) are all extremely well executed; makes one want to find more of what they all have to offer. It is unfortunate that British comedies only have 6 episodes per series, I suppose it's quality over quantity. If you are hesitant on watching this show please don't be and please do so now. I am really not much of a TV critique (this being my first review) but this is one show I find to be extremely well thought out and deserving of the credit it needs. f you like comedy and have not seen this, the you are really missing something great.


                
This show is brilliant!! As they would say in the UK. The cast is a quirky ensemble whose chemistry never stops igniting. If you want to check out complete and utter comedy watch the episode where Jen goes to the theater with a man who she thinks is gay. The schematics that Roy and Moss get into will make to you laugh until your stomach hurts. I have heard that they are making an American version of this show...and I've seen the cast right here on IMDb and it pains me to say it. The American cast appear to be a cliché and too cute to work in IT. That is one of the things I love about the show is Jen's natural beauty. Her individuality is what makes that character special. When you throw a 100 pound blonde hair blue eyed actress in my screen and start calling her Jen it just doesn't work.
Let me start out by saying I wasn't sure about this show after watching the first episode. As the show progressed it became my favorite show very quickly. In fact after the second season I planned a trip to London just to watch the filming of the show but we didn't get tickets. I'm an American from Chicago and cannot pick another comedy that makes me feel better than the IT Crowd. Simply amazing is all I can say. This is the type of show you can watch a hundred times because it is easy to like, and lets you forget about the stresses of everyday life when you watch it. Each line from Roy or Moss is an instant classic. If you claim you don't like this show then you don't understand this type of comedy. I simply cannot say enough about how funny Roy and Moss are. If you have worked anywhere around the IT field you can truly enjoy the humor these two bring to the screen. It's hard to describe the feeling you get when watching this sitcom. It really does take you to another place where you can just sit back and laugh the night away - all stresses in life are gone. Douglas is over the top but a true gem on the screen. I could go on and on but do yourself a huge favor and embrace this show. Make sure you keep up the pressure for a 5th and 6th season because the story has not been fully told yet.


                
After stumbling onto this show, on the More4 channel in Ireland, I was instantly hooked! Very clever tongue-in-cheek humor, along with all-out wit and banter--it is a must-see. Moss, Jen, Roy (and later Richmond) are a great ensemble, each lending their own unique humor to each scene and easily playing off each other. Life in 'middle earth'(as the IT department is referred to in one episode)is a great concept,the clichéd idea of 'computer geeks' taken to a new level. With Jen leading the department, and knowing nothing about computers, it is up to Moss and Roy to answer the very few phone calls from the corporates upstairs(to which the immediate response is: "did you try turning it on?") then fix the usually minor computer problems. Later discovery of the once junior CEO-turned-goth hiding behind the red door(Richmond), adds an extra element of fun and a clever twist of someone being a nerd and a goth at the same time. I hope this is on for many more seasons...it's a fantastic show!!!


                
IT Crowd was a brilliant (still a brilliant) TV sit-com. i've heard from a friend this sit-com is a great one. so he said to me not to miss one episode. actually i missed. yeah i missed when they quit airing the TV series. now they are comparing IT Crowd with The Big Bang Theory. but i watch them both and i can say that IT Crowd is better than Big Bang. IT Crowd has a deeper storyline (yeah i know its is a comedy but don't forget where people started ex. Seinfeld, the show was about nothing - do you know a deeper subject than nothing?) and they are actually acting like IT's. so please let them continue to do their job, we are waiting for season 3 desperately.


                
I heard about this show just recently. I wasn't given much of an idea of what it was, but I was told it focused on some nerdy characters similar to The Big Bang Theory. I sat down to watch this show and couldn't stop! I'd have to say that the comparison of the characters to The Big Bang Theory was not all that accurate, but that really helped make this show original. It revolves around the IT department of a fairly large company. There are three main characters, played by Chris O'Dowd, Richard Ayoade, and Katherine Parkinson, who work in this department. They each have very different personalities which adds to the various types of scenarios that can come across as convincing throughout the series. The jokes are very well-written and perfectly timed. Even if you don't work in IT, you will still get a lot of enjoyment out of watching this show. I just wish I had learned about it sooner!
Bloody Brilliant! I didn't even know they added another episode and gave us an official ending to this masterpiece. There are so many things I love about this series. What trips me out is how it keeps getting progressively better with each episode. Seriously, some of the last few episodes are nearly lethal gut-busters. The final episode they tacked on after a few years isn't as funny as the rest of the series but it was nice of them to give it to us. Some of the jokes are dated but work well regardless. In about 100 years from now, this television series will be used as educational material for what mankind was like at the start of IT becoming mainstream.


                
This show is excellent and introduced me to the wonderful world of "britcoms". I love how much more freedom the British have with speech and social issues than the American shows do. This is probably because most American television shows attempt social engineering of its viewers. The "britcoms" can say just about anything they want regardless of whose feelings are hurt.The actors are fantastic. The writing is perfect. The main problem I have is that there are only 6 episodes per year. I believe this is because there is only one writer. However, other British shows are like this. I also love Doc Martin and it's the same thing - 6 episodes per year. One way to look at this is quality over quantity.


                
I did not know at all what this series was about, nor did I care at the time but after watching a few episodes, I am hooked. If you liked the Vicar of Dibley and Father Ted, then you are sure to enjoy this. There are three main characters - Roy, Moss and Jen. Roy, although not smart is charming at times but impatient and loud mouthed. You can't help but like him! Moss is highly intelligent but dumbfounded when out in the open and is often saying the wrong things at the wrong times that often result in disaster and cannot talk about bras without fainting! You guessed it, he's a nerd! Jen is outgoing and flirty but does not have much luck with men and knows nothing about computers e.g. 'If you type Google into Google...you can brake the internet.' and had a love for shoes. Now picture them in an IT department, arguing, bickering and causing havoc by all means of the imagination. That's what you'll get if you watch this show.The story lines are very simple but the actors/actresses pull it off superbly and with great skill. They portray their characters brilliantly and go to extreme lenghs to make us laugh! I do not know how they keep straight faces because some of those lines can make anyone laugh! The jokes, although crude at times are funny and do not go over the top by means of dumbness. Personally my favourite was episode five, it had me in stitches of laughter and teaches you that lying can get you into more trouble than expected. Also, episode two was also very funny, I'll never memorise that number. For those who have seen this episode will know what I'm talking about! There are other characters as well such as Richmond, Denholm and Douglas and although their roles are minor to some of the story lines, they are just as funny and act believably. I definitely recommend watching this Sitcom. It was funny yet not over the top. 10/10.0118 999 881 999 119 7253 - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2Q6xbEZ-f0


                
The IT Crowd is just the funniest series I saw in ages! The plot is about Jen, a manager, that get's stuck into an office with - to quote the boss - "standard nerds", Roy and Moss. But if you think, the series is about computers and only technical talk, you are far away from the truth! It's more about the social life and the connection between the nerds and Jen (and Richmond and Denholm and...) But if you see the series for the first time, don't think, the first episode is all about to know! If I had to sort the 6 Episodes from bad to best, I would say, Episode 1 is the worst of them; but quite good enough for many laughs, so be prepared for the more hilarious stuff still to come! I can't wait to see the next season...
A very funny TV show, good actors, good characters, good dialogs and writers ... and, the most important, one of the few shows (TV and cinema included) that can surprise you actually with something different. What do you think that could be hidden behind a red door ...?It's a TV show that will make laugh everybody but, specially, you will recognize more than one situation in real life if you work with computers.The question is, why only 6 episodes per year? Meanwhile, other high budget TV series with 24 episodes/year are being canceled due to low audience. I guess it's a point that make it a cult TV-series but it would be great to get a weekly episode.


                
I had heard that this was a good show so decided to watch an episode with admittedly low expectations after having seen many well reviewed shows that didn't 'rock my boat' recently. This was so different. The first thing was that I immediately related to the characters as if I'd known them all my life and that has happened on no other show I've seen. This comedy is wonderful - superbly written and acted. Generally the first part of it sets the characters up in a situation that has all the ingredients of comedy madness. But unlike so many other shows that put characters in funny positions then fail to deliver any real laughs due to the seemingly forced nature of it, this show wrings every last laugh out of each situation in such an effortless way. No line is wasted, no episode is weak (I disagree with many who have said the pilot episode wasn't up to standard, for me it was funny enough to make me want to see more, much more). All 3 of the main actors play their roles so well I can't imagine them playing any other role. Treat yourself, watch this show and take the IT Crowd into your hearts and laughter muscles.


                
When I first saw the IT Crowd, the first episode, I hated it. There was too much yelling. It was overacted. The studio audience laughter was forced and distracting. The /show itself/ seemed forced and distracting. Roy was downright annoying. I breathed a sigh of relief when it was over.Well, it's been some months since I started watching the show (thanks, region free DVD player!) and I'm now totally addicted. What can I say? I took the time to watch more episodes, get to know the characters, get used to the traditional 3 camera sitcom with the audience laughter, and push past the awkward first episode. When you, like me, hold shows like Arrested Development, the British Office, and the Mighty Boosh close and dear to your heart, something this traditional is a little jarring. It's definitely a throwback, but I really felt like I understood the show even better when I saw an interview with Graham Linehan and he explained he made this show intending to show people that the studio-audience-three-camera style sitcom isn't dead. If you've never seen it before and you want to really give it a chance, it took me at least 3 episodes before I was hooked. It's definitely something that I had to learn to love, but now that I do, I'm glad I took the time.


                
This is wonderfully silly sitcom set in the basement office of a company's IT department.From the writer of Father Ted and Black Books it follows on in a similar style.The casting is perfect and the delivery is outstanding particularly in the case of Ayoade.This is highly recommended for fans of British alternative comedy.The DVD contains some excellent extras and the best menu screens I've ever seen (particularly as a fan of the spectrum 48k.) Tremendous.


                
One of my co workers actually told me about this show. I work in IT so this show is even more funny because of that. Sometimes there's some dry humor but I always found myself cracking up on some of the cornier jokes.


                
Such a great show, love it. Heavy on the punchlines and slapstick side, but also on the kind of "seinfeld"-eske side with the everyday or more specifically IT Support (or Nerd) situations and problems.Gotta love the characters and funny situations they get into. Would be so deserving of more seasons and episodes.British style comedy show at it's best.


                
