Roy (Chris O'Dowd) and Moss (Richard Ayoade) are the downtrodden and underappreciated IT department at Denholm Industries. Much to their disappointment, they are allocated Jen (Katherine Parkinson) as new team leader. Jen doesn't know a thing about I.T (even what the letters stand for ) but they do share all share a healthy distaste for actual work and their basement becomes a refuge from the increasing absurdity of corporate culture. I didn't watch "The IT Crowd" when it initially aired on Chanel 4, but I have recently watched through all the episodes on Netflix. I found it amusing, rather than hilarious. The characters are excellent but the writing is sometimes a bit heavy handed, which is a contrast to the subtlety of "Father Ted" and "Black Books". It's a shame that Noel Fielding wasn't able to contribute more to the series than he did, but given that he was away working on "The Mighty Boosh" it's understandable. As some others have said, the first episode isn't the best, so you'll have to watch a few before deciding if it's for you - the second and third seasons are the highlights, but the dip in quality as it winds down isn't particularly pronounced, though the finale special is somewhat a "Greatest Hits" retread. Some of it hasn't aged well, both in terms of contemporary references from the time and jokes about for example, predatory male bosses, but there's always at least one delivery or moment that makes me laugh, and the "Countdown" episode is phenomenal. As the run continues the show moves away from making fun of the office environment to tackle bigger and more obvious targets like Scientology or viral Videos, which again isn't really to the shows improvement. It's not top drawer comedy, like "Spaced" or "Father Ted" but it's a decent enough way to spend a few hours.


                
I love the IT Crowd, but strangely enough I'm not a huge fan of Father Ted, and definitely not of Friends (as the person before me said most people who like Friends will like this).It is set in this little dingy basement office which I think looks a fun place to work actually - do nothing all day, drink coffee, and get paid for it..not to mention having Noel Fielding behind a red door! He is v. funny in this too, but he is in everything he does. The character of Mos is really geeky but in a good way, he is so funny and comes out with these one liners that make you laugh out loud. Roy, bless him, has a good heart but can be very weird! And Jen is the best, she tries to keep everything in order but really doesn't have a clue what she is doing herself, she can't even turn a computer on lol.All in all, it's a good show not to be taken too seriously and it will make you laugh, if not for anything else then Jens face during the stress test!
Overall, I wasn't impressed. For me this show attempts to emulate Black Books. In fact, the trio's personalities are almost identical to the Black Books characters. Only exaggerated and contrived. The show does squeeze a few giggles out of me here and there with some well constructed jokes and slapstick, but the amount of poor and cringe worthy filler definitely means it's not going to be worth your time. More than often after a one-liner you will put your palm to your face mouthing "It's been done so many times"Skip this one. Then watch a classic Britcom.


                
This British comedy is a joy to watch. The action revolves around the three main characters who work in the IT department of a large company. And all three are quirky and funny. Often it feels like improve and the actors are having a blast.The lead actress, Kathrinee Parkinson, has a wide range. For contrast, see her in the television series "Humans", where she plays a role devoid of comedy.


                
