Seinfeld is the funniest TV show in history. Built around the day-to-day life of a New York comedian, Seinfeld managed to spear every sacred cow in sight. The irreverence of the show's four main characters never let up over 9 glorious seasons. The "gang of four" were petty, childish, surly, selfish, compulsive, obsessive, and totally hilarious ... like 4 children in adults' bodies.Jerry Seinfeld played himself and surrounded himself with an ex-girlfriend (Julia Louis-Dreyfus), a childhood friend (Jason Alexander), and a neighbor (Michael Richards). Four terrific actors with incredible chemistry among them, the four careened through 9 seasons of total mayhem. Sex, religion, politics, old age, political correctness, race, relationships, homosexuality, Los Angeles ... you name it, they harpooned it.Great supporting cast over the years included Jerry Stiller, Estelle Harris, Barney Martin, Liz Sheridan, Wayne Knight, Patrick Warburton, John O'Hurley, Len Lesser, Heidi Swedberg, and others.And so many brilliant actors who only showed up once or a few times: Steve Hytner as Bania, Mark Metcalf as the Maestro, Megan Cole as Peggy the germophobe, Sheree North as Babs Kramer, Charles Levin as the mohel, Elmarie Wendel as Helene the actress, Philip Baker Hall as the library detective,
Judge Reinhold as the close talker, Bette Midler as herself, and so many others.Seinfeld probably added more catch phrases to the English language than any other show in TV history. Brilliant writing that found humor in WORDS (such a concept) as well as SITUATION, Seinfeld owed much to the writing of Jerry Seinfeld, Larry David and others. So with great scripts, a perfect cast, and no respect for anything, Seinfeld marched along to his own drum and made us all captives of its brilliant wit.One of the great things about Seinfeld was that you could see a little bit of yourself in each of the 4 zany characters. And you could ALWAYS recognize the dumb situations they found themselves in. Just brilliant!And let's not forget that Jerry Seinfeld became the first Jewish Superman/Everyman on TV. He was everything from comic to sex symbol and everything in between.


                
I hate saying something is the best ever. Still how could you go wrong with Seinfeld. Just hilarious characters and setups everywhere.For everyone who has seen this show, what other show or even movie deliver so many open ended endings that still felt like a perfecting closing. That right there is great writing.The characters are another great example of great writing. To think of people like Jerry, George, Elaine and Kramer. These characters were developed so greatly that the ideas for episodes were endless. Also the guest stars did a great job in their appearances just sliding right in.The plots of the episodes were not that great from the outlook. If you actually watch the episodes though the most basic daily problem could be made into a very enjoyable episode.This can only be done with great, superb writing. If you have seen this show watch it.


                
I was sitting in my apartment tonight watching the end of a sitcom era with the last "friends" episode and it brought me back to 1998 when we all said goodbye to "seinfeld".  I won't sit here and debate, which was the better show because, lets face facts they both did a fine job.  They are two very successful sitcoms, but other than that they really had an entirely different feel and format.  "Seinfeld" gave us all so many catch phrases and we all continue to enjoy these characters and episodes six years after the show ended.  I just love it.  I constantly find myself reciting lines from the show with a good friend of mine.  This show rocks.  It will always be a great show.  I will continue to watch this show in reruns over and over.  It sure doesn't get old.I wanted to add some favorite lines or scenes from the show, but there are truly too many.  Kramer, Elaine, George, and Jerry just rule and have such a great chemistry.  The additional characters throughout the years were cool too.  Some of my favorites were Puddy, Peterman, and Frank Castanza.  Oh greatness.So keep Seinfeld alive in your hearts and keeping watching the show about nothing.Giddie Up!


                
The Beatles have been regarded as one of the greatest, if not the greatest, band of all time. You had 4 gifted musicians who were so individually talented and as a whole they changed music forever. The same can be said for the 4 main cast members of Seinfeld in the television space. For almost a decade this show has entertained not just the United States but the entire world. Each individual cast member was so talented and took their eccentric character to new heights. Over a period of time you grew to love the fab four. Seinfeld is a show that got everything right. From incredible writing, catch phrases to award worthy performances. Even their guest stars were hitting home runs. The episodes and plots Seinfeld brought us was something we all could relate and react to. We were also treated to first class Stand Up comedy from Jerry Seinfeld. This show is simply timeless.New shows could only dream to capture the greatness and ratings of this immortal show. The brilliance of the show could be seen in the acclaimed Contest episode where not a word had to be said to convey what it was about. Nowadays its pretty vulgar and leaves little room to think. I wish I could give this an 11 out of 10. Go watch it and don't hesitate to buy the entire series, its more than worth it. This cast and show certainly belt it out to the back row and make you feel it.


                
I first stumbled across 'Seinfeld' late last year, while flicking through channels and I can honestly say that it left me extremely surprised. As a thirteen year old used to the sappy family-friendly comedies such as 'Everybody Loves Raymond' and 'Friends', I was quite amazed that this show that everyone was talking about, was devoting an entire episode to masturbation.A day later, I tuned in again and I was surprised once more, but for a very different reason. IT WAS BRILLIANT! How come I had never come across it before?Seinfeld's genius cannot be summed up easily. It has absolutely amazing actors playing the parts who are obviously enjoying themselves - one many occasions you can see smirks forming across Jerry's face, it has unbelievably funny situations which the characters find themselves in, and it has excellent writers - chiefly Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld - who manage to turn normal everyday situations in full blown moments of genuine comedy.When you watch 'Seinfeld' you are guaranteed three things - Elaine to have a wonderfully funny break-up with another unlucky guy who strolled into her neurotic ways of dating, George to be chasing after anything with a skirt on - with hilarious consequences, and Kramer falling over and performing some of the best slapstick comedy seen since John Cleese in 'Fawlty Towers'. But where does this leave the show's namesake and Superman, if you will? Well, Jerry starts off many of the episodes with superbly observational stand-up comedy and for most of the episode he is in the middle of all of his friends' completely insane lives. But that's not to say that he is normal whatsoever. He is absolutely miles from it.Although all of these would be reason enough to proclaim Seinfeld as the greatest comedy that America, or anywhere has ever produced, there is one more reason why Seinfeld is, in my view, the greatest show ever. It lies in the writing. While episodes of other comedies may seem to be made up as they go along, I can safely say that Seinfeld is the best-written comedy programme in history. The writers take completely irrelevant and pointless situations and make whole episodes of magnificent comedy out of them. Each episode is made up of at least two or three different stories which manage to link up perfectly in the end. Sometimes I devote the 30 minutes of the show, trying to work out how it will end, but I'm never able to guess it. For example, in one episode Elaine dates a guy who breaks up horribly with women, and is therefore attacked by his ex's frequently. Meanwhile, George is trying to get a good apartment by convincing the board that his life is a complete mess, and he therefore deserves a break for once. Right up until the last moment, it appears as if George's wish will come true, but he is beaten by who? Elaine's ex, the bad break-up guy, who got the apartment by telling the board of all the times he has been attacked by women in the street. It's a brilliant ending which I could not predict and proves once more, that Seinfeld really is THE GREATEST SHOW OF ALL TIME.Sure, Season Nine may have thrown us some duffers, but overall no television comedy has had such a magnificent strike-rate, created so many phrases now used in everyday life, and influenced so many people. Shows have come and gone since it ended eight years ago, but none have even been half as hilarious as Seinfeld.Like Jerry's idol, Superman, it is respected by everyone, and will never be forgotten. 10/10Alan Skelton
Simply loved watching it. Its extremely creative and greatest shows of all time.


                
Always been searching for a TV show like this. Finally I'm watching in 2017. Really blessed to watch a TV show like this. Can't compare with any other TV comedy shows. Comparing would make insult of this one. Probably the Best comedy TV series I've ever seen. I don't understand why they can't make any series like this anymore.


                
Folks who are a little too sensitive might not like these tales of truth.
One of the greatest TV shows of any kind of all time.


                
This is my favourite show. I believe it is the best television show ever made in the history of television shows. Larry David is a genius. Every episode before season 7 is hilarious. It was innovative, clever and ever so humorous. It paved the way for sitcoms to follow, yet nothing has ever come close to being as good as Seinfeld. Finally, it is undoubtedly and unquestionably better than Friends.


                
this show was 9:4 rated and overnight it was 8:9. my question is how is that possible? how many people does it take to downgrade a show that much within such a short timeframe? just to make up the 10 line requirement i will repeat myself.this show was 9:4 rated and overnight it was 8:9. my question is how is that possible? how many people does it take to downgrade a show that much within such a short timeframe? just to make up the 10 line requirement i will repeat myself.this show was 9:4 rated and overnight it was 8:9. my question is how is that possible? how many people does it take to downgrade a show that much within such a short timeframe? just to make up the 10 line requirement i will repeat myself


                
I watched each episode mulitple times and the show never gets boring. so iconic in every way there is nothing even close.


                
Love the show, it's the most rewatchable sitcom I've come across. The characters are hilarious especially Jerry Stiller as Frank Costanza, there's a reason why this show is so iconic.


                
Truly a timeless show with situations that are relatable even in the present time! Thank you Seinfeld


                
This show never gets old, stands the test of time and several re-watches.The writing is brilliant, the acting is great, and the show was very innovative at the time. Can't be beat!


                
As I was born in 1990, my natural inclination as a tween was to watch FRIENDS as it was the most popular sitcom at the time. I found it too mushy,dumb and rom-com type and i disliked it right away and I had totally given up on sitcoms as they were all the same! Nothing really made you laugh! that was until i saw rerun of Seinfeld! Thereafter i tuned in everyday and i especially love the characters so much that i simply cannot pick a favourite!they are all perfectly portrayed by the immensely talented actors! I can say that the character of Elaine is simply one of the best female characters i have ever seen, she is adorable, funny, intelligent and quirky in her cute little ways! Rachel, Monica or phoebe can never even come close!And the situations are just so funny sometimes that no dialogues are even necessary! their expressions are enough! :) the 90's were truly awesomeThe secondary characters are also amazing! i especially adore Morty and Helen Seinfeld, Susan Ross, Newman, Mr Pitt, Peterman etc etc!!!GREATEST SHOW EVER!!!I'm watching it for the fourth time already!!! and I'm only 21!! :P


                
Great series. Jason Alexander does a great job as a short, stocky, slow- witted, bald man (which is what he calls himself in one episode). Julia Louis-Dreyfus does a good job as a catalog worker, horrible dancing, assertive woman. Michael Richards does a fantastic job as an out of work, goofy, clumsy, comes into Jerry's apartment without asking kind of guy. And finally, Jerry Seinfeld does an OK job as a average joe comedian who smiles when he tells a joke, even when he's not supposed to. Wayne Knight does just as good of a job as Michael Richards as Newman. He is an enemy of Jerry's, no doubt, but one of the most funny characters. He makes noises sometimes, and I don't know if they made the sound dubbed in, or if he actually made them himself, but they can be hilarious. It takes a certain skill to be a guy like Newman, especially on a high standards show like this. He definitely lives up to the Seinfeld expectations. Onto everything else. I think that since this show is supposed to be good it has high standards. It meets those standards, definitely. I have all 9 seasons on DVD and watch them on weekends, when Seinfeld isn't aired. Some people say that this is a terrible show, would rather watch South Park, blah, blah, blah. I highly disagree. I would most definitely watch this over South Park any day. I give this series a 10/10 because it is funny and original.


                
To me, Seinfeld can basically be broken into three parts - seasons one and two where the series is just finding itself, seasons three through seven in which absolutely everything clicks due to the cast's great on-screen rapport and the genius of Larry David, and the last two seasons after Larry David's departure in which the focus shifted somewhat from a satirical look at the uglier side of human nature to zany comedy. Usually every episode was a stand-alone. In fact, some of the early episodes are so stand-alone as to have the audience wonder what happened. In season two's "The Deal", Elaine and Jerry decide to try combining their current friendship ("this") with their past by sleeping together ("that"). As George portends though, it is pretty much impossible to mix "this and that" without eventually losing both. The end of the episode shows Jerry and Elaine pretty much settling into "this that and the other" - a romantic relationship - and then the series just drops the subject like the whole episode never happened.Occasionally Seinfeld would have a story arc of sorts. For example, in season four the show poked fun at network television executives and their decision-making process when George and Jerry wind up pitching the idea for "a TV show about nothing" to NBC. The two offer up what is essentially the script of the widely acclaimed Seinfeld episode "The Chinese Restaurant". The network suits are unimpressed. As an alternative George and Jerry present a ridiculous plot in which a judge sentences someone who has hit Jerry's car to be his butler. This time the suits are bowled over. Seinfeld also truly had a gift for entertaining while pushing the audience to the brink of offense. "The Bubble Boy" presents the audience with a rude and obnoxious individual as the victim of an immune deficiency disease versus the patient angels that usually play this role. "The Outing" introduced the phrase "not that there's anything wrong with that" into American pop culture and also smartly satirized political correctness. "The Junior Mint" shows George in familiar form when he pleads with Jerry not to intervene to save an artist's life because it would devalue the artist's paintings he has purchased in anticipation of that same artist's death.The show is often absurd, and though it seems impossible that such a group of self-absorbed people could carry on even the pretense of a multi-year friendship, something about it is oddly familiar to most of us. That is at least partly because of the great interaction between the main characters in which they have both comic and straight-man duties depending on the situation, making their relationships seem real although exaggerated.
Okay, Seinfeld obviously has a plot, but it's about nothing. Nothing specific: just what happens in the lives of Jerry Seinfeld, George Costanza, Elaine Benes, and Cosmo Kramer. It's a sitcom; and the best one there is, from America. The only sitcom comparable to Seinfeld, for me, is Fawlty Towers. Friends is close, but for me Seinfeld is incomparably better. The casting, the writing and hell, even the theme song of Seinfeld is better for me. Everything about this classic show is so well done.What is there to say about Seinfeld that hasn't already been said? It turns the most stagnant routine in some episodes and still makes it comic genius; and seamlessly easy-to-watch-and-enjoy television. It's the 90s in a nutshell. Standup, video tapes, bass theme songs, and everyday absurdity that doesn't need to get overly mature to tell its stories.Seinfeld: a show about nothing; that has everything!


                
It has been over nineteen years since the show about a stand-up New-York City comedian, "neat freak" named Jerry Seinfeld, and his three colorful friends, a loser, a doofus, and a neurotic ex-girlfriend aired its final episode on May 14, 1998 but still no sitcom on TV has come close to its incomparable brilliancy which lies in the ability to make somehow a viewer addicted to the narcissist and selfish characters that constantly put themselves into the pointless and absurd situations. I still remember how I became a fan. One evening, the episode called "The Rye" was playing on TV. I stopped, watched for a few minutes, and the rest is history. I fell in love instantly and forever. Since that night, I watched the new episodes and re-runs whenever it was possible and I have become one of the millions of fans of the greatest show about nothing ever written, directed, and produced. In its best episodes, "Seinfeld" is perfection that no other show would ever achieve.Even now after all these years I keep asking myself why the show about four rather selfish, egocentric, immature, often back-stabbing and outrageous characters who are afraid of commitments has been so universally loved and admired? Maybe we can see ourselves in them. Or, the secret to Seinfeld's success was the misanthropic Larry David, the failed comedian but talented writer who uses humor derived from awkward social situations, and his collaboration with Jerry Seinfeld? Or maybe as a great work of art, the show defies any explanation? The sitcom has given us so many unforgettable minutes of joy, that it will never be replaced. Even Curb Your Enthusiasm, Larry David's baby in all its greatness is not as enjoyable as "Seinfeld." Curb Your Enthusiasm is about George Costanza whose dreams came true - he is rich and had for several seasons a beautiful loving wife but he does not have Jerry, Cramer, and Elaine in his everyday life. And their absence shows.The show gave us plenty of great episodes - The Soup Nazi, The Chinese Restaurant, The Pez Dispenser, The Limo, The Bubble Boy, The Contest, The Puffy Shirt, The Hamptons, -"that's the best, Jerry, that's the best from the masters of their domains", and there are so many more! And how many quotes from the show have become the part of everyday conversations, "yada yada yada"," they are real and spectacular", "Jerry, just remember, it's not a lie if you believe it." "Hello, Jerry. Hello, Newman".Thanks for the wonderful memories.


                
SEINFELD was arguably the best Series ever produced. It gets you hooked you hooked right from the get go. Absolutely Hilarious, the writers did a great job. Exquisite, Mesmerizing and incredibly subtle. Being a huge FRIENDS fan myself, I have to admit SEINFELD has solidified it's status as one of the greatest. A Show about nothing that covered everything. George Costanza was the best Character of the Show and this shouldn't even be an argument. I can watch it over and over again and never get bored.


                
This is my favorite TV show of all time, as it's the best in my opinion, with so many fabulous characters and classic episodes!. This show is almost as popular as it was back then, as they are playing it still on many channels here in Canada, and my favorite character has to be Jerry (weird I know), however Kramer, Elaine, and George are all brilliant, as they always had brilliant chemistry together!. Larry David is an absolute genius, and it has so many classic episodes that I don't really have a favorite, plus while all the Seasons are different from each other there all wonderful!. This really didn't get extremely popular until the 4th season, and I must say the Seinfeld DVD sets are well worth the cash! Let's take a look at the characters!.Jerry Seinfeld. Surprisingly enough he's my favorite character, I just love his type of humor and stand up routines,and his facial expressions were often priceless, it's also amusing when his character got annoyed, and he had so many classic scenes with George and Elaine especially, he is one of the main reasons this show really took off and became as big of a hit as it is today!.George Costanza. (Jason Alexander). Jason has played one of the most pathetic, foolish, ignorant characters ever, however the way Larry David created him was just brilliant, the character will make you laugh non stop, however sometimes you may have the urge to slap him for being so stupid, I always laughed in the episode where he tells his GF he loves her twice, because he thought she couldn't hear her, a wonderful character indeed!.Cosmo Kramer. (Michael Richards). This is one of the funniest characters in history, he's just got a certain sense of humor you just can't help but love, I love his facial reactions as they always crack me up, and he always has great dialog, and created a lot of very memorable moments on Seinfeld. His door entrances are always different and unique as well, and without him Seinfled wouldn't be as big as it is today!.Elaine Benes. (Julia Louis-Dreyfus). Larry David created another brilliant character here, one that is very sexy, feisty and absolutely hilarious, I just love the way she does things, she had many classic moments with Jerry, and one of my favorite scenes with her is when she thinks she has become George, that was just a hoot!. She's always wonderfully perky and like the rest created so many classic moments on Seinfled!.Newman. (Wayne Knight). This is an utterly despicable character but a very good and important one, as it's always funny when you hear "Hello Newman" and then "Hello Jerry", and he will test your nerves at times but as I said his character is very important and is a guy you love to hate!.All the rest of the crew are fabulous as well, Jerry's parents, George's parents, Mr Peterman, George Steinbrenner and all the rest are fantastic.Overall if you have never seen this show, please do so immediately, I really hope you enjoy it as It's my favorite TV show of all time!. ***** out of 5
When i saw Seinfeld for the first time, just fascinate me. It happened around year 2000. The fact that TV Chanel where i watched this great,great show broadcast just 2 episodes / week, makes me very angry. In the years that followed, i manage to get on DVD all episodes, so i can watch every time when i want. I love every character ,from ingenious Jerry to Newman, from cheapskate George to foolish Kramer and of course Eleine, that clever woman, everyone have a characteristic which are in all of us. The characters created by Jerry Seinfels and Larry David remind me I.L. Caragiale, a great Romanian dramatist, who created in his opera many characters like Seinfields.


                
A show about nothing, the nuances, the proclivities, the quirks, the idiosyncrasies, the hang-ups, the pondering, the chicanery, the funny part of getting caught at the chicanery!! All four of these characters on "Seinfeld" were hilarious!! Jerry Seinfeld would do his comedy routine which was based on an incident which occurred in his life, this was what the weekly series was about!! "Seinfeld" was a compendium of disseminated circumstances that made apocalyptic tragedy amusing!! Jerry Seinfeld played himself!! He became a victim of his own convoluted logic!! Elaine was the hard luck scoundrel, her ultimate undoing was that she never knew how to handle her problems correctly!! Kramer was the goof ball who was out in left field!! I could almost see him playing a role in the movie "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" !! Last but not least, George Castanza always went from bad to worse, his apprehensiveness was enough to put him in Bellvue!! George Casatanza's mother was one of the funniest guest stars on this series!! Newman was pretty funny too!!! This television show was so enormously popular because it dealt with the inane, and made the inane very interesting!! Much of what happens in our lives is pretty trivial and non-important, this is why we identified with "Seinfeld" !! The absence of dramatics in our lives is usually very mundane, this is why it runs the risk of not being a funny television show!! "Seinfeld" somehow manufactured the trivial into a fixated form of immature and irrational behavior.. The television audience took to it, and the Nielson Ratings reflected the auspicious results!! Jerry Seinfeld has become unbelievably wealthy as a result of this hit show of his, all of the other characters are multi-millionaires as well!! My favorite episode "The low talker" (AKA The puffy shirt).. Almost every episode of "Seinfeld" was entertaining, that in of itself is pretty difficult to do!! I do not know if there ever will be a show like "Seinfeld" again, but, there should be... The most important issues on this show were : Stand-Up comedy, Cab Fares and Coffee Shops!! The gist of something on this show was nothing, making boring interesting!!! This technique worked like a charm.. "Seinfeld" was one of my favorite television shows ever!!


                
Seinfeld was great during its tenure, and has appreciated with time. The quality of acting, writing and the characters is entirely unique to the 90's. Nothing since Seinfeld, Friends etc has come close. It's both a triumph and a tragedyTriumph because I never get tired of watching it. Tragedy because the quality will never be replicated or repeated. TV peeked here


                
Seeing this makes you realize what a bunch of thin-skinned ninnies much of the Western World has become now. They would never make a show like this today in the new P.C. Western World, someone somewhere would be offended by Jerry's offbeat humor(& then sue him for damages on top of that) :( And mostly true to life comedy, many of the people I worked with were like the show's greatly funny cast of characters.IMO, it's still funny seeing this now on DVD, but by the same token, it makes one sad because they will never make another show like this in today's P.C. unfunny climate. This show was great!


                
