Before anyone says "You just don't get it" I'm going to tell you I sure as heck get it. Before anyone says "You just haven't watched enough episodes" I've seen all of season 1, 2, 3, and parts of 4 and on, my friend owns all the DVDs and I watch them with him on occasion.The show is summed up as being a show about nothing. Which if that's what it is then every single sitcom is a show about nothing, nothing too different in this show. I can't see the dynamic differences from this show and a show like Friends (yes I do realize Seinfeld came first, but there are other shows before Seinfeld that are just like it, to a degree). I also can't see how this is the standard for which every sitcom if held up against.Now the shows part I can't stand... the characters. Good old Jerry Seinfeld, not very funny, and can not act at all. All of his scenes seem so fake, he has this always on Prozac kind of feel. Elaine, the one character I actually don't mind all that much, some things I don't like about her, but no character is perfect. George the manic depressive, or at least it seems that way. He just complains and complains about everything, and then complains some more. He thinks everything will go wrong, and that everything that can can go wrong to himself will, however people will just say he's "quirky". Sure I like quirky, but there's a line that I have to draw somewhere.Last but not least is the ever loved Kramer, who deserves his own paragraph. Ahhh Kramer... the most annoying and least realistic of this bunch of misfits. I can't understand the attraction to Kramer, he just bugs me in this way you probably can't imagine. He's like this person who could never be from real life, I know its just a TV show but it's also supposed to be mimicking real life, and Kramer is this ridiculously crazy sociopath who has no job and somehow pays his rent through these get rich quick schemes, which usually don't work out, which makes me wonder, how is he getting all this money? I could go on for ages about everything that bugs me about Kramer, but this will suffice.Now I don't hate this show to the utmost degree, I mean some things are funny, but for the most part... well isn't. There are far worse shows out there, but by this show is supposed to be this great classic show and it really set me up for disappointment.


                
Before everything else, let me paint a picture of who I am.I am a 19 year old Filipino student in the Philippines who's main reason of living is binge-watching/reading almost anything that I could get my hands on. From manga, dc/marvel comics, novels, documentaries, foreign movies, cartoons, anime, and of course to TV shows, it has been my creed for at least 5 years now to absorb all that pop culture can offer me. As of today, I have watched (and even rewatched) over 40 foreign TV shows and I could safely say that I have had my fair share of awesome TV experiences and some blatantly boring albeit forgettable ones. Seinfeld, to me, falls under the latter category.While the show's premise is not entirely a bad one, at least not for me, the entire journey from the first season to it's last was, to be quite honest, unenjoyable. The jokes were stale, the dialogue was either unrealistic or just plain dumb, and the characters were just so freaking unlikeable. I actually ended up cheering when the judge pleaded them guilty. While Kramer is just an oblivious and absolutely careless idiot who always ends up ruining everything, he's not neccessarily evil. George and Elaine, however, are two of the worst people that I've ever known. Selfish, prideful, arrogant, and rude, these two would always find it in their time to deliberately screw with other people just because things didn't go the way they wanted it to. I'm sorry if I'm being a whiny baby for saying this, but I don't like watching a show whose main characters are just downright deplorable. I mean there are shows like Breaking Bad, Narcos and Game of Thrones with main characters that can be considered as "bad", but nevertheless, they still have a code of honor, or at least some compassion to show guilt, but George and Elaine never once apologized for being such scumbags. I suppose this sort of injustice can work on crime drama and other dark genres but I don't think it's compatible with comedy. I have always loved sitcoms ever since I binge-watched How I met Your Mother in just a week, and it's my favorite genre since you could rewatch an entire show without ever getting tired of it. Every single time that I finish a sitcom, I would always feel this emptiness after, like another part of me just died, and then I would go and rewatch it again, and again, up to the point where I could actually already predict most of the dialogue. I have rewatched HIMYM for 11 times now, Friends for 8, Arrested Development for 6, The Big Bang Theory for 4, The Office for 9, Community for 10, and Modern Family for 5, and I have no regrets over those several hours wasted on comedy, but believe me, I would never suffer through Seinfeld again, because as soon as I saw the last of those narcissistic jackasses, all I felt was relief, knowing that I could finally move on with the knowledge that Seinfeld was as perhaps one of the most overhyped garbage to grace the earth.
