Jerry Seinfeld is an unfunny comedian who somehow got popular enough to get offered a starring role (or maybe he came up with the idea, I never bothered to find out because I never cared) in this hilarious "show about nothing" featuring the daily grind of a small group of friends in New York City. Jerry Seinfeld is not an actor and it shows. Unfortunately, since he is the 'star' of the show (and the least funny cast member), all of the other very talented cast are forced to act down to his level. But they manage to pull it off and still make the show funny, such is the talent of the lovely Julia Louis- Dreyfus as Elaine, Jason Alexander as George, and Michael Richards as the slapstick Kramer. They are assisted in their saving of this show from Seinfeld's lack of talent by characters such as George's parents (Jerry Stiller and Estelle Harris) and Elaine's boss Mr. (J.) Peterman (John O'Hurley). Newman is as unfunny as Jerry. There are a plethora (yes I just went all El Guapo on y'all) of minor characters that round out the show and make it amusing and interesting. You grow to love these guys and root for them to overcome life's silly problems. Except Jerry. I cannot state often enough how pathetically unfunny and untalented Jerry Seinfeld is, and I am quite certain that if he were not in the show, it would be one of the funniest shows ever. Seven out of ten, would be 9/10 if Jerry was never involved.


                
Seinfeld is one of the all time classic TV shows. i bet everybody has seen at least one episode of seinfeld at one point or another, it is one of the biggest 'talking about it the next day around the water cooler' shows ever, it had a huge impact on pop culture and is one of the most influential comedy shows ever. it is a show about nothing where the characters are all pretty selfish and self involved. the people around them get hurt a lot and it doesn't seem to have any effect on them at all, they just stumble through one week after the next. jerry seinfeld, george, kramer and elaine are all good friends and they don't seem to be very concerned with anything that happens outside that bubble. kramer is the funniest character and a real classic 'wacky neighbour' character who will go down in TV history, too bad he screwed up his reputation so much with that racist standup comedy rant.


                
Watched a classic and an old sitcom SEINFELD season 1. Its a sitcom starring and co-written by Jerry Seinfeld. He is a stand-up comedian and do shows and the series shows his misadventures in his life. Some situations are hilarious and its a light-hearted comedy. 1st season was released in 1989 and only has 5 episodes. Recommended with 3.5/5 rating, now off to season 2.


                
I like this show because it's easy to watch with anyone, anytime. Perfect in the background, perfect for TV dinner. George and Kramer are hysterical, Elaine is quite funny. Jerry Seinfeld is the worst actor ever, and he is just not funny. Whenever he says a line you can just see in his face that he is trying not to laugh at his own jokes. Annoys the s*** out of me. But as I said, otherwise it's rather nice.


                
...so people this show cannot be rated all the time the best rated show...we got to let other shows have a chance please! I'm saying this for the future of rating...(by the way, i still don't understand how friends is not tied with this show wen scrubs which is a bad show is tied with it)... I'm not saying this show is bad but we need to try to top this show...right? a friend of mine says its good so it is good but still...just go to the nest comment..mine is undecided... well... the show.. isn't bad... it's good... but give the other shows a chance...(like FOREST with tom hanks...) Well, good luck rating other shows other than Seinfeld!


                
And the underlying joke for this entire series was that it wasn't even filmed IN New York City! Shame on Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David for this! Huh, won't let me post, says this won't be posted unless it's TEN lines of text, which is stupid because this is all I have to say. So guess I'll repeat myself, not my fault, here goes: And the underlying joke for this entire series was that it wasn't even filmed IN New York City! Shame on Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David for this! And the underlying joke for this entire series was that it wasn't even filmed IN New York City! Shame on Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David for this! And the underlying joke for this entire series was that it wasn't even filmed IN New York City! Shame on Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David for this! There, maybe now they'll print this!


                
Seinfeld is a hard TV show to rate.i wasn't into it during its original run.i just started got into it in the last year or so,and found all the season sets very cheap at on on of my local retailers.certainly the first three seasons are quite funny,and the fourth to a certain extent.but by the firth season,it seemed the actors were just going through the motions,and not putting any effort or passion into their characters.this basically continues(and worsens)to the end of the seventh season,which is as far as i've gone.as far as the humour is concerned,it's more observational than say Friends or Frasier.this doesn't make it less funny,it's just different.and like i said,i felt the first three and a half seasons were very funny.even the later seasons had their funny moments,they were just fewer and far between.overall,i have to give Seinfeld a 7/10


                
