Regardless of the pop-culture historical context of the show, and whoever you are wherever you live and whatever era you belong to, as long as you understand English Seinfeld has a very strong probability of making you laugh at least in one scene with one detail. Which is quite a feat in and of itself considering how domestic the humor in fact is: it's New York Jewish humor at its most cynical, immoral and jaded with the contemporary urban life, and it's even self-consciously that and utterly typical of that universe. And yet, its humor reaches closer to universal than local in status as it's a series that's not only had lots of success within that East Coast, but all of North America as well as in other parts of the world.The characters are written with depth and excellent consistency over nine full seasons, and while they're awfully realistic they're also utterly fictional: in a sense more realistic than actual reality as they're each given a distinct personality laden with all the detailed annoyances and pettiness of the real life individual, but made so extreme they're caricatures, like half-real half-cartoon characters. 
Very few shows will achieve such an eerily close to reality connection while maintaining quality TV writing: excellent story telling (brilliant in fact, Larry David's ability to knit an episode together with elements of the plot at the beginning linking up with the later stages is completely outstanding, at times real gems of maze-like complex interconnections), great pacing, a rich variety of funny ideas throughout a same episode as well as from one episode to the next.So at a macro level the episodes are brilliantly structured and conducted, but the show's got a whole panel of quality items at the micro level: whether it's the Jerry Seinfeld standup segments earlier in the series or the little bits of detailed content that fill up the gaps between the main scenes in the dialog and what not, or the hilarious secondary characters that'll tag along every once in a while to bring their own individual cringy flavor to the whole, there's never ever a dull moment to be had, not even if one's chaining up episodes in industrial quantities at a time - it's just constantly fresh, full of content, uniquely creative and perpetually hilarious.Seinfeld is the "show about nothing": it's superbly orchestrated, and yet, it's filled often with the most ridiculous humor, and manages to get away with not being self-indulgently repetitive or stale. Whether you like them or not and for whatever specific reason, the genius of Seinfeld and David combined has produced a most potent combination in TV comedy history, and probably 'the' most potent. The humor is prolific, the show oozes with it, but it always kept it together and stayed true to the formula: never gave an inch in originality, never strayed from what the show was about (it never went relationship-y for example when it would've benefited greatly from it given its commanding favorable position), never changed the characters to fit a more profitable agenda and the great thing about it is while it's certainly a very liberal-leaning show it doesn't make a definitive political statement: both creators were about the humor, making people laugh - and that was the very motor that drove the whole show, it never set out to deliver a message, it was just humor for the sake of humor, and that is objectively in that field incredibly rare and by definition the very nature of humor. Gratuitous, uncompromising laughter. No king, no creed, no-thing. A show about nothing. It was real, and it was spec-tacular !Finally: it made amends for being so extremely bleak and amoral in the finale by clearly confirming outright they were utterly aware of how nihilistic the show was, like a wink suggesting it went a bit far at times, but all just for the laughs.


                
I constantly read that there's plenty of plundering afoot when it comes to American and British sitcoms. Honestly, there is no British television programme that could ever lay claim to the simplistic creativity of "Seinfeld." This is a programme that created its own comedy. It might have begun by poking fun at everyday American middle class situations but by the 3rd or 4th season it had morphed into its own cottage comedy, creating mirth and mayhem through its uniquely crafted citizens. "Seinfeld" held together so well for so long because virtually its entire cast stuck together and grew together. Every character was fully fleshed out, from the stars such as Jerry and George to the occasionals such as Puddy and Elaine's Rabbi. If for one second I believed that New York was like Seinfeld's New York, I would visit it in a New York minute. A true Brit could handle the Soup Nazi and my Mum always wanted to rescue poor George from himself.


                
Seinfeld is one of the funnies shows ever. I never get bored of this even after watching it so many times. All four characters Jerry, Kramer, George and Elaine play their character quite well. You can relate to most of the events happening. Fun moments are picked from small events like not able to find where car is parked, overthinking about relationships etc.


                
I just recently finished watching Seinfeld in its entirety after years of sporadic episodes and it is without a doubt the best and funniest show that was on TV. In the beginning, you find situations you agree with that maybe you would do but by the end they were truly terrible people that couldn't see that they were the problem. So many catchphrases from the series and even the side characters have their part to play and add to the experience. If you're considering watching I say do it and you won't regret it.


                
Living in the UK I have seen several American comedies come and go. You got some good ones likes MASH, friends and 3rd Rock from the sun, but then you get the mother of all American comedies SIENFELD.Sienfeld is by far the most hilarious and best sitcom that America has to offer. Its a pity it finished cause I bet there's so much more they could do.I think that British comedy is far better than American and I laugh a hell of a lot more at our stuff than American. Sienfeld however is an exception as I laughed as much to Seinfeld as I did to greats such as Alan Partridge, Bottom, Young Ones and Blackadder.The characters in Sienfeld are fantastic and their dialect and action are great. I think Kramer and George steal the show but Jerry is still a good comedian and hands down to him.There hasn't been an American comedy as good ever since Seinfeld left us, sure friends was big but it was 2nd class compared to Sienfeld. Overall i give it 10/10 just because of its sheer genius and originality.


                
Seinfeld is still one of the best shows out there! I watch it at least once a year because it's so hilarious and I always catch a joke I hadn't heard before.


                
Like Friends, it made a big deal out of nothing. In my personal opinion Friends is a great show I just don't get the humor they use (it doesn't detract from the show's greatness) I felt that Seinfeld did a better job at the nothing edge of it because we had four singles who should be married with kids acting like teenagers! I also think that anyone who doesn't say Seinfeld is realistic is a goof-head because the characters are like people we know and we make a big deal out of nothing as the characters do they just get paid for it while we do the same thing for free. I looooove many of the episodes like they took place in my life also. I grew up watching this and when it went off the air, I felt crushed. Thank God it was already syndicated or is in syndication now! I just love these four neurotic crazy people and my ultimate favorites are: The Little Kicks- Elaine dances at an office party. Susie- Elaine is mistaken as Susie and Jerry forgives a debt but crushes a man's hand.The Pony Remark- Jerry fears his off the cuff remark about hating people who had ponies killed his Aunt Manya. The Pledge Drive- When George gets everyone eating candy bars with a fork and a knife.The Busboy- George puts out a fire but the busboy gets fired.When George thought he was having a heart attack and goes to a holistic healer.Just a few of my favorites


                
If there is such a thing as "Reality TV", then this is it.Relationships, jobs, friends, enemies, this is what people are going through everyday. Seinfeld takes the mundane, everyday moments of life and magnifies them into huge comedic problems. Believe it or not, this happens in real life more often than not.Jerry, Elaine, George, and Kramer are the dysfunctional people forming dysfunctional relationships with other dysfunctional people and generally causing chaos all along the way. They allow us to sit back for thirty minutes and be grateful that our lives aren't as horrible (but perhaps just as complicated) as these characters, while at the same time giving us the chance to laugh at all our own idiosyncrasies.This is life, in a nutshell. I don't know what all the fuss is over "Reality TV", where people are jumping out of planes, switching family members, and running around nude on a deserted island, but that is certainly not happening in my life.But I'm sure, at some point or another, we have all felt the frustration and anxiety of getting lost in a parking garage.


                
The Final episode of Seinfeld was arguably one of the finest of the series. It is no small coincidence that this episode marked the (albeit) brief return of Larry David. To me at least this one episode encapsulates all the show stood for<U+0085>which was nothing. In this episode the cast is essentially put on trial for all there actions it seems over the past 9 seasons. The prosecution calls as witnesses various bit characters that played memorable roles in the series. They ultimately testify as to all the misadventures of our heroes and paint a not so forgiving picture. In the end Jerry and co. are imprisoned for there actions and the show ends as it began<U+0085>w/Jerry commenting on Georges shirt button. It's an ending no one could have predicted. Its both high concept (which was something that plagued imho the last two season's of the series) and beautifully simple. It was a completely illogical and unsentimental ending as well. One must remember that the brilliance of the series and what ultimately made it stand out in the annals of sitcom history wasn't Mr. Seinfeld's observational humor. It was the series complete and utter lack of saccharine sentimentality or as Jerry and Larry conceived early in the shows development a rule of "no hugging, no learning". It a world disgustingly politically correct "I'll be there for you" series such as "Friends!" this simply wouldn't do. Jerry and co. could not go unpunished for their crimes. It seems the series could have taken three routs in its aproch to a series finale 1) sentimental b.s. i.e Jerry and Elaine finally get back together or some such nonsense. 2) Complete and utter disregard for the fact that this was a series finale i.e. just a normal episode 3) the x factor or that thing no one could have predicted i.e. what we ended up with. I'll never fully understand why viewers didn't appreciate the series finale. Part of me feels that maybe they really didn't get it because they didn't get the series in the first place. I sometimes wonder what it is they were expecting? Maybe in the end they wanted Kenny Bania<U+0085>if so just wait, he's up next.


                
When Seinfeld ended with the worst series finale ever, it marked the end of nearly 10 years of nothing and laughter and one of the last great comedies with a laugh track (the big bang theory will have that honor next month). It also made references to New York culture, such as the Soup Nazi as well as Superman, which made an appearance with Jerry in a memorable Super Bowl ad. It was ahead of its time and still remains a popular show to this day in the age of streaming.


                
"SEINFELD," in my opinion, is a pure definition of must-see TV! Despite the fact that I've never seen every episode, I still enjoyed it. My favorite one is the one where Kramer (Michael Richards) causes a blackout during the night. You'll have to have seen it for yourself if you want to know how and why. Everyone always gave a good performance, the production design was spectacular, the costumes were well-designed, and the writing was always very strong. Before I wrap this up, I hope that all you die-hard fans of the show will always have it live on in syndication. In conclusion, even though it can be seen in syndication now, I strongly recommend you catch it before it goes off the air for good.


                
The first sitcom that I really laughed out loud to. Most earlier sitcoms amused me but none ever had me laughing out loud like Seinfeld.This show is the best and probably won't be matched for many many years to come.Seinfeld had me by the pants from day one and never let up. So many classic scenes. From the soup Nazi to George deciding to do everything opposite to Kramer's most funny physical comedy. I give Michael Richards a pass on his post show behavior. I don't think he's a racist. Severely misspoken yes.Every single character is a gem.Finally a show that doesn't PC itself and just keeps to true comedy.No stupid shows about drug addiction or weepy family failings. Just a knock out drop dead dead on sitcom about nothing.Seinfeld and David are geniuses.The Best!!!!!


                
For all the young people who want a new sitcom.this is better than how i met your mother or friends.All the setups in this series are well thought of, and every episode is a guaranteed laughter.So start a new chapter with Seinfeld and you will notice that even some catches and twists are now used in the series you thought are the best.the genius thing about this show is the simplicity of the comedy in it, you do not see the extra effort or the fake mix ups and unrealistic reactions because it is based on events that happen in everyday life.Personnaly i have seen the show many times, with some episodes favored over others; and beyond the well written scripts is the characters own input into the series values.


                
Well, as a person who was born during this show's original run, I never got to experience this spectacle of a show.When I first watched it, I never understood it, nor did I find it funny. Many people I knew raved about it, and talked about funny moments about the show, particularly the Soup Nazi episode.I went on to see the Soup Nazi episode, and I was hooked to the show ever since. The chemistry between Elaine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus), George (Jason Alexander), Jerry (Seinfeld, himself), and Kramer (Michael Richards) is absolutely perfect.Now that I am older, and that I do understand sexual jokes, of which this show is LITTERED with them, I think it is better than a good chunk of sitcoms of today. It only goes to show that this show has never lost its charm, to its fans, like myself.The biggest reason by far, of why I love the show, is because of George (Alexander). I found his bouts of expressive anger/irritability, absolutely hilarious. I personally felt that Alexander was the unsung hero of the show, as Richards, had been awarded many awards, regarding his acting, meanwhile Alexander was awarded none.Too bad this show is now in syndication, and no longer in its original run. At least they left on a high note (LOL George Costanza)! The ending of the series was when the 4 of them were incarcerated, as they broke a 'Good Samaritan' law, when they taped a guy getting robbed/mugged. At least there is no uncertainty to the ending, especially to inquisitive people, such as myself!Anyway, I love this show's use of observational humour, as the writing is some of the sharpest, I have ever seen, and it has been over 15 years since! This show has aged very well, to put it bluntly. No wonder why it is considered one of the most watched shows of all time!
If you are looking for a series that you don´t have to ´follow´, scripts that will remind you of some absurd situations you have been in, this series is the exact match. 
As Jerry Seinfeld summarized it, the show is about ´nothing´. The characters are superficial and self-centered and will stay this way. May not be recommended for sentimental people who expect the characters to grow as they won´t, and we like them this way!


                
A show about nothing, but has everything. It's simple, but can amuse you even being assisted by the thirtieth time. Four characters, Jerry, George, Elaine and Kramer, in a way are original, have some normal stereotypes, but overall, everyone has their peculiarities that make it extremely funny and highlighted.In each episode a different situation, a different comedy, giving you a different "orgasm", and even these situations not leading the series, almost always, nothing. But the series really does not give much attention to this, Seinfeld wants to show is comedy; is with smart jokes or not. And that's how Seinfeld manages to be brilliant, such a different way, so simple, perhaps even as "mediocre", and so it is little wonder that it acts as a precursor to many other series.And even so it should be much more valued. In Brazil, the staff loves series of comedies, like me, Seinfeld is undoubtedly one of my favorites, but so far I'm the only person I know who actually watched Seinfeld, and one of the few who even know the series. This is very sad, how can such a fantastic series to be so unknown - at least here. If you know about the existence of Seinfeld, you, certainly, should watch Seinfeld.


                
