This show was full of deus ex machinas, and that's not intended as a compliment to the knightmares. There are "genius" master plans in the show that are actually so ridiculously spontaneous that Sherlock Holmes couldn't have seen them coming. And I love mecha anime, but mechas aren't supposed to have wheels, that's just lazy animating. I wouldn't recommend watching this to any lover of quality anime. I'm honestly ashamed by the IMDb community that it has such high ratings. Usually the online community has the right idea, but this time they are dead wrong. They put this show on a pedestal and bull$#!* serenade it like its gold. People will defend this show with their lives, but I am the only one willing to fight for, nay die for the truth. You, the people deserve it. They will fight me all they want but I could never sit back and let them pour this awful squall of a show down the throats of you, the audience. This show is awful.


                
This series is so damn slow/boring/predictable and cliché.The characters are one dimensional and have tons of illogical actions but then again there aren't really any characteristics that defines them so they can tap dance all they want.But seriously.What's with all the praise for this show?It's nothing special really.I guess the art and animation are okay..mby but that's it really.As far as the story is concerned it doesn't move.It's like static idea that doesn't get into anyone's head.I wonder how it got into the writers head to begin with.Guess that's the mystery we will never solve.Don't watch it.1/10


                
OK, seriously, Code Geass is just taking everything that's been done in Anime before... Then does it again... I just don't get how this is actually a popular show, everything about it is boring and cliché, it's like I've already seen all of this a billion times. Personally, I don't recommend it, it's just too fan-boyish and lame, especially the second season, I honestly don't know why the 2nd Season has a better rating than the first either, in my opinion, the second was a lot worse. The story got even more out of hand and the dialog got even stupider than it already is. Well I guess the community of 'Anime' lovers just love to see a tall yet skinny guy conquer the world for a reason that just sounds like an excuse for... Absolutely no reason at all.1/10


                
