This is just a masterpiece, the last episode is beautiful and Lelouch being a very anti hero comes of as one of the most heroic characters in any story.The message of anti war is very profound and brilliant, the display of politics, shadow play,war reaches Battlestar Galatica level.But what really makes this is the ending totally magnificent. If Battlestar Galatica fails on the ending then this will be better then that show in its portraying politics,revolutions,sacrifice,suffering,redemption,war etc.Voice acting in Japanese is just sublime and animation perfect.This show should be watched by anyone for it isn't a bloody good anime its a brilliant and masterful show that just happens to be in 2D, which is why I am recommending it to all my friends and my family its just outstanding and breathtaking.MASTERPIECE 100/10
When i stared to watch code geass episode 1, i was so addicted to it that i continued to watch the whole season 1 in one day. And this season 2 is much better. The animation is very impressive, and story will make your eyeballs desire for more, and you have no idea what is going to happen next!I must say, Code Geass is one of the most impressive animes I've ever seen. No anime besides Death Note has kept me as riveted as Code Geass. I think I may even rate it above Death Note which I never thought I would say about any anime. Animation:10/10 (Sunrise production) Content: 10/10 Characters: 10/10 (CLAMP) Music:10/10 Overall: 10/10 Davidphamle ^.^


                
The second season of Kôdo giasu carries on the first season's intricate storyline in fine style. Lelouche has been neutralised by having his memories removed, but swiftly rediscovers his identity, and the power of the Geass. With the assistance of the already familiar characters, he sets out once again on his quest to destroy Britannia and create a gentle world for his sister, Nanaly.As Lelouche says several times in battle, strategy always prevails over real-time tactical decisions. With this in mind, some viewers may rightly find the story somewhat confusing: alliances change on the turn of a knife, betrayals are plentiful and the conflicting motivations of the characters, developed so skilfully in the first season, come rushing to the fore resulting in a mêlée of politics, stratagems and ideals.Moreover the dichotomy of good guys and bad guys, which we have unfortunately come to expect in TV and film, is wholly inapplicable to this season, as it was with season 1. In this sense, Kôdo giasu can be an uncomfortable ride: should you smile inside at the (tactically advantageous) deaths of several million people? You just can't seem to shake the gnawing feeling that the other side might be right. There's nothing bland here, and the audience is challenged to make up its own mind as to what is acceptable in the circumstances. Even with the final episode, revealing the truly benevolent motivations lying under Lelouche's mask of deceit, the viewer is not forced to accept that the ends justified the means.All this leads to the Gordian Knot: imagining the plot as a number of strings with clearly defined start and end points, there is a massive bundle of tangled yarn in the middle. For a director to lead his viewers along this thread and keeping them sane is no easy task. To undertake such a journey in a way which keeps the audience hungry for more at the end of each episode can be no less than the product of genius, extremely hard work or both. Combine this with stellar animation, fantastically rendered character designs, believable mecha and a matching soundtrack, and it is clear why this is in the upper echelons of anime.I doubt that this is for everyone, and its not easy going for a newcomer to anime or manga. But for those it suits, it's well worth 25 hours of my life.
After watching the first season of Code Geass I was truly hooked. Not only was the series the embodiment of brilliant anime, but i also had a HUGE plot twist in the 4th to last episode and the ending only left you wanting for more since it left a lot of loose ends. Of course I had to see the second season, Code Geass R2, and it rocked my world. From the first episode of R2 you would think that it is just a rehash of R1 that doesn't do much original, but by the time that you reach episode 3 or 4, your jaw will have hit the floor and you will be in awe of this series' splendor. A lot of the similarities to series' like Death Note drop out completely in the second season and whole series takes on a grander, more political feel to the storyline. This most definitely is not a bad thing since this leads to the most complex, huge, and epic story in all of TV history. The creators of Code Geass stuck with the philosophy of "Try to put as much content/character development/action/story into each episode as possible" which gives the series a very swift feel that never drags along. This also makes is all the more shocking when an episode slows down for a couple minutes in order to accentuate a particularly important or tragic scene. Just like in R1, the cast of characters is absolutely enormous and by the time the final credits roll, a whopping 43 characters that you knew, connected with, and in-depthly learned about will be dead on the floor. And mind you, these are only the dead one, with another 50+ major characters that survive and that you also meet in great detail. In short, to support the great story, there is a mind-numbingly gigantic cast of fleshed-out, human, realistic characters. Everything else in Code Geass will simply appear to be like R1, just twice as amazing. The animation is tighter, the knightmares more deadly, the action more intense, and even the musical score is even better than the already amazing R1 soundtrack. Even the moral dilemmas the characters face are more powerful and by the end you will very much question the significance of war and how the evolution of war can affect people's lives. Going along with this, every conflict will have major characters, often friends, facing off against each other; a very intriguing twist that will have you not sure who really is the true antagonist in the end.It can not be put more clearly than this: If you haven't seen Code Geass, the first season, watch it now and then come back to R2. If you have seen the first season, this might be the most important anime for you to watch. Truly a masterpiece.


                
This is the most fabulous sequel of any anime. The ending of Code Geass gave a very wide idea of choices for a next season BUT Code Geass R2 was beyond my expectations. As soon as it started, the plot was great and full of amazing ideas. The flow of ideas coming and going was a wonderful experience.The continuous story of this anime grew and grew...The feeling of sitting on the edge of the couch...That is what I felt. Waiting impatiently for one episode every week.If u have watched Code Geass, then the sequel is a MUST.Simply, Code Geass R2 is 10/10 and will stay forever one of the greatest anime of all times.


                
Code Geass is brilliant. Period. It is one of the best animes ever made to date and stands with the best shows/movies of all time as well. You might very well have heard similar praises for this show before and I'm here to say that it deserves every single one of them. I don't give out 10 stars often, but I would gladly give the double of that for Code Geass. It has every single element required to be amazing. First off, it has and interesting and fairly unique setting. It is in an alternate future where the Holy Britannian Empire has taken over a third of the world, including Japan, which is the stage for this epic. On top of this interesting setting is an even more interesting premise. It may feel reminiscent to Death Note since it also features a High Schooler who receives a manipulative super power from an otherworldly being. Still, it does not feel similar to Death Note in its plot development and keeps complicating things every time the story feels like it's slowing down. Gladly, the story very rarely, if ever, do slow down due to the raw amount of events that happen in Code Geass. While some shows try to stretch out scenes as long as they can in order to make them fill up a 20-minute time span, Code Geass feels as though every episode is packed to the brim with events, character introductions, character deaths, and other amazing sights. Helping this along is a mind-boggling cast of at least 50 named characters who have lines. When I re-watched the series one time, I counted up only the names of characters with personalities, lines, and a life that you felt involved with that died. There were over 30. This will led to some truly spectacular scenes when huge mecha battles will break out with many protagonists on both sides. Speaking of mecha battles, the mechas in Code Geass, or "Knightmares" as they are called, are spectacular in action and feel very action-packed and full of energy. But as good as the action in Code Geass is, the part that you will really grab your interest and keep you fascinated until the end is the way that the characters and their personalities ties into this grand story. You will soon find that every single conflict or battle will have protagonists of both sides clashing with each other. I many cases, characters like the main characters Lelouche appear as both a protagonist and an antagonist which leads to you truly thinking about what is actually good or evil. These conflict, both internal and external will lead to some of the more intense scenes that have ever graced the silver screen. All this is helped along by solid animation and what might be that best soundtrack for any piece of cinema ever made. There is a truly gargantuan amount of musical content here that will any fan of soundtracks truly satisfied. Never has there been an anime that blended, brilliant character development, amazing music, intriguing moral dilemmas, immersive story, and exciting mecha battles as well as Code Geass has. The number one biggest must-watch anime series of all time.


                
Without knowing anything about Code Geass before watching, I did not know what I had gotten myself into. Right from the start it grabbed my attention, evoking questions in a compelling way. I will not outline the plot as I believe other reviews do a very good job of that, but I will describe personal thoughts for someone who wants to know what they are in for if they decide to watch. The series has a way on ending each episode on a "what's going to happen next?" way but making you watch episode after episode, back to back. I have watched the two seasons at least 4 times over (no exaggeration).It most certainly earns it's place with the "must see" list. The plot development is excellent, carrying forward characters who represent certain ideals within the well thought out story. It is one of the few animes I have seen which really does have you guessing left and right, but more often or not, you turn out to be wrong. With an inclusion of a vast array of characters, it contributes to what seems to be an ever growing story. Even though I have watched it over 4 times, I still have the ability to just sit and watch with full enjoyment. To say that Code Geass has a re-watchable factor is an understatement, but what seems to add to that is the time scale at which it all takes place,it feels like a quite long and progressive trip, making you feel as if you have just been on an epic journey with the protagonist. From start to finish it had my full attention. I really do not have any complaints about Geass, aside from the fact that I was left wanting the third series to be released already.On a final note, everyone that I know that has seen this anime, being an avid watcher or not, has been converted by the likable plot and character development right from the get go, which can tell you something about the power of Geass. 10/10 (wishing it could be 11/10)


                
Code Geass is set in an alternate universe, after Japan's conquest by the Holy Britannian Empire, with their powerful new robot weapons, the Knightmare Frames, stripping Japan and its citizens of all rights and freedoms and renaming the country Area 11. Lelouch is a Britannian prince who gave up his right to the throne after his mother was murdered, and has vowed to destroy his father, the Emperor, and Britannia. He gains the ability through the mysterious power of the Geass, granted by the mysterious girl C.C., becoming the leader of the resistance movement 'The Black Knights' to fulfill his two wishes: to seek revenge for his mother and to construct a world in which his beloved sister Nunnally can live happily.But beware, this is only a short outline of what the two seasons of Code Geass are about. Is this really one of the best anime series ever made (if not the best)? I certainly do believe so, because it does excel in all areas. It is a character driven series first and foremost, and here it makes no mistakes. There are absolutely NO STEREOTYPES to be found in Code Geass. All characters are as real as it gets. This is were most anime series fail, but character development is this series best feature. Apart from the two protagonists, we basically have more than 15 characters than can be considered main. As I have said before they are all full fledged and round personalities and even the gigantic supporting cast only consists of fully fleshed out characters. But make no mistake; Code Geass is a story of war and therefore great tragedy and drama. As it is in war, there is no real good or evil, and all the characters have their own motivation for what they do. Betrayal and changing sides, lies and deception can be found around every corner, along with incredible plot twists and character development. But how can the viewer keep track of these developments on such an epic scale? Easy. Code Geass is set in a realistic environment and a believable world is created (despite Geass and mecha action). All the characters decisions can be reconstructed and their motivation is understandable. Be it love, betrayal, pure insanity or maybe all of them.However, the anime does not offer any sense of right and wrong, good or evil and the characters even deceive themselves at times. There is no ultimate hero to be loved and no real villain to be hated. Everyone is right and wrong, good and bad at the same time when it comes to revolution and warfare; and everyone who is not shamelessly used by others, follows his/her own egoistical agenda. Sides change often so quickly, especially in season two, that you never can decide who to root for. This may seem like a negative point of the series, but that is actually why the story and therefore the entire anime succeeds. Because it never strays and cops out, uses the deus ex machina device or lets characters decide things they wouldn't, just to make them likable. They have to make decisions and accept the result and keep on living. As they say, ''sometimes you have to choose the lesser of two evils'', but since you know all characters so well and what drives them, you still feel with them, but hate and curse them at the same time for their foolishness and weakness. The animation is excellent and the mecha action top notch. It is the first time they actually bothered to make the machines as realistic as possible. Sometimes the animation seems very clean and cold, suitable for the world it creates though. Everyone seeking an emotional roller-coaster ride get on, you won't regret it. Code Geass is as epic as it gets.


                
Undoubtedly the best anime series humans can ever produce. No words to describe its awesomeness. You like Mecha Action stuff, you have it. You like intellectual stuff, you have it. You like emotional stuff, you have it. Code Geass is like "THE" epic of all anime series ever released. The complex plot and story with mind boggling twists and turns is like a visual and mental treat. The animation is top notch and the character development is brilliant.I will not reveal anything about the story since it will destroy your precious experience. Every moment in the series(both r1 and r2) is worth your time. People generally compare it with Death Note but both the animes are at different levels. This anime is meant for intellectual people and if you think you are one , you should watch it immediately.Overall rating 10/10 without a doubt.
Plenty of people have already written what this anime is about, and many have sung it's praises, but I didn't feel like any of them were able to truly convey what this anime series really is. I have personally watched over 200 different anime titles, of all of those I have watched Code Geass from beginning to end 9 times now. I will watch it again when I find someone else who hasn't seen it. This anime is extremely character- centric, and all of them, are well thought out and given their own sense of worth in this series. As the story progresses you begin to empathize with them and are drawn into the story to an amazing degree. I watched this anime while it was being released in Japan, and was both frustrated and glad at the same time when the writers took an extra week or two to write or animate the show. The characters that are supposed to be "genius" level aren't just spewing overly complicated words and having others around them go "oh wow that guys is just so smart" that most movies and series' do to let you know a character is substantially more intelligent than everyone else. This series has more than just one genius level character, and all of them can and do make mistakes.I feel like I could go on forever with all of the good things to say about this series, but I guess it really comes down to two things.If you can empathize with a cartoon character and you are smart enough to follow the story line, which at times can be arduous, than you will absolutely love this series. I guarantee it.


                
Before this, Cowboy bebop has the most artistic take on directing anime series, it showcased how each individual 20 minute episode can have the same artistic direction of a feature movie. And now came Code Geass.Code Geass tells the story of murder and deception (like the starting point of any recent Korean historical soap opera), but influenced by many well-known anime titles like Death Note (Teenage genius obtain manipulative supernatural ability), Akira (beautiful friendship torn apart), a little Evangelion (psychotic kid and "HA-SHIN!!!"), Ghost in the Shell: SAC ( Cecile's uniform and hair style-color looks suspiciously like the Major's). By the first starting sequence you won't find anything so special that created the mass fan-boys out there, but at the end of the episode (cliffhanger) you'll be convinced that this is going to be serious. Code Geass deliver curiosity at the end of any episode and surprises at every episode, following a greatly constructed plot that is so daring, you might think it can crash and burn any time, not only that, it surpasses Cowboy Bebop in making each episode as artistic and moving like a Nolan MOVIE. Speaking of which, the political run of this anime is so fast paced, it reminded me of the first time I saw Nolan's "The Prestige" without subtitles, the sequences sometimes change in such untouched momentum that the viewing experience may get mind-numbing after a continuous five to six episode (it is either a bad side or a good side, your comment). The real stuff here is the issues of morality, the script and the whole idea was to showoff how the director can sustain countless amount of character relations and messages and not to kill someone quick, neither to drag an issue to tiresome lengths, nothing feels too cheesy to make the action sequence boring and the whole story lol-worthy.The animation is very clean or sometimes feel a little lack of detail, but it is made by the same production that gave us ALL of the Gundam series, Cowboy Bebop and Witch Hunter Robin, so never will you see any scene run short in frame rate. The characters are designed by CLAMP so you'll see big eyes, pretty girls and ridiculously tall schoolboys, but the production takes the thing serious and remove the cliché sweat drops and chibi faces, and add seriousness to the expressions, be it happy or sad, or even downright insane. This anime have mechas (he he he), and the fight sequences are fast and waste no precious time, even though the creators have made them more realistic (mechas runs on visible battery packs now, and they don't run like Gundams, they have legs for tilting and balancing or sometimes kicking in ways of the spectacular, leaving ground contact maneuverability for custom wheels, and they look cool nonetheless).The music, in short, makes the episode cool like Bebop but I faintly remember that it is not Yoko Kanno's.In all, I won't spoil anything, and I won't hype it up either, I'll let the experience alone impress you, but from my appreciation: ALL HAIL CODE GEASS !!!


                
Note- This is a good series, even for people who aren't particularly interested in anime.*Premise* The show takes place in a futuristic world where the Holy Britannain Empire rules over a third of the globe. Their emperor's conquest has lead them to Japan, which they conquered easily due to their superior military technology (machines called Nightmares). Japan is renamed area 11, and it is here, 8 years after Britannia's invasion that the story begins. The protagonist is Lelouch Lamperouge, a high school student who is given a power called Geass, which he uses to wage war against the Britannian Empire.*Overall Impression*: This is an incredible undertaking in animated series. The continuous plotting and action provides excitement that will keep you on the edge of your seat, and the writers never fail to deliver the thrilling climaxes that you would expect from the constant cliffhangers. Definitely worth watching.*The Pros* After finishing "Death Note" and loving it, I started looking for similar series, and this was one that was recommended all over the place. After watching 2 episodes, I became hooked and finished the series (including season 2 or r2) in 3 days. Fans of Death Note will enjoy Code Geass, although I must say it doesn't have the same dark mood as Death Note. This is an excellent series for anyone looking for suspenseful & exciting action & drama. The protagonist, Lelouch, is an excellent strategist and tactician, and his brilliant tactics as he battles the forces of Britannia, the world's largest empire, will keep you craving more. While the action of the series is largely centered around mecha (transformers style robots), I can assure you it isn't simply a nonstop explosive battle. Much of the focus is on plan & strategy execution, and drama that keeps the story rolling.The artwork is incredible.*The Cons* At times, characters & dialogue can become over-dramatic or oversimplified. Lelouch's sister, Nunnally, for example is almost so sweet that it makes you sick, and sometimes characters shout & gesture in excess of dramatic effect.My overall impression is at the top, and I absolutely recommend this series to anyone looking for an exciting ride.


                
First thing i would like to ask? y the hell r there only 17 reviews in IMDb for this awesome show?!while things like pokemon and twilight get thousands of reviews!I only had to watch the first episode to discover that i am going to be spending the rest of my free time watching this. Yes...this show is very addictive. At the end of every episode there is a twist or something to look forward to the next episode.The story and writing is simply top notch The best part of this anime is the moral decisions the protagonists makes right or wrong ..good or evil ??its all in the persons perspective.Another best part of this show is the music which just fits so well with the superb dialogues.English voice acting was very very good.The strategies employed in this show remind me of death note but this show is different in its own kind.Not just the brilliant story with twists , even the emotions that get evoked in you in some episodes is just so good..Enough said..just go and watch this awesome show of 50 episodes to get your mind blown and heart fulfilled...


                
Since becoming a member of IMDb, I've wanted to add my own comment about Code Geass; I know members other than me have done so already, so I can't really post what hasn't already been written by this point. I'll try anyhow dammit!The story is of the exiled Lelouch, prince of the country called Britania (this alternate time-line's depiction of the United Kingdom, had there been no founding of the United States and had the United Kingdom continued in it's colonizing the planet to an extent where there remained almost no rivaling society). Lelouch's mother becomes a victim of a political assassination and Lelouch is taken to Japan where he lives for some time. The Japan of this alternative future, which appears very futile in the flash-backs it happens to be featured in (there never did exist a America in this time-line so for the country to be rebuilt into a sort industrial landscape) became then colonized by Britania after a brief confrontation. Lelouch begins the story with an alias so to seem in fact dead amongst his country-men, and thus to also protect his sickly sister Nunally, from their father the Emperor. The native Japanese people become the subject of racism to the colonizing Britanians; the country is renamed as Area Eleven and the native Japanese are referred to then as Elevens. Lelouch attends an Britanian academy also at the story's begin, where he plots his vengeance.Alone with these (intresting yeah, but kind-of-uninspired) plot elements, the story may seem a little bland. The first episode begins as such, seeming almost like a Gundum rip-off (there are enormous mehcas called kightmare frames which seem a little secondary in the story). The concept of Geass becomes involved however; he finds a young women who says that her name is C.C., and who gives him an ability he finds will allow for him to overthrow the Britania empire it's self (the power being...I won't spoil every small thing, but I have already spoiled A lot). He begins helping the Japanese Resistance and he begins calling himself 'Zero', wearing a black mask and cape so to hide his identity still. It may sound strange but the story feels almost like a sort of Shakespearian Tragedy, being full with irony and death.The art to it seems 'sharp'; the lines which build the settings and characters are vary dark and thick, and the character designs in general is a little unappealing to look at. Every one color is strong and abstract (the sky is blue, and the school uniforms are black; there are no color mixtures in the world of 'Code Geass'). The soundtrack is okay; I mean, it's nothing fantastic and there is not a single song (which is not the intro song 'Colors') that stands out. The English cast is horrible (of course, and though I do like many dubs to series, there are many like this which are badly produced too) and the Japanese is moderate, with an absolute exception of Jun Fukuyama (Lelouch) and Ami Koshimizu (Kallen), who are fantastic voice actors. Please watch this show and watch it subbed!10/10
I have tried to avoid any major spoilers and I hope I have succeeded.The world of Code Geass is set within an alternate universe, or alternate time line. Much like our world today Code Geass's world is corrupted by the human race's never ending lust for power. The main oppressor is the Britannian Empire which controls 1/2 the world. The world has been reduced to a playing ground for these superpowers and those in the lands they take over are oppressed and stripped of even their nationality, forced to go by a number. We pick up the story in what was once Japan but now is part of the Holy Britannian Empire and is now known as Area 11. In Area 11 we are introduced to a Britannian School boy who is more than he seems. This boy is Lelouch a Britanian Prince who has given up his claim to the thrown and now lives in Japan hidden as an ordinary Britannian student with his little sister Nunnally, who is blind and unable to walk.. Lelouch encounters a mysterious girl who gifts him the power of Geass, The power to compel anyone with whom he makes eye contact to do whatever he wants. Little does the world know now Lelouch now has what he needs to put his plans in motion. Lelouch will now turn the world into his chess board and put the pieces in motion to realizing his 2 wishes: To seek revenge for the murder of his mother, and to create a kinder gentler world in which his sister Nunnally can live happily.Above is only a short outline of the world in which the events that define this story are about to unfold. Code Geass takes just 2 seasons to tell its brilliant story. Does Code Geass deserve the hype it receives, is it one of the best Anime shows ever conceived? I believe it is The Best anime I have ever seen! There are many reasons why Code Geass works as well as it does, it has an excellent story, fast pace, excellent animation, but most importantly Code Geass works because it has possibly the best developed group of characters in any anime. Throughout the show as the events unfold we learn something about each and every major character we encounter. Code Geass does not possess clear cut Good and Evil sides, as all characters have a shade of gray to their character containing aspects of both ends of the spectrum. Not only are there characters thoroughly developed there are 20-25 major characters that we encounter throughout the show. Each with his or her own emotions, opinions, and motivations. The story is woven through the interaction that these major characters have, each and every woven thread helps build the character and their relationships with other characters. This is where the beauty of the show lies, while epic battle scenes are nice, they mean nothing without the emotional connection the series manages to evoke through your connection to these characters and their relationships.While at times the world in Code Geass can seem to be alien compared to ours, due to the dominance of the world by just a few superpowers, and elements such as Geass, and the Knightmare frames, the characters in the story make it easy to relate to it because they are all in their own way human. Their decisions, motivations, and relationships are all realistic and part of our every day life. Additionally the story is very well written and directed as the Characters really adhere to their core, they are not twisted to earn the sympathy of the viewer or the favor of the viewer, they just are who they are.Code Geass R1 is a brilliant roller-coaster ride of emotion and relationships. It moves at a break neck pace so that one will never feel like a episode was too strung out like other anime in fact sometimes you'll wonder how they managed to fly so through much material so quickly.You may hear someone trying to compare this series to another but it is truly one of a kind. If you are an anime viewer I urge you not to miss this epic story. I assure you it will be one ride you will not regret. Code Geass is an instant classic that should be enjoyed by all who can get their hands on it.Words are insufficient to describe the pure genius of this series so I hope that everyone who has not seen this series it is truly a Must Watch, a Masterpiece. I would rate it 100/10 if I could.Code Geass gripped me, made me laugh, and made me cry. It is by far the best anime series I have ever seen.R1 or Season 1 is just the beginning it is incomplete without continuing and finishing the series through till the end of R2.
What got me into it: When I checked out the trailer of this chapter of Code Geass on the final volume of the previous Code Geass. I have to say after seeing what the next chapter is going to be like. I had to continue watching it.When I got it: When my Big Brother bought me the first volume of this chapter on my 27th Birthday,and I bought the others on my own. It was totally amazing,and I've really enjoyed it. And of course the storyline was different than the previous chapter.Difference: I have to say the difference between the 2 chapters that the first chapter has the first knight mare frames,and later in the next chapter the same knight mare frames,and new ones. And of course some of the characters in the first chapter,and some of them in the next chapter. And new characters in the next chapter.Characters: Favorite character in the show are:Lelouch aka Zero,Suzaku,Todoh,Dietard,Li Xing Ke of the Chinese federation.The voice cast: I have to say that Johnny Young Bosch has a great voice for playing Lelouch/Zero,and Michael McConnohie (famous for Transformers) playing the voice of the Emperior. And also to the show introducing Spike Spencer as Rolo.So if you have seen the first chapter,then watch this chapter. It's the best,and you will love it.


                
Quite frankly, Code Geass may very well be (in my opinion) the greatest anime to date. It's exceptional storytelling, theme-plot structure, voice acting, action, art style, and... robots, always for good measure. The main protagonist, Lelouch, vascillates between the great hero and anti-hero roles with ease (particularly in R2), playing on both Western and Eastern structure of a cartoon hero. The mechs, Knightmare Frames, are essentially below-atmosphere Gundams minus the incredible agility - so if the robots are your thing, you might not lose too much interest - though they're design, specifically the more advanced models, are much better. The power of Geass is the most enticing aspect of the fictional aspects, the highlight of the story aside from Lelouch's journey. I'd definitely recommend.


                
Lelouch: The Greatest Anti-Hero Ever CreatedA fallen prince gains a special ability from a mysterious alien woman - Geass: the power of absolute obedience .. The power has limitations however, you can only use it on each person one timeLelouch abuses this power to his fullest extent with one objective in mind: Taking Down the Royal Empire of Britannia--------
Lelouch is a mastermind - chess is literally a theme in this series - and he checkmates the entire kingdom all the way to the throne9/10


                
Oh my God,what i've just witnessed!Code Geass can be described with one word.Brilliance. I've just finished it,and the fact that i'm writing a review about it,it's the proof,that this anime is incredible.I loved the main character, he was one of a kind.The anime in my eyes looks like a combination of Death Note and Gurren Lagann.I say that because,it uses types of gurrens and i see some similarities in the characters's mentality between Light(Death Note) and Lelouch(Code Geass).They are not the same but i see some similarities,that's just my opinion and it doesn't mean it's right after all.Overall as i said the anime is marvelous and brilliant.The 51 episodes (2 seasons) seem to be enough,but you all know, that when you finish an anime you feel this "emptiness" and you can't explain the reasons.You will get attached,not only with the protagonist,but with a load of other main characters as well,that's why the series are so "perfect".I believe that the guy that created this anime is a mastermind,because everything that happens is unpredictable and it shocks you.I hope that i wrote a good enough resume and to avoid any spoilers that i would never want to make i shall stop it here.I suggest it to everyone that likes an anime with action,mystery,sci-fi,genius characters and a bit of a drama.With all due respect to everyone...all hail Lelouch!!!


                
WHAT I LIKED1. Brilliant soundtrack and vivid art & animation.2. Extremely entertaining and the plot is filled with twists and turns. Multiple elements from various genres are used and the show has mind games, philosophy, supernatural powers, comic relief, politics, wars and cool action involving manned robots.3. The ending - Depressing but deserving.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKENothingTOP 5 EPISODES1. Turn 25 - Re;2. Stage 23 - At Least with Sorrow3. Turn 13 - Assassin From the Past4. Turn 19 - Betrayal5. Stage 22 - Bloodstained EuphieVERDICTOne of the best anime ever.10/10 - Masterpiece
"The world won't change with pretty words alone!" ZeroNote that this review is on both R1 & R2. Preferably watch them both before reading this one. Code Geass starts with a story of a highly intelligent boy named Lelouch who later on become known as a British prince who can see the corruption of the current system and planning to CHANGE it. Characters: Lelouch Vi Britannia : "One must destroy before creating." The idea is reminding us the famous mythical creature, Phoenix, the beautiful bird that when gets old builds itself a nest of twigs that then ignites; both nest and bird burn fiercely and are reduced to ashes, from which a new, young phoenix arises, reborn anew to live again. In the first episode of R1, he encounters a mysterious girl who proposes to give him power in exchange he has to fulfill her one and only wish. Gaining the power, Lelouch put a mask of a rebellion leader, Zero, and start his rebellion against a world of corruption which in his point of view isn't worthy of any attempt to repairing it but rather destroying it for good so that a new system gets born in the ruins of the older one with the hope of getting better. Suzaku Kururugi: "I am going to change this world from the inside." Suzaku is the embodiment of the idea of using the resources at hand in the current system to build the better future within, trying hard to be abiding by the rules. He has a paradoxical character who stubbornly believes in being able to achieve a peaceful society without breaking the rules. In the first season he says that "I believe that using the ends to justify the means is wrong." but as the story goes we see him struggling to hold on to his idealistic perspective which wounding him in every step on the way till he breaks and finally come to terms with the side of himself who desired gaining RESULTS. C.C.: "Without death, all we have are random events, accumulation, you can't call that life!" The mysterious girl name C.C. is an immortal being who can give power to humans. She seems to be apathetic to humans' struggles and the reason for her to giving power to Lelouch is wanting him to fulfill her one wish. Living for a long time she seems to have forgotten the taste of winning and losing. What this character adds to the anime is a point of view in which so much of the humans' sadness and excitements are for nothing. As she tells Lelouch "No matter how great you make yourself sound, you're still just a naive boy who's all talk and who only dreams of victory in his head." On the other hand she finds herself at a loss by not being able to feel the change through endless flow of time. Soundtrack & sounds The music along with the opening and ending theme songs are great. The gentle themes along side with the some scene of murderous attempts allow the viewer to see beyond the excitements and observe the rapid flow of events. The voice actors and actresses are very well chosen; especially the voice for the leading role, Zero performed by Jun Fukuyama which was the best. Story What I like the most in Code Geass was the fast narration despite the eventful story line. The other positive point about it was the great ending in which the last judgments were left for the viewer. Does it worth to rebel against the current system and pay the prices? Can we approve of the works of the rebellious leaders who use people as their mere pawns? Does destroying the current system mean achieving the peace? Hell no. As we see the survivors to keep on struggling to build a new world based on the false/true hope they gained after successfully (!) destroy the old regime. Lelouch Lamperouge: Yes... I... destroy the world... and create it... anew.
I had heard of this and heard lots of good things about this before I had saw the first six episodes of this at Animethon 14 yesterday. Not many people have heard of/seen this show since it hasn't been released into North America yet, but if it ever does get a wide release- I recommend everybody checks it out.Filled with tons of action, blood, and witty humor, Code Geass takes place in 2017 Shinjuku, where Britannia has declared war. Lelouche Lamperounge is a Half-Japanese prince of Britannia. He is long believed to be dead. He has secretly lived, making plans for revenge against assassins sent by Royal relatives for killing his mother and crippling his sister. He is a military genius, but that dosen't help the fact that he's a powerless high school student and orphan. One day, he gets caught in a Terrorist Act's crossfire, tries to help a strange woman named CC. She grants him powers. Now, he has all it takes to be a powerful military leader and lead in the crusade against Britannia's attack.Code Geass is awesome- Action-packed, lots of blood (I.E. The mass suicide in the beginning, when everybody shoots themselves, blood LITERALLY rains out of the wound), funny as all hell, and amazing voice acting is to be found too.If you ever are able to get ahold of this classic rare gem of an Anime, go for it. It's awesome, and it's the best anime I've ever watched. I hope to watch more episodes some time. Totally recommended! Rated 14A for Violence, Gory Scenes, Coarse Language, and Non-Sexual Nudity. (Canada- Animethon 14 rating)
I've seen a lot of Animes , but "Code Geass " is really out of the list . It just can't be compared with any other Animes . Mind blowing twists with the amazing plot and marvellous direction takes this anime to whole different level. The characters are so well written and performed that, they will remain close to your heart forever . Code Geass is not just an anime but a experience. Will really expand your thought process , thanks to the awesome Plot and detailed animation! The protagonist Lelouch will really carve a niche for himself in your heart . I bet !A highly recommended for everyone whether you have interest on anime or not .I found it even better than the so called highly rated Death Note.All hail Lelouch!!


                
Code Geass is one of those medium-pushers, particularly for anime, that invests in its selected medium to the absolute limit of its capacity; its animation and story are simply stunning with hardly a wasted moment in sight and no wasted time exploring its own self-invented alternate history, continuing the greatness of its predecessor 'Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion: R1'.Code Geass is one of those fantasy stories that introduces so many alien concepts yet the characters are so relateable suspending disbelief for this saga makes it all the more like seeing an age-old piece of Mythology discovered and unraveling before our eyes for the very first time. Despite all the robot-suits and Star Wars villain-esque get-ups worn by the baddies in the show, we feel for the protagonists and their fight against the Brittanian Empire and want to see them triumph.Code Geass R2 is one of the finest animes to be made in the 21st Century, and by far one of the most thematically complex ones to become such an immensely popular cult-classic, if not more-so than that status I just gave it.Code Geass is the show that's turning non-anime fans into fans right now, and for good reason. It's something more than your typical anime romp; it's a new genre.


                
*MINOR SPOILERS WITHIN*I'm not really sure why Code Geass is so positively rated. There are definitely some good parts, however the show has so many pitfalls that they completely cancel out any good qualities. The first thing that I really didn't like about it was the plot structure. Many people compare this show to Death Note, and side by side, Code Geass absolutely pales in comparison. On average each individual episode did very little to forward Lelouch's goal of taking down the Brittanian Empire. The majority of the episodes felt either like filler, or they would follow a predictable formula like this: Lelouch plans something sneaky, he totally destroys the empire's forces, then right as they are about to win Suzeku rolls in and undoes absolutely everything. Seriously, this happens over and over for the entire first season. Then in the middle of the season Mao shows up, with absolutely no explanation and starts causing Lelouch to do an even more pitiful job then he is already doing of forwarding the rebellion. The season finale was absolute rubbish as well. It did nothing at all to conclude the plot of the first season and left such an inordinate number of cliffhangers that it just felt like a cheap gimmick to trick you into watching the second season. After the first four or five episodes out of twenty five in R1, it felt like nothing significant to the plot really happened at all besides minor character development.Besides the plot, I really hated the fan-service in this anime as well. Any show that has to rely on huge boobs or pantie shots to garner the attention of the audience is not one worth watching. There were two nude scenes with Kallen, one where Euphemia takes off her clothes for literally no reason, and a scene where Nina is straight up masturbating to pictures of Euphemia. All these scenes did very little if anything to add to the plot, and in some cases detracted from it. Code Geass does have very good action and does a great job of creating suspense. I admit that when I watched this show it had me hooked for the first season. In retrospect however, there are just so many problems with what could have been an absolutely amazing anime that it completely counters everything that this show does well.
