the animation is beautiful. there are mecha fights although that doesn't tickle my fancy but still people seem to like it, so yeah.unfortunately these are the only things this show has going for it.the characters are extremely one dimensional with a singular exception of lelouch. seriously, almost every other character is so painstakingly annoying that you can't help but root for lelouch even when he's supposedly in the wrong. maybe that was the writers plan all along. there are some thrills here and there when the protagonist is in a difficult situation but all that tension is wasted away with impossible ex machinas. but the worst of all is the reasoning presented behind the actions of the characters. it is beyond stupid, it is painful. everyone is a hypocrite and somehow we are supposed to root for them
I was't much of a fan of Code Geass R1, I never even watched the whole thing because I thought it was a passable show at best. So I skipped to this one to see if things got more exiting. But this sequel is absolutely bad. I watched about 4 episodes and it got worse and worse as it went on. There is a ridiculous amount of plot twists and deus ex machinas that defy logic in ways that insult your intelligence. The plot twist aren't very good, they feel forced and from those 4 episodes I did watch, there was one or more each episode and they really are just silly. The deus ex machine is even worse in my opinion, I probably can't list them all here since I haven't watched the whole thing, but when things two people using their Geases (I think that's how it is in plural form, I'm really not sure) to somehow STOP TIME, you know that something is very wrong with this show. I've read what happens at the end, and honestly, it's just completely idiotic, I won't say to avoid spoilers but there is no reason it should of ended that way, it was just an excuse to be "dramatic" when they were just being silly as usual. Not worth your time, I wouldn't even recommend R1, even if it is better, it's just mediocre, even if it looks magnificent in comparison to this.


                
