The resolution of this movie is simply about the fact that feelings may trump commitment. Now that that's over, I can go on to say why I think this move is such a bad movie.This movie has a theme, but that's all it has. The acting is atrocious. Ethan Hawke isn't capable, and because this movie is meant to be an improvisational tour de force, his character's lines are constantly jarring our belief. His lines and delivery throughout cause us to doubt that he is really a writer (even though we see him signing books), that he is really a parent, even that he is really a married man. I guess if you buy the bit about his being a writer, you'll buy the family stuff. The scene at the end with Julie Delpy mimics the deceased bebop singer/pianist referred to only as "she", is psychologically the coup de gras, since so much of the movie before seemed so disingenuous. Finally nothing is said for the "feelings" he has for his son, "I don't want to ever be without him for even a minute!", nor what it is he is unable to give his wife that she "needs".Besides the theme, which is a good one, the only other mixed feeling I have is about Julie Delpy who turns in a reasonable performance, and some of the photography.
I was a little disappointed...i read comments that discussed how great it was but did not actually read the paragraphs, just the titles so that the movie would not be ruined...i personally felt the film was very slow and i caught myself drifting off away from the movie mentally as they went into their lives and their opinions on issues...i felt as though ethan hawke's acting in this movie was sub-par and i found myself caught between the reality of and the lack of reality of their conversations(let me explain). The manor-isms in their conversations felt real at times, yet at times it seems as though they were trying too hard to make the conversations(the jokes, laughter, stories, playfulness) seem realistic to the point that it was annoying...i feel as though they did not pull that part off in this film...things i did enjoy about the movie were the following shots while they were walking instead of a lot of cuts, the long shots i feel like are harder to pull off...and i thought that the ending and storyline was good...unfortunately it just did not intrigue me and i became bored with it...if anyone else felt this let me know


                
are you people high? have you so few "real" conversations in life that you can honestly think this ongoing pain inflicting movie/conversation is NATURAL??? I saw no chemistry between the two characters AT ALL. Take for instance the scene when he pulls her onto his lap. That was weird and awkward.Anywho, in real life (head over heels in love or not), the natural progression of a conversation after 9 years just doesn't GO like that. How bout mentioning your kid and wife first?!?! Thats not romantic, its sleazy!Normally, i am entertained by most movies. really. However, I cannot find a bit of something to recommend about this intentionally pretentious 80 minutes of garbage.


                
The idea is simple and beautiful, but the story and the script are the worst.


                
I watched this movie before checking out IMDb by simply pulling it off the video store shelf. After watching it, my initial thought was "what a waste of my money, I should never rent a movie without checking IMDb". However, I am now shocked to see that this movie is rated so highly.I suspect, this is because of all the people that might have watched the first movie and were captivated enough by it that they do not judge this movie on its own merit but as a continuation of the previous movie.I haven't seen the first movie and can't judge it based on that. Therefore, I can only judge this movie as it stands on its own, without depending on the previous movie: As such, this movie, by itself, is completely and utterly a waste of time. The chemistry between the two actors was awful; the dialogue was simple and artificial, the sexual words used here and there felt forced and out of place and the whole movie was pointless. I suspect it satisfies all those people who were curious about what happened after the first movie (I only realized there was a first movie after watching the add-on making of documentary). But, by itself this movie goes nowhere. The two characters start talking with each other 5 minutes into the movie, and talk through the rest of the movie by going here and there, into cafes, along the streets, and on a boat, ending up in the girl's house. My wife and I waited patiently until the end, hoping that something was going to happen, and nothing did. They talk, and talk, and talk, about nothing really, and then the movie ends... That's it...If you were captivated by the first movie and was always curious what happened to these two, then by all means, go ahead and watch it. But, please, rate this movie on its own merit, and not because you liked the first one so much.If you haven't watched the first movie, either make sure to watch that one first, or skip this all together.


                
(Yawn) This is totally unrealistic. No one can actually watch this film without getting sleepy. I've followed Ethan's acting career with enthusiasm and scrutiny, but I must say, taking this role did not suit him. The pace of it all was way too slow even for mediocre minds. This was worse than "August" or "Junebug." (see all my reviews; they are not all negative)! The guitar music was sappy along with the odd conversation between ONE man and ONE woman. Where is everyone else? Not many actors can pull off an entire film without support cast members. This was one step up from "Castaway" at least... (well Tom did have his coconut head), but lacks the variety of emotions needed for a class "A" film. I'm sorry, but this movie was just too under-acted and no one falls in love that fast at their (understood to be) characters' ages and implied intelligence level. Maybe teenagers fall in love that quickly, but real love takes time. If you're looking to pass the time with absolutely nothing else to do, or if you need a good sleeping aide, then by all means, watch this film!


                
This movie is OK until you remember the only two characters are totally annoying. The acting and minimal circumstances in the film are so real until you remember that those things don't necessarily make a movie good. We know there's a point the movie is trying to make, no MATTER how hard it tries to deceive you, until you remember that there isn't a point. Ah, fantastic cinema! I know, I think...it must be art! "but that's not the point, man." Oh yes, clever indeed. Linklater, Hawke and Delpy could have pulled this off if they didn't take it so darn SERIOUSLY! BTW - I didn't see the first film or even know about it until afterwards. My viewing results may therefore be contaminated.


                
Am i the only one who doesn't find this movie "one of the best ever filmed"?! "Amazing acting, incredible story, perfect chemistry, true love..." Did these people actually watch the movie? First of all, the acting was too artificial (though i'm a big fan of Ethan Hawke, who played in two true masterpieces: "The dead poets society" and "Gattaca") and i'm not sure if it's the actors or the director to blame for that.About the story/plot. Two strangers meet in a foreign country, quickly develop a perfect chemistry and instantly fall in love with each other (all in 1 day)? Give me a break. There might be only some passion, and passion caused exclusively by a new romantic environment (Vienna, Paris, what's next - Venice?!). There is even a classical case in psychology when two people meet on an emotionally exciting and romantic vacation, madly "fall in love". But even if they manage to get their relationship on a different level, date and live together in one of their home countries, they soon realize they are not really so much connected, and that all the wonderful chemistry was only due to the exciting vacation and the temporary high emotional level. A true love is when two people really know each other, care about each other, work hard and long on their relationship, share many positive and negative moments of their life with each other. And not when two strangers talk only about themselves the whole movie (did you actually notice that?)! Let's be honest: what happens on a vacation can only be characterized ether as a "one-night-stand" or maximum some attraction. I really feel sorry for people who call THIS love, for they surely have never experienced true love in their lives.And one more thing. People change over several years, and they change a lot. Those two characters could not simply remain the same and keep their mutual attraction over all those years at the same level. You have to be absolutely inexperienced in life to seriously consider this movie to be in any way a realistic love story. By the way, the same applies to the 1st movie - "Before sunrise".
The prequel was bad enough: this is a direct insult. Rick Linklater's not been back to Europe (some would guess from the first movie he only saw it on postcards) and Julie Delphy's contributed most of the dialogue.And dialogue is all you get, dear moviegoer, and if you think for one moment there's something deep and subtle here, maybe you should go on a wild goose chase for the holy grail or UFOs in Nevada. Delphy wrote good dialogue, but the premise of this turkey is tripe, tripe, and more tripe.Endings can always be bad, but Linklater excels at them. And if the first one wasn't bad enough, here he comes spitting in your face with the second. He has one thought on his mind only: $$$. I won't spoil the ending, but let's just say it's an utter crass cynical cop- out with a sole purpose: leave everything open for yet a third movie in this abortive series.And what will they call that? 'Before Sunrise X' as they initially called this one, where 'X' becomes '2' or '3' depending on? Or how about 'Before Noon'?Whatever: it's going to be a turkey too. If you've seen both this and the first, avoid that third one if/when it comes. Don't strike out.


                
