The first of two critically acclaimed sequels to the critically acclaimed Before Sunsrise (1995) see's us catching up with Jesse & Celine 9yrs later.I found the first to be a dull, slow, "Talkie" film with little appeal and claim the same here. I simply do not see the attraction at all.Hawke is unlikeable again, Delpy is devoid of the charm she had in the first and the whole film feels like a desperate attempt to cash in on the popularity of the first with yet another ambiguous finale.I like the idea of the simplicity behind both films, I guess I just didn't appreciate the lines of conversation or the way they ended them both.I believe the films would have been a lot more appealing if they'd both shut the hell up, strapped a go-pro camera on and just given us 90 minutes of of the wonderful country and it's architecture.


                
Must have missed how an hour and a half of meaningless banter & whining about life circumstances is somehow a plot?There is literally no "doing" or "movie" to be seen here.... merely two lovers who run into each other and start babbling with endless... "woulda, coulda, shouldas" for almost 2 hours.The couple tours less-than-interesting areas of Paris & reminisces nicely, but they do nothing whatsoever about it. They are given the chance of a lifetime to rekindle their once-in- a-lifetime love, but they talk about how miserable their lives are instead. (?!?!)Overall.... waste of life to watch this.3 stars were given, because although Hawke & Delpys' characters are downright depressing & boring, they are still heartfelt.


                
Rather disappointing sequel. The plot is so weak that the actors, though talented, are not attractive enough to carry the whole weight of a 90 minute movie. There are just these two actors carrying the plot, only tiny glimpses of other characters.Technically the two talking heads are often clearly screened against background film like an old Hollywood movie with actors in a car.Worth watching if you saw the first movie but otherwise not something for a new viewer to watch.Don't buy it, record on TV and the you can fast forward through the many dull dialogues and enjoy the Parisian scenery


                
This is among the talkiest films I've ever seen.We meet, once again, the characters from "Before Sunrise", after several years have elapsed.Celine still talks at an astonishing pace. Whatever annoying drivel pops into her head, just runs right from her mouth. She reminds me of a Chatty Patty doll of old - pull the string and yak, yak, yak. Jessie appears to love the sound of his own voice, while he speaks in platitudes that to him, must be very profound indeed.In this film, the characters meet up again for the first time after the one night of passion they shared several years ago.You'd expect them to be awkward with each other when they get together, given their circumstances. But despite the endless talking and reminiscing they did as the film went on, I never felt that awkwardness dissipate. Their relationship felt stilted throughout, especially when it seemed like he was trying to sleaze on to her. Where was this 'connection' that they allegedly shared? In one scene, Celine and Jessie are being driven in a car. She is emoting heavily to Jessie about her post one-night-of-passion life, finally yelling at the driver to stop the car and let her out. I was hoping he would pull up on a bridge and toss her in the River Seine! The only thing I was grateful for while watching this film was that there weren't any cyanide capsules nearby.


                
Given that this movie was a sequel, the casting was a foregone conclusion. Unfortunately so, in my opinion.Since so much of the sequel was obviously improvised, it required actors with a lot of juice. Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy did not deliver it. Although Delpy fell far more short of the mark than did Hawke.Ethan Hawke is an interesting screen presence. His body language, the way different expressions dart across his face. The range of what he can convey. To me, Julie Delpy is much less compelling.Additionally, this film was very chatty. The scripted part seemed to be going for a Dinner with Andre type of feel. Some of the scripted chatter was thoughtful and engaging. A lot of it, though, was self-consciously delivered and pseudo profound or perhaps more accurately -- profoundly pseudo.I think Ethan Hawke would have done much better in the improvised scenes if he had had someone other than Delpy off which to bounce. Though, perhaps she was at an unfair disadvantage because English is not her first language.Even though it is merely far-fetched and fanciful speculation since again, logically, the casting here of Hawke and Delpy had to be a foregone conclusion, the improvised nature of this movie would have worked much better with another duo. Say, Hugh Laurie and Drew Barrymore, for example. Now that would have been some movie. Laurie would have come up with some great dialogue and Barrymore would have played off of it.Another winning combination of actors here would have been Owen Wilson and Francis O'Connor. That would have been chemistry galore. And Wilson is known for his improvisational contributions to dialogue.Another fact that hung over this movie was the contrast between its plot and the plot of Ethan Hawke's "real" life. The romantic melodrama Hawke lived through and which received so much coverage in the press far, far exceeded the romantic complications in this movie. And somehow made the movie seem banal in comparison.
Yes, a modern romance, and I don't mean that in the best sense. If you like a movie that elevates romance to a higher level, you may want to skip this.Enough has been said by other reviewers about the non-stop dialog, but it was other things that troubled me far more.For a romance story to work, it is essential that you have likable characters that you want to end up together. Depending on where you are coming from philosophically, you may love the Jesse and Celine characters or they may drive you crazy. In my case, it was the latter, as Jesse is like a rudderless smart ass who smugly thinks he is so profound, but Celine is far worse as an annoying, stereotypical liberal flake.The main problem is that the script takes romance and reduces it to a cheap, matter-of-fact mundaneness, especially with the amount of casual droppings of f-bombs to describe the act of love. Maybe it's just me, but I find nothing cute nor attractive about couples in a genre like this talking with a blase vulgarity to one another. Talk about destroying the mystique of romance and reducing it down to things that cats do to each other in the alley.In the prequel, "Before Sunrise," there was far less of this, and the characters had a little bit more charm and innocence. But now it's 9 years later: Jesse foolishly married someone he can't stand, and Celine comes off as extremely hard and cynical. If that vulgarity isn't enough to turn you off, there's plenty of politics and anti-Americanism to help you along.It not only undermines the "magic" that supposedly occurred between them in the first film but will serve to cause a lot of viewers to not give a rip whether they end up together or not...which, of course, is the big question that the whole movie drags its way to answering.Lacking charm, sweetness, innocence, and boiled down to gritty "naturalism" this film probably appeals to some for those very reasons, but if Jane Austen is your brand of romance, beware..."Pride and Prejudice" this surely ain't!
I had to give this a 3/10, even though I think it's a better film than that, just to do something about the abhorration of it being in the IMDb Top 250. We have some serious soul-searching to do if we really believe that.Anyway, amazing a great evening at dinner listening to two people having a fascinating conversation that you're not part of, and you walk away feeling that you wish you were most interesting. At the same time, the restaurant food wasn't that great and you were only ten bucks down.Essentially, I've not seen a film with such little direction before. I'm sorry, let me be more specific - Derek Jarman's Blue - gets the title for least direction, and Batman & Robin gets the title for Most Appalling Direction of Global Movie History. But this does something different in that it's like strapping a camera to my head while I walk around Paris all day (slowly) and then dubbing a fascinating conversation on the top.Still, even though the dialog is great, dialog alone does not a great film make. It's a play wearing the dress of a movie. I hear there's a sequel in the pipeline by the way.


                
I'm probably just "out of step," but I don't see the high rating. The profanity is over the top throughout, and the only basis for a relationship between the two is sexual, apparently something not at all (SPOILER ALERT!!!) reserved for each other. What I saw was a woman constantly griping about everything, finding any way she could to turn every comment of her husband's into cause for an argument, and since the movie is little more than dialogue, this and the vulgarity made it difficult to endure. Having read Ms. Delpy's self-description, then seeing she was one of the primary writers, it all made sense. She simply played herself, no acting required. Now, I certainly can't tell anyone to forgo an 8.0 rated film, but if I could, I would. It really isn't worth spending 109 minutes hearing "f".
