The dialog is considerably more believable, the characters are deeper, the emotions are stronger and the viewer's connection with the characters is more intense. Ethan Hawke is better, Julie Delpy is better, Richard Linklater is at his best.It is outstanding to watch both Jesse and Ethan Hawke grow as a normal guy on a quest for happiness and an actor who has improved a lot since the first part, respectively. Julie Delpy's performance left me in awe in scenes where she describes her frustration with her sub-par love life, whereas 10 years ago her lines seemed emotionless and routine. Richard Linklater takes themes he would only touch superficially in the first part, and dives into them in the second part, much like how the characters are more callous and realize they have nothing to lose anymore.I must admit the first part did not impress me. I was enthralled by the excitement of the young adults' spontaneous romance in Vienna, but it all seemed so dreamy and stereotypical of how love should be. Well, I realize now that this is exactly what it was supposed to be. It was love in every meaning of the word: heightening, inspiring, and painful. It wasn't until I saw Before Sunset that all this dawned on me. The way Jesse and Celine look back at the time they shared 9 years ago, how beautiful their one night was together, how their lives have changed, and they contemplate what could have been, Linklater portrays not only a story of true love, but life in itself and it's never-ending series of ups and downs.I couldn't help but try to walk in Jesse's shoes in my own life 9 years down the road and wonder if I will make the same decisions. Is it inevitable that you wish you would have done things differently? Will ever I connect with someone the way Jesse and Celine do? Is it fair to measure happiness circumstantially? All these are questions Linklater makes us think about while witnessing a love that just doesn't "fizzle out".


                
Michael Apted has made a series of movies every 7 years, showing us how children from different British classes have grown up from age 7. This year, 2005, he presumably will give us "49 Up." In an analogous sense, in 1995 we saw Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy) meet and talk all night in "Before Sunrise", and now in 2004 we see them meet and talk all afternoon in Paris in "Before Sunset." Maybe in 2013 we will see them in "All Day and Night." A good movie, but I did not enjoy it as much as the 1995 movie.Jessie is on a brisk world tour to publicize his new book, and Celine shows up unannounced. He is taken aback when he sees her, but finishes up his press gig and book signing, to tell her hello. He only has an hour or two before he has to leave to catch a flight back home, so they agree to make the best of it, go get coffee and talk. The screenplay was written by Hawke, Delpy, and director Linklater. Much of the filming was done with a steady cam following them through the streets of Paris.Spoilers follow. The book Jessie had written was the story of his and Celine's meeting in 1995. She recognized that, and realized it was him, so looked him up. After the usual small talk, they begin to exchange superficial information, but eventually get personal. Jessie had gone back to Vienna 6 months later as they had agreed, Celine planned to but a relative died. They both wondered what would have happened if they had re-connected. Jessie is married with two children, but does not seem in love with his wife. Celine has a boyfriend, but that too doesn't appear to have the right passion. They find out they both lived in New York at the same time in the late 1990s. They begin to realize they are soul mates. At the end, he is having tea in her apartment, she has sung him a song she wrote about them, he asks for another, she says "You'll miss your flight", he smiles and responds, "I know", and the credits roll.Perhaps it ended that way to set the stage for the next installment. It is implied that he stayed with her for at least an extra day, and who knows what might follow. Since this movie deals with disappointment and failed loves, it is not as pleasant a movie as the earlier, more ideal one. And, there is something about Ethan Hawk that I don't like, not sure what. And his character here seemed a bit juvenile for a successful author. The first time he made an absurd comment, quickly followed by "I'm just kidding", it was OK. After about the 5th time, it had become annoying.
Nine years after Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy) first met, they encounter each other again on the French leg of Jesse's book tour.Years before the critical acclaim of "Boyhood" or the cult status of "Dazed and Confused", Richard Linklater caught our attention with "Slacker", essentially a film of nothing more than a series of folks discussing a series of bizarre theories (and Madonna's pap smear).Then, Linklater took that concept and matured it. By replacing cranks with philosophizing adults, he was able to create "Before Sunrise". A brilliant film that relies almost entirely on a single conversation. He then gave us this film, again utilizing that dense, brilliant script... but giving us the twist of the same two people meeting nine years later, without any contact in between. So clever, executed so well.


                
Nine years have passed since the events of Before Sunrise, when Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Céline (Julie Delphy) had met in Vienna. Since then, Jesse has written a novel, This Time, inspired by his time with Céline, and the book has become an American bestseller. To help sales in Europe, Jesse does a book tour. The last stop of the tour is Paris, and Jesse is doing a reading at the bookstore Shakespeare and Company. As Jesse talks with his audience, flashbacks are shown of him and Céline in Vienna; the memories of their night together have clearly remained with him despite nine years having elapsed. Three journalists are present at the bookstore, interviewing Jesse: a romantic who is convinced the book's main characters meet again, a cynic who is convinced that they do not, and a third one who, despite wanting them to meet again, remains doubtful they actually do. As he speaks with his audience his eyes wander to the side, and he can hardly believe it: Céline is smiling at him.The film is short, precise and has several impossibly long takes that are just marvelous to behold. The innocence and naivety present in the first movie is gone and they're both mature and beautiful thirty-something adults living their own lives. Yet, that one night nine years ago has been an integral part of their lives. The movie is great just to see these two people interacting again. The dialogues are more precise, the sexual tension is less, and their instinct to trust each other implicitly, like in Sunrise, is a bit held back this time around. As charming as it is, I just couldn't connect to this as much as I hoped for. Its all very subtle and heartbreaking as the movie moves forward, especially when they finally pour out their hearts and minds in the car, but - people may snigger at this - but, I needed more melodrama. I needed them to burst out crying in at least one vital scene. Its quite good, but maybe in a decade, when I'm closer to their age, then this movie might have a higher position in my eyes.7/10
A sequel to Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise and a true testament to the virtue of patience. Filmed nine years after the first film, with the trilogy's third installment Before Midnight again jumping nine years into the future. And like in real life, nine years have also passed since the events of Sunrise.Jesse and Céline, played by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, have not seen each other since the events of the first film, but now Jesse is finishing his book tour in Paris and runs into Céline in a bookstore. The whole film is simply their conversation from beginning to end as they walk the streets and parks of Paris. And it is fascinating.Before Sunrise was already a good film. Especially in how it portrayed the age of its main characters. They were adults, if only barely, but not yet old enough to be comfortable in their skins, in their world views. I also truly appreciated how they were mostly attracted to each other's personalities and not just their respective looks.That is present here, as well, but once again their age is reflected really well. These two have lived, have learned, have grown, but they still connect very easily with one another. There is earning to be with one another, because they get each other so well, but there's also caution brought on by live experience and past mistakes.And perhaps it's because I'm closer in age to the characters of this film, but I felt much more in tune with these two than I did when they were still in their very late teens. It's also fascinating that my favourite character has changed from Céline to Jesse. This time it's Céline that has views and attitudes that slightly annoy me, whereas before it was Jesse that was a bit too full of himself for my liking. Not that they're at all unlikable in either of the films, but they have clearly changed. And that feels real.Whereas Sunrise gave us a vision of perfection, of day dreams and hopes for the future, Sunset shows what might really be possible. Sure its plot and events are a bit movie-like in their sheer serendipity, but they still end up feeling more grounded. Very good romance film, no matter how you measure it.


                
Richard Linklater is probably one of the few young directors working today who can be called an artist and watching this film you can understand why. This is a sequel to Before Sunrise and what one notices at first is that the filmmakers actually waited for the characters to grow older in real time so that now we meet Jesse and Celine they have actually aged, which makes their dialogues and relationship all the more relatable. Both Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy have no problem going back to their older roles and it is refreshing to see them talk and act naturally- they have great chemistry. Do watch this if you enjoy realistic romantic films.


                
Before Sunrise was a great romantic film which was very popular. Now the sequel is back and what one notices at first is that the filmmakers actually waited for the characters to grow older in real time so that now we meet Jesse and Celine they have actually aged, which makes their dialogues and relationship all the more relatable. Both Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy have no problem going back to their older roles and it is refreshing to see them talk and act naturally- they have great chemistry. Do watch this if you enjoy realistic romantic films.


                
At the conclusion of my review for "Before Sunrise", I practically vowed I wouldn't be catching any of the sequels, but IMDb beckons with it's Top #250 list (this one from #2015), so here I am again. I thought there might be a more mature handling of the now adult Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy), but it seems like they're still stuck in that awkward teenage stage of their lives. At least that's the case with the dialog that consumes most of the picture.I think Celine probably bothered me more this time around. She's rather neurotic, and keeps asking Jesse if HE thinks she's neurotic, and she won't take 'no' for an answer because she's like..., neurotic. She's the first one again to insert the 'F' word into their conversation, this time by way of the middle finger, and isn't it just perfect that she works for the Green Cross. And oh yes, she can't take Jesse's compliment about her looks. Because he thinks her face looks 'skinnier', she launches into a self recriminating 'fatty' diatribe. This kind of stuff wears me down, folks.And then the topper to blow Jesse out of the water - she can't even agree on whether they made love that night nine years ago. Turns out Celine laid that trip on Jesse because of her own insecurities, and wound up correcting her version later on, but it's those kind of mind games that mess a guy up. And all the while it's pretty transparent that Jesse's not going to catch that plane because he keeps diverting his attention to the next step of the plan to get back together with her.I thought that long, long walk up the stairs pretty much captured the desire each was hoping for, the inevitable that would happen once they got to Celine's apartment. The story ended in just the right way for me, with that ambiguity hanging out there even though Jesse telegraphed what was going to happen by stating he didn't much care about taking his plane home. And so it comes to the point where I have to implore IMDb reviewers, please, please don't make me watch "Before Midnight" with a rating that makes it a top movie favorite. One more time would be just too much, I have no desire to find out what happened with these two star crossed lovebirds.
Before Sunset follows Jesse and Celine 9 years after they first met as they meet up once more and hang out for the hour or so before Jesse has to catch a plane. Similar to 'Before Sunrise', this is a movie about the same two people talking. And that's it. No real plot or anything, it's just a reunion. And it still works. These characters haven't lost their flair quite yet, it's still interesting to watch them interact with one another. Once again, the acting is all pretty solid as well, with both Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy pulling off great performances. And as per usual, they play off of each other very well. And yet again, the writing is good. The characters have realistic, yet semi important, conversations that are rarely boring or uninteresting. Still, with a movie like this the pacing does suffer. There are scenes in this movie that dragged more than they should have, and they were noticeable. It was noticeable when they picked up again, and they were noticeable when they started, for no particular reason really. It's just how the movie is structured. This review has been a rehash of the one I wrote for 'Before Sunrise', although I do have one new thing to say. There's a scene towards the 1 hour mark where one of the characters has a sudden outburst and it's kind of out of place. Everything's going well and their conversations are wrapping up and suddenly one of them just gets super mad and starts ranting. While it wasn't totally out of nowhere, it noticeably changed the tone so quickly that it was hard to ignore. Overall Before Sunset is, while good, not as good as it's predecessor. Everything good about the first one is good in the second one, but tonally this sequel has some challenges. In the end I would only recommend this movie if you liked the first one. There's really nothing new here from the first one.


                
What was the beginning of a good idea about romance on a train entering Vienna, became an excellent idea about continuation in Paris, and later film Before Sunrise made an excellent trilogy. What an idea! To follow two people over a period of more then 20 years! And make a trilogy about the whole thing! It is not only a story about two people, but also a history of Europe during these 20 years.This film is full of beautiful intellectual dialogs and beautiful shots of Paris. I really enjoyed all of this.This is an opportunity to congratulate all involved in this project. Beautiful idea turned into a great project(s)!


                
It's nice to see this movie, a sequel to the great story presented in Before Sunrise (1995) about nine years apart. Having the sequel parted by so long of a distance, the movie adapted the circumstance and created a nice twist to continue on from Before Sunrise's ending. I like how the location is now in Paris, that most of the movie's length features the great sights of the great city; it's walkways and alleys between tall old buildings, the cruise on the river, and also of course the famous Parisian garden walkways. I also like how this time the movie ends more in conformity to what the audience will prefer more when they see how Before Sunrise ended. Yet I score this movie lower than its predecessor because the whole thing only feature a faster time than the former. I like how Hawke and Delpy still managed to stay consistent and kept their connection nicely, even after literally nine years.


                
"As we grow old we appreciate things more" is one of the movie's dialogs. I'm starting to like this trilogy since 'before sunrise' (which I saw many years back). The first part of the story is about two people who just meet on a train in Vienna. They meet after 10 years in a Paris library in this movie. Some profane lines in between, as the movie is wholly a conversation between two opposite sex adults. I felt there wasn't much of back-ground music in this. Still there are number of songs which are nice. The movie too gets boring after a while, still happy it is just for 80 minutes. The bottom line : Like a typical adult male fantasy to meet a nice girl traveling, still I feel a tiny-bit yawning.


                
I just finished watching "Before Sunrise" and I am glad I do not have to wait nine years to find out what happened to the love story of Celine and Jesse in "Before Sunset".Jesse is now a successful author after he wrote a novel about his very special encounter with Celine we all watched in "Before Sunrise." He was doing a book tour in Europe and the last stop happened to be Paris. It just so happened that the book signing was a bookshop which was also Celine's favorite. Of course they meet, and then went around Paris the rest of the afternoon until Jesse's plane will be leaving at sunset. As with the first film, we see them talking about how their lives went since that fateful day in Vienna years back. Julie Delpy (as Celine) did not age too much, but Ethan Hawke (as Jesse) looked significantly older. But the years did not diminish their chemistry with each other. The script by Richard Linklater this time was shorter, more sober, with deeper issues and mature emotion now, compared to the first one which was generally lighter, whimsical, with palpable youthful vibrancy. The transition over the years was perfectly reflected in the words they spoke. Again, we are drawn into their conversation, until that open and puzzling final scene.OK that is it. I will definitely go watch "Before Midnight" when it opens in local theaters next week.


                
Just before writing this review, I took a quick look at the Board where people discussed this film's ending. There are so many interesting theories about what might have happened afterwards, and you can see how people are intrigued with the openness of all the questions left unanswered, when the screen turns black. It is not so much about the mystery, but rather provoking people's imaginations and more importantly arousing their own romanticism. I think that, in a way, the people were actually describing what they would do if they were Jesse or Celine. This is what I like the most about this movie (actually both movies), it kind of makes any viewer recognize him or herself in one of the two main characters. Because these characters really can be any one of us. And this concept, in my opinion, is what makes this film a winner - two ordinary people meet in a random place and fall in love. They are not your typical Hollywood love story characters, and that's a good thing as well, because if they were, this film would be as boring as hell. As Celine says when commenting on how long it took Jesse to write the book: "Wow, that's a really long time to be writing about one night." Both movies are quite uneventful and ordinary, but it's not about events anyway, the characters and the mood alone keep viewers in suspense throughout the picture. In its raw simplicity, both films evade tiring or confusing the viewer, thus making it a lot easier to just give in to the overwhelming emotions.All in all, I would recommend this film to anyone (or more precisely, these films; they cannot go one without the other), especially to all romantics out there. And to some others who perhaps don't fancy romance movies, I would say - watch this one anyway, this is not another cheesy love story, but rather a realistic venture that could really represent the life story of any of us. I, for one, know I wouldn't mind if it were mine!
I purposely waited over a space of about 11 months in-between viewing Before Sunrise and Before Sunset (they were after all made nine years apart) in order to create some sort of feeling; some sort of atmosphere; some sort of reaction. Although this tactic required patience and tolerance, I feel it actually worked in a way. What made it a reality is when you first get a glimpse of the character of Celine (Delpy) and then Jesse's (Hawke) hilarious reaction. I myself recently met up with someone who means rather a lot to me; I hadn't seen her for the best part of a year and although our rendezvous was actually planned; Before Sunset's encounter really was all about the girl seeking out the guy and surprising him in the shop so although I can't relate to Jesse's surprise as he wasn't expecting her; I can relate to his emotions of reunion.I mentioned in my review of Before Sunrise the feeling of luck and chance that was evident (and pretty much acted as the theme for the film) and also the atmosphere of 'fly on the wall' film-making <U+0096> it was unlike anything I'd ever seen in an English speaking film before but Before Sunset feels more cinematic; it feels more like it's a film with a setting, characters and a script but I do not mean this as criticism it merely proves what a good director Linklater is when it comes to his own universe of films. If he had done what he did before with Before Sunset, he would have pretty much made the same film as he did nine years ago and that wouldn't have been good.What I liked about this film more than its elder brother is the feeling that we know the characters and I felt more settled with the exchanges flying to and fro. The characters repeat to one another what they've done in the nine years in-between films without actually showing it meaning you have to listen to catch up. This happens quite early on and thus; draws you in immediately as a film that's dialogue driven like this one has to have the audience hooked from the start and the back stories are a great piece of nostalgia; not only for the characters but also for us: the viewers who also want to know what's happened to them.When these two people talk, they deal with issues only people who know each other or have shared something very special together can talk about. In the first film; these issues that revolve around first loves, what you look for in a partner, etc. were dealt with in a rather colloquial manner that I found a little odd as they'd only really known each other for half an hour and had only met on a train through a chance encounter, but here it fits perfectly since they actually know, remember and probably love each other.The film makes good use of its location in Paris as it did in Before Sunrise with Vienna and it really doesn't seem like its only 77 minutes short. The long takes and nothing-ness dialogue make it so that it feels like the whole day goes past but again, this isn't a bad thing as it's 'this kind of film'. If you can look past the way the characters overreact nearer the end and some of the 'filla' in the script at various times; you'll find a film that comes close to adding a new definition to the genre of 'Romantic/Comedy'.


                
Maybe one needs to watch Before Sunrise prior to viewing Before Sunset, but I would consider that to be a fatal flaw of any sequel issued so long after the first installment. I found this movie fairly disappointing given its high ratings: The first two-thirds of the movie truly moves at a french glacial pace and the dialog just goes on and on...what's the purpose? Avoidance? Lite repartee a long nine years after their intense tryst? The build up happens far too slowly to sustain interest; it isn't until the limo ride to the airport (via her apartment) that the emotionally significant part of the movie finally kicks in...and when it does, it's very good. Despite the pacing problems, all the dialog is well written and delivered naturally as though the actors had written the lines themselves (which, as you know, they did). This movie would have been much better had they jumped from the book signing (which also dragged on for too long) to the cafe and then to its ultimate conclusion. I didn't mind the movie leaving the conclusion open ended...If I were Uma, I'd have dumped him, too.
In Richard Linklater's charming Before Sunset, the highly praised sequel to his 1995 film Before Sunrise, Jesse (Ethan Hawke), now married with a four-year old son, is in Paris on the last leg of a book tour. Celine (Julie Delpy), his partner from a short-lived romance nine years ago, shows up at a roundtable for his book signing and they pick up almost immediately where they left off. Jesse has eighty minutes before he has to leave to catch his plane and that is how long the movie lasts. They go for coffee and take a walk through Paris. They talk and talk, then talk some more. Without pausing to take a breath, as if fearful of a moment of silence, they engage in non-stop conversation about the world situation, the element of chance in their lives, the environment, relationships between men and women, and their memories of what actually occurred in Vienna. Celine talks about how unfulfilling her life has been and there is a sad undertone of remorse and regret for the things that might have been. Jesse complains about his unrewarding marriage but does not take responsibility for his lack of satisfaction or consider the commitments he made to his wife and son. In a strange sequence in a restaurant, they both light up cigarettes and blow smoke in each other's faces, a scene that is incongruous in light of Celine's passion for the environment. Does Linklater want to send a message to young viewers that smoking is romantic? One would have thought that in the intervening years, Mr. Linklater's characters would have acquired a reasonable degree of emotional maturity but such is not the case and all the sexual banter and philosophical posturing feels sophomoric.Comparisons have been made to another film that consisted mainly of conversation, My Dinner with André. That film was not only intellectually stimulating but emotionally satisfying, an experience that allowed us in the space of two hours to re-explore our own lives and rethink the way we see the universe. Before Sunset is not in the same league. Some are calling it "breathless", "sweet", "smart", and "one of the supreme movie romances of the post-'80s era", but to me it falls far short of those accolades. It is a well directed and well acted film with great picture-postcard shots of Paris (that carefully avoids the congestion and urban blight), some witty dialogue, and a very clever ending. What it lacks is an ability to communicate the unfathomable grace of love in a way that transcends banality.


                
We pick up the lives of Jesse and Céline in mid-stride. When we left them at the end of Before Sunrise, they refused to exchange addresses and last names, but were going to meet in Vienna in six months. Nine years later, we glimpse their lives again. Jesse (Ethan Hawke) has finished a book and is giving a reading/discussion and Shakespeare and Co. in Paris. At the end of the reading, he spies Céline (julie Delpy) watching from the wings. They go for a walk to catch up before he has to head to the airport. During this walk we learn that they did not meet up in Vienna, and have both attempted to move on in their lives. There are several things that make this movie stand out. First, this is a movie of dialogue and discussion about live, living and one's views, beliefs and outlook. There are no explosions, chases, kisses, heists, plot twists, etc. This is just two people talking. What I loved about the two films is the easy and open way in which these two discuss trivial and deeply personal subjects and how they are intermixed. What else made this film engaging was the warts-and-all approach to life. These characters weren't glamorous or glamorized, they were just people. And the fact that they picked up and explored the people they had become from mid-20s to mid-30s, who had strayed quite a distance from the idealized vision of their future they had had nine years earlier really brought it home. I too, am different and worse than the me I had planned on being 9 years ago. The only problem I had with this film was the character of Céline, it didn't ring true to me, too much idealism left and until she wigged out in the taxi, I didn't buy into her life.This movie is like crispy french fries and special fry sauce. In the west, fry sauce is a big deal. It is usually a mixture of ketchup and mayonnaise with various spices and flavors added. Special fry sauce is a sauce the cooks (me included) used to whip up at Carousel Ice Cream Parlour in Provo, Utah in 1995 for ourselves and a few other employees. It had regular fry sauce, BBQ sauce and more mayo to make it a little tangier and better than the regular. Now this movie doesn't have much to do with the flavor or texture of special fry sauce and crispy French fries, but I only worked at Carousel in 95 and the experiential phenomena surrounding this dish (that I only ate during one year) overwhelm the taste in my mind . I was a different Poco back then, and thinking about the super fry sauce take me back to a more idealistic youth and the big plans I had for myself. 7/10http://blog.myspace.com/locoformovies


                
I saw and liked Before Sunrise when it first came out. It was a watchable romantic-comedy without being exceptional. I only saw it because of limited film choices at that time. I guess I had a broader range of films to see when the sequel Before Sunset came out and only saw it recently because the high IMDb user rating sparked my interest.First off, it is better than the original. It's been the case with several movies that the sequel bettered the original e.g. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Spider-Man 2, LOTR: Return of the King and (I know I'm stirring up some controversy) The Godfather - 2.Before Sunset starts out very well. We are given a short and sweet recap on the events of Before Sunrise. You can comfortably watch Sunset without having seen the original. We then have Celine and Jesse walking through Paris chatting and catching up on their lives. They also take a short boat ride on the Seine and eventually a car ride to Celine's flat while continuing their conversation.The entire film is a conversation between two people with no action. What makes the film unique is that the conversation sounds very natural, the kind of conversation two normal, intelligent people who click would have. That, plus the beauty of Paris makes this very viewable and romantic. We have a bombshell or two dropped along the way about what the two have been up to in the past nine years. It adds to audience interest and the complexity of where they find themselves vis-a-vis each other.Sunset comes badly undone in the last 10 minutes. The moment Celine starts singing "Let me sing you a waltz" and mimicking Nina Simone, the film nosedives. The conversation becomes unreal and forced where throughout the movie it had seemed so natural. The ending was a cop-out. The story needed to find an end and me being a noir fan, you can guess what end I would have preferred.


                
I didn't remember seeing the first film of this series, "Before Sunrise" until some of the footage from that film was featured in its sequel, "Before Sunset", also directed by Richard Linklater. The premise of the story is that in 1995, Celine (Delpy), a young French woman and Jesse (Ethan Hawke) are two young strangers that meet in Vienna and spend the kind of night together anyone with half of a brain and an ounce of romance in them would envy. They walk, they talk, they sit, they talk, they have sex, they talk. And throughout the evening, they realize that they are probably meant to be together forever. She has to leave, but they tell each other that they will meet in Vienna in six months. "Before Sunset" picks up 9 years later, and Jesse is on the last leg of a European book tour, in France. The book is based on his experiences that night, so it of course shocks and awes him when he looks over at the patrons of the bookstore and sees Celine. They proceed to spend the next 75 minutes or so walking, talking, sitting, talking, and figuring out what "could have been".The story is so much deeper than I actually portray it, but the film is indeed a simple one. Essentially done in real time, the camera never leaves the two characters as they walk around Paris, sit in a coffee house and ride on a ferry boat. Because the film is so simple, the story has to be substantial, and it is. Even if one has not seen "Before Sunrise", it is easy to not only figure out the back story (thanks to the use of clips from that film) but to become emotionally invested in the characters of Celine and Jesse. The chemistry between these two actors is substantial, and the characters themselves are so likable that even though I normally have a complete disinterest in either actor separately, together I find them charming. The actual conversations (ranging from the regular "catch-up" stuff to existentialism) are really so natural; they did not seem forced or staged, an easy hole to slip in to with such a dialogue-heavy film. I'm sure that the incredible backdrop of Paris didn't hurt the romantic undertone of the film. There were a couple of conveniences that seemed to betray the otherwise intelligent feel of the film, namely the fact that Jesse's marriage story is a complete cliché, not unlike any number of stories someone hears at a cheesy pick-up joint. Fortunately in that instance, (though I can't completely forgive it) the connection between them is so obvious that it somehow (though not completely) seems a little less sleazy."Before Sunset" is nominated for an Oscar for its screenplay, a choice that I find very interesting and agree with. It is worth of its nomination (though will doubtfully win), and it's also one of the few romance films made after 1968 that I actually enjoy <U+0096> because it has a brain. 7/10 --Shelly


                
I think it was three or four years ago I accidentally came across "Before sunrise" while zapping through the channels on a slow TV-night. This was one of those rare movie experiences, where you are totally absorbed, almost drawn in to the movie, not for a single moment losing focus on whats happening on the screen. Being an 18 y-old guy, romantic movies weren't usually what I was looking for, but this one was different. It felt so real, but in the same time so magic. At the end of the day, I think the reason why I, and so many others, love this film, is that you think and hope that you someday will have a similar experience. It somewhat feels like the ultimate romantic situation, the two of them walking around in the beautiful city of Wienna, discussing everything between heaven on earth while the night slowly turns to morning.Well, enough about "Before sunrise". The sequel, "Before sunrise" takes place in Paris when the two main characters meet again after 9 years of no contact. I guess you either have seen the movie, or somewhat knows the plot, so I'm gonna go straight to my thoughts on the film.What first strikes me is the different tones of the two movies. Where the first one is impulsive, romantic and youthful, the second one is reflective, humorous and mature. Not until the last 30 minutes do the two films really meet. Maybe its a matter of age and life situation which one you like more, but for me "sunset" just don't really make it. This especially goes for the first half of the movie, which really disappointed me. I don't know what I expected really, but this wasn't it. Its just too much brain and not enough heart. Hearing them talk about the global situation really doesn't make it for me, and every time they get close to personal things, it ends up with some stupid sex joke. All the chemistry between them seemed gone, leaving only a boring charade to be seen. After the first half hour it just felt like they would drink their coffee, and then be like "ok, nice to see you, have a nice life", as it didn't seem they had any connection at all. The last half though, really improves, with the scene in the car as the highlight. This is what I wanna see, them talking about their life situations and how they feel about each other. The ending is also great, and really leaves a bit to the imagination. I just think the good parts are a little too few and the magic moments are too easily counted. Maybe thats the point, maybe the sequel is supposed to be more realistic and cynical, and some people probably love it for it. But for me, "Before sunrise" will still be the far better of the two movies.
This is one of those simple but honest films about two people that meet up after time has passed and even though they have a limited amount of time they use it to try and express their emotions for those lost years. Story takes place in Paris, France where an American author named Jesse (Ethan Hawke) has just given his last interview on his book tour when he looks up and notices Celine (Julie Delpy) who he dated nine years earlier in Vienna. Jesse's book is loosely based on their relationship and even though he has to catch a flight back to the States fairly soon he decides to walk with Celine and talk.*****SPOILER ALERT*****They continue to walk and talk about their lives for the last nine years and why they didn't meet again in Vienna six months after their meeting the first time. They go into a cafe and have coffee and later take a tour boat down the river and while this goes on Jesse mentions that he is married and has a son while Celine says that she just cannot keep a man. Their conversation ends up at her apartment where she announces that "Honey, your going to miss that flight".This film is directed by Richard Linklater who specializes in small stories but with characters that usually come across as very honest and human. Linklater is a personal friend of Hawke's and they've worked together before so they must be very comfortable working on projects together. The dialogue is written with the collaboration of both Hawke and Delpy and there are several true references that are brought up such as Delpy being in New York during a span of time (Which she was) and Hawke mentioning that he was also which is of course true since he lives there. The film is just one continuous conversation and it doesn't seem contrived or forced, in fact the big asset is that we really do believe what they are saying to one another. Simple concept is honest in it's execution and really works on a romantic level with the beautiful location shooting in Paris and both Hawke and Delpy have a chemistry that seems to connect in an emotional sense.
Yeah me mate Vicki said this movie is not good but it has nice moments I guess.
I don't normally watch many films and so decided to watch the IMDb Top 250 to make up for this starting at #250. I only realized half way through this film that it's a sequel to a film which I'll come to later in my journey.I found the film very intriguing, both Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke are superb throughout, and although the 80 minute film for me consists almost entirely of the two main characters talking about how their lives have changed and what might have been since they met 9 years ago in 'Before Sunrise', you feel compelled to watch to the end and the film does a great job of maintaining this interest.I'd recommend this film and look forward to seeing both the prequel and the latest one 'Before Midnight'7/10


                
This movie is pretty good. I liked it more then the first one. It was more mature. Here one can see the symptoms of serious mental illness develop. The vehicle of love seems to be like a conjunction. Is that true or not? Can love provoke symptoms? Can everything of value provoke symptoms? Art, movies, love, sex, dialogues, conversations, music and theater? Is that why society sometimes condemns art forms of sorts? To prevent a movement of unpredictable thought? An artist, like a person inlove with symptoms often operates in a dream world like a Henri Rouseau painting, this state is comforting and discomforting to the individual, and this discomfort often results in chaos which is artwork. This movie shows all of these components wrapped in to one.


                
