From one of the best sci-fi television series I've ever seen in season 1, to a messy philosophical mumbo jumbo turd, that will not entertain anyone who's not a 14 year old boy.I like philosophical challenges, like some of Star Treks early years or TNG, but this is not challenging, interesting, provoking, or even a bit entertaining.
I don't think they expected this one to make it to season two, and it shows.Frankly, it's crap. A well casted, brilliantly executed, amazingly looking piece of crap.
I will not waste my time on the third season, and if you're reading this before watching season two, spare yourself. Walk away.


                
As so many others have said, season 1 was very good, divergent stories all coming together.
Much like "True Detective", season 2 is a hot mess.
One of my toenails hit an empty beer can and made a cool "clink" sound. That was more interesting than any episode of season 2.
Disclaimer: I am old enough to remember seeing the original Westworld movie in 1973 for fifty cents.


                
Many excellent tv shows fall apart after five, eight, ten seasons... It's rare to see a show fall from such heights after just one season. Westworld has managed to pull that off. What happened? A cerebral show that mixed intense action with intelligent dialogue for one year turned into a poor imitation of itself just a year later with terrible scripts, incongruous violence, and poor direction. It's as if the show's staff, which started off so vividly portraying the battle to understand what being human means, lost its sense of direction and realized they hadn't a clue. And by the way, someone on the staff needs to go back and actually read Julian James' The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind, a groundbreaking book they refer to often, and completely misunderstand.


                
Season 1: 10/10
Season 2: -9/10Leaves 1/10 in total. This is truely painful to watch. I do not understand why this show is still in the top 250 best shows. People should update their outdated first season reviews.


                
I should start by saying I never made it beyond episode 1 of the 2nd season. It was just too boring!The first season was spectacular and left me with such optimism for season 2. It soon became obvious it was a complete dogs dinner!


                
Season 1 was great (10/10) but season 2 is for the most of the time unwatchable and I couldn't believe what is happening with the amazing TV show. I reccommend to skip season 2 because it is huge disappointment, and complete waste of time.


                
"Westworld" is the story of a theme park where people can come in, play dress-up, and interact with realistic robot hosts. And by "interact," I mean murder in cold blood and sexually violate to their heart's content because, after all, this is HBO, and "Game of Thrones" can't last forever. Through some combination of computer glitches and pre-set manipulations by the park's enigmatic founders, the robots rise up to kill all humans and find their way out of the park - that is, if the big evil corporation's military outfit doesn't come in to kill them first.On the one side are the humans - the sociopathic workers at the park. Bored, crude, and grating, each one of them are unpleasant in their own special way. The park's co-founder waxes poetic about some mysterious greater meaning to his creation. The park's writer is needlessly profane, conflicting with the show's desperate need to be taken seriously. The park's scientists are cowardly and, in one case, cartoonishly evil. And the park's security staff has a disproportionate amount of useless wannabe tough female characters who don't need no man, then crumble behind one at the first sign of trouble.On the other side are the robots - vacant, boring know-it-alls whose dialogue devolves into the contents of an undergraduate psychology student's essay. It must have been a nightmare for actors like Evan Rachel Wood and Thandie Newman to have been handed a script where they play robots who look like humans who read from another script, then one day decide to go off that script and kill all humans. The universal solution for they and the rest of the robots seem to be to act distant and constantly perplexed, but at the same time self-assured that they and they alone know what's going on. They can also manifest super-secret powers when the writers need them to.In the middle is the "Man in Black," who grows from an idealistic Jimmi Simpson to an old and cruel Ed Harris after he stays in the park for way too long, and Bernard, a psychologist who at first we think is human but turns out to be a robot, but not everyone seems entirely sure he is one because he's Jeffrey Wright and can only play the whispering black guy in everything he's in.Not one of the characters in "Westworld" is the least bit likeable. The humans are just as awful as anyone in "Game of Thrones," which I suppose was intentional to show man's cruelty to man, the ugliness of human avarice, etc. But the robots, though victimized, are no better. Whenever the series tries to show the robots in a sympathetic light, whether they suffer a loss or endure an indignity, I remember that they're only robots, and realize that what they're seeing or saying could still be part of the script. There's no clear way to tell what's actually real. The show also seems to forget that these are robots, and that it makes no sense when a female robot knowing she's a robot still wants to go back for her robot baby, or when another female robot wants to go another direction to get her robot father. What's more, it's hard to tell what's actually meaningful to the robots, and as a viewer it completely obliterates my ability to stay engaged with what's happening.At its core, "Westworld" is a broken show which attempts to hide its flaws through non-linear storytelling. Much like "Lost," for every mystery the show kind of solves, three more mysteries take its place. To make these mysteries seem more complex than they are, the series insists on telling its story out-of-order. The weekly prologue cherry-picks insignificant moments from earlier in the show to make every decision seem intentional, when it was clear the writers had no vision to begin with. All of this causes terrible YouTube channels to speculate about what's "really" going on. The hilarity of this becomes apparent when the Christmas lights are finally untangled, and the story, when told chronologically, is actually kind of stupid. Kind of ironic for a show that makes fun of its in-universe writing to use editing to hide its own very real flaws."Westworld" is nothing but an ongoing experiment of how much the writers and producers can bamboozle the audience with needless confusion until they just throw up their hands and give up. It is to confusion what "Game of Thrones" is to cruelty and ugliness. And after this most recent episode, where the series was apparently hijacked by Quentin Tarantino and flown directly into shogun-era Japan, I'm tapping out. I can only stand feeling stupid for an hour so many times before I start to resent it.
An utter and complete mess. Sea 1 was very good. We have a scene, we already know they are going to kill everyone next or they are already dead. But every. single. damn. scene has someone or many people getting shot or killed. So there is no surprise. And to have Elise come back fresh as a button? She wasn't my favorite character but now she's a gun toting Rambo. No. just no.
The first season was amazing, counted the days down for the second season. The second season is a major disappointment. It struggles to make a story line. Hard to watch or make head or tails of what is happening.


                
Season 1 started slow in order to get all the characters introduced and storylines set. It got better and better as the storylines merged and all the plot lines came together so as to finish the season strong.Season 2: OMG. What a confusing mess! Either shift between characters in current time or stay with one character and shift the time (past, near past, current). Quit doing both as that quickly becomes uneven, disjointed, confusing, long, boring, and tiring. I gave up on watching Westworld after three episodes of season 2 and went back to watching Netflix series as they are much better written with story lines that are at least understandable.


                
Season one was not that bad, but season two is confusing, incoherent and has a very boring storyline. So much potential and money wasted.. 
I've watched more than one hundred TV shows and none of them was such an utterless crap. This show has become so stupid. I want my wasted time back...
I've stopped watching it after third episode of season three.


                
Michael Crichton's novel and story were great. As long as the show was telling his story, it was great. But the story ended with season one. Season two is an attempt at a sequel, and we all know how that goes. 
The folks who make the show should stop beating a dead horse. If you have no story, it doesn't matter how much you spend on production values and explosions, the story has no heart, and you are done.
Best to just ship the characters over to that island with the left over dinosaurs from Jurassic Park, and let them fight it out with each other.PS. When your actors start posturing as Leftists, teaching us Demorat morality, like Woods just did, in the hopes of SAVING the show, you immediately lose another 60 per cent of what's left of your audience, and it's over. Play taps.


                
1) Go to the supermarket;
2) buy fruit;
3) put it in a basket;
4) watch it rot.
Every single option is in its own right more entertaining than watching any episode of season 2. If you started season 2 already, then completing the whole sequence 1 to 4 will be the highlight of your week.
I ain't sure how they did it, but what was good in season 1 was whiped out of the series to make room for pointless flashbacks and unfathomable dialogs all at 1 bmp. Pacing isn't slow: it's still. It looks and feels like the TV set OS crashed and the screen is frozen on the same shot.
Anything is better than season 2. Dip raw onion rings in Nutella and snort them, jump up and down repeatedly yelling "BONGO!", water your plants with beer trying to have'em burp.


                
I have no idea what is going on. This show reminds me of the path that "Lost" took.


                
HBO was amazing in the nineties with their edgy shows that had 13 episode seasons that put quality above 26 episode network shows more focused on law, police work and comedies over anything dirty and original. Sometime around 1999 or so, when the Sopranos came around, they got lazy. HBO's execs just believed they could put anything on their channel and it would be the greatest thing ever. Meanwhile, Showtime, Starz, AMC, FX, Netflix, Amazon all upped their game and focused on quality. Game of Thrones's success is honestly dumb luck, only really because HBO broached some taboo subjects in the first season. But that's all HBO has.Westworld is a show that pretends to be profound. When it has to show its cards, it always reveals it has nothing to justify all the mumbo jumbo. The average audience member doesn't realize this is the telltale sign of hack writing. I can tell. Had enough and quit on the show. I just can't take it seriously, worse yet, it pretty much is a shameless ripoff of Spartacus from Starz. Check the similarities. There's too much to ignore.


                
Let me warn you first that I am no fan of this series. It's so dire that I struggle to understand the outstanding ratings it apparently gets from so many people. I imagine they are swept away by the outstanding photography and expensive sets and thrilled by the gratuitous violence and plentiful nudity, also gratuitous.Fair enough, but be honest, that's about all there is. To struggle for any other kind of impact it uses a whole range of outworn cliché conventions. The assumption that most people are really horrid if given the chance implies we're watching some kind of weary worldly film noir, which always feels grown up, but when you actually listen to what characters say, it's not. They airily discuss mumbo jumbo philosophical sounding concepts every so often, especially the Boss, but the ruminations ultimately add up to nothing.There is the usual (yawn) suggestion of wicked corporate goings on and and executive back stabbing ( literally if necessary), there's the inevitable and unlikely back story puzzle to be solved , promising to lead back to some mysterious resolution which will pull all this nonsense together, pursued by a thoroughly nasty bad guy in black and, guess what, unlikely characters fall in love, transcending all.However, leaving all that aside the real problem is that there is huge hole in the initial proposition. All this killing and agonizing. Do we really care? Half the cast (may be all of them) are robots who can have every element of their feelings and memories reprogrammed, so really, does it matter if they develop so called feelings or memories ? They can all be rebuilt anyway. Come to that,what does it matter if they're shot and killed? They can healed and put back together anytime. Of course we all know that the poor things have become such close approximations to human beings that its really unkind to treat them like iPhones, but the wicked executives and customers don't. Is this supposed too reflect some existential despair about the human condition? It doesn't.The story line is full of absurdities. Just a couple: You can think of many more I'm sure. Why do the robots go on acting out story lines when there's no human customers around to participate in them? If a robot gains the power ( handed over by nervous technicians without much argument) to control other robots surely that needs them to be reprogrammed, not the controlling robot with a magic voice...It was fun for a while to watch and marvel at the sheer outrageous inadequacy of it all but even that is wearing thin. Is there anyone else out there with the common sense to see through this over-hyped set of Emperor's clothes? Speak to me!!
Trying to watch again. So boring I can't even stay awake. HBO charges the most, yet offers the worst. 
When is something going to happen on this show.


                
Now , I don't actually believe this is the worst TV show ever , but when you consider how much this pile actually cost to make , then it has to go down as the biggest flop of all time. Polished to within an inch of its life , throw in a few well known actors , and spend over 100 million dollars on it , you would expect it to be of a very high quality. Unfortunately , it appears that someone forgot to actually spend a little of the money on some decent writers , the plot line is so thin to be almost transparent , and some of the writing borders on laughable , literally nothing happens for 10 episodes, the plot moves about an inch and then it's over , no thrills , no suspense , it was a real effort to bring myself to keep watching , I kept thinking ," this episode will be better " , but no , same garbage as the previous one.


                
What's the different ? First season is about why you shouldn't mistreat the people you would interact with in a video game. Which NO one that isn't a real gamer is going to really understand morality wise. This message is strong communicated through out the whole season. Side note, the man in black is upset because everything he thought was true wasn't. His friend has been telling him the whole time. "This isn't real, they are just robots that were put here to give you the illusion that it IS REAL." Course we know that he was wrong but also right. Dolores was reset and forgot ALL about her feelings for William. Just.like.a.machine
Now the second Season should have been about diving into this. Instead it was all about the #METOO FEMINISM movement. Which apparent is define by casting all men as a stereotype of being either evil, dum or helpless without a women. ALL of the male characters have been rewritten to cast this persona and all the leading roles have been replaced with WOMEN, WOMEN AND MORE WOMEN !!!!!This series was suppose to be about AI or how you treat ur toaster but instead decided to be about estrogen and female empowerment. Which strangely women measure by the same standards they perceive that men do lol
Don't waste your time. The writing is poor. It tries hard to be sophisticated and intelligent about AI but it introduces nothing new that Hollywood hasn't done already. It tries to explore the possibilities of artificial intelligence and blur the lines between human and android, attempting to draw any empathy for robots. Unfortunately, it just fell flat. It was hard to me to identify with any of the characters on the show - human or droid. Want to watch a good movie about a future where humans coexist with androids? Watch blade runner, AI, or hell, even 2001 space odyssey.It's a great cast and great visual effects team but it was all squandered - a huge missed opportunity.


                
I tried but so boring. Nothing compelling, I'm going to sleep.


                
If you are a passive watcher and have no critical thinking skills, if you love cliches and deus ex machina, then this show is for you.


                
Season 1 was great, season 2 was like some bad channel 5 flick. Total rubbish.
So utterly boring I can't even stay awake to finish an episode. 
Trying to tell so many stories it doesn't make sense. Maybe the writers should watch game of thrones to see how it's done.


                
During season 1 I thought this was a great show, it was "something new" even though it was based on an older film but the writing and story telling was done really well, I hated waiting a week to find out what would happen next, when season 1 ended I thought season 2 would be even better due to the advanced story line.
So since season two was released I've forced myself to watch around 5 or 6 eps in the hope that it would return to it's old ways, it didn't - it's so bad infact that it's unwatchable.
I'm 5 or 6 eps in and have no clue what's going on and have lost all love for the plot and people in.My advice would be if you haven't watch season 1 yet then don't bother, there is nothing worse than a show going from being the best of something to the worst so fast.


                
