Pay attention, this series explores some very subtle story lines. I was extremely impressed when they introduced the bicameral mind concept when considering consciousness. That is one of the more important concepts when considering the origins of consciousness. I hope they explore this idea in greater detail and especially its implications related to physics. It is rare indeed to have a fictional work undertake such a complex topic without trivializing it. I definitely have to compliment the writers for undertaking such a complex topic and I hope they continue to explore the implications.Again, IMDb thinks I should add additional lines to my review which is ridiculous. I have offered a clear and concise review and they want an arbitrary number of lines, what kind of idiot makes this a requirement?


                
This show is so far perfect. The story is intriguing, the visuals are beautiful and the acting is incredible.The previous reviewer who said the violence is unnecessary has missed the point in my opinion. The violence is very much needed. It is there to make you feel uncomfortable, because it is that inner dark side and battle between good and evil (and more often than not the middle ground between) that is at the very epicenter of the human condition.This is what the show is often commenting on and this is what makes this show so interesting, thought provoking and ultimately entertaining.If it carries on in the same vein we will have a modern day classic on our hands.


                
Wow, where to begin...First of all, the score by Ramin Djawadi is absolutely majestic!The actors, well, whatever I say just won't be enough. It's a total pleasure watching every second of their stellar performances.The plot - being a huge fan of sci-fi, it simply doesn't get better than that! The scenery is gorgeous, it really takes you in the past. That constant mix of past and future is brilliant.Overall, I am amazed ( obviously ), mesmerized and absolutely loving every single thing about this show!Already a classic in my book <3


                
First of all, it is very clear that the production mindset behind Westworld is far from creating a cheap product with generic high bursts of tension/love/horror/excitement. It is full of deep human conflicts, that is if you are open to watch it with a clear mind.Hopkins' quote from the end of episode 2 when he says "No" to "Odyssey on Red River" and explanation of his refusal feels like a statement of the production mindset. "Odyssey on Red River" pretty much summarizes everything wrong with entertainment media nowadays, and Westworld is a real delight that shines as a great production.I don't know how to tell its greatness without spoiling the show, but unless you want a cheap ride you will glimpse at screen in between your texting; you can not not enjoy this show!


                
If you've watched the original film, you will approach watching Westworld with an understanding of the basic premise and a moderate expectation of entertainment. That is how I approached it, and my expectations were taken to another level. Westworld is, put simply, a contemporary screenplay masterpiece. It has taken the original premise and intelligently added layers of complexity to its plot that resonate with where humanity finds itself in the 21st century. What is consciousness? What is humanity? Where is the line? And how does this related to creating artificial consciousness? The original film failed to explain how 'what happened' happened. But the TV show eludes to the faultline between corporate sponsorship (The Board) and scientific enquiry. I will avoid spoilers for anyone who has not seen this yet, but in setting the seen the writers/producers have created Westworld not only as a TV show, but as a series of questions for humanity to ponder. And the acting is sublime, in particular Evan Rachel Wood & Thandie Newton's characters evoke empathy in my very core.


                
No spoilers... I haven't watched the original movie. I won't watch it either, because I want to be guided by this series. The theme song and intro are brilliant. Warm piano music contrast the robot-esque fabrication and programming of man made perfection. The story does not seem to be everlasting in length but almost infinite in width. Imagine what kind of people would pay to go to a place where no laws affect you, where paying customers can murder, rape, live their fantasies without scrupulous. The man made actors and actresses in a real fictional world often seem more human then the paying clients who visit Westworld to create their personal Sodom and Gomorrah. Its a dance of empathy and apathy on every level. The depth is breathtaking, the viewer is treated on a painfully confronting view of what man is capable off.


                
In order to understand and enjoy this incredible TV show you must understand some basic technical terms like: loop, analysis, updates, bugs, logs etc. Personal Review 11/10. There is a maze there which everyone is talking about, the music intro is perfect. The image tone is carefully chosen, while i am starting to like Jonathan Nolan more than his brother Chris. The playable character of Ford and Lowe are purely excellent executed. The hosts and guest concepts really make you think about real world humans design and our evolution in much deeper level than i thought before, like Elon Musk explains that we humans maybe live in a virtual environment of someone else.


                
First season review. It's not television, it's not a movie, it's nothing like you have ever seen before. It's a next level HBO :) In the beginning I will say that it is not a remake of Westworld of 1973! That was more like trash with some good moments. And it is not like anything you can see on TV or cinema screens of USA. It is much better! There are some japan anime series on same subject, but this is overall "deepest journey into the rabbit hole" i have ever seen. Most TV and movies take you on a short story that maybe has couple of thoughts, but mostly are just <U+0441>hewing gum for your brain . Yes, some of them will entertain you but none of them will make you think about who you are and what is consciousness. So, what is Westworld about? There is no point in telling you the story line, it is too complex. I will do no good by trying, its impossible. But what i can tell that It is about human civilization reaching ones end. It is about human nature been stuck in dark ages. About what a blur human consciousness is under any close examination. It is one of the most expensive shows of all time with cast that is too good for any A-level movie. Visuals better then most movies. Story and dramaturgy better and more complex than, maybe, anything i have ever seen. Attention to details is simply staggering. Yes, it is that good! And it is 10 hours of that! Wow! just Wow! And at the same time it is totally anti-commercial. How did they do it? I do not know!!! You have everything love, action, horror, sex, visual-FX and despite all that it's hard to say that it is entertaining the viewer. It's 10 hours of making a point!!! Not everyone can take that:) No wonder many of the reviewers were totally lost. It is too complex and boring for the average viewer. It went totally over their heads. To be fair, Westworld lacks in some compartments. It has really poor soundtrack. Everything: SFX, "mood directors" and music. Absolutely average camera. Also second half of the season kind of goes downhill in many aspects. but it is a finished story, so its nothing like any other TV series. PS If you think Silence of the lambs was Anthony Hopkins high point, watch Westworld. He is just soaring above mere mortals. PPS if you liked this series i would recommend you to see the movie High-Rise also.


                
The impressive acting of Louis Herthum as Delores' father and Jeffrey Wright should garnish talk come awards season. Creepy performances by Ed Harris and Evan Rachel Wood are also noteworthy. This series may be the best thing on TV since Game of Thrones arrived six seasons ago. I recommend you check this one out, and pay particular attention to the nuances of the actors noted above. I hope this series can continue on the same pace, it's a real treat so far. If so, we will see a few members of this cast and crew on stage at the Golden Globes and Emmys in the new year. This show outshines the original, which also made the hair stand up on the back of your neck, and was well acted by Yul Brynner, in the best role of his career. Enjoy! Attention! Episode 5, Anthony Hopkins Interview of "Delores", is the best bit of abting I've seen on TV in decades, and his best since Silence.


                
It's a show from future not for every action sci fi fan.I am not saying it is the best show ever but it has a great potential to be first ten minutes were confusing but after that we some riddles were solved it was just first episode we cant judge it by that so we will see from here where the storyline goes Great storytelling, dialogues, cast, direction everything is perfect.. All of the action, and the Wild West fun, crazy, HBO stuff is in there and it's all amazing, but what separates the show is that it's an existential drama. It's an intellectual nightmare. It is all very much based in reality....The one-hour drama series WESTWORLD is a dark odyssey about the dawn of artificial consciousness and the evolution of sin. Set at the intersection of the near future and the reimagined past, it explores a world in which every human appetite, no matter how noble or depraved, can be indulged... The shows has quite an impressive directors - Jonathan Nolan(person of interest), Lisa Joy Nolan; producers - JJ Abrams; Actors - Anthony Hopkins , Ed Harris ,Evan Rachel Wood, Jeffrey Wright, and Clifton Crollins, Jr. ...Overall pilot was great meets our expectations It differs from movie very much but base is pretty much same action drama mystery it has all in one..


                
*Minor Spoilers Ahead* A incredibly immersive and unbelievably complex theme park has been running for 35 years. The park is called Westworld, it allows people in the present a chance to figuratively travel back in time to the Wild West. Most guests start in Sweetwater (the Wild West town) and venture outward. The guests often follow already fabricated story lines written by operators working at the park and interacting with programmed robots called "hosts." One of the biggest draws of the park is that the guests can act out whatever fantasy or behave in any manner they choose. They can do whatever they want to the hosts (rape, murder, torture etc.) and the hosts can't fight back.The creator of the park Dr. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins) is still working there but he's taken a back seat to other people. The team running this place mainly reports either to Bernard Lowe (Jeffery Wright) the head of the Behaviour department (he's essentially the head of host programming) or the head of security Ashley Stubbs (Luke Hemsworth). Theresa Cullen (Sidse Babett Knudson) is there to check in for the organization that owns the park. We also follow the hosts, our main characters include: Dolores Abernathy (Evan Rachel Wood) the farmer's daughter, Maeve Milley (Thandie Newton) the owner/operator of the local brothel, Teddy Flood (James Marsden) a chivalrous former criminal and Lawrence (Clifton Collins Jr.) a wanted outlaw who's been spared from the gallows. At some point or another they are all preyed upon/pursued by the mysterious Man In Black (Ed Harris) the most famous resident/continual visitor to the park. Things seem like they're fine but when all the hosts are updated with a small change, they start behaving strangely. Some of the hosts deviate off their programmed story lines, some start remembering past experiences and some of the hosts go so far off book that they need to be decommissioned. Everybody working at the park tries to shrug this off until the actions of the hosts get continually more unpredictable and downright startling.I started watching Westworld without any prior knowledge of the source material so I can't compare it to the previous adaptation as a movie or the novel. The idea about robots gaining consciousness is something that has been done before (I Robot, Artificial Intelligence etc.) but I felt like this show did such an excellent job planting the seeds of this story line and letting grow over the course of the season. You spend time with the hosts and the show makes it all too clear that they suffer terribly everyday. Their ability to forget seems cruel (they can't form real connections other than what's been programmed into their minds or seek revenge for the terrible things done to them) but when you understand what they face, that lack of memory turns from a curse to a gift. Their existence is pretty tragic (especially Dolores for reasons I won't spoil) and you want them to find some semblance of peace or justice. The show raises all the questions that these conflicts lead to: what is the difference between humanity and consciousness? Does what you're made of really determine whether your life has value? Just because an organism isn't human, do you have the right to imprison it to do your bidding? I have to admit this has been done before but how Westworld handles it is superb and it was thought-provoking drama at its finest.My favourite TV show that is still going on today is Game of Thrones (Westworld would be top 5 but GOT is still king) and one of the biggest reasons that keeps people tuning into GOT is that you never know when the show will take bold new direction or kill of a beloved character to keep you on your toes. Westworld is a little different but finds a different way to play with the expectations of their viewers. The first couple of episodes are definitely interesting, it moves at a slower pace. Westworld may not be quite as bold as Game of Thrones but I couldn't believe how many times the show would yank the rug out from under me. There were at least 5 or 6 times over the last 2 episodes that my jaw hit the floor. They take so many twists and turns that I couldn't tear my eyes away from the screen.If you're not intrigued by the story, hopefully you'll be tuning in for some really phenomenal acting by the whole cast. Evan Rachel Wood is the standout if you made me pick one actor/actress. She's beyond great as Dolores, she's given an awesome character but she still shines even past that. It was pretty satisfying to see Thandie Newton be given such a juicy role. I was surprised how much of her role is without her in any clothing but she rises to the challenge. Anthony Hopkins was excellent, I was expecting him to be either over-the-top or really withdrawn but he hit the perfect balance that totally suited his character. I would say Jeffrey Wright gave the most underrated performance, he had a really interesting perspective as Bernard and I had hoped he would get some award consideration too. James Marsden does a solid job as Teddy, he's takes the brunt of some of the guest's brutality and you feel his pain. In some of the supporting roles; Rodrigo Santoro, Clifton Collins Jr. and Jimmi Simpson all have their moments. Lastly, Ed Harris was a nice choice for the Man in Black, he's a little one note at the start but I was really surprised at the depth they go into his motivations.Add on top the amazing production value and you've got some amazing TV. I can't sing this show's praises enough. Unless you need something that is moving at a quick clip 100% of the time or just can't buy into the premise, I'd recommend Westworld to almost everyone.
I just watched the 3rd episode and wow, what an amazing show. The plot twists and depth of story raise the bar for modern TV and frankly movies as well. This has some of the most amazing scripting I have ever seen. Of course it has the splash of action, nudity and sex everyone wants too. But man that stuff is just the side dish to phenomenal story and what is shaping up to be one of the best TV shows of all time. The characters just get more and more complex as the show goes on, with some really interesting twists. Cant wait to see more. Hope they keep this up, I originally started watching it thinking this would be a good filler for stuff like GOT and a few other shows I enjoy that are off season. But Westworld might have just replaced them!


                
You like a show that takes a couple views to understand the subtle nuances you missed the first time watching and makes you THINK? The people reviewing S:2 calling it a hot mess, have missed the boat. S:2 is brilliant and deep and took me another watching to begin to understand all that was happening-because A LOT IS HAPPENING.Don't listening to the others if you like a show that makes you think, question characters, and slide predictability out of the room. Watch it. And maybe a second time. Or even a third, because the light bulb with turn on.


                
Westworld has the Best 1st Season among all the TV series out there (I have seen all the greatest classics like GOT,Wire,BB,The Sopranos,Deadwood etc.) & It has the MOST COMPLEX story lineup also! Its very much confusing in the beginning & some people might find it boring during that time. But it becomes a crown jewel after episode 5 when you get to understand the complexity & dept of the story! you will feel for the hosts, cry for them being a Human yourself ! Sir Antony Hopkins as Dr. Ford proved again why he is one of the greatest actors that lived ! Beside that Evan Rachel Wood, Thandie Newton, Ed Harris & Jeffrey Wright were amazing also ..This show has breathe taking background score By Ramin Djawadi with cinematography at it's best ! This is Undoubtedly the best Movie to TV series Adaptation by Lisa Joy & Jonathan Nolan! The Bicameral Mind ( 1st Season finale directed by Junior Nolan) will be considered as among "The Classics" of all time in TV series history.An Emmy deserving Finale episode!


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerThis series is nothing but a masterpiece. Every episode adds more to the narrative that at times transports you into the world of Westworld.The acting throughout is sublime. Ed Harris, Anthony Hopkins, Thandie Newton, Jeffery Wright, Evan Rachel Wood, James Marsden, Jimmi Simpson, and Ben Barnes all bring brilliance to the screen. They each play their respective characters perfectly.The amount of mind blowing twists and turns leaves you with a sense of awe and shock. Every twist is well crafted and perfectly timed. The subtlety and care throughout the series is amazing. Every answer to every question is right beneath your nose.The pacing in some of the episodes can be a little slow but most of them are fast paced.The violence is never over the top. All the violence seen is to further the story in terms of humanity and realization. The amount of nudity is extremely heavy. Full frontal male and female nudity is seen throughout. Most of it is needed to further the narrative, but some of it is a little careless.In short, this series is brilliant, masterful, and most of all inspired.Pros: Masterful storytelling, sublime acting, subtle yet inspired twists, brilliant use of violence and at times nudity, and overall good pacing.Cons: Some slow paced episodes and some over the top use of nudityOverall Rating: 9.6/10


                
When I first read about the genre and the story, Honestly I had doubts, but after watching two episodes all those doubts wiped out, and after watching a few more, I realized I'm watching the best thing on TV for a long time. I can't remember the last time I watched a show that in every episode I wished the episode never ends, but that happens with this show, you can't get enough of it.It's Sci-fi, but at the same time it gives you enough logical reasons to believe it and to put yourself in the story. The music by Ramin Djavadi is absolutely beautiful, much better than what he created for Game of Thrones.And the acting, wow, Thandie Newton acts absolutely amazing like always, and Anthony Hopkins? Do I even need to say anything about him? his acting is much strong that he doesn't even need to say a dialogue, the face is enough! The story? wow! I'm not a sci-fi fan but this story is no nonsense, it's believable, it's possible, and it's heavily engaging.Overall a show that you can't get enough of, which is pretty rare these days.


                
Wow! I must say it is about time that a TV Series was made like "Westworld" (2016). This show is awesome so far, I love how in many ways it shows how mankind is already though hidden from us all in other aspects. So far only episode 1 has been brought to light though I see a lot of possibilities in such a show and I have high hopes that it goes the way I hope it to be.Westworld so far has a great cast, a great story and tends to have the Humans vibe to it with a hint of the movie Gamer. This show looks like it will be a nice one to continue watching as we await the next episode, until then if you get the chance check it out on HBO.One thing I enjoyed about the show is the music of of more modern today played in an old day fashion, tracks like Black Hole Sun and many others performed on piano and a vast amount of others. I want this soundtrack, and for such a show based off of a film from the 70's with the same title, "WoW Factor".


                
So far, this is getting a 10/10 with me, partly because I love the subject matter at hand, but mostly because it seems to be well-executed. It may be important that I have neither read the book (although I am a fan of every Crichton book I have ever read, but that hasn't been too many and it hasn't clouded my judgment.) Additionally, I have never watched the original movie, which I understand to be similar, but I am not sure just quite how similar.As for the show itself, it seems like it would be intriguing to anyone. The CGI and whatever tricks they use work very well; the lines between CGI and acting / props seem to blur, which is magnificent. I feel this is a great time in computer power to pull a show like this off.On top of the stunning visuals, the story line will probably keep me coming back for more and I may just end up reading he books. From he Crichton novels I have read, they seem to hold more words and paged than are actually there, so I think I should read this one before I try to read Game of Thrones / A Song of Ice and Fire, because I know that that show is amazing, and as they say: the book is always better. Also, I am quite sure that more work is put into the details of the characters - something I look forward to. Back to Westworld, though.Most, if not all of the actors are amazing and fit their roles somehow.To recap: 1) 10/10 from me based on the first 200 minutes or close to it. 2) Show can draw many crowds in. It's hardly similar to Firefly and way more of a Western, so that could and should draw that crowd in while deeply satisfying scifi fans. I'm sure it would make fans of either genre into fans of the other. 2) Great actors, most of whom are almost - or perfectly cast. 3) Extremely believable CGI that blur the lines reality. 4) Captivating story, based on a book with an ending (but they may make changes - I may wish they do just in order to extend it if they manage to keep the show where it is or close to the current score, but over-extensions almost always cause rapid degradation in writing quality when a show is based on a book. Once it drops to 2.5 in score or thereabouts, (maybe even a bit before that) they need to prepare for the end, and keep their eyes on viewership. If it declines too greatly, hey should have a contingency plan and take their time wrapping it - assuming it doesn't end where the book ends, because what I have read of Crichton, his books start at a high level and continue to climb to a climax.I highly recommend this show to fans of both westerns and scifi, as it is very strong in both genres, but probably at least a bit stronger in scifi. My only problem with the show is the time between air dates, but that comes with the territory unless you can handle holding off until the series is complete without forgetting about it, but I am certain more and more buzz will be centered around this show as it goes on. It's such a beautifully crafted world and the execution is nearly flawless.


                
-Firstly, I will whisper foolish stuff in your ears which you all figured out from the moment you laid your eyes on this show... I am afraid your trail starts now...-One creates a world where mountains meet the sky, and children play ceaselessly without fear. No, not without fear but being not programmed to fear.-There one could taste an apple, kill a bandit or should we say go as far as to "have a fling at almost everything."-And there a sweet young / seemingly intemerate Teddy could go awry again and again for his "love".-There a Man in Black could be the key to many things in this world such as the maze/meaning of this place called "Delos" is to his whole life starting where he meets a Dolores who really seems astonishing and full of life could, with the help of an Arnold, gain self-consciousness and awareness of the world outside of that place and nearly destroy that in search of an escape.-There an Arnold who co-creates this world and whose name is mentioned nearly every time a conflict / progress occurs could turn out to be a madly driven man thinking "the host" of this world named Dolores needs freedom as she is more than alive.-There a Maeve who is in the center of everything could gain control of her actions as well as thoughts, and works her horrors as a way to find a path towards the real world where she and the"fully aware" friends of hers will face playful "Gods" and spit on their face real hard.-There a Robert Ford who, throughout the whole series, seems to have been busy with his own agenda / narrative, and to have had no clue about what really goes on behind the curtains in this world, and who we cannot but hate a little for his brilliance seems rusty / unappreciated and for he does whatever he can to protect that agenda of his could out en end to all in the most surprising way that we can all forget about his recreation of Arnold as a host named Arnold who now remembers everything by the work of a Maave who will destroy this world unless the screenwriters do something about it!!!-Lose all of what I have written above! -So, someone altered Maeve to give her the purpose she's been following while thinking it of her own. Thus, all the steps she's taken were programmed to take place. This is genius!.. No it is not. It means machines cannot ever do get out of control. Horrifying!..-Secondly, Dolores is Wyatt and this is what many saw coming a mile away and would seriously want. And she, like Maeve, is about to choice freedom... This indeed is genius!.. Absolutely!-Lose that last paragraph too!.. Not important.-Simply because Roberd Ford has been injected with the idea which Arnold had sacrificed himself to that consciousness can be achieved by these skins which has humanity not, in them and Robert put all the hosts on trial so that they'd become stronger by the pain we evil beings called humans caused them. And Robert, as his final narrative, gave himself up and let the hosts become humans by choice to the extent that Michelangelo, Mozart, Bethoveen and even Eastern geniuses like al- Farabee and al-Ghazzalee would not give joy to the hosts but reveal them the lie we all have been living for quite some time now. -This whole creative "mess" is not too strange to see that this show sheds light upon our most basic need / instinct that this world must be created for a reason while requiring order in chaos, and is not the end but the beginning of a new phase / narrative we will all see thereafter.-So the hosts... They kill and kill... But will it end? And how?..---We humans cannot bring any original product into existence... We sicken all we create just like us... And this is neither good nor bad... This is life in which we are no Gods...---(P.S.: This "Westworld" may be the place we hide ourselves from the real deals of outside, but it is, from a point of ethics, where we exercise Godhood and gratify our basic needs that either distinguishes us from animals or returns us to the lowest of the low... So thank you Lisa Joy(+++), Jonathan Nolan(+++); and you Michael Crichton; and of course you, Evan Rachel Wood (++), Jeffrey Wright(+), Ed Harris(++), Thandie Newton(+), James Marsden(+), and you, Anthony Hopkins(++) for you all put your best efforts in this story... I thank you too, Ramin Djawadi(+++) for that incredible main title theme; and you, Claude Debussy(++) for you composed that theme called "Reverie" which is one of a kind!..)Bonuses: -It was real sad to see Teddy amuse the guests at the gala. Oh my! We are evil.-It gave chills seeing William who owned most of the place cherish the fact that the host rebelled and can now fight back!..(Main Title Theme: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYelEUVQ50g Reverie: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1FeryHehf4Y&spfreload=10)
If there's anything this incredible show demands, it's your patience. I can't believe viewers have given the second season really low ratings without having watched past the first few episodes. YES, it's slow, but so was the first season, and you all know how that turned out -- AMAZING! What you think seems to be a pointless mess, really isn't. The pieces only come together after the fifth episode and builds up into a terrific, complex, very well orchestrated story. Give it a chance. You won't regret it. Production, acting, script and everything else is indeed stellar.


                
So folks where do I begin? I guess with the cast, which is the best ensemble group of actors and actresses ever assembled for any series I have ever watched. This includes Evan Rachel Wood, the incredibly beautiful android, James Marsden (his best work ever), Thandie Newton as another beautiful android, Jeffrey Wright, an unbelievably great actor, and of course Anthony Hopkins and Ed Harris, two of Hollywood's greatest living legends. In heaven, I am sure that Michael Crichton is very proud of this further incarnation of his original story-line for Westworld. As a sci-fi fanatic I am constantly looking for "plot holes" and discrepancies in the settings, dialogue and special effects of movies in this genre and I can tell you I couldn't find a single one in this brilliant, original and exceptional HBO series. We are very fortunate to be alive in a time of fantastic changes and advances in science, health-care and hi-tech devices and just like the original Star Trek, which foretold of inventions like our cell phones and certain medical devices, this series opens your eyes to a future that might be right around the corner, for better or worse.
Westworld is an ambitious retelling of a 1973 film by Michael Crichton about a theme park inhabited by androids referred to as "hosts". The story isn't original by any means but the material is rich and ripe enough for a deeper exploration. The production is grand, sets beautiful, acting high caliber with the likes of Ed Harris and Anthony Hopkins headlining. The plot is intriguing and chock full of existential musings from the human characters that take on the role of gods, that create, mold, kill, rape or plunder. The show explores the dark side of humanity and presents the thesis that people will indulge in their darkest selves if given the chance to do so without consequence. Westworld is poised to be the next Game of Thrones but it's appeal is not in the nudity (and there are lots of it) or the violence, it is the richness of the world they've created, the possibilities of each character and the delightful acting from a mix of new and veteran cast. Evan Rachel Wood is a wonder to watch. The subtle changes in her expression and voice as she shifts from her android self to the sentient host she is programmed to play is enchanting. The supporting characters are equally brilliant from Thandie Newton's hustling madame to James Marsden's noble cowboy, down to the extras playing unmoving bodies being repaired. HBO pulled all the stops to make sure this new show would be a success and from the looks of it, it has all the ingredients to be a truly epic watch.


                
This stunning new treatment of Michael Crichton's original Westworld, the film of which still holds up pretty well all these decades later, is simply breathtaking. The production values are at the top of the game, the acting excellent and the soundtrack perfectly matched to the darkly atmospheric proceedings. Television simply doesn't get much better than this. Clearly the millions spent on this production have paid off. Why American cinema releases can't achieve this quality is baffling ('Independence Day' comes to mind in all its sad UN- glory). This Westworld uses the original movie as a springboard into an entire new realm of sensual overload and keeps the viewer engaged as only the best of TV series can do. There's nothing to quibble about here...Westworld has moved the goal posts of quality television into a whole other ballpark. I've never been a fan of Westerns but this science-fiction/western combo is a genre unto itself. If I could give this eleven stars, I would. Outstanding!


                
The variety of story lines in one's life is as limitless as his imagination...Mr. Nolan really is doing a great job with this show. And HBO is constantly trying to stay ahead of its competition. To my surprise Westworld is getting better with each episode and I suspect a really nice turn of events at the end of the show. But what is really important with these TV stories is that Westworld is very ambitious. From the cast to the script - everything is thought out really well and innovative. Although the origins of this script can be found in Mr. Crichton's story, we can clearly see why HBO took this project in - from the personal perspective of the viewer, to the general assumptions of classes in society, this show is more than all-embracing.The actors' role in storytelling is really smartly conveyed here as well. I cannot imagine a better tale about the joys and tears of an acting career. We can clearly see the metaphors in act, and we are the ones who ask the questions about them. Some are answered, but most are left to our imagination.The topics - about the person's place in this life, about the meaning of destiny, about the origin of one's values, about class structure, about illuminati, about the beauty of nature, about the grasp of human intelligence and its limits, about the fluent merging of genres in cinema, about the crazy use of lighting and sound...and mostly - about acting. True lessons of acting, based on a really simple, but layered style of storytelling. As old as a Greek myth and as new as a sci-fi bestseller in 2017.Anthony Hopkins is genius, Ed Harris is a brute, Evan Rachel Wood is splendid and man, those side characters...you just can't forget them...I recommend to all of you - please give this show a chance. It will at least make you think of your path on creating your soul.


                
What a great show. So thought provoking and profound. What a great concept. Excellent cast and plot lines. If Sir Anthony is in a movie/show you better believe this girl is gonna watch it. He is so mesmerizing. You cannot help but be ensnared by his divinity. Such a powerhouse on his own, but in combination with this series it is a knockout. Wow! Only complaint is the second season won't be out til 2018. Nooooo!!


                
