First series of this programme was very interesting and felt brand new. The second series was horrendous, made it up as they went along. Dolurus repeating the same rubbish over and over and over and over and over and over.


                
So much potential, so little produced. Season 1 was OK but Season 2 was a mess of disconnected story lines. Between the memory trails and the story line bouncing back and forth that was hard to follow and the horrible depressive music this was very disappointing. It seemed like the writers attempted to create exciting action by having shootout after shootout instead of writing creative narratives. So much potential for a gripping series wasted on a weird, incongruent and boring waste of time. I needed the Season 2 finale to pull things together or I was done. Without a doubt, I'm done.


                
I watched season 1 twice. Season 2 on the other hand, I really had to push myself to continue watching the show. Even then I couldn't move past the 5th. What a drag? The reviews here tell a story - Excellent ratings for season 1 and below average ratings for season 2.


                
Waist of time. You have to be one of the writers or be on the inside to follow the show. They totally lost the viewers. First year 10 out of 10. This year 2 out of 10.


                
How on earth is this show so highly rated? I don't think I've ever seen a show with such lazy writing. Major plot holes, inconsistencies, logical fallacies and a severe lack of character development are just some of the issues with this series. You can see the "twists" coming a mile away and the focus on the hosts and their stories is just boring. There's nothing that really happens - just the same thing over and over again. Despite what a lot of reviewers say, this is not intellectual or philosophical. It pretends to be but it's an incredibly thin veneer. The fact that people honestly think this show has something intelligent to say makes me weep for humanity.


                
Best actor: Monument ValleyBest actress: Colorado RiverBest director: Nothern ArizonaBest writer: Southern UtahBest drama: Sunset showdown at CanyonlandsBest user advice: Bring sleeping bag (for two)Anything else worth mentioning: Nope!


                
Season 2 is atrocious, the script is horrendous, the acting is acceptable at best, it is confusing and mind-numbingly tedious. I have tried and tried but no, three episodes in I have decided that this exercise in very expensive, over budgetted water treading cannot be salvaged by wonderful set and creature design, nor can the endless amount of shooting and blood-letting make this tedium of any value to anyone other than a bored teenager. Be warned, if you have anything remotely better to do with your life and are not an spoiled American Teenager, keep WestWorld 2 at a very long distance from any device that could play it!!!


                
I don't like being hit over the head. Who does? But week after week through season two, Westworld crudely bludgeons the viewer with message after message about how men are weak/stupid/corrupt and women are strong/intelligent/smart.Look at the pairing dynamics: Dolores - strong, Teddy - weak. Bernard - confused, Shannon - driven. Maeve - smart, Lee - stupid. Male security officer - blindly does his job, Female security officer - thinks about her job. I could go on.. From the violent Shogun males, compassionate females to the all male, all evil park owners/ investors. Even the once independent 'Man in Black', is now joined by his far savvier, far more intelligent daughter.And before you say anything, I'm a woman - and proud of it. Generations before me fought for an equal world. What nobody needs is for the pendulum to swing so far the other way. Two wrongs don't make a right as the old saying goes. There's no more need for this kind of evangelising as there is for men to go around, cap in hand, apologising for their every move, which frankly just makes me cringe.Both sexes can be strong and clever, weak or stupid. The writers of Westworld seem to think that we all fall into the latter category and need block capital 'education' at every turn. Me, I've had enough, thank you, and will be dropping out of school early.


                
Truly the funny cable advertisement with Jame Marsdan summed up this entire series. Characters die and are reborn constantly. So the 10, 20, 100, 1000 and on and on deaths really are meaningless. It's a series like Lost where you try to care and follow it, it keeps throwing plot twist after twist at you.You know by now none of it really ends up meaning anything, and after two full season you know everybody will eventually be reincarnated, or brought back from their escape. Actually there's no reason an escaped host can't be replicated, living in their free world and a duplicate here at the same time, also. Or for that matter hundreds of duplicates, as they've already shown. So there's no individuality at all. No reason to be invested in a character, they all can turn on a dime.Also like lost they're throwing in things that you think will eventually be explained, but then the writers seem to abandon that thing and move on. What is this an actual sign of? The writer who came up with that particular thing, left and took the idea with them, most likely!Stealing heavily from Invasion of The Body Snatchers, Lost, any Mind Loop movie, even Jurassic Park. Except with none of the quality of those ORIGINAL shows except for Lost. There is no real puppeteer. We've been told Ford, Bernard, Delores were the master architect. It can't be all 3! Within the finale they repeated that claim about all of them AND NONE OF THEM. Totally ridiculous. A great example of stupidity...Ford gets into a conversation with Bernard about how he's already started working on something behind the scenes, shortly thereafter he claims he's simply a figment of Bernards imagination. That's a blow your soda out your nostrils laughing moment at how stupid the dialogue is here. It's like one writer wrote the first conversation, another wrote the second.Does anybody think they won't see their favorite top 50 dead cast member again despite them being all killed off season finale 2, in season 3?I'm sure some people find all this engrossing. Gosh what'll happen next? If you step back and truly think about it its just a writing technique of non stop loops. The writers can do whatever they like, transform whatever they like, change goals and agendas. You gotta love how all this quest searching led to a place WHERE THEY'VE ALREADY BEEN! As I suspected it would.At it's core here's what should be it's glaring defect. They've shown a far too powerful system with infinite resources in place for many, many years. Technology so advanced its incredible. If you have a moderate IQ than you should be starting to think ..why all the Kardasian drama? ...why all the struggling? Ford should have been EASILY able to accomplish whatever he wanted for an end game with none of this chaos. Making all this endless time switching and non stop babble mute enough that people should eventually realize is all just building up to another climatic kill fest. I knew that was where it heading at the beginning of Season 2 and it's where it'll go in season 3 and on and on.Pretty pathetic that Delores already explained she yet again resurrected Bernard so they can be adversaries in the up coming season. Standing around staring and stammering and acting dumbfounded is not great acting Jeffery. Unemotionally pontificating is not great acting Evan. A lot of the lesser characters showed much more range than either of the stars.
Well what do I say, while Season 1 was awesome, season 2 is just the opposite. It's just gone downhill in season 2. Waited long enough for it to get any better. Won't be surprised if it isn't renewed for a third season. HBO should really put an end to this. The two star rating is for the second season, the first one was an excellent 10 on 10


                
I started this show because I love sci-fi and existential philosophy. In the first three or four episodes, I got exactly what I wanted and even recommended the show for a friend. In these episodes, I was captured by the great conversations, deep philosophical questions and great acting.But after the early episodes, the show did not get better. Suddenly, there were too many things wrong with the show. Bad plots, unlikely character choices, boring clichés, silly twists, a lack of explanation of seemingly impossible events.The most disappointing part of the movie for me was the part where Maeve becomes sentient. It doesn't make any sense that the 'butchers' had access to alter the code of a host. Maeve is able to figure out that Bernard is a robot. Not just that, she is able to control him with voice commands. I got pissed off with the whole Maeve scene. Everything about that subplot is wrong.So Bernard is a robot and he is also Arnold? William is the man in black? This just sounds like desperate writing. 2/10
Too involved in trying to tell stories of feminism to tell a real story. Jumps all over trying to make multiple female characters relevant with no attention to plot, story telling, depth or connection. Horrible.


                
I'm not sure what the hype is for this show. I plowed through season 1 and gave up after first episode of season 2. The concept was cool but the story line is fragmented and lacks direction. Most importantly...it's simply boring. Not worth the time.


                
Said Roy in 1982s 'Blade Runner.''Time to die,' and we all understood and FELT the pain of an android, created by man with a preprogrammed shelf-life, feeling real feelings, regarded and treated by people as a machine all his 'life.' The POINT was beautifully communicated in just under two hours. AND we CARED.'Westworld' had a wonderful 1st season and is now stumbling around for 8 hours trying to make the same point but so very clumsily. Bored, confused, indifferent am I, the viewer . . . if ONLY they had good writers this would have been a masterpiece.As it is (as of Episode 8, Season 2) my rating just keeps going down. Two more episodes for this season. They will try to put it all together in episode 10. But whatever it is, can it be worth 9 hours of . . . this?


                
This idea had great potential. First episode is fun. Then it gets boring and predictable.


                
Season 1 had me completely riveted. It brilliantly explored questions about what it means to be alive and about humanity. It had great twists and you genuinely cared for the characters.Season 2 came along and it turned out an utter mess. There is no character development I can see. Even the characters I used to care about are now completely one-dimensional and I couldn't care less what happens to them. I made it to episode 7 of Season 2. I don't know if I'll ever get further, because there are simply better ways to waste my time. The attempted surprises and plot twists don't make sense and feel desperately contrived to the point where it's painful to watch. I feel sorry for the actors.In short, a great Season 1 has been completely nullified by a Season 2 that is confused, dim-witted and utterly disengaging. Chaos has taken control - in the script-writing.
Season 1 was marvelous. Season 2 is a complete mess.
Season 2 is the wet dream of the left and feminists. It's a multicultural, multiracial mess where the women are the powerful and wise and the men are dumb followers. The few white men are either bad or ridiculous. Or need to be "reset" like Teddy Flood.
A multicultural, multiracial matriarchy. Who produced it? Elizabeth Warren?


                
My theory; the budget has gotten out of control, so they've decided to kill it. How could any producers watching this season's mess think that it's good TV? It's like someone took a great portrait and messed it up by not knowing when to stop piling on more paint. HBO will probably do a "Deadwood" and cancel it when nobody is looking. It's too bad, it had great potential.


                
So I get told to watch this show, that it's very good and "you'll see".After a few episodes, I still didn't get what the plot was about, or even liked any characters. I could get that they were trying to be philosophical and keep some kind of suspense or something. But, when I got to a bit more than half of the show, it never got better. For every characters, I had about no real clue of what their purpose was. What do they want? What are they even doing? Why are they doing this? Not only that, they never surprised me with anything, and trust me, I know how to give credits even to shows I don't like. I didn't even know where this show was taking me. If there was even a destination. And then it finished without any of those things.About the philosophical part... well, to me at least, it was BS. You hear them talk, and you never understand why they say this, do that, and what it could mean. It's like they try to be real serious, and voluntarily throws up random plot points and sentences to pretend to hold some very complicated meaning when, in reality, it just doesn't mean anything. It's easy pretending to be clever and intriguing, it's harder to do exactly that, but with a real meaning.I saw a bunch of reviews saying it asks you the question of "What it is to be human". If you did ask yourself this question, give credit to yourself, not this show, because never once they dive into that territory. Not even in all the talk they did for a whole 10 episodes.+1 for the music, it was very good. Yeah, the music.
Season 1 was really good. The acting, cinematography, pacing and character development was mostly very good, there were a few plot holes - one huge one in particular which has been covered by other reviewers here, but on the whole the slow-burn left me hopeful of what was to come and wanting more....Season 2 however is all over the place. It has major structural and pacing issues. The first 3 episodes contained way too many flashbacks, concurrent storylines and people just wandering around looking blankly into the distance and saying 'I don't know' a lot. Everything is non-linear, and happening in different timelines / timescales, it's a mess and very hard to follow. Episode 4 was a little better, but the ancient Japanese storyline in episode 5 was dreadfully slow and boring. Maeve apparently is now turning into Neo from the Matrix, and Dolores is Agent Smith - all of a sudden. It feels as if a whole load of storyline to get here. Teddy is Teddy.I think the whole 'what it means to be human' thing was done much better with Data in Star Trek TNG. It was certainly much less drawn out with another interesting storyline occurring at the same time.Due to how inconsistent season 2 is I don't think the writers had much of a plan for the narrative and seem to be winging it. It's a shame as it looks gorgeous and the cast is top notch. Anthony Hopkins is very much missed.
The first season of Westworld is a breath of fresh air. The second series is complete rubbish, you can clearly see that they are just making it up as they go along. Terrible!!


                
Inception meets Lost meets The Original Westworld meets Blade Runner meets The Wild Bunch meets The Terminator meets Dances With Wolves meets ... Nothing originalPseudo philosophical dialogs (No one talks like that) and too much violence sex nudity BDSM aimed at 15-20 year oldsWhere are THE GUESTS?
Apart from William and his brother in law who are the owners i see no other guest!
We should assume that all this "World" is created for him?
All that money is wasted for one man to "Enjoy"?
I mean it's his money but still two seasons and not even a guest. Very Cost effective!How did the US allow them to create this risky business without having control over the security of the place?? How could they not predict the riot? the security is a joke and the guns are funny. ITS 2070 AND YOU CANNOT HANDLE BUNCH OF COWBOYS AND INDIANS?!Dolores won't die! Then later Bernard shoots her in the head and she dies so why didn't William just shoot her in the head first? Cheap trick to give her enough time? Is William a host too? How do they actually die? Do they have organs like humans? How is Maeve controlling other hosts? Never explainedHow did the hosts learn so quickly to use "Modern Guns"?
Which bullets are real? Which bullets are fake?
How do the fake bullets break glass yet don't harm the guests?
Never explainedA 40 year old company has two of the most pathetic and stupid characters to fix injured robots (Not to mention the homosexual stripper) and no one is checking the rooms by camera or microphone until it's too late and the two decide to obey the bot instead of turning her off or make her dumberLike all other HBO shows Hardcore Feminism is all over the show. Men are evil and those who aren't are serving the women. Women are the "Heroes"Because almost all the characters are robots and the rest of them we r not sure of makes it impossible to relate or care for the charactersbecause of the over-complicated and pretentious narrative and plot holes you no longer care.Anthony Hopkins preaches pseudo philosophical sermons to fool us into thinking that this show is DEEPIt answers 3 of your questions but creates 50 more unanswered just like LOST
Also William's character is very childish and immature asking questions about life as if he is 15The 2 stars i gave is for the special effects and cinematography but don't let them fool you. Nolanism and maximalism are spreading like a virus.
The story doesn't need to be complex. It's the characters who need to be complex
After Season One, I couldn't wait for the next season. What a disappointment! Season Two is a total mess. Too bad since the acting and cinematography are wonderful. An incoherent mess of Indians, Cowboys, Asians and futuristic mumbo jumbo. It just doesn't work. There will be no writing awards for this junk. Kinda sad after a promising Season One. But....the acting is still good.


                
Season one was pretty good and interesting and had in not been for so much graphical violence to would have been a great show. Season two lacked story-the season could have consisted of two episodes and it would had been just fineeach episode had about 10 minutes of interesting story the rest is just an endless walloping in characterdevelopment...plus the ridiculous amount of glorified violence.i mean how many throats do you seriously think the audience want to see cut and headshotswith bullets exploding peoples brains. It's a sad state of of our society when filmmakersthink that they have to shock and inflict this amount of needless graphicalviolence...


                
How entirely unimaginative. "Warning, spoilers": basically everyone is a robot, and carries a gun. Everyone gets killed then repaired; rewind, repeat in random combinations. For any two characters, one will kill the other at least once at some point, often to be reciprocated at a later point. At the show's most creative, guns are replaced at this by bows, arrows, and swords.You can randomly stop this show at any point, and the most likely frame to come up is of somebody shooting somebody else in the head. The title should be Body Count.The conceptual foundation is interesting, but is killed by the utter lack of imagination of the screenwriters. They have a great concept to start with and great stories could be built on that, but no, they prefer to build a mangled heap of half-stories that are only there as an excuse for making their hopelessly unidimensional characters shoot one another (sometimes complemented by pompus speeches, sometimes not).I'm hard pressed to see how anyone would find it philosophically intriguing, 'revealing about the nature of reality', etc. What if I'm a robot, too? What if my memories aren't mine? The more intelligent people had dealt with it by the time they were 13, the others have seen the "Matrix".95% Google users liked this show. 
HOW??


                
