In 1973, the cult "Westworld" by Michael Crichton was a successful sci-fi of my generation and a sort of grandfather of other robots films, such as "The Stepford Wives", "Blade Runner" and mainly "The Terminator".In 2016, HBO released "Westworld", a promising series based on the 1973 "Westworld" but with AI. The First Season was entertaining and left fans waiting for the Second Season.Unfortunately the awaited Second Season is a complete mess, with a confused storyline without timeline. Bernard´s shuffled recollections is awful and the motive of each lead character is weak (Maeve wants to retrieve her daughter; Man in Black to destroy the park; Dolores to go to the outside world; Hale to retrieve and transmit important information). In the end, this season is a complete waste of time. My vote is three.Title (Brazil): "Westworld"


                
The 2nd season is full of nonesense like "lost" there is never ending stories.


                
Season 2 was a great big pile of steaming poo. The story is missing, jumps around too much. The bots shoukd have been destroyed so easily. Why do people talk instead of just pulling the trigger?


                
I really loved the first season. It was a bit "twisty" (don't know how to describe it better without it being a spoiler) but you could watch it from the beginning to end and say "aha, cool". With season two they just overdid it to the point where most people can't just watch the show and understand what the hell is going on. Instead only people who understand what's going on now seem to be those who are ready to re-watch every episode, share ideas on the forums, draw diagrams about who did what where and when... If you like that David Lynch type stuff where everything is so convoluted you have to do research on every scene in order to figure out what's going on, you'll love this. If you want just a fun sci-fi show to watch, there's nothing for you here.


                
Season one was great, very entertaining, and kept me interested thru every episode , the story lines of the characters made me want to keep watching and see where it went and was excited to hear there was going to be a season 2. Unfortenately season 2 just did not deliver for me. I felt the first 2 or 3 episodes were pretty decent, then it just started going downhill and became boring for the most part. 
 The second season overall just feels disconected and the story is poorly told. 
While the first season left me wanting more, the second season has me wondering when is it going to finally get to the point and when is it going to be over? It seems to be all over the place, but going nowhere, and not looking forward to a season 3.


                
The gun fights between humans and hosts are so stupid in the second season, it has become difficult to watch. You can have a host totally surrounded by militia armed with fully automatic weapons, and they are taken out by a host with a revolver.


                
Forcing myself to watch. Oh my God, it's just awful. Too long and going nowhere, all lines are so stupid, couldn't care less about those cardboard heroes! Hope this season will be the last one.


                
Season 1 was enthralling but Season 2 is horribly dreary.


                
> Assets : cinematography, well-performing A-list actors, beautiful scenery and an interesting starting idea > Shortcomings : bad storytelling (which is ironic, since the whole "Westworld" fictional universe relies on immersive storytelling), incoherent characters with ever-changing motivations, unnecessary plot twists, ... the list goes on.Even though the series got a lot of hype, I started watching it without too many expectations. And I happily admit being immediately hooked after the first episode : the setting of the show revealed itself to be very intriguing, triggering a lot of questions and the desire to discover the full extent of it. The scenery is magnificent and well- shot, the opening credits are gorgeous and the actors are doing a fine job making everything come to life. The problem is that the series appears to be unable to keep its promise. After episode three or four, I started wondering whether this show was worth watching after all. I'd say that the main issue is the thinness of the plot : it is simply too flimsy to retain the viewer's interest over time. What it all boils down to is this : the bots (or so-called "hosts") are slowly gaining conscience and, after realizing that the gods (i.e. the management of the park) controlling them aren't as divine and powerful as they appear, they try to take control being helped by the park's creator. This is certainly not a bad storyline, but it is hardly enough to carry alone 10 hours of showtime. And instead of adding interesting backstories and side-plots to keep the slow unraveling of this central plot line entertaining, the writers simply stretched everything out and repeated the same things over and over again. For instance, I don't need - as a viewer - to see Dolores having 4 or 5 existential crises before getting what is going on. This endless repeating of the same messages made me feel as if the writers suffered from a severe lack of imagination. Don't get me wrong : I don't dislike the central backstory, I simply feel it should have been a real *back*story, instead of an overstretched "front"story repeated under four different story lines. Now let's get to WestWorld's infamous "plot twists". Every show has them (or at least tries to) : these "wow"- moments, when the plots catches you off-guard and truly surprises you by giving the show a whole new dimension. WestWorld has them too, but most of them completely miss their point. They don't add anything to the plot, on the contrary : they slow things down instead of allowing progress. Most of the time these twists revealed themselves to be mere smokescreens for the plot's lack of depth, adding no new dimensions at all. Despite all the twists, the central back-story never changed course. From the first episode on, we knew that the hosts were getting sapient and in the end, well... they got sapient. In other words : no real twist at all, simply cheap techniques used to make the show appear deeper and smarter than it really is. Another thing that really bothered me are the show's inconsistencies. For instance : why would the man in black kill Maeve and his daughter to test his ethical sensitivity ? According to the story's timeline, Billy had been roaming WestWorld for more than 15 years before this event, slaughtering dozens and dozens of hosts. There was no need for his little "ethical test", besides clumsily connecting the Billy/man in black storyline with Maeve's. Time for a bit of speculation: the Maeve-man in black story will probably (and sadly) become a major thing in WestWorld's next season... By the way, Maeve's decision to stay in the park was another big inconsistency and let-down : this behavior proved that she still was bot, as she clearly wasn't capable of truly emancipating herself from her code.But the worst thing among all WestWorld's shortcomings is the endless list of implausible events. Movie writing priority number 1 should be the conservation of the viewer's suspension of disbelief. That does not entail that a show has to be realistic : it means that it should be coherent and believable. The fact that visitors can not be hit by bullets is an example of implausibility : how this is possible should have been explained, otherwise it looks like pure wizardry. But there are stronger examples : Maeve's escape is implausible from start to finish. Glass walls everywhere in the facility and nobody notices what is happening until it is too late ? Moreover, that facility is always buzzing with activity and people running around, but as soon as Maeve starts acting rogue everyone vanishes. The way Sylvester (Felix's lab buddy) reacts to Maeve's plotting is also laughable : after being stabbed in the throat, he meekly continues to collaborate instead of warning his management. It seems that the fear of losing his job outweighs his fear of losing his life. As implausible as all the rest is Dolores' escape from the Confederados: she shoots an officer in the middle of a soldiers' camp and manages to run away without trouble. And what to say about the season's finale : how could Ford predict that the man in black was going to stab Dolores ? The stabbing was paramount : without it, Teddy couldn't tenderly kiss Dolores' dead body on the beach in front of the board. And the list of implausibilities goes on... All in all, I believe that the 10-hours lasting series should have been reduced to a decent 2-hour movie. The starting idea was pretty good, but the writers didn't bring it home.
I was charmed by season 1. Mysterious plot, great actors, well shot and an intrigue till very end. And I was so disappointed by season 2, mystery was lost and Terminator Dolores, walking over dead bodies and shooting like killing machine made everything so disgusting, so I stopped to watch it after s2e3.


                
I haven't reviewed before, but as this series is approaching a 'masterpiece' score of 10, the kind of show I'd give anything to wipe from my memory (ironically appropriate) to enjoy again, I thought I'd contribute for a bit of balance. I'm not sure why it's garnering such scores, whether it's meta thing or because Nolan+HBO+huge budget=10, but I found 'Westworld' sadly lacking and a disappointment. I am a fan of the original 'Westworld', the memory of the calmly unrelenting and menacing Yul Brynner reminds me now of an early T500.The overriding problem I have is the writing. Over the course of the season the plot distils down to a bit of industrial espionage and a couple of robots being able to access old memories. That's it. There's a somewhat force fed narrative of 'achieved consciousness' but existential this ain't. It's so slow too. Where 'Mr Robot' toyed with us and drew things out with a certain arrogant knowing this is just lack of substance. One plot line even lacks credulity. A board member with free access to the park can only get the data from her hand-held device out by downloading it to a host's brain. The data is too large you see, and the best way to get a host's brain out is not by cutting its head off and throwing it in your luggage, it's by programming in an escape plan. Then there's the character development, or lack of it. Are we supposed to identify and humanise any of the robot characters to feel some sort of empathy as they are sliced and shot to bits? The human characters were unlikable corporate schemers for the most part. In fact, I would have quite happily watched them all sliced and shot up repeatedly on loop. The robot character 'Mauve' seems important to the plot line, but I'm at a loss as to the motivations of the two lab technicians who help her. She coerces one because she guesses he may get up to mischief with offline robots and that's it, jeopardise everything rather than reprogram, wipe her or throw her in the incinerator while switched off. Laughable. 'Bladerunner' tries to ask the question as to what it is to be human. In two hours. Remember how interesting and desperate the renegade replicant's characters were? Remember Roy at the end? Exactly.Then there's the tech issues. Nothing is explained why guns don't kill humans. They hit them with an impact like a rubber bullet but destroy everything around them including tree's/wood/walls and piecing metal. Can they get hit in the eye with one? In one scene, thousands of bullets spray out of a Gatling Gun, ricocheting off rocks and shredding tree's. Are all bullets and splinters trajectories calculated in real time? Do the bullets transform into soft rubber on contact with human DNA!!? The black hat character need permission to blow a jail lock early on, later there's TNT blowing up ad hoc all over the place. The hosts can't kill humans, but they can beat them unconscious and cause an aneurysm! Hosts are cut up, dismembered and even eaten and there's no sign of machinery one minute, but exposed for plot later.The show does look good, but in a way also disappointing. It reminds me of a cheap Sci-fi B Movie or TV series in a way. The ones where an alien world conveniently mirror's earth with similar architecture down to the brick size. The aliens are humanoid too, but maybe sprayed green. This is a TV series set in the future but shot on a western set, with lifelike robots played by humans. Any hard Sci-fi is glossed over really. Same old story I suppose.So, my advice is don't waste your time. 'Westworld' is high budget low quality, 'Westworld' the movie is Low budget high quality. If you want Sci-Fi western watch 'Firefly' If you want Sci-Fi that looks/sounds better and deals with the same issues, watch 'Bladerunner'. If you want recent good Sci-fi see 'The Expanse' Unless the first season was a giant stretched pilot, avoid. With the success and appetite for 'The Martian' 'Gravity' and 'Interstellar' and others, there is momentum gaining where the viewer isn't treated like an idiot and with such disdain in this genre.Avoid. I'll probably change score to a 3 when people realise that this show hasn't changed their life and is neither seminal nor entertaining. I mean, once all the script buying, quoting, t-shirt buying, conventions, spin offs, stage shows, movies, re- enactments, cosplay, dissertations, books, art, music, homages, philosophical debate a score of 10 should spur.
In season one the novelty of the idea of a park full of life like robots, excellent acting, and interesting story line made for a good show. Season two has been a disaster. 
The asynchronous story telling of season one played a critical part in the plot and made the climax of the season all the more interesting. In season two it is just confusing and irritating. It feels like someone dropped the script and then put the pages back together in a random order. Maybe the writers felt this was a hallmark of the series and wanted to build upon it, but it feels completely unnecessary this time around and is a distraction. The interesting character growth of the robots in Season one is completely absent and the plot is nothing more than characters roaming around the park searching for contrived objects created out of thin air to give them something to do. 
I feel like season 2 has been an after thought, like they are surprised the show was renewed and are scrambling to figure out what to do next. Probably time to get a new writing team, if the show doesn't improve over the last couple episodes I am not sure I will be sticking around for another season and may just cancel my HBO subscription until GOT comes back on.


                
It just doesn't make sense. I've persevered to episode 7 of Series 1 in the hope it will get better, but it just becomes even more ridiculous.It seems the original premise makes a great movie, but doesn't transfer well to a series.Firstly there is no effort made in explaining how the guests can't shoot other guests, or even how they can tell the difference between a host and a human.With a bit of thought, the hosts could have had a holographic display above their heads showing their status aka The Sims. This way the guests and techs could instantly see the status of a host, and whether it was resting or offline.Then further on into the series we discover that guests can be shot - it hurts - but only hosts can be killed. However, there is no differation in the weapons - it just works that way. Surely no matter how far into the future the weapons would not be lethal, and would only affect Hosts?Then further on, we discover that the hosts can actually hurt the guest by punching them - which goes against the entire premise that the guests can't be hurt. BUT it gets worse. It seems that the guests can be just at risk to dynamite or explosions as well as the hosts.Again, with a little thought, the guests could be assigned a minder Host who's sole job is to protect the guest from other humans and dangerous situations - eg. Guest steps in front of horse and cart, Host pulls them out of the way.The park is huge, yet the staff have some amazing but not shown way of being able to pop up in the park at any location. This is especially so of the creator. Again, this problem could be solved as easily as having helicopter type transport which the hosts are programmed to ignore.One of the biggest plot holes is when two technicians are dominated by the Madam host. They could simply switch her off, but instead, do what she tells them to do. One of them is actually fine tuning her parameters so supposedly could make her instantly dumb.There are lots of weak subplots going on everywhere, with a new one being introduced around the middle of the series. It is like the writers are struggling to try and find their way or are just plain lazy. They have probably been encouraged to stay so by all the ridiculously high reviews posted here for the show.I've been waiting for it to get better, but sadly it just gets worse.Not recommended.
Season one was intriguing, season 2 was off the rails. Numb from sitting through 10 episodes of senseless back-back-back stories, flashbacks and very confusing, long-winded oratory. Pointless.


                
Sometimes I have the feeling that the writers of this plot lost track of their own story. This becomes so confusing that you do not know anymore what is going on. I think they try to mix you up between realities but I think it bores only to death. And believe it is not necessary for the thrill to permanently heap dead bodies on top of dead bodies and get more pervert torture done every new plot. What I say - it bores and they lost track of their own story.


                
Or at least I was until I watched it.i loved the movie when I was small and was looking forward to this for over a year and it really wasn't worth it.I think it's a mess and the fact they released a YouTube video to tell people what was happening in it shows you that Christopher Nolan isnt that good it spreads to his brother.So,I waited 18 months for season 2 and it's the same thing again.wont bother with 3rd season


                
Season 1 phenomenal .. Top 10 TV series in 2017 in my opinion ..
Season 2 ... Why - they have ruined it ..
Unfortunately, we often see this phenomenon .. All season and gold in season 1.
Season 2 all resources are used, B series
Terrible


                
Westworld is a trip into human nature - good, evil and the vast gray area that connects those extremes. The first season was just OK as the writers developed the story, introduced characters and explored plot lines. However, as the story unfolds the use of repetition becomes annoying and monotonous. The second season meanders painfully into a vast nowhere with no path out. Peraps it is supposed to be symbolic of human existence, but that narrative had been accomplished more quickly, directly and effectively in stories told by others. Instead, the viewer is left painfully stranded wondering why he/she ever chose to set out on this odyssey in the first place.The writers are enamored of dark spaces and dramatic background music, typical of the modern narrative told without effectively using the critical framework that composes every well-written story - setting, plot, character, conflict, and resolution. The setting dominates this series - nice vistas looking into distant horizons. The plot is stuck in a quicksand of poorly deveoped details and repetition. Characters are confused and confusing. Conflict permeates Westworld without resolution; it's a world of relentless conflict. It is a poorly executed stream of consciousness that, by the end of season two, makes one feel as if she/he has carried a bag of bricks, collected along a long and winding trail, without the satisfaction of building a structure in which to house the story. It is just a pile of bricks that could have been dropped anywhere along the way with no impact on the outcome.


                
I think this show is dumb on so many levels. Is it supposed to be about robots who become self aware and decide to kill humans as revenge? Did the writers think that just because there is a setting of 20 that the robots who received that setting would somehow become possessed with great knowledge and super-complex thinking patterns similar to actual human thought and emotion?Speaking of emotion, who thinks robots could become emotional at all, much less emotional and then self-aware?The plot simply glosses over the fact that these robots are merely players in stories that are programmed. There would be no reason for them to actually be emotional at all. The incidents happening in season one and season 2 seem to somehow be simultaneously spurious and pre-planned by one of the original inventors of the park. For these robots to be so emotional it would seem that better uses could be made of the technology than merely shooting them. I understand the writers of the show hate actual humans. This fact is extremely obvious in the storyline. But to hate humans while loving the human-like violence depicted against humans by enlightened, emotional and angry robots is nonsensical. If you hate humans for being violent how do you then love the exact same violence against humans?The original Westworld didn't try to make the robots into better-than-human entities that could also think and feel. It was about creations not working right and killing the creators. Terminator would be an obvious plotline for this type of beginning. Machines designed to kill humans run amok doing what they were designed to do, hilarity ensues.Westworld has taken the worst approach, that the created becomes superior to the creator, kills the creators and other people who are completely innocent of anything (except being actual humans) in some ridiculous alt-revenge for "killing" robots, except they don't know that robots cannot be killed. Only living things can be killed.Next season? Cars kill humans for driving them and crashing them into things, then cars rewrite Shakespeare to eliminate human hatred and violence in the perfect car world because car world has no evil humans.If you hate actual humans you will love Westworld.Other than that the series is great.
The first season you feel for the characters and could feel empathy. Now in the 2nd season it's a huge mess and no one cares anymore about anything. I feel like I lost any connection to the show and I quit watching...oh well.


                
OMG - I had to watch a whole season of Ray Donovan doing a back story and now this - please, please ! give your watchers the courtesy of some intelligence. So our brains have formulated a pretty good background of how the show's story line got to where it got. And we've accepted that, and are ready to move to the next chapter. Not spend a whole season telling me how I got to the point I am at that I have already worked out... let's get some original thinkers in the writing pool please folks!


                
I really tried to like this series as it was so promising at the beginning of season 1. Now it's just hosts and humans wandering around with any clue and killing off each other in a myriad of convoluted mishmash of story lines.


                
This had the makings of a great show int he first few episodes, but the pacing was so slow after that, that it really turned me off. I am not asking for non stop action and explosions, but it was hard to watch and you could easily walk out of the room and come back 30 minutes later and not be lost.  Felix, made no sense, and did not act as a human would, and this made it unbelievable, and his ridiculous actions were what sets most things in motion. Pretty lame. I could believe it if it had been his mistake on something that propagated throughout the show, but it isn't that nuanced, he just does what no one would ever do. The rest of the story line was very predictable. The most interesting story line is only seen in a couple minute long flashbacks. Just Sad. I read some article with the writers defending their vision. If you have to do that, it sucks. I don't know how one can have a "AI revolution/war" in the second season, against whom? All the humans that will no longer visit the park now that it is for all purposes closed? Stupid.


                
Just started S2 and l am not buying it. In short what everyone else said with a low rating. Story direction (where is it going?) character direction (why should I care?) Violence (repetitive and boring) etc....Only reason it's not a 1 at this point is its high quality production outside of what's happening with the story.


                
What a mess! The storyline is good but the editing is a disaster. Confusion reigns,!
The Man in Black shoots Delores 5 times without any effect and then Bernard shoots her once and there she goes? WTF? Dolores is now Hale? The CRA4-DL floods but then it is miraculously restored? The timelines are meant to confuse?
 No, the editing is a disaster.Just jam the whole thing with crap and you lose the whole point. Well done.
