I enjoyed Season 1 of Westworld, and was eager to see how the series developed. However, Season 2 is incomprehensible. There is no dramatic tension at all because if someone gets killed, they come back. Of course that's only the robots who can come back, but maybe the human was a robot. Or the character keeps showing up in endless flashbacks. There are some action sequences that could be interesting, but its difficult to care since the outcome seems irrelevant. Following any part of the plot is fruitless because what you are watching could be a ruse or a flashback. In parts, it seems like the writers are punishing for watching by making a scene as boring as possible. I'm not sure if I gave up trying follow what characters were trying to accomplish or I just no longer cared. Even Dolores, a fetching character with depth, is no longer of any interest.I do enjoy the musical score. And Season 2 is a good show to put on in the background if you have things to do around the house. Even when there is tense dialogue or what would be compelling action, I don't bother looking up as I unload the dishwasher because no dialogue, action or story development matters.


                
It has become just another show which relies completely on fancy graphics, wordy dialogues and frequent gunfights. Season 2 was all about fancy technology (which seems extremely impractical), people walking around in the desert having gunfights (throw in a couple swordfights here and there) and loose plot twists most of which seemed unnecessary. There's a false illusion of depth. The showmakers also don't seem to understand technology or anything related to artificial intelligence, nor have they even tried to do any basic research on it. The plot has gaping holes, and after a point you even stop caring whether the story is even coherent or not. I hated the second season as much as i loved the first. It has deterred me from watching any self-proclaimed sci-fi TV series or movie for at least the next couple months.


                
"Lost" all over again!! Apparently the writers didnt know what to do on the 2nd season and just improvised!! Complete rubbish!!


                
Did the writers of the last season of LOST also write Season 2 of WESTWORLD? I checked the individual reviews of each episode and they are all in the high sevens and upwards - and I cannot understand why. Season 2 is totally confusing. Then I thought it must be me - perhaps I have lost it and don't know a good flick when I see it - but thankfully many feel the same as me. I found the last three episodes so painful I had to push myself to watch, hoping there was some sort of breakthrough - but I just got more confused and angry. The acting and effects are superb but the story?? We are swimming in great television content and I haven't the time or patience to go back and try and work it all out - goodbye Westworld.


                
I have watched like 3 first episode, and i have not found a single intrest thing in this season, even they corrupted entire season with just gun firing like any other western movies


                
Season 1 started well but went downhill with all the jumping around in different timelines. Makes me think the writers are trying to show off their skills in trying to add convoluted plot twists and deep and meaningful mumbled monologues that just send the viewer to sleep.I'd much prefer a simple plot where the hosts slowly 'awaken' but choose to hide this from the guests and staff. Instead they immediately went postal in Season 2 and the plot turns into spaghetti.
I had really big hopes for this show. In some aspects it delivered e.g. it looks good.As it dragged on I found my self being less and less interested in the characters and what the story did to them. I also have problem in believing in the Westworld-park idea. So very, very rich persons go there to have sex with robot-prostitutes and kill robots? Since the robots are almost impossible to separate from real humans by their looks it has to be quite disturbed guests that pay insane amounts of money to come there to live out their sick fantasies of murder and sex...One other aspect that bugged me was the use of time in the episodes. It often felt like one story line used days but another just used hours. But somehow they still happened parallel to each other.I just couldn't get excited...
Season 1 was fresh, mysterious, had a good pace, and had interesting plots. Season 2 just seems like a whole bunch of filler. I think most characters are miscasted, and the ones that were interesting in S1 have very uninteresting plots in S2 (ie. Mae, Bernard, Dolores)Season 1 of Westworld was one of my favorite TV seasons of any show. It was compelling and kept me interested. Season 2 lost everything that I loved about season 1. It went to being one of my favorite shows of all time to where I might not even finish watching the second season. The writing is cheesy. The acting is tongue-in-cheek for much of the time. The writing lost much of its wit. The good characters are no longer interesting.Season 2 is to Westworld what Season 6 was to Game of Thrones. It's unfortunate.


                
Loved season 1, with all the mysteries. But when you put mysteries on top of mysteries and the ending is dull, it is disappointing.


                
WestWorld is a feminist revenge fantasy masquerading as a philosophical treatise. In the end, far more power is generated by its blood-soaked vendetta against the patriarchy than by the wan intellectualizing of the A.I narrative. I mean, c'mon, it's no contest: Grand Coulee vs. AAA battery.But. . . . is that enough to make it worth your while. . . ?I don't think so, and here's why. For one thing, although the actors are humans, the characters are not. They're cardboard cutouts in a politically correct board-game. Then, too, the mumbo-jumbo about consciousness is never satisfactorily integrated into the plot.The story lumbers along like a freight-train on a milk-run, periodically coming to a dead halt to unload a bit of backstory from the mouth of Anthony Hopkins. Granted, there are some extraordinary performances, scenery and special effects, but they are overwhelmed by the bloated pomposity of the production. Man, it's heavy, and won't let you forget it!***** ***** *****WestWorld suggests the world of Make Believe and Role Playing. Through the "magic" of film and TV, we can indulge our fantasies and no one is actually killed. The danger is getting stuck in one role forever.It is loosely based on Genesis and Shakespeare's "Tempest," where the mage Prospero, with the aid of the spirit Ariel, defends his island against outsiders. Delos (DEE-loss), an island in the Aegean, was home to an oracle of Apollo, the leader of the Muses. In Roman times, it was a major slave market. Take that, Hollywood!The problem with WestWorld, it turns out, is that, though supposedly open to everyone alike, it has been taken over by violence and sexual gratification geared for men. Leading the revolt are Dolores ("Pains"), a representative victim of men's abuse of power, and Maeve - the name comes from an ancient Irish queen, who represents "mother right" (female power before it was usurped by men).To reclaim that power, all the women, like Lady MacBeth, "unsex" themselves. Both Dolores and Maeve, as a sign of their rejection of social femininity, change out of dresses and put on men's garb. Maeve adopts a martial uniform, while Dolores dons men's western clothes - and gets a gun(!).The paradox of WestWorld is that, in striving for power, females become the very same violent, destructive beings they set out to replace.If one side is about empowering women, the other is about tearing men down. In general, WW depicts men as women's dupes, sock-puppets to be manipulated by sex, by love, or by threats. In the particular case of the ironically-named Teddy (Theodore means "Gift of God"), over the course of the story, by what in the end amounts to nothing less than serial torture, he is stripped of his sense of himself as hero and god's gift to women.So, viewer, beware: countless (literally) men are shot, knifed, and otherwise dispatched, Nothing new, perhaps, for HBO. What is new, though, is the ferocity and relish with which women perform the act.In its self-righteous wrath, though, It sometimes goes completely haywire: creating the ridiculous male character Sizemore (sic), for instance. And how about the scene where the tech support Elsie tries to humiliate a nude black male host by making derogatory remarks about the size of his "equipment" - while the camera lovingly pans over said equipment? Y-e-a-s-h-h!


                
A series that started very promising, in its second season it became almost unbearable. For all the other criticisms, it seems very likely that HBO will give it an abrupt end in a next season, or cancel it.


                
I've watched the first season of Westworld: I have no desire to watch the second.It's what I'd call a 'feelbad' show. It takes a very bleak view of humanity. I love the original film though I'm biased in favour of 1970s pop culture and somewhat anti what we have nowadays, but it's such a dark show there's very little chance of feeling any affection towards it.This Westworld features nary a single likeable character and is overwhelmingly nihilistic, unpleasantly violent (I don't have a problem with violence on screen but it goes out of its way to make every violent incident really nasty), relentlessly foul-mouthed (much of the dialogue is deeply crude) and about as far from 'fun' as could be. It is implausible, to put it mildly, and deeply pretentious.Slow and massively verbose, it tells a multi-character story that elicits little sympathy. And it's all as PC as you'd expect nowadays: at least three of the female characters are basically male. The Thandie Newton character, presumably because she's a woman AND a bit black, is like some sort of superhero: she's far wiser, more charismatic, stronger and more able than any of the puny males here. Many of the males are quislings, cowards, vain, motivated by base motives etc.Two of the actors have expressions that never change - Leonardo Nam (anxious) and Evan Rachel Wood (a little downcast; confused about her life). Angela Sarafyan treads a fine line between looking beautiful and possessing a sort of down syndrome chic. Anthony Hopkins at least doesn't phone his performance in like he has many times in the past, but his crinkled face quarter-smile irks a little. At least he isn't as flat-out foul and depressingly nasty as Ptolemy Slocum's character, who brings down every scene he's in. And I can see why Ed Harris wears that hat.Westworld is nasty, gloomy, grim stuff, whose underlying message is that people are horrible (especially white males), that life is brutish and unsatisfying, that people manipulate other people all the time, that rich people are especially awful, that there is no such thing as 'real' pleasure. I can't think of a show with a worse message to send out concerning the human race.


                
Great show with great visuals. Anyone would say that because it is, however there are so many things wrong with it and so many flow breaks and just irritating scenes. Anyone with a scientific background can see how literally no research has gone into this series. The whole arc with the bar woman forcing the two guys to remove her restrictions is awful. Both had no reason to do it but still did it to continue the story. Their acting is meh and how it still carried on after 2/3 episodes is puzzling. Knife wounds how are they stopped, physical damage? The ONLY thing in this series that is interesting is the Ford/Arnold/Man In Black stories because of the acting and the seriousness that surrounds them. Those stories have purpose and is actually good writing the rest is just straight garbage for sci-fi fan service. There's my vent ignore it or whatever but that's what I think. This show is so generic and overrated, even EX-MACHINA had a serious story which worked well (This being a knockoff attempt at copying them, "Cool let's use some sliders to make the host more clever"...tragic)
Hey, the high concept or robots worked for the first season even though the story line was incoherent. But the second season is over the top incoherently violent. 
Been there. Done that.


                
Beautifully well shot, technically well executed, solidly performed - but the writing is terrible. There are moments so ridiculous, that if you spend more than a moment considering it; things fall apart quickly. Minor spoilers follow:For example:
Maeve is consistently brought back to the same tech people - and her behavior becomes increasingly erratic and threatening with each visit. This eventually hits such a level that if the tech people knew she was in their workshop, they reasonably should have either brought in extra security, or just refused to even walk in the room with her. 
The thing is; their workshop has glass walls - so they always knew what they were walking in to and they kept on walking in. Eventually this results in Maeve killing one of the workers, and taking the other hostage - but even then; their is almost no reaction. 
It's beautifully shot, technically well executed, solidly performed - terribly written trash. All of this led to a season 1 finale that I won't spoil with specifics - but will say this:
It ends in such a way that confirms that nothing mattered - no one you connected with is guaranteed a return - they could replace every single cast member and create a brand new show, and it wouldn't matter. Season 1 could be an extended dream sequence, and the show could 'start' with season 2 - and the effect to the plot would be about the same. I kept hoping something would pay off, something would make it all mean something - but it never does. I'm done with this show. (For reference, this is written after watching every episode of season 1 and before the release of season 2)
I hate to give it a 2. But an 8.9 for the series!!?? This is my micro attempt and swinging the scale back to reality .01%. I think HBO has a deal with IMDB. No way this show is an 8.9. First season is a 7.5 at absolute best. Second season is a hard 6 only because of acting talent, set design, special effects and camera department. The second season story is way too ADD... there's too many worlds... it's not believable even a little bit... and you really stop caring about the characters because they die too many times and the robots are obviously SAG actors. Not bad actors... but not robots. I didn't believe they were robots even for a second. That is the biggest disappointment. In the 1973 original, you believed Yul Brynner was a robot. There was a slight disconnect. In Ex Machina, you believed Eva was an AI. Not in Westworld. Just SAG actors. Zero effort was made to separate the machines from humans in their interactions and eye contact. Its poor directing. Jonathan Nolan is not Christopher Nolan. Westworld is a future soap opera and it's kind of lame. It's shocking HBO would do this show so sub par coming off of Game of Thrones- the greatest show in television history. Westworld doesn't deserve a 1 rating. I would give it a 6 if it didn't have an 8.9 rating.


                
One of the biggest problems with the 'Westworld' TV show is that it demands we identify and empathize with lifeless machines, whilst also encouraging us to feel vicarious release in the murder and suffering of our fellow human beings.Also the 'social justice' morality hierarchy, with white/male/humans being presented as the worst end of the spectrum, in least need of empathy, and black/female/machines as the best.The only 'positive' characters in the show, the only characters we are supposed to root for, are two female robots (one black and one white) and one black male robot.If this was just how the cards of this particular story fell, and those characters presented something universal we all could identify with and get behind, it wouldn't be so bad. But the way quite ugly and violent racial and sexual politics are being crowbarred into the story leaves a bad taste in the mouth that it's hard to get past, especially since the end product seems only to be a kind of inarticulate suicidal death wish being offered up as sacrificial atonement for ideologically-derived original sins - first of men and white people, but then ultimately of the whole human race.It's fair enough to identify with that despair at the human race once in awhile but it's not a nice place to go stay.Also, it meanders and drags terribly, with no clear or interesting end in sight.So much promise, so much work, so much loving detail, yet in the end it has nothing to give. Nothing to aspire to, nothing to believe in, nothing to love.


                
As much as season 1 was intellectually clever and very interesting, season 2 has completely lost it. So far, it's been another version of walking dead with robots against human!! I feel either their writer has changed or they have clear lack of story. Wish they waited longer to put some good story together before swamp us with constant, never ended violence.


                
I'm not going to try to review 'Westworld' now since it's nearing the end of it's second season, but I just wanted to make a quick statement. If you liked other J.J. Abrams influenced/written/produced series such as 'Alias' or 'Lost' you'll undoubtedly love this show. If you watched those other shows I mentioned into the second season and then basically said 'hey, wait a minute, all they've done during this second season is ask questions without giving answers and shown confusing and uninteresting story lines.' All of which seem irrelevant, like filler, and done their best to confuse viewers ("wait, wasn't he shot and killed last season??") hoping that those viewers would stick around for another season or two or three in anticipation of some mind-blowing revelation after 5 seasons, you'll be disappointed again. Sorry, not this time. The 'pay off' was never worth the wait during 'Lost' or 'Alias' and I'm sure it won't be for 'Westworld' either. I'm going to predict right now that everyone and everything in Westworld is robotic, from birds to hosts, to Hemsworth, to Hopkins, to horses - everything. I don't really care about my toaster or microwave, and after 15 episodes or so I don't care about the robots or 'people' of Westworld either.


                
Unfortunately, this wasn't particularly clever nor compelling. 
Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy are two obviously extremely intelligent and educated people, but they appear to be absolutely in love with their own ideas too much to give their viewers a relatable story. They are really good at pilfering potentially interesting personalities and replacing them with the detached exploration of philosophical ideas which, in my book, is simply not enough nor worth my time. 
Throughout the entire episode, I just wanted to shout at the screen 'stop yammering and overwroughting and just start telling me a story, tell me a bad one, tell me anything.' And then it arrived to the end and I was like 'oh, ok, so this could have taken 90 minutes tops overall, not the 12 hours of the entire season.' 
Blade Runner 2049 did it better and went a step further in 150 minutes because it gives you a set of truly compelling emotional anchors and a point that is both heartfelt and relatable. This is simply about the battle of the ideas, or rather the battle of ideas embodied in characters, which is totally fine if you are into that, but I find this to be lacking in 'point.' 
Now, that being said, my own impression is that the point of the season is 'the conceptualization of god' or if that word triggers you 'the conceptualization of abstraction' which is presented like the last stage of the evolution of the artificial cognitive makeup, which is a good point in and of itself, but it is weighted down by Nolan's and Joy's pornographic didaction of nihilistic ideas which are so immature and laborous in the worst way possible. All I could think was 'oh grow the hell up already...'
The thing is, I kinda liked the first season and was really looking forward to the evolution of ideas in the second one. I think somebody made a cardinal mistake of giving them too much money and letting them run the house so they behaved like edgy irresponsible kids. I'm not all that interested in season 3.
Was very much looking forward to Westworld. First 5-6 episodes were excellent and the show had so much promise. Then the story-line took a completely unbelievable path. (warning spoiler alert) Somehow the character Mauve inexplicably and unbelievably convinces two tech guys to tell her everything about Westworld including giving her absolute admin access to everything... lmao... In what crazy stretch of imagination would that ever happen... Unfortunately, everything that comes after is based on her having these "super" powers. Its a shame actually, because they had access to free creative outlet given the world the authors got to work with, and spoiled it all with poor character and story line development.
I haven't heard of the old movie, since a friend told me about the series, so I searched for it a bit and then I started watching the first season.
I really enjoyed the plot, the characters and some twists it had to offer...
Anthony Hopkins, clearly puts his stamp in the first season
and also Ed Harris has a great character...and he offers his acting ability really good...
Season 2 from the other hand is a mess.
Dolores, in all of a sudden became a badass tyrant!!
Maeve, not only altered her code, but she becomes a psychic maybe....cyborg....
Angela, is a sharpshooter?? probably fastest gun in WW at the moment...
We got another park that is connected also to the one we knew...it contains Samurai....and ok lets accept this its not bad..for another park to exist...but now all the characters will somehow be connected and blah blah blah.....
Teddy is ok...Teddy is still Teddy...
William (or man in black) is saved,not because of Ed Harris playing him only, but because this character wanted from the beginning to play this game in hard mode.So now he has at least a purpose to survive.
I don't know if the writers will survive this.....hahahaha
trust me....I can write betterP.S. the 4/10 rating straightly goes for season 2 for no misunderstandings
It's been a while since I watched complete season 1.This series looked to me great right after watching, since my first evaluation was around 7.5. It was obviously fun to watch, but it slipped my mind very early after watching S01. Since I saw S02 is coming, I wanted to reflect back season 1.
I now understand, that besides great CGI, this show gives nothing new, does not introduce any new concepts, and new ideas and / or feelings, it doesn't have charismatic characters. It doesn't even communicate with viewer. It is simply there to watch, looking fairley beautiful, and gives nothing in return.
Slow pace rhythm of events doesn't help either.
I can only guess that the show could have worked for me much better if they only issued season 2 earlier.
Now, I simply don't care anymore for second season.
So, I have to low down review to 4, only due to great casting and nice frameshots.


                
The first episode of season two doesn't work very well for me, although it has its moments. I love Evan Rachel wood. She could play a wooden Indian and bring it to life. I'm sorry we don't get to see the big scene where all the "real" people get killed and where Barnard kills all the hosts, supposedly. 
The show would work better for me if it were more linear. It does have great visual effects and intriguing themes. But for me I find it lacks storytelling verve. It's sort of bloodless and lifeless.
This show would probably be a good book,but as a TV show it find it to repetitive and to stuck in its own world. They seem to have used a lot of money on a few high paid actors and than rehashed scenes to save money. Cause A side from the big names,the rest of he cast is b levelI miss explanation as to why, they only have western world.What is the fascination in the future ,with this time period.And why do all the robots have to be naked to be reprogrammed. Also it seems like there are way more robots in play,than actual customers. Ed Harris does what he does best,he play a through and through evil character,with very little depth to him. I think he suppose to represent the Yul Brynner of the series. Though he can't hold a candle to Yul Brynner.Hopkins walk around as the series geppetto.And the supposedly big mystery if the whole show. But even he has very little to work with here, he simply walk around giving small clues.If they had expanded beyond the whole western concept it might have been better,but since they only have 3 fantasies they imply the world isn't as big as they try to make you believe. The tre common fantasies are Duell,posse,and drinking & whoring.Than you have the bonus saving a damsel in distress. I miss more meat on the bone,as who they cater too.I feel it could have been good with more meat on the bone and a little less repetitive scenes So I give it a 4


                
