As most of all others here i have to say: season 2 wtf??? I loved S1 - slow but tense, hopkins, yeah.... now after S02E04 nothing is left but good cinematography ... it's a shame. I hope they maybe getting some things right going into the final of S2! Their work still deserves the chance...


                
Boy I wish IMDB message boards were still around. Barring that...Season 1 of Westworld was fascinating because it explored the nature of humanity, compassion and kinship in the face of the "other" - how money/power corrupts and how "us" and "them" can be turned around before anyone knows what's happening.I had hoped season 2 would show the consequences of exploitation, and how the exploited rise up, using resources the exploiters never expect because of the arrogance of power and domination. But.. nah... now its just a shoot-em-up revenge tale. The constant "mood" music is distracting and bad, and I can see the "secret" a country mile away - its going to be some sort of way to download one's consciousness into a cyborg so one has eternal life, DUH... Gee, I wonder WHY we were recently introduced to the megalomaniacal mega-billionaire with terminal whatever it is. Duh duh duh.. So lazy, so disappointed. Missing Anthony Hopkins madly, but still enjoying Jeffrey Wright and Thandie Newton, who are always fun to watch even though they have been given really bad fortune cookie dialogue this season. And the doofy British guy has got to GET GOT, what a stereotypical whiny weasel sidekick, yawn...Bring back the Westworld that made us think and feel, season 2 just gives me a headache.


                
To begin with I'll admit that one of the reasons I started watching Westworld was its positive IMDb rating (yes I'm one of those people) but having watched just the first few episodes I must unfortunately conclude that it has been rather over hyped. While the futuristic premise is interesting and it is something I usually love as with the likes of Humans, Black Mirror, The Matrix, Inception etc it's delivery here is quite poor. When dealing with technology and future worlds attention to detail is IMO THE most important thing to get right- I can take poor individual character development as long the big picture is made clear-that's why I'd actually rate Surrogates (the movie 2009- with Bruce Willis) on a par with this series because where it lacked character depth it didn't over complicate the story or bring in too many elements and it at least gave us some idea of how and why people and society became how they were through the evolution of the surrogate technology involved and showed how this in turn had real world effects that were both good and bad for society and the individual people in it. Unfortunately Westword doesn't really do this.As I see it this series has two main problems. First of all the cast is way too big, too many characters and not enough depth mean its very difficult to really care about or get to know any of them. There's a full medium sized cast inside the western themed fictional world- some 'real' some not and this is fine but the most annoying and at times confusingly aspect is that outside of this in the 'real' world of the operations/ command center there's also a medium sized cast and they too have their stories going on and overlapping (although only on a superficial level as I mention below). We see two sets of characters but half of them supposedly aren't even real, yet the unreal characters seem to have more life and emotion in them than the other half who supposedly are real but walk around half the time acting like robots repeating the same scenes with one another over and over while never really being developed in terms of their background or motivations or personality beyond the usual self- interested and ego driven superficial plotting, scheming and double crossing aimed at some unnamed, unknown, unexplained and what seems like pointless end within what is essentially a tiny sphere of influence within what is actually a huge complex of a command/ operations center where they work, live and plot against one another. With so many big name actors involved in this show I feel they've tried to throw too cooks at this but left them with very little in terms of quality ingredients with regards to individual character development needed early on to draw people in and make them care enough to continue to pay attention to and follow their story arc. IMO the characters, even the major ones, all sort of seem to over ride and confuse one another to a point where your not really sure why they're doing/ saying the things they are and frankly you start to not really care. IMO they need to both cut minor characters and focus on developing major secondary characters while I feel Anthony Hopkins character should have had more of a central role in shaping and developing the backstory of Westworld- which leads me on to my other problem with this show. So far there's been no real explanation of how or why this world exists as it does. How did it come to be developed in the fist place and why? How about having some expansion on the technology involved and it's theoretical and practical wider implications and consequences for the world and society. Aside from creating a fantasy western themed play world for the rich deep under ground in some strange Hunger Games type zone, what else has or could have been done with this technology to help humanity? And what are the consequences of this? Equally how is this underground world maintained and sustained, how is/was it financed (apart from the money from visitors)? In fictional futuristic worlds its the details that are most important in determining how believable the story is- here they're sadly lacking and to add insult to injury none of the many many characters are developed enough to make them all that very likable.
Season 1 was excellent, plotting, full of twist in the story I wouldn't of guessed, action, nudity lol it had everything. Season 2 seemed like they where dragging the story out longer than what was necessary. Whilst it did have its interesting scenes in season 2 unfortunately this time around it had nothing on the first season. Bring on a better 3rd season.
Season 1 is a must-see show. One of the best productions in recent TV history. That being said, it seems that they wasn't expecting a season 2 and made up the story on the fly.While different timelines are used in season 1 to slowly build the story to its conclusion, in season 2 they are just used to mask the lack of a compelling story, making you believe that the plot is oh-so-smart that it is difficult to follow. No, it is just a mess that turns most of season 1 into a big MacGuffin.Character motivations are a joke, some of the best characters from season 1 are reduced to a bad caricature of themselves, filler episodes with tertiary characters and lots of repetitive, meaningless violence to mask the shallow plot, flashbacks to events that are little relevant to the current narrative and on top of all that, people spend so much time walking / driving / horse riding to their esoteric destinations that sometimes I thought I was watching The Hobbit instead. All that to reach a point into the narrative that you could see coming since season 1. There are so many better ways they could have done that! Season 1 was really awesome, but now I really don't care about a season 3.


                
Season 1 was well crafted one of my top favorite shows, a 9 (maybe 10) out of 10. I felt season two was trying too hard. Season 1 was brilliantly written, had a 1 really solid twist and a surprise ending. Season 2 was self aware and gave a "shocking twist" every other episode at the cost of the writing and characters. *SPOILERS BEGIN*
Also the deep questions in the 1st seasons had great answers while the philosophical questions in the 2nd season where answered (at times) poorly. The hosts Kept asking "why, why are humans so evil to the hosts?" 
Like I remember in the 1st season a lot of people came with their families for a fun adventure and to be the hero. also couldn't someone say "We were told you were not sentient, if we knew we wouldn't have done it" At it's core, the recording humans at a park to recreate a person is not possible and took me out of the story. People will behave differently (but not more "true") while at Westworld. It's like saying you can get the full picture of someone while they're at six flags.
*SPOILERS END*Lost count at how many times someone came to the rescue when someone was about to get shot, 5/10 for season 2. its probably better to pretend this show only has one season.
This series is very good, no question about it. I remember seeing the first episode and thinking of course someone that the viewer think is human will turn out to be a robot or a robot turning out to be a human. If not the writing would be bad. But some things that I really could not stop to think about was that he created the software and the park about 30-40 years before the main story. During all this time is he the only person who has come up with this or are there other "less good" AI in the world. Does it exist "pirated" AI of what he has created? He has the programming to create super complex AI and all he uses it for is the park. For that matter you see hints on other narratives, but during these 30-40 years they only have the western theme, with on many regards the same people in it. No expansion. I just don't believe that. Its just such a waste of potential and money.
First series was amazing, 9/10. Clever, engaging with twists and turns keeping you on your toes. Great characters, intriguing plot right up to the finale.Seconds series 4/10, tried too hard to be clever in a way the first series didn't need to. Confusing, dull and boring episodes interspersed with few moments of greatness couldn't save it for me. Always waiting for that one great episode to save it that never happened.What could have been.... <f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+0081>


                
Westworld started off being the thing I looked forward to each week on TV. Season one was outstanding. Then we get to season two and it just fades.
These shows need to find a balance between keeping the audience guessing and confusing people with incoherent ramblings with no development. There were some episodes that didn't really serve a point. Hopefully they can redeem themselves with season three.


                
This Sci-Fi TV show is inspired by 1974 Yul Brenner western that takes place in a Wild West theme park with life-like androids. Part mystery, part drama, the show flirts across genres and keeps you guessing right up until its final, shocking moment. The casting for Westworld is downright stellar, while production is terrific. Anthony Hopkins elevates the show with a breathtaking performance (as Dr Ford park founder) and right up until the finale, the show manages to keep a decent pace going. Overall, I did enjoyed the Season one, even with the disruption caused by the hidden flashbacks. I would recommend the series for any Sci-Fi genre fan. 7+/10


                
I can agree with the other reviewers that have said season 2 is confusing. It's confusing for viewers because of the non-linear timeline, which I think must be Nolan brothers prerequesite. I think films work better with several timelines but if you are tuning in once a week it gets difficult to work out or grasp which timeline things are happening in. This for me, was season 2 downfall. Maybe it works better if you binge watch it one sitting.


                
It's OK, I guess. I don't completely get it but I watch it anyway. It does a poor job of explaining everything and just when you think you understand it explores something completely different and has you asking even more questions. The questions aren't answered in a concise fashion so it doesn't feel like the writers really put in effort and just decided to attempt to over-complicate elements just to be "different" and give an unneeded sense of complexity (while, in reality even the writers don't really understand what they're writing!).The CGI is really good and the cinematography and soundtrack are excellent.The storytelling techniques and writing should be dumbed-down (although it was never "complex" in the first place, just attempting to!)


                
The total rating of seven is an average of the first two seasons, my rating for season one is 9 and season two a very mediocre 5.The first season is really excellent. A clear storyline that evolves gradually. We are step by step introduced to the various features of the constructed dreamworld where humans are interacting with very sophisticated robots. This is a very encapsulating journey, where the boundaries of consciousness and being human or not are intelligently explored. Also philosophical exploration of what happens with a human in an environment where you can do everything without risk. What would you do ? What true character of yourself would you manifest?The first season ended with my very high expectations for the following season.Season two is very different. Here the storyline is very mudded and you get the feel that there are many storywriters having made each episode without making a clear connection of all episodes. It deteriorates into a traditional action movie without any special qualities expect very good technical production and special effects. The season has its qualities in some episodes, but it is very uneven. And leaves you with a lot of confusion.Season 3 needs to be ramped up considerably, otherwise this series will be a flop.I absolutely recommend you to watch season 1, it is outstanding.


                
Everyone knows the first season was magnificent. NO QUESTION!But as I watch the 2nd episode of season 2 I am growing tired of hearing "you're the pretty girl" in regards to Evan Rachel Wood. WHY are they trying to force the viewers to think that this girl is pretty? Its not enough to make her the main character when her acting is subpar and she is 0% convincing as the "bad guy", now they spend time on EVERY.SINGLE.EPISODE selling the idea that she is "pretty". I don't care if some people think she is, its simply the horrible fact that the script has so much focus on it. What is the point? If she is pretty then who needs to be told she is pretty? If she isn't, why do they care to sell the idea so much?? Its so weak.This 2nd season reminds me so much of True Detective..... perfect season 1, horrible season 2. Now I read that it will be 2 years until Westworld season 3? Don't be surprised if it never materializes. If it does materialize, I personally would rather not see Evan Rachel Wood anymore. (Maybe she dies 2nd season? Idk yet). But if she is in the 3rd season, at minimum STOP SAYING SHE IS PRETTY!Also... horrible body double for the partially nude scenes with this girl. And how many times is this episode going to fade in and out of black in order to change from scene to scene? Did the writers forget to include a segway or 10?8/10 for the entire series up to this point. If it doesn't pick up then I might not be able to make it through the entire season 2.EDIT/UPDATE: I made it through the entire season 2. After the 2nd episode (I guess it was a guest director, much like that huge fight scene in Game of Thrones that had a guest director, which is why it was a huge mess of a fight scene that had nothing to actually do with moving to story forward) the season picked up a little bit but it started to falter a little bit towards the end and then it very much crashed the last couple episodes. I think I share most people's comments that season 2 sucked. There were maybe 4 good episodes (the best being the episode that Zahn McClarnon (Akecheta) had to himself -- what a great actor! It would be so awesome to see him return to season 3). They killed off so many of the good actors, such as Clifton Collins Jr (Lawrence), Rodrigo Santoro (Hector), and Angela Sarafyan (Clementine) to name a few. All so they could give Evan Rachel Wood so much screen time?!? HORRIBLE. I wish Peter Mullan (James Delos) had more screen time as he is a wonderful actor (Session 9 anyone?!?). If anyone from Westworld's development is listening, PLEASE GOD do not bring back Evan Rachel Wood for season 3 and PLEASE GOD do not hinder Jeffrey Wright's (Bernard) character the way you did in season 2... he is way too good of an actor to be forced to stumble through his lines the way he did in season 2. I change my rating to 7/10 because season 2 was half good/half bad, but the half bad part was really bad and the half good part was just okay. But, season 1 was perfect... so it is clearly better than a 6/10.


                
Reviewing this series after only one episode could prove a folly if the storyline takes an unexpected turn later on. Initially we are presented with the existential crisis of automata becoming more aware, but also playing throughout episode one is the emptiness of the real humans.And therein may be a problem, if the only likable, or redeemable, characters turn out to be the androids.The cast runs from good to excellent; the presentation on screen well edited to provide 70 minutes that one can follow, want to follow, until the end. The dialogue between humans is sophisticated, more so than that of the androids, and that is how at least for now one can tell the difference.Voyeurism plays a significant role in the first episode and I found it to be slightly too much, too dominating. Though the forwardness of the voyeurism is quite insightful on its own, at times I got the feeling that cheap titillation took precedence over what was necessary.Initially rating 7 out of 10, I may need to increase that if the series proves to tell a more compelling story in the big picture. Definitely worth continuing to watch for a couple of more episodes to see what happens.
But why are the hosts "living" lives so independent from the guests. Isn't their only purpose to entertain the rich guests?? They end up shooting it out amongst themselves 2/3 if the time. I could deal with that if it was well into the season and a glitch had developed. Instead the tough talking scientists (huh??) let the hosts do whatever they want and just clean up at night. They couch this whole premise on letting the hosts evolve and participate in continuous storylines w/in the park. Sounds like BS. It's just a way to inject some action and violence into a talkfest series. A la Walking Dead. Hopkins character is worth watching.
I'll give it a few more episodes before pulling the plug. Get it??
I got so lost in Season 2 I gave up and looked to the internet for an explanation to what was going on. And all you need to know is that the explanation is just as hard to follow as the plot.I found it a task to watch and that was regretful as the costumes, backdrops and acting were superb. Just let down by such a meandering plot.


                
The first season was great, but the second one was disappointing. I would give a 10 for the first season, but a 4 for the second one, and just because of the high production level and good acting. The plot is now boring and hard to understand and follow. So that's a 7.


                
I loved season one of Westworld. But the new season isn't resonating with me, partly because the violence makes the robots seem less human. In season 1, it was the humans, who seemed less human because of their propensity for violence and lack of empathy. Now the same can be said of the robots, which makes this season less interesting to watch. Evan Rachel Wood, was mesmerizing as Dolores in the first season, but now she is just robotic and stoic with a long gaze, and not a character I can empathize with or care about, whereas, I cared about her quite a bit in season1. The same with Teddy played by James Marsden. I wanted him to get his vengeance, and yet, he's left doing nothing but following the lead of Dolores, whose mission seems aimless and disinteresting. The same can be said with Bernard, who was the heart and soul of the first season along with his maker, Dr. Ford, played by Anthony Hopkins, who made quite an adversary. I am really hoping the story does more with Bernard. I loved watching him last season, and found myself rooting for him more than any other character. The series isn't giving Bernard enough to do, as it pushes the envelope on violence for a reason that has nothing to do with story telling. It's doing it just to show that it can, which makes the story (if there is one) less interesting. Mauve of course was someone I rooted for as well. What will she do with her liberation? Roan around? And the natives as savages, a little played dont' you think? And why does EVERYONE have free will? They all seem to have what Mauve has. I don't know. I cant' figure out what is going on, and it doesn't leaving you guessing or wanting more after each episode, it just leaves me with a feeling of... is that it?
I gave Westworld an honest go due to its praise and critical acclaim. It was engaging, deep and thoughtful and contained great effects. I could tell it was a show that gradually built towards key points, it purposely acted vague and confusing because when it came to full circle it would deliver. I feel it only somewhat delivered on its buildup. The final revelations and key story lines did not live up to all the hype. It was a good story and well delivered but one would expect more after 10 episodes. The viewer needed patience, a lot of patience to see long and somewhat disjointed episodes that slowly have pieces of a puzzle. But once the puzzle was complete it was slightly above average and arguably not worth all the time and effort one invested in.


                
Season 1 was great. But season 2 has literally no story. It is just useless details.


                
I am lost. Season 1 was straight forward and enjoyable with the sci-fi understandable. Season 2 has gone awry and abstract. It is driving me bonkers and I am reaching the stage that I may not be real after all. The sci-fi has gone too clever, but I am still hooked, yet don't like it.Hosts are taking over and humans do really die. Yet who is real and who is not? The lines are blurred. Just watched episode 9 and hope that all is revealed in the last episode next week.


                
My reviews are never to chastise the other reviews/reviewers, nor is it a personal vendetta against the writer, dIrector or producer. It is simply my quick summarized take to explain a glimpse of what the show has in store. And no, I will definitely not spoil the show for you by detailing what happens. Enjoy my review.There was a lot of hype surrounding this series. Though I found it a good film, it did not greatly exceed the bar.There is enough intrigue in most of the episodes to leave you wanting the next and the next, but something was missing. The continuity could have been better tailored and presented to the viewing audience and this often had you trying to piece elements of the show together.With that said, the plot and concept were very good. Imaginative and visual work is almost flawless.A good watch, just not great. 7.5 is my mark.


                
Review based on first 4 episodes (all currently shown).Firstly, to address some points made by other reviews here:1. profanity ("Fbombs" if you will) - I must really be going soft, as I haven't noticed!2. nudity - there are nude robots, but with well placed fig leaves, etc. There are some boobs, but hardly prolific (much less so than GoT). It depends on what your baseline is! (are you a BBC viewer new to HBO, etc).3. slowness - again this is relative. If you are a millennial brought up on Transformers, then it must be like watching paint drying, but, if you are coming to this after watching Midsummer Murders on ITV, then it will seem action packed!Personally, I was happy with the pace, the swearing (that I didn't notice) and the beautiful bodices. What I wasn't happy with was..., mostly everything else! I love a good killer robot movie as much as the next guy, possibly even more so, as The Terminator is my No.1 movie of all time, but what we have so far in Westworld (WW) is not so much killer robots (yet) but philosophical musings (& some raping and killing for good measure), but mostly philosophical musings. Now, I am perfectly happy with this, my No.2 movie of all time is 2001, where very little happens for most of the movie. However, where 2001 succeeds is where WW fails, 2001 works as is it coherent in its fantastical story-line, WW isn't. Nothings seems to fit together at all, and we the viewer are, I suspect, supposed to ignore these things and just "go with the story". But when you get pulled out of the story by the poor story telling then this is difficult. A few of the problems I've noted:1. In the middle of the desert why is it like water world in the lower levels of the "doll house" complex?2. Why do the managers keep the "hosts" in the watery basement?!3. By what method do the managers retrieve the host for each psyche or repair session?4. If the host is bullet strewn and retired, how does it then "remember" past events? (here it could be the case that the host is repaired, but the implication is that the bullet strewn hosts are disposed of and replaced with a fresh model).5. Why do the bullets that can blow a host's face off, smash a glass, not inflict damage on the guests (real people)?6. Is there some Hunger Games BS afoot? What do I mean? {manager} "permission to launch pyrotechnic effect" before the cell-door explosion. Er, what? So if manager 2 had said "no" does this mean that Black Hat man's cigar would not have exploded? How does that work??! (it doesn't, that's why is was rubbish..., and was similarly utter tripe in Hunger Games).7. What happens when a guest picks up an axe and brains another guest? Perhaps the manger will just say "permission to blunt axe"?8. 6:00 ...put your little hand in mine, there ain't no heaven mountain we.... So each day re-sets itself..., sometimes..., depending..., other times it doesn't. Well, which is it? Seemingly if you are off out on the trail hunting fugitives then the 6:00 alarm doesn't sound, but if you are back in town then you'll wake up anew for another confusing day.Well, 4 episodes in and it's not looking good. I'll stick with it for this series as I'm looking forward to the first human kill (by a host!), after that I think I'll be going back to Humans on Ch4 (which is even worse!!).----UPDATE AFTER LAST EPISODE S1-----Well, I'd originally rated the show as 3/10 (above). Having now seen the whole of Season 1 I have changed my rating to 7/10. It is rare indeed that something that starts off poor gets better, but WW certainly did. There were still flaws and plenty of things to nit-pick about..., however, my new rating is based on how thoroughly entertained I was in the last few episodes, which I was! And I loved the final Resident Evil-esque scene!Cease all motor functions!


                
Show made very well actors are amazing but I still am not seeing what everyone is so hyped about when it comes to this show is they would just make the show about the old west I think it would be just as good unless I'm just not getting it so please someone explain it to me


                
