SPOILER: I give up on Season 2. 7 Episodes in and some of these episodes are hitting past the 1 hour mark . Its totally lost me, it just seems like lots of groups of humans/hosts/whatever just wandering aimlessly around the park just killing and capturing, and escaping, with repeated flashbacks dropped in out of the blue. Although Anthony Hopkins pops up occasionally,Season 2 has lost his class.Its ultra complicated and too much to take in . They really messed up this season. There is going to be a Season 3 but the viewing numbers are dropping.


                
As many others have written, the season 2 is a let down. It's hard to care for anyone anymore, since all the characters have become unlikeable and frankly, boring. Plot makes no sense, is confusing and episodes are full of dumb clichés. Watching the season 2 felt like chore and for that reason unfortunately I can't recommend it to anyone and I'm not going to waste my time anymore with this series. It's a shame that this happens to so many great series.


                
It's a beautifully layered story about the dawn of Artificial Intelligence, where the androids are becoming more & more emotional as they gain consciousness, and humans are becoming more homicidal as they lose their humanity. In a theme park world, where human actions are devoid of any consequences, as machines evolve by self-learning, they are becoming more enlightened than their creators. Bringing together huge names like Michael Crichton, Jonathan Nolan and Anthony Hopkins, along with a multi-million dollar budget, this show, just after a 9 episode run, looks promising enough to be the best TV show ever. Could it break the record-breaking following achieved by Game of Thrones, could it keep blowing away our mind even after a 5 season run like Breaking Bad...I can't wait to find out.


                
1st, you cannot follow this show if you're not fully invested in sitting, watching and reading for 1 hour. It's not really dramatic nor action packed. It replays scenes a lot and adds very little into those replays. Most people will see this as boring. But if you ACTUALLY watch it. Its the reason why HBO continues its streak of breaking records. It's the perfect example a story-driven show. None of the deaths matter, none of the action is taken serious, but all of it furthers story line and helps tell the ending in a way that it makes sense if you'd paid attention.Since The Last Episode is out, You're better Binge Watching All The episodes and go in knowing, the first couple episodes are confusing, but it'll all pay off.


                
As good as the first season was, the second season is merely an exercise in showcasing multiple forms of sadism.The only reason I still watch this is because Ed Harris is in it.


                
WESTWORLD (2016) is a science fiction drama TV show that takes place in fictional Westworld, a technologically advanced, Western- themed amusement park populated completely by androids referred to as "Hosts". Westworld's visitors are known as "Newcomers", who can do whatever they wish within the park, without fear of retaliation from the Hosts. The fact that "Newcomers" can do whatever that want to the "Hosts" is disturbing. It's primal Rape, murder, mutilation--it's all fair game. Westworld allows "Newcomers" to throw their morals away. Everything we've fought to overcome as a society is ignored. We sort of already live in a reality based society. Folks seem more at home with what's going on with "Reality TV" rather than what's actually going on in the real world. Even the 'news programs" sell sensationalism. If we can achieve the level of technology Westworld has this show won't be fiction. The series, originally conceived as a movie written and directed by Michael Crichton in 1973, despite being fiction, is definitely we're only decades away from. The first episode, and probably the series, deals with several malfunctioning 'Hosts" which as seemingly caused by a recent software update. As the episode progresses, it leads the audience to believe that this software malfunction could lead to the "Hosts" becoming self aware, and possible a danger to the "Newcomers."The idea of technology getting away from us, and our creations taking revenge isn't a new concept, but this show is still intriguing. Maybe it will actually teach us a lesson we'll listen to.


                
The only reason i'm giving it a 8* is because of season 1. Season was epic as hell!! It soon became one of my favorites until I saw season 2. Season 1 has this mysterious atmosphere which all adds up and ends perfectly. The production, acting and everything is great except for 2nd season. I wish they never released season 2. It's one of those series which has a perfect ending in season 1 and doesn't need another season. I had to force myself to watch the 2nd season. 
Enough about season 2 though, if you are really looking for a good show, watch season 1 you just won't be disappointed. Season 1 will really make you think and question things.
Anyway Season 3 is about to come out in a few years but I don't know if I'll watch it or not.I'll first read the reviews.
Season 1 - 11/10
Season 2 - 5/10


                
Thank you to HBO, the producers, the writers and the cast and crew. Thank you to all involved for bringing the classic Westworld into the DNA era now set in a near future(?) world of biotechnology tourism.First - I'm a lifelong fan of the original movie starring the legend Yul Brynner and have seen it many times now. I did wonder how the 1973 movies story line about the ultimate holiday resort/theme park of the future would be handled given the rapid advances in technology since 1973 the year of the movies release.The first episode is equal to the best first episode of any TV series I have seen. Science/speculative fiction, mystery, drama, wry comedy, a horror story (the supernatural?), Truman show type allusions to the realities on our earth, and, some classic sci.fi/gun-slinging cowboys, scheming saloon dames and biomech bank robbing banditos!I can't believe the negative reviews I have read. Perhaps because the producers have added deeper story-lines to the original movie some reviewers are disappointed? I've seen some negative reviews claiming Battlestar Gallitica as the benchmark of Sci-fi lol. This Westworld is much more than robot cowboys going berserk because of some electronic blip but it's about that too. Multiple genres are blended perfectly, the production, writing and super cast are all excellent. I want more HBO.EDIT: The last episode seemed a little rushed to me. Still a very enjoyable TV series. Looking forward to Season 2.


                
I noticed most of the things that annoyed me in this first time watching, and I agree with people bashing the show about some of it. An obvious example is the lack of good explanation about the two guys that help Maeve. Thats major for the plot and it ruins some of it. Then I rewatched it with my girlfriend. I noticed more plot holes, wrong technical explanations, and simple solutions to things that would not be solved like that. But I also realized that some of the continuity errors that I thought that I had noticed in the first run were actually explained by the multitimelines revealed at the end. This made me undecided about a verdict regarding the show. Then I started reading some of the reviews and started to see a lot of additional good and bad things about the show.Good: Complex structure. Don't say that it isn't. It has 3 or more different timelines being presented consecutively. It confuses, but rewards you. This adds replayability. It had some lazy solutions to some problems, and lazy writing for some arcs, but it does not nullify the complex structure of the whole thing.The mysteries and plot twists are really nice. Here I'm talking about all the things that makes you create theories. Some people thought that it would be the grave digging aspect of the series, saying that this amount of mysteries could not be solved, and this would have a 'lost' or 'dr who' explanation for things. Loved the Man in Black twist. Loved the Bernard/Arnold twist. Loved the Dolores is the lady in the "Wyatt" shoes. My 3 cents about this is that the grand mysteries had great explanations, but some things that were not mysteries, but equally impacting or important, were poorly explained, or written.Character progression. People complain about this one, saying that the loops and memories flushes of the characters makes it difficult to develop them. It sure does. And this is part of the challenge that I think that they conquered despite of the difficulty. Everything is relative: People often bash the show for not having obvious villains and obvious heroes. You don't actually root for, or hate anyone. You don't actually relate to anyone as well. But this is part of the complexity of it. The main character here is the history, the links between the timelines and story lines, and the philosophical reflections about them.Great TV/Cinema techniques: Visual rhymes well placed (like how the hosts wake up). Contemporary modern musics played in the piano, making us always realize this is not a western bang bang. This meta cinematography stuff that the Nolan's always make with their stuff, making the actors act like characters acting, or act the process of character production and direction and stuff like that in a lot of their work (inception, The prestige, and others).Great dialog and acting in most arcs. It really makes you wanna hear what they have to say. They quote some great references. Its very meta and cool.AMAZING easter-egg and reference digging. This is a new trend. Accept it. It has references to the source material. It has references to games that inspired some aspects of it. It has glimpses of the end of the show in the 6th eps, but only noticeable to someone rewatching it. It has a real website with things hidden to enthusiasts to decode. And it goes on. Music is amazing and is part of the reference digging. This is a reflection of a new way of consuming this types of media. No one watches this kind of shows alone today. Its a community watching and searching for clues and references. They know it. They prepared it for it.Bad:Really poor explanation for some important things. The monitoring of the park is ridiculously inefficient. Some times they hear everything that is happening in the saloon, sometimes a host is questioning its reality and no one is noticing. They notice the axeman going crazy when he was already in the middle of the mountain. Hosts cant shoot but can cause you brain damage with punches in your head. You can carry a knife and go to the desert and find other guest and think it is a host and kill him by accident. Elsie has to bring the head home and cant download the metrics from the axeman... And it goes on and on.The explanation about how the hosts achieve self consciousness is outdated and weird. I like that the answer to maze is something related to the hosts finding their own consciousness. But I don't buy the philosophical explanation to code consciousness into their brain through that pyramid, and latter that maze. Some reviewers are bashing it for using the bicameral mind, that was debunked ages ago, to explain this. Well, it isn't. You can't bash Nolan for not researching about philosophy without researching what bootstrap means in code programming yourself. But I cant help but agree that I don't feel that the (memory, improvisation, self interest, suffering) repeated in a maze really explains consciousness. And again... talking and hearing yourself isn't self consciousness, even the show says that. The suffering were introduced as a important aspect of the construction of the hosts personalities since the beginning, and then was reintroduced like it was a new thing again in the end... did not make sense. Buuuut... this one I can put in the poetic license bag. Like the singularity portal black hole interacting with the past in Interstellar.Great series. The great stuff makes this show worth watching. What I find funny are the people that review lesser shows with higher rates because the show was not hyped, and then come here to review this one with low rates because of the hype. Overhype does not make it worse, just makes it not as good as people say it is.
The main issue that I have with this show is that it moves too slow. If that fault were fixed, I think I would love it. The nature of the show kind of necessitates that it take a slower pace because for one thing, the hosts are experiencing things more slowly than we probably would, and it is also the kind of show that is meant to engage your mind. Every scene has something to keep you interested, even if it only amounts to wondering whether a given character is a host or not. I think it is definitely a show that deserves to be watched over two or three times (though maybe at 1.5 speed for some scenes).I don't really think that this show is trying to directly comment on anything that is going on in the world now, but its themes of human nature and man's relationship with technology and entertainment are kind of timeless themes. However, it re-affirms my fear of us ever creating a true AI. As much as I want computers to work better and be faster, there is a certain security in knowing that I am smarter than Siri. Though it may not be as good of an examination of the "humanity" of AI as Ex Machina or Blade Runner, it does present what I think to be a plausible prediction of how we would put AI's to use if we were to make them. The parks combine the appeal of video games and exoticism and bring them both to their fullest potential. It definitely calls into question what sort of effects being able to act without consequences has, and also plays off of people choosing escapism as a remedy for their dissatisfaction with real life. The latter is definitely played up by Dolores' decision at the end of Season 2 to go and brave the real world instead of going to the valley beyond. The humans want nothing more than a world without lasting consequences, and the hosts want nothing more than a world in which their choices matter and their lives have some kind of value.This show is not for people that are that into character. Not to say that it is devoid of good characters, but there is not as much focus on the characters as there is on the world of the show. However, where Westworld's characters stand apart is that anything the audience learns about one character tells them something about other characters as well. This is, of course, mostly true of the host characters, but it is also true to an extent for the humans. One thing that can definitely be said about the characters is that they are not written to make the audience like them.I believe that this show will someday be studied as a piece of dystopian fiction, sort of like a Brave New World for the 21st century. It is definitely a show that feels like it has a final destination in mind because there is more of a theme to it and there are climaxes that affect all of the characters. Most other shows that have a scale like this have climaxes for each storyline, but each episode is more like a collection events that just cut from one group of characters to another. In Westworld, there are definite things that you learn about the world of the show, the nature of the hosts, how the park is run, and what the guests' relationship with the park is. The episodes are cohesive units that could be analyzed individually, which I think cannot be said of other shows apart from maybe Black Mirror, which doesn't really count. It's not a show for everyone. It requires you to think, and is not terribly entertaining on a week to week basis. If you haven't started it yet, I would definitely recommend trying two episodes. Overall Rating:8.3/10.
This review is based on the complete season one.The premise and aspects of the interweaving story lines seems to have been well covered by other reviews and I agree that it is (mostly) well polished and executed. The show does a great job of keeping certain aspects or identities of characters hidden and feeding you information either in gradual drips or in a sudden flood of plot twist. As the characters are either robots (hosts) or humans the question running through the series is, past the Turing Test can a Host develop actual intelligence instead of artificial intelligence and overcome its programming? Much of intrigue in the show comes from this question and in the revealing or hiding of the controllee or the controller from the viewer's eyes.As good as much of the show is, it's not without it's flaws. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins), the owner of the company is strangely portrayed as sometimes evil genius with no affection for the Hosts and sometimes caring and fully invested in the idea of helping hosts achieve sentience (talks with Dolores), he literally expresses contradictory statements. People might say to this "well, it's unclear as to what his motives are and are still a mystery even after the end of season one". I would say it doesn't make sense to express these views, especially since there's no reason for him to hide his views either way, him being the owner and all.Another thing is the time-frames. Dolores repeats her first day an incredible amount of times, and, fair enough she is meant to be one of the oldest in the park but if this is meant to be a 'realistic' experience wouldn't it 'spoil people's immersion' if they saw her drop the same cup in the same position every time they came into town?Also, I really didn't like shows like Lost or Flash Forward or Heroes. Game of Thrones is great, Breaking Bad, great. The difference between these shows? A coherent story arch. Game of Thrones is/was great because its world follows certain rules and there is a great deal of foreshadowing. Breaking bad, a clear progression from amiable, well meaning character, to heartless drug-lord, with lots of skin-of-the-teeth moments, but never completely unbelievable. With those other shows (yes all of them) you can really tell that the writers just make up random plot points as they go along, ridiculous ones, because hey, its fantasy right? Well that's not an excuse for ill thought out story lines.Anyway, Westworld is clearly better than that and there was some foreshadowing of the identity of the man in black earlier in the series. You can tell that this was designed to be a major reveal/plot point right from the start. There is a danger however that the series might run out of steam and resort to making it up as it goes along, I just really hope that doesn't happen because, like the rest of you, I love this show.
Having seen the original "Westworld" movie, but not read the book, this episodic miniseries had me really skeptical and not sure I was going to bother with it since it seemed exploitative of technology, sex, violence and kind of a nasty premise of going someplace where you can abuse, kill or do whatever you want to things that look like people but who are supposedly not. I don't really want to jump in like some others and say it is brilliant or exploitative trash, but so far I see a lot of promise.I am tentatively going to give this series an 8 because there have been some rather beautifully done moments that expose a kind of subversive aspect to this story, instead of just a series of violent moments trying to outdo each other. ( there is some of that as well )Westworld so far seem to cleverly tell its story reflecting the human experience into the "androids" or whatever they are. I am up to episode 5 and so far it has gotten more interesting and not really run off the rails ... but it is going to be hard for the rest of the series to maintain the same interest.So far very good, keep it up.


                
I have been searching quite a while now for a series to start watching in my spare time. Once I was done with my exams, I started searching sci-fi and fantasy series(being a big fan of sci-fi and all). I watched the first episode of 5 different series but none of them felt quite interesting or intriguing. Then, I remembered I had Westworld in my watchlist so I decided to start Westworld.I saw the first episode and got hooked immediately. I saw one episode after another cause i couldn't bear the suspension. In every episode I caught myself thinking; "what on earth is going on?" more than just once or twice. It is one of the best -if not the best- series I've watched. I'd recommend it to anyone who loves a bit of sci-fi combined with mystery.p.s. Don't take your eyes off screen. There are hints hidden behind every movement, every gesture and every touch.


                
My most anticipated new show of this year is definitely Westworld, the HBO Sci-Fi Western based off of the novel by Michael Crichton. The story tells of a theme park where humans can escape to the Wild West since civilization has become a much easier place to live with cures for major diseases and reduced conflict. Hosts are created to populate this Western land and these automated humans are given an update in the premiere. This update starts to cause glitches that make the resident lash out violently and the creators of the hosts worry that the guests, and their profit, will be negatively affected.Anthony Hopkins brings his gravitas to the role of the head creator Dr. Robert Ford who is introduced having a drink with one of the old robots down in the basement where they retired the faulty humanoids. Jeffrey Wright is the head data scientist Bernard Lowe who admires Dr. Ford's work but also identifies the glitch and begins to hunt it down. There are other maintenance workers and a plot about the story writer and business executives that look like they are heading towards trouble in the upcoming episodes.After season 1 finale: HBO's Sci-fi/Western concluded after tons of twists and turns throughout the season as robots developed consciousness and rebelled against their programming. The story had multiple plot threads to follow that didn't always make sense and didn't always have the most exciting episodes but as the show went along and the world added flesh, it was quite interesting to follow along. The stories central figure is the android Dolores (Evan Rachel Wood) who begins her process of waking up as the original host of the park. The first sign of her awakening was a slap of a fly to show that she could harm a living creature. She begins to have flashbacks to other time periods that she is not supposed to remember. This awakening begins to affect other hosts as well.Maeve (Thandie Newton) had one of the most exciting story lines as a host that was once the head of a brothel and becomes aware that she continuously gets reprogrammed. She convinces two technicians to increase her awareness but a memory of her daughter's death shocks and troubles her. She conspires to overthrow the park and have the robots rebel against their owners.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Watching science fiction TV series is one of my guilty pleasures. The offer is very rich in numbers, quality offer is much sparser, but every few years there is a series that takes me prisoner, which I follow week after week, episode after episode, whose characters become familiar, they begin to captivate me and eventually absorb me in their universe or become part of my life. So were nearly three decades of space adventures of the new generation of My short list includes'Star Trek', 'V','X-Files', 'Lost'. Now comes 'Westworld'inspired by a 70s film by Michael Chrichton, produced by J.J. Abrams whose name hardly missing in the last decade of the credits any major productions of the science fiction genre on the small and big screen. The script is created (along with Lisa Joy) by Jonathan Nolan, who with his brother, director Chrostopher Nolan contributed to the conception of films as 'Memento', 'the Prestige' series 'the Dark Knight' and 'Interstellar'.At first glance 'Westworld' proposes an idea similar to the one of 'Jurassic Park' - the action takes place in a huge amusement park 'theme' in which visitors are invited to live in the past the different sensations of everyday experiences of the Wild West. From the first minutes of the first series viewers will realize that 'Westworld' is maybe a theme park, but one in which consumers will not go along with families and children. It is recreated here in a landscape that recalls the films of Henry Ford's Wild West, populated by male robots who engage in dueling pistols that they will always lose in the fight with the park's customers and female robots that will satisfy every desire and sexual fantasy of the payers of tickets. Anthropomorphic robots (androids) are provided with all devices that emulate human physiology and the software that put into motion include the emotions of a man, with one limitation - their memory is scheduled to be deleted and permanently regenerated every morning the sun rises on a blue sky together with reinforced scenarios and biographies of each of the robots. Overnight maintenance crews restore the physiological damages of pistol duels or axes battles in which the robot Indians were killed in the last day or psychological trauma of sexual abuses that have undergone female robots. That, of course, until programs start functioning poorly, and perfect memories are not erased from one day to another.Malfunctioning (or in technical terms bugs) of the programs which animate the androids is one of the favorite themes of science fiction sub-genre that deals with relations between robots and humans in the near future. But it is interesting to examine the prospect of dealing with these problems in programming. See for example the Swedish series "Real Humans'. As in the Scandinavians series, a programming mistake or a portion of code introduced intentionally in the history of the program and hid until at some point, give androids capabilities that were hitherto categorized among those traits that differentiate the robots people. They fall into two groups - imperfect erasure of memory that allow robots to recover - even fragmentary - past experiences or personal history to overcome threats; and emotional abilities that grant independence feelings beyond pre-programmed scenarios. In these circumstances are born the premises of the species conflict between androids and humans.As the action progresses the world of 'Westworld' is becoming increasingly complex, the questions multiply, dilemmas become more acute. Some of the characters have become not only familiar, but begin to populate the universe until I become part of their world. The series benefits from the interpretation of some of the known world cinema actors. Anthony Hopkins is Dr. Robert Ford, the brain who conceived this world, the Creator who gives birth to new characters and manipulates the lives and destinies of androids that are already in action. Assistant is Bernard Lowe (played by Jeffrey Wright) who faces a personal drama and an identity crisis. Ed Harris is the Man in Black - evil character and one of 'consumers' of Westworld. Two female characters - AndroidsDolores (ingenue actress Evan Rachel Wood) and Maeve (Thandie Newton - exceptional) - are both emotional and produce counterpoints - though very different - while engaging in a process of discovering their own identities. Feminist ideals take an extra dimension, it is about the conflict of authority and social relations of the 19th century women combined with subordination of robots to humans.Not everything is clear in this action series. Many questions are asked, few are answered about about the evolution of the artificial intelligence technology, about the dangers improvement of improving robots to receive human emotions, about their identity and rights. I'm sure many surprises expect us in the next season(s), but one sure thing can already be said. 'Westworld' is a mirror of our world.
I just finished the second episode of this new highly-anticipated HBO series, of course based on the 1973 Michael Crichton film. This show takes the movie to a whole other level, going into areas "A.I." and "Blade Runner" explored, as far as how much and to what degree artificial intelligence can contemplate their own existence. I believe this is HBO's biggest original production to date, and it shows. Evan Rachel Wood is pretty much the lead character, and she has really come a long way since her pre-"Thirteen" days -- has blossomed into every bit a beautiful leading lady starlet as she was an adorable young child actress. She just steals the show in every scene she's in. And Oscar winner Sir Anthony Hopkins is the mad-man scientist at the helm creating all this virtual craziness! LOL Ed Harris, James Marsden, and Thandie Newton (lookin especially DEEEE-lish!) also round out the cast.
Hearing that J. J. Abrams was involved in this, I was actually worried. Many people love him, but he has a history of starting great mysteries and never finishing them. Lost is of course the best example of this. There is a lot of that in Westworld. Fortunately, this time just about everything is explained by the end of the series.It is beautifully done. Great scenery, directing and acting. Of course Ed Harris and Anthony Hopkins are great, but it's Evan Rachel Wood and Jeffrey Wright who steal the show though. There is a perfect balance in the writing, it is basically taking ideas from Blade Runner to a new level. Being HBO, there is a lot of nudity and violence. I'm not sure the fact that they're android makes it any less gruesome. I would have wanted less, after all not all people would turn like monsters upon entering Westworld.So why not 9 or 10 ? Well it is very slow progressing. At one point, it as akin to Game of Thrones. Many parallel stories, all advancing real slow. 10 episodes was too much, 8 would have been enough. Also this is supposed to be a futuristic world, but they don't seem to have a lot of cameras... or a lot of light... Every room, every apartment is dark as hell. There are also too many twists in the story. One or two you can guess, one is brilliant, but the others... a bit too much perhaps.I prefer it to Deadwood though, where the raping and killing had gone too far for nothing. Here there is hope. It doesn't go anywhere (so far), but there is hope.
OverviewYou know, the expectations which come from a show being part of the HBO brand often waver between being the next big thing or proof that all these premium stations have is the ability to be far more sexual and violent than their peers. With Westworld, you have to admit it seems a show can't be part of HBO without excessive violence, a plethora of nude women, and a handful of mysteries. It is what their drama department craves, but while this show has all the usual ingredients, it might just be a bit more than we're used to.Main Storyline There is a loop. In this loop there is a girl named Dolores (Evan Rachel Wood) who goes to town, maybe goes out to paint horses, and perhaps runs into the love of her life Teddy (James Marsden). But sometimes things don't happen that way. Teddy may miss her because one of the newcomers distract one of them, or maybe Teddy dies, Dolores is raped, and mind you these actions can be caused by either a newcomer or a host.The difference? Newcomers are essentially tourist. People who come to what seems to be this place in the Grand Canyon to live out a fantasy. There was a time, in the 30-year history of this currently mysterious company, you could join a "Horror Narrative" or do as they offer now in be out in the old west. During the day-long loop, you can do as you please to the host and they won't hurt you. After all, they are some kind of robots. So go on and kill, rape, or do as you please. Will they scream and react? Yes. But will they hurt you? No. After all, it is all part of their programming.However, Dr. Ford (Anthony Hopkins) seems to release, alongside his associate Mr. Lowe (Jeffrey Wright) upgrades. In these upgrades, the hosts become more real, and the most recent upgrade by Dr. Ford has allowed the hosts to access memories of their current loop or even past loops. Something which people like Mr. Sizemore (Simon Quarterman), who writes the over 100 interconnected stories, and Ms. Cullen (Sidse Babett Knudsen), a representative of corporate, don't appreciate. It creates possible liabilities, messes with a nearly perfect system, and creates fear. Fear which may soon be realized.HighlightsIn the effort to be fair, let me say I do enjoy the acting. Mind you, the words the actors say seem like something regurgitated from your favorite sci-fi movie, but there are some aspects which don't deserve backhanded compliments. I can't think of one off hand, but I'm sure as the season goes on I'll come up with something. On The FenceI'll admit that when it comes to sci-fi, I like the type of shows and movies which don't have all this hype building it up. If only because it makes you focus more on the special effects and the peculiarities of the technology more than the story and the characters. To make matters worse, this show is on HBO so naturally the violence and sexual content is high. So between the sex, violence, and then special effects/ tech, it is like the characters and story get lost amongst this.Now, the reason I put such a critique in "On The Fence" vs. saying it is a "Low Point" is because as generic as everyone seems, be it the subtly mad Dr. Ford, his protégé Bernie Lowe, or even the robot who has gained consciousness, Dolores, these actors find a way to take what if anyone else were to play these roles would be lifeless. After all, how many times, whether you are cinephile or telephile, have you seen these stories? How many ways can someone try to reinterpret and converge these characters in new and compelling ways? Well, very few arguably. For the script, thus far, has its little mysteries, but not the type of characters who seem to bring new life to old tales.Which isn't to say this show seems wholly predictable, but I am left feeling as Dolores starts to regain all her memories from past loops, thanks to the work of the ever curious Dr. Ford, we already know what will happen. Even making Ed Harris' role as a newcomer, possibly lost in his own unique loop, hardly something worth noting at times. Yet, there remains faith. Faith that these talented bunch could very well prove that I, and perhaps we if you are as skeptical as I am, don't know a damn thing.
This idea of humanoid world is perfect. I think, it will be something like that in not so far future. 
Back to the script - after first 3-4 episodes..great. Than that overthinking came again....Too many pasive scenes, they should show more visitors in westworld, with and without problems. There are many mistakes too. I never understood about indians there - they were taking scalps, shotting with arrows...so how would they not kill any visitor? 
Anyway, the script could and should be better.
I'm happy to report that the writing improves as you progress through season 1. In particular, episode 3 is where it really takes gets its footing. And the finale for the first season is pretty phenomenal. Excellent performances by Anthony Hopkins, Ed Harris, and pretty much the entire cast. I was concerned at first when I saw Abrams' name attached to this that it might end up being a bit 'fluffy'. However, it stayed on an even keel and the maintained a thoughtful tone throughout. And when dealing with existential material in the same vein as The Creation of the Humanoids (1962) and Blade Runner (1982), it's imperative to present material in such a way that the viewer can remain thoughtful and make connections.When watching these episodes, many ideas come to mind, including simulation theory, consciousness, the evolution of (and potential replacement of humanity by) A.I., free will vs. control, perception as it relates to memories, personality as a function of traumatic life events, sentience, morality, the value of compassion, reincarnation, the human condition, and much more.From a technical standpoint, the series is scored, shot, lit, and edited well. Nice use of set design and lighting. Special (practical) and visual effects are very nicely done. Most surprising to me is that it actually retains a bit of the feel of the Westworld (1973) and Future World (1976) movies. Usually, modern takes on 1970s material end up being almost indistinguishable from their source material. However, some of the 'feel' of the original is here. In particular, the intrigue and mystery of the originals is retained.I've seen most of the first season of Altered Carbon. And, in my humble opinion, I think Westworld does a better job of tackling similar themes.As a final comment, I'll say that I certainly appreciated the little details -- like the various modern-era songs on the player piano (e.g. "Black Hole Sun" by Soundgarden and "A Forest" by The Cure.This is a show worth watching.


                
The show centers around a theme park in the near future themed after the wild west that ends up the ground zero of a robot revolution. Every occupant of the theme park is a specially designed robot who is made to look and speak as realistically as possible. Each robot is granted a back story, mannerisms, and an occupation. But the one thing they are not gifted with is free will. The people visiting the park have free rein and are allowed to slaughter any robot they want, while the robots are not allowed to hurt the people or escape their wrath. The main argument of the show is whether or not the robots count as people. The show coyly references philosophical theories about the origins of consciousness and leaves the personhood of the robots up to debate. Several different philosophical theories present different possibilities for the robot's fate.
One philosophical theory about self-consciousness is G.W.F. Hegel's Slave-Master relationship. Hegel explains that "self-consciousness emerges from nature" and people draw their consciousness from completing tasks necessary for survival in the wild (Duncan). Even this primitive self-consciousness has another ultimate goal: "substantial recognition" for being more than an animal (Duncan). According to Hegel's theory, this goal for recognition is the motivation for almost all human actions and in primitive beings, causes immediate conflict (Duncan). Unlike arguments between two beings, this conflict is actually a vicious fight that does not end in death, but instead one person being "enslaved" to the other (Kamal). The superior self-conscious being is known as the "master" and the losing self-conscious being is the "slave". This is where the theory gets its informal name from, and what the actual philosophy regards. As time passes, the slave gains a new appreciation for the world around him through work, which Hegel regards as "a distinctly human phenomenon" (Duncan). Rather than needing outside recognition, the slave sees himself reflected back in his work, and is freer as a person than the master ever was (Kamal). The slave may end up with virtues as a result of his time in bondage, but the master gains no deeper conscience (Duncan). The most important element of this theory is that without the slave, there is no master, and without the master, there is no slave. Therefore, neither party can be considered self-conscience in any capacity without the other existing.
In the context of Westworld, the humans are the masters and the robots that work in the park are the slaves. The men, Arnold and Dr. Ford, founded the Westworld park not only to make money but to also collect information about the park residents as a large-scale science experiment. Dr. Ford was more concerned with the money involved, but his partner Arnold wanted to lead their creations to legitimate consciousness. This desire is best explained by Hegel's theory considering that "the master wants to act as a self-conscious being by directing his desire towards another self-conscious being" and "will never get satisfaction by being recognized by" something he does not consider to be conscious as well (Kamal). Once the robots are more life-like, the park is opened. Unlike his partner, Dr. Ford is less concerned with the treatment or the personhood of the robots in the beginning. But after Arnold's unfortunate suicide, he is so grief-stricken that he creates a robot replica of Arnold and names him Bernard. Bernard is granted pseudo-personhood by following orders from the Dr. Ford just like the other robots and living life believing that they are flesh-and-bone people. The robots only begin to rebel against the humans when they realize the slave-master relationship. After working for so long, they "transcend... their reality" just as Hegel predicted the slave always would (Kamal). Bernard, however, represents the final aspect of the theory: there is no slave without a master. In order to make sure Bernard continues his work following the death of Dr. Ford, a virtual version of Dr. Ford is downloaded into his software to regulate his behavior. When Bernard finally removes the software version of Dr. Ford, he grieves for the loss of direction and the loss of order. He only regains peace again when he imagines Dr. Ford continuing to give him orders, even though the orders were coming from himself. According to Hegel's theory, Bernard does actually become self-conscious because he no longer needs a second person to give him orders and has discovered his own mental voice in his head.
The slave-master theory may grant the robots self-consciousness, but the show promotes the bicameral mind as its patron theory of self-consciousness. The season finale of the first season of Westworld is titled "The Bicameral Mind" as well. The bicameral mind is a theory of self-consciousness development coined by Julian Jayes in his book "The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind". Jayes proposes that there is no way early man thought about his actions on his own, and instead listened to "auditory hallucinations" within the brain (Jaynes 85). Even modern people occasionally hear this voice, often "in times of stress, when a parent's comforting voice may be heard" (Jaynes 86). Therefore self-consciousness is made up of auditory hallucinations from one section of the brain to the other, and while earlier man may have declared these voices as the voice of the gods, modern man still hears these voices (Jaynes 84-87). This theory also explains one being schizophrenia or paranoid, as either can be described as a malfunctioning auditory hallucination system, or the misunderstanding of what this inner dialogue actually is (Jaynes 406). Therefore, Julian Jaynes defines a self-conscious person under his theory as one who recognizes their auditory hallucinations as his or her own inner voice.
The Bicameral Mind theory is a theory of consciousness that characters in the show legitimately believe. The main believer in this theory is the second creator of the robots, Arnold, who specifically built an inner dialogue system inside of his creations for them to build their own consciousness off of it. Just as Jaynes explains that the bicameral mind can be responsible for paranoia and schizophrenic behavior, some robots that have the old "mental voice command" system exhibit unusual behavior. However, the robots that receive some sort of self-awareness before the others all start by hearing voices. Dolores, the first robot to gain self-awareness, hears a voice whisper "remember" to her, prompting her to go against her programing and recall the way a guest treated her a long time ago. The second robot to gain self-awareness is Maeve, who already has it cheekily written into her backstory that she is from elsewhere but traveled to the west only because she "heard a voice" who reminded her that she has much more opportunity in the west. Due to the amount of times this theory is mentioned in Westworld, the first and second season exist to pose to the viewer whether or not the bicameral mind is a legitimate way of building self-consciousness in a being. Dolores, Maeve, and Bernard, the three main cases of the journey of self-consciousness, are all successes in the eyes of Jaynes' theories. Throughout the first season, Dolores is plagued with visions of herself speaking to her and giving her orders. When Maeve discovers her ability to telepathically communicate through the robot network, it is only after she discovers her inner voice, her bicameral hallucination. Finally, Bernard continues to give himself orders thinking it was the remainder of Dr. Ford in his programming, but really it was Bernard generating his own thoughts and actions. The show presents the Bicameral Mind in order to prove the robots self-conscious.
The show Westworld depicts a fight for recognition and self-actualization amongst a group of individuals who believe they have personhood. While these individuals have not been born of other humans but rather formed in their image out of metal and wires, several different theories about the nature of self-consciousness support the cause of the robots. The viewer may form his or her own opinion about whether or not the personhood the robots believe they have is legitimate or not, but the Slave-Master theory and the Bicameral mind theory both grant the characters this liberty.
The first season is wonderful but the second season is full of flashbacks. So I rate the second season 4 of 10.


                
The short helpful review would be that This series, lets you actually think about whats going on ( ! Dont judge the real world by this series ! )
its a great series , ( specially the soundtracks : RAMIN DJAWADI of GOT)


                
The first season is a clear 10/10 but, the second season is either a 7 or 8/10
Maybe even a 6, in contrast to the first season.I was at the end of season 2 hoping that there would be no season 3, because season 2 was such a lacklustre letdown.Im not hyped at all for season 3, but season 1 is among the best shows on TV of all time.
So, im torn to give it an 8 or a 9/10
Im giving it an 8, because the first season will always be good, and no matter how bad future seasons become it will always have that.So an 8/10 it is.


                
I am a Sci-Fi geek, especially for those which give you a lot to think about. Westworld is a bit similar to another show I binge watched called Humans. In that show you have robots which are virtually indistinguishable from humans and they are ubiquitous. They are used for everything from servants to caregivers to prostitutes.Westworld, unlike Humans, confines the life-like droids to a singular area which is an adult theme park. But, like most movies or shows with bots that are so akin to the real thing, consciousness comes into play. There is always the risk of robots becoming (to use the Terminator term) self aware.Westworld is a veritable playground in which robots are the principle actors and the human "guests" pay to interact with them in whatever story line they choose to pursue. Essentially, people can "let their hair down" and act out whatever fantasies they may have with the willing participants (i.e. the androids). Of course, this type of setting gives you a better picture of who the people really are outside of their normal social settings. But, there in lies the dilemma--are people behaving badly BECAUSE they are in a fictitious world and they know it's all fake or because that is who they truly are?It is an excellent show with a lot of secrets and some food for thought. It will even have you questioning your own moral compass and how you view these creations that so resemble you and I.


                
