Despite my desire to enjoy what I hoped would be a unique film, I found it dark and self indulgent.  The superb acting couldn't overcome a script that is centered on a failed relationship that never makes sense to the viewer or to the lovers.  In the end you feel like this is "Adaptation II" - yet another film about a brooding self-centered guy who can't really relate to anyone beyond his own fantasy life.  The dramatic device ultimately used in the film of having the main character fight to preserve his memory fails because it comes across as a clever but unsatisfying rendition of psychotherapy.  The subplot is banal and adolescent.  In many ways this entire film comes across as something that was done back in the 60's, but which now falls flat.


                
This is the filmic equivalent of being stuck in a room with someone who thinks they have the most emotionally upsetting life imaginable and is doing everything in their power to persuade you they are truly tortured and pitiable. By the end of both experiences you just want to go home and feel utterly relieved you aren't so arrogant. Or you wish you were able to erase your own memory. (Sorry, a cheap film tie-in metaphor already.)The film itself, like Being John Malkovich and Adaptation suffers from a hole in the centre. Charlie Kauffman seems to think it is clever to take a totally unlikely scenario and then develop it into a "quirky" film that is supposed to make little sense. In each instance he fails to grasp that you can't just take a scenario so utterly implausible as to defy any audience to relate or respond to it. Eternal Sunshine is a slightly easier premise to connect with than Being John Malkovich, after all who hasn't wondered what it would be like to erase painful relationships. However Kauffman sems to mistake nonsense for emotional and intellectual depth.Someone told me that you have to watch Eternal Sunshine more than once to 'get it' and I promise that this isn't true. There is nothing you get the second time that you won't have got the first time. It is a fairly straight forward film. The only problem you might have is if you are colour blind and can't work out the time scale of the film from Kate Winslett's hair because you cannot tell that it is changing colour. The director might as well have put subtitles across the bottom of the screen saying "Two years ago" "Present day" because Gondry's visual 'clues' were about as subtle or 'clue-like' as subtitles.Performance wise, Kate Winslett was her usual self, and Jim Carrey was in Truman show mode. Carrey offers ocassional glimpses of acting talent before they are devoured by his all consuming gurning. Tom Wilkinson and Kirsten Dunst offer more respectable performances, however I felt cheated that their entire sub plot was clearly lying on the editing room floor, it felt rushed and unconvincing. Which is a shame because the rest of the film felt over long and over laboured and perhaps a better balance might have saved my cinema ticket which I spent the whole film folding into a variety of shapes.
I made a square (Not too difficult) a triangle. I tried to make a swan but it ended up looking like some sort of half eaten fish. After that I was running out of ideas and so i tore it into equal pieces. Then unequal ones. Bored yet? I was. The second time I saw it was even worse. Fortunately I had just seen 3-4x Jugatsu and so had something to concentrate on. Namely trying to understand a film which actually had some sort of emotional depth, some sort of conflicting plot and some semblance of lead performances.
I wish people wouldn't think that any film which doesn't have a discernable Beginning - middle - end structure automatically qualifies as intelligent or engaging. And that just because Jim Carrey isn't smacking himself in the face or making chimp noises he is acting. He isn't. He is just biding his time until he can start hitting himself in the face again.


                
POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADI was expecting a great movie when I take it. But after 30 minutes watching it I realized that it would be a waste of time.The idea is interesting, explore the possibility of erasing someone from you mind gives you a wide range of paths to follow to create interest, climax, and sympathy to the main characters. This is not what happens in this movie. The plot is weak, the entire movie is spent to show how he tries to hide his girlfriend in his memory in a very boring way. The memories were not fun, not interesting, and added nothing to the history.They could have made a much better movie if the history was a comedy, but unfortunately they have chosen a "drama" (supposing it can be classified like this) which makes the watcher expects for its end. Even those romantic comedies are better than this because at least you want the couple to end the history together.
My daughter loaned me this movie two weeks ago and I finally tried to watch it last night. I'll admit that I am not a big Jim Carey fan, but he does alright in some films, The Truman Show and Liar, Liar are two that I enjoyed. What I didn't like is that I found nobody in this film that I liked. There wasn't a single character that was somebody I felt I'd like to meet. Some of the scenes seemed either badly acted or badly written, or both. The scene when Joel first met Clementine on the train seemed like it was written by middle school wannabe writers. The ridiculous scenes inside Joel's apartment while his memories of Clementine were being erased seemed like something out of a bad seventies anti cultural movie. Who could really believe that this crew would be so blatantly juvenile. They acted like 14 year old kids left alone for the weekend.My daughter really liked this movie, I really didn't. According to this films score (8.6) and it's standing in the top 250 (currently # 36) I must be wrong, and maybe I am, but to me this movie stands in the middle of the mediocre 50,000, a very unremarkable film.
This isn't really a movie review. It's more a reaction. After watching this movie, I feel like running around screaming, "You're missing the point! You're missing the point!" Perhaps I'm missing the point. The film gets kudos for being clever and quirky and well-filmed, in a Being John Malkovich kind of way. Clever, quirky, but there's a spiritual barrenness underlying it. Shouldn't art be more than clever? Shouldn't it reach deeper? Limericks are clever <U+0096> we don't call them art. The underlying message in Eternal Sunshine isn't all that original. I am tired of seeing movies about love and loneliness. How many movies have we all seen whose basic point is that if you just reach out, take a chance, find romance, this will fend off the ravening wolves of loneliness at the door of modern life? In a culture that desperately needs a sense of community and connection, peddling movies and songs about romance is like giving cotton candy to a starving person.It isn't what we need! Finding romance is not the way to fend off loneliness and alienation, a change in the culture is. If we all felt connected to something that mattered, to other living things, to communities we cared about, romances wouldn't be the be-all and end-all of meaningful existence, it would be just one among many of life's joys.


                
(Spoiled...) Like the rest of Kaufman's self-absorbed hallucinations, Eternal Sunshine fails to jump the "who cares" hurdle. What an overwrought mess of a movie. As far as that mind-surgery-memory-deleting helmet goes, why in tarnation was Jim Carrey's character--a self-described uninteresting bore--so very talented at resisting the program? No mental giant, he would have succumbed immediately. End of movie. But no! We replay this deja vu game of meeting forgotten lovers into infinity, while every character gets thrown into stylistic outer space: Comedy for some, tragedy for others, sex farce when Mr. Kaufman runs out of ideas. Actually, apart from Sunshine's tangled structure, there are no ideas. Not once are we given useful, relevant information about anyone who inhabits the film. Carrey and Winslet's megawatt dual-presence is wasted inside of a situation that resembles a hamster cage, not a story. Only Tom Wilkinson, as the memory-deleting helmet inventor, seems to grasp the danger of what's happening. Kaufman, however, surrounds him with a gang of assistants who are giggling morons. What a sad, confused, irrelevant film. I was reminded more than once of the forgotten French mind-game films of the sixties. Marienbad, anyone?


                
I don't care if this movie is on more than 50 critics top 10 lists. It was, in my eyes, a horrible film. One of the worst films I sat through in a long time. I actually felt I wasted 2 hours of my life I can never get back. I also know 9 other people who rented this mess and hated it just as much. The video clerk called this movie a "stinker." I know I am in the minority here. But I stand by what I say. I would never watch this movie again. Jim Carrey cannot do drama. In fact, he is not much of an actor. He's just a modern day Jerry Lewis. When he attempts to express anguish, he puts on his typical rubber face expressions. I know I am gonna get lots of flack for saying this. But I hated hated hated this movie. It was weird in a bad way, totally stupid, and a waste of Kirsten Dunsts talents. For those of you who praise this film, more power to you. I'll never ever watch it again. I thought it made the "Friday the 13th" films look like Oscar winners. Seriously. Alful, pointless, and enternally boring. I give it a huge thumbs down and a zero rating.


                
I cannot emphasize enough how much I hated this film. It was such an interesting concept and the teasers made it look so good that I had to go and see the movie. Unfortunately, as in so many cases, once you have seen the trailer, the film is identical but has been made about two hours longer. The end result is that you already know what is going to happen and are left waiting for the end so that you can leave to talk about how bad it all was...I desperately wanted this film to be good. I hoped it would be as visually dramatic as the previews suggested. I prayed the cast would live up to their reputations and bring it alive. What I found was that no amount of desire was going to save this film. Avoid it at all cost.


                
I struggled for a long time to like this movie. I just felt horrible; everyone was enjoying the "best film of the last ten years" and I just felt like I was watching cinematic vomit. I felt out of the loop, but, I suppose that's just going to have to be alright, because I refuse to like this piece of bile.First off, the plot revolves around a pretty lame plot device, namely a memory erasing company. Some people really do forget other human beings, even those they've been romantically involved with, so why rely on this lame device? Charlie Kaufman's funny dialogue and interesting plots have gone out the window, making way for some incredibly bad lines, like, "Do you think I'm ugly?" I just hate listening to the characters talk; they are some of the most repulsive, unlikeable characters committed to the screen. Kate Winslet's character in particular I wanted to smack. I mean, how is it possible I can stand a four hour movie starring a rapacious gangster (Once Upon a Time in America) and can't not walk out on this under-two hour claptrap starring decent humans? I wouldn't want to spend ten minutes with these bastards, let alone 100 minutes.Kirsten Dunst starts dancing in her underwear. Whoop-de-doo. Mark Ruffalo makes a mistake. Elijah Wood looks like a chihuahua. Jim Carrey looks ill. Kate Winslet spaces out and annoys the hell out of me. No actor in the movie has a breakout performance, not even Jim Carrey, who's just as annoying as he is in his comedic films. Even the score by the otherwise talented Jon Brion sucks! It's like everything that touches this movie instantly turns to sh*t.The direction, courtesy of mediocre music video director Michel Gondry, is not even worth mentioning. It's ridiculous. All of it is done very ambitiously, but most of the time it just feels stupid and over-the-top.In all, I found a predictable, bland, overrated, steaming piece of tripe. Please, never speak of it again in my presence.Overall.5/10


                
ESSM will be a darling of the pseudo-intellectuals who will tell you that simply don't have the mental capacity to understands the discrete levels of plot and nuance.  It's a BAD movie full of people you don't like and don't care about.Mr. Carrey's character seems to be seriously over-medicated (Paxil, Thorazine, etc.), he has no personality! (Nicholas Cage must have turned the part down.) The false timeline (the beginning of the film is really the end of the film)is a poor story devise.  The inconsistencies show up quickly, but aren't explained until the end of the movie.Finally, although the science is very sketchy, the memory-erasing technology is the ultimate form of deus ex machina.  I only wish I could erase the memory of this total waste of my time.


                
My boyfriend and I went to see this movie.Paid money to go into the theater. Stayed until the end. And it was over a year before either one of us ventured into a movie theater again. So... how bad could it be that it would turn us BOTH off of theater excursions for over a year?Yep. THAT bad. This had NOTHING going for it. I just hope that none of the actors in it watched it, because if I had been in this and then watched it I probably would have shot myself I would have been so embarrassed. And this is coming from someone who enjoys bad movies. Yep. THAT bad.


                
After almost 20 mind-numbingly incomprehensible minutes that seemed so much longer, it comes as a shock to realize that what one is suddenly seeing floating across the screen is (after 20 minutes, remember) the "opening" credits of the movie. This can mean only one thing - and it isn't good news: sweet Jesus, there's still an entire movie to come.I confess that I'm not entirely enamoured of Jim Carrey. I've seen him as a weak part of a good movie (Bruce Almighty) and as the strong part of a weak movie (The Grinch Who Stole Christmas). Either way, he doesn't turn my crank. I don't think I'd ever watch a movie just because the star was Jim Carrey. To be honest, in "Eternal Sunshine ..." I'm not sure if he's strong or weak, but it really doesn't matter because the story is absurd, disjointed and not really all that interesting. It had potential. The whole "erasing negative memories" had a vaguely Orwellian tone to it that intrigued me (which is why I rented it) but in the end it failed badly. When I find myself hoping (even yearning) for a movie to come to an end, I know it's been a disaster.The most intriguing thing about this movie is the following statement right off the DVD jacket it came in: ["Eternal Sunshine ... is] a memorable film that the Wall Street Journal calls 'a romantic comedy unlike any other." I can't argue with that - it is "memorable" (no matter how hard I'll try to, I don't think I'll ever be able to forget it) and it is "a romantic comedy unlike any other." Give thanks for small mercies - this truly is one of a kind, and, in truth, there must never be another like it. 1/10


                
I didn't see so stupid movie for a long time... Story is all over the place, no beginning, no end. Absolutely awful. I don't know how this movie is so good rated in this page. This movie is a big mess, no story, no logic, nothing. Big waste of 2 hour of my life. I hate this kind of movies. I wonder what is going on in the mind of creators of this movie. A big, analogically constructed mess. This movie is just bla bla bla. Slide, slide... Slide, slide. ------------------------- I didn't see so stupid movie for a long time... Story is all over the place, no beginning, no end. Absolutely awful. I don't know how this movie is so good rated in this page. This movie is a big mess, no story, no logic, nothing. Big waste of 2 hour of my life. I hate this kind of movies. I wonder what is going on in the mind of creators of this movie. A big, analogically constructed mess. This movie is just bla bla bla. Slide, slide... Slide, slide. (sorry for my English).
'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind' has an unnecessarily long title and is way too strange and convoluted to take seriously. It is understandable to show a story told from a different perspective, but a filmmaker has to set limits. It makes no sense in trying to confuse the audience as much as you can. That does not make the film intelligent or original. 'Eternal Sunshine..' is too full of itself; it says, 'look how creative I am, telling this story in such an odd way. I dare you to figure it out'. Nobody will gain anything if the filmmakers are trying to make the audience look stupid. It only creates an exaggerated ego for those who do understand it. The story is about two lovers who decide to erase the memory of each other. When they are erased from each other's memory, they find themselves drawn back to each other by sheer chance. I think one point the film is trying to make is that true love is a destiny. Two people are drawn to each other because there is something greater is at work, bringing lovers together. Fantastic idea, but it can be told in much simpler ways than done in this movie. The idea shouldn't be expressed in the over-the-top way that it was done in 'Eternal Sunshine..'. Good performances by Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet, an unlikely pair bringing chemistry to the screen, but even they couldn't save this jumbled mess.
I finally watched 'Eternal Sunshine...' this weekend. What a piece of absolute, unadulterated CRAP!!! From beginning to end. I mean I have seen a lot of bad movies recently, but this has to rank as THE ABSOLUTE WORST!!! And this won the Oscar for best screenplay? God! The people in Hollyweed must all have their head up their collective rectums! Now, I hate Jim Carrey, but he was absolutely horrid in this, as was Kate Winslet. Did the director actually expect anyone to feel anything for these 2-dimensional stereotypes? And the director must have gone to 'hand-held' camera 101 to learn his craft. Talk about annoying! I want my 25 cents back!!! At least most of the other garbage I've watched recently was mildly entertaining, but this wasn't even that! Did anyone actually believe they were saying something significant about the human condition here? If so, go back and watch some Renoir or Bergman or De Sica or Kurosawa or just about any of the great directors. Even Ed Wood knew more about the human condition than the bozo who wrote this!


                
I was just crusin through the top 100 films and Eternal Sunshine popped up in 56 place, how? I remember I had to watch this film 4 times as it knocked me to sleep every time.People saying this film has meaning is complete dribble. What did I miss? It's not interesting it's just a load of lovey dovey strange, pointless film. I just didn't get it. Help me out here, how can you like this. There must have been a lot of friends and family involved in rating this film to get it into the top 100. If you really liked this movie you have seriously got to get a life. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Pokerdot Jumper would have been more interesting. FFS GAL


                
Charlie Kaufman is probably the most unbearable screenwriter whose movies I've ever had the misfortune of seeing: the masturbation scenes in "Adaptation" sum up his artistic contributions perfectly. "Eternal Sunshine" is just more masturbation. Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet have no chemistry, and most of the characters' performances are flat and unconvincing, as if they can't believe they're acting this crap out either. Not to mention the nonsensical, confusing plot, and how aesthetically unpleasant most of the film is. I couldn't recommend this movie less; without a doubt, one of the worst I have ever seen. If only they could purge my memory of having seen it.


                
Sorry, didn't rate this film at all. Shouldn't really say sorry though, it should be all the critics out there that rated this piece of shite, who should be saying sorry to me! What is it all about! Typical American attempt to be arty. A 10 minute film dragged into a hour and 3/4's. There is nothing wrong with the actors, but if you didn't know the ending within the 10 minute prologue to the titles, you would have to be a 5 yr old. Overrated, indulgent, crap! Why is there no story? Yes there is a nice ending. So what? You are so bored of the characters, that you don't even want to try to understand the plot! Why has it been rated so highly? Well one guy liked it and the other sheep followed. Shame on them! If you want a long weekend, watch this movie because it makes 1 3/4 hrs feel like a day. Don't buy into the hype Ste


                
So I attempted this a second time, just in case the first time watching this I erased my memory of it and it was actually a good film. Well I was wrong it was tripe and my memory had not been altered. I liked the idea of the film but boy oh boy did it go nowhere not fast. Yes if you want to watch a film that takes 2 hours or so to tell you what I can explain in one sentence then this is for you. It is painful to watch and tries but fails to be edgy. Watch it and you too will want to erase your memory of this bore-fest.
The film is too unclear about what is going on. It switches constantly from points of view. But those POV are not clear. It's too chaotic. The images are not exactly beautiful, rather bland. Lighting seems low budget. Music is okayish. But script is naff. I'm left guessing as to what is going on. I thought the ending would tie answer all of that for me by explaining what was going on. But no.Save 100 minutes of your life and don't bother watching this. It's sentimental chaos. It feels as though the writer just took a bunch of random ideas, threw them together and made a romantic montage out of the whole thing. And the subplot was just to pad the whole thing out. Acting is okay I guess, but if a script is not watertight then that let's the whole thing down.


                
I admit I only saw about the first 45 minutes; I just could not stand any more; this film was excruciating to watch. Worse by far than the nasty ''Adaptation.'' Probably second only to "Sweetie," another horrifying film billed as a comedy. How could Kate Winslet, after her terrific performance in ''Iris,'' have signed on for this trash? Did the filmmakers set out to induce headache and nausea? The story, the lighting, the camera-work, the editing--they really made me seasick. And it's hard to care about characters who don't like themselves enough to engage in basic grooming. What in the world was romantic about this story of abuse, alcoholism, relationship addiction, and depravity? There was no compassion for the obvious sickness of the characters. Uck, uck, uck. I wish I could erase the memory of this piece of pretentious, stomach-turning nonsense from my aching head.


                
The worst movie I've seen in a long time. The story line was stupid...the acting awful and the filming actually made some people nauseous...The lady in front on me had to leave twice because the filming was so amateur...it was like watching the Blair Witch Project.From the first minute of watching the movie I knew I should have left and gone to another one, but I thought I'd give it a chance andboy was I sorry when it ended.


                
It appears that Charlie Kaufman is a one trick pony. While he poses an intriguing concept, he does nothing of value with it. For some reason, the "ardent" movie denizens who frequent this site were mesmerized by this stunt, much in the same way that they uniformly loved the sequence stunt employed in "Mememto".Please. Can some screenwriter take an interesting concept and then actually develop it into something worth watching. Instead of developing a story, Kaufman simply plays mind games by distracting his audience with disjointed scenes that make little sense. And this is called genius? A complex story can be quite enjoyable if the screenwriter actually takes the time to make a coherent story with a plausible ending such as in "The Usual Suspects".Sorry, before one bows at the feet of any filmmaker, you should demand more than a clever proposition. Otherwise, "The Butterfly Effect" should have won an Oscar.


                
To be short: this movie stinks. It was recommended to me by some guy who thinks this is the best movie in years, and that it should win several Oscars. Well, I had a look and damn what a disappointment. So this Clementine has Joel erased from her mind (first of all this is stupid, even if it COULD ever exist(the erasing thing), why not just call him and tell him that you don't want to see him anymore, problem solved), the next day Joel finds out and wants Clementine erased from his mind too. Then we get to see what goes on in Joel's mind during the procedure. To this point the movie isn't that bad. But then it starts to get bad. It just goes on and on and on about the same stupid things in Joel's mind, after a few minutes it just gets boring. Now i'm really not a guy who only likes the action part in movies but this is just like watching the same thing over and over again. Then at the end when you've spent about an hour watching the same stuff, it's like the day starts all over again with Clementine getting her toothbrush, and fighting with her new boyfriend. It's like groundhog day, starting all over again. At the end you ask yourself, what really happened, and you're left with a feeling of emptiness because this movie seems completely pointless. Just an advice: don't watch this movie.
Did all of you watch a different movie than my wife and I watched?!  This movie was garbage.  Here's why:1.  The camera constantly shook, making it difficult to watch without getting sick to my stomach.  It reminded me of the Blair Witch Project - which at least was interesting aside from the camera shaking.2.  All of the characters were unlikable.  I couldn't care less about any of them.3.  There was no plot or purpose.  Okay, I understood the premise of erasing memories and Joel's desire to hold onto the memories after committing to have them erased.  But why all of the pointless, disjointed scenes?  One after another. Pointless, meaningless snippets of their lives together. Who cares?  Over and over and over until I felt like screaming, `Enough already! Get on with it!'  There was no mystery or anticipation of something about to happen.4.  Weird new subplots were constantly added that only confused this confusing mess even further.About 3/4 of the way through the movie, I turned to my wife and said, `What do you think?'  Her response was, `This is the worst movie I've ever watched.'  We walked out of the theatre glad to be out of there.  I couldn't care less about missing the ending because, in our view, there was no story. This was only the second movie I've ever walked out on.The whole thing seemed like a bad drug trip.  What are you people who liked this movie smoking?  For the record, we use IMDB to decide on a movie to see.  I consistently enjoy most highly rated movies.  But this highly rated movie was horrible.


                
