It happens to both the best and worst of us at some time in our lives. Love . If you haven't experienced this yet just wait, you will. It is inevitable that at some time in our journey through life that we will come across someone that fascinates us so profoundly that we feel as though we could spend the rest of our lives with this magnetic individual. There is no exact science to the concept of love. Many believe that the idea of love goes beyond the reasonable or the logical to a more diverse level of the illogical, irrational, and the unreasonable. Why is it that we find ourselves attracted to people that, on the surface, seem as though they would never be compatible with our own lifestyle? Why is it that when we do fall in love with a certain individual and think at first that this is a perfect match, we find over time that less tolerable marks are more frequent on the surface? And why is it that we overlook some individuals that, although at first there is no real 'love connection' per say, we seem to have a somewhat pure liking for someone and that it takes us longer then it should to see that person for who they really are to us? Love is a complicated subject that can't be taught, it can only be experienced for what it is . utterly confusing and yet at the same time completely fulfilling.The story is a twisted and complicated tale from the same man who brought movie-going audiences such award-savvy features as Being John Malkovich and Adaptation. Joel Barish seems like the average, normal guy who stays pretty isolated from communicating his true feelings to others and yet reveals spectacular insight only to the confines of his journal. He doesn't like going on impulses and gut feelings but rather relies more on common sense and the logical sense of self-direction. That is until he meets Clementine. They flirt with each other and eventually find themselves falling in love with one another . That is until one day Joel finds out that Clementine has undergone a radical procedure to have him erased from her memory because she was unhappy. So, in an act of self-gratification, Joel decides to undergo the procedure himself, erasing every argument, every embarrassment, every thought he has had involving Clementine. But as the procedure goes on, Joel begins to realize that beyond the quarrels and the less flattering incidents there were beautiful memories that he never wants to forget. So he does the unthinkable . Joel attempts to outrun the erasers through a dizzying chase through his mind. The story for Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is hauntingly brilliant and, in some cases, personally gratifying. The concepts and the feelings expressed behind the script of this film hit so hard to home that it feels as though we our seeing our own love lives played out on screen. Granted Sunshine does tend to veer off into the ridiculously absurd but when evaluating what one takes away from this film, it is pure genius.Quite amazingly this low budgeted independent feature showcases a surprising amount of A-list talent but manages to have those performers express well beyond their famous names. Jim Carrey, who has unsuccessfully attempted to make a mark in drama with lead performances in Man on the Moon and The Majestic, gives a thoroughly convincing and commanding performance in the role of Joel Barish. And Carrey's performance is only complimented by his interaction with Kate Winslet, who acts opposite of him as Clementine. Though the two give dramatically different personas to their characters and look as if they would never be quite compatible with each other based on surface actions, which is the idea the filmmakers are trying to express. It's not what is right in front of us that should define a relationship; it is the memories themselves and the experiences of the two individuals. Elijah Wood, in his first role outside the Lord of the Rings franchise which recently wrapped up in December, gives an effective performance as a man one can't help but despise for his methods of obtaining someone's affection but at the same time feel pity for his plight, which is that he feels love eludes him. And Kirsten Dunst performs well within the film despite her appearance that protrudes a sense of innocence that feels off-base or awkward that distracts from the actions of her character. Not to say that she doesn't perform well or that the character is a pointless one, not in the least, but perhaps it is the fact that her innocence, based on her name and the characters she has played, carries a stigma with her role.Overall, Sunshine, as awkward and thoroughly confusing at it may seem and is, manages to express, in the most informal of ways, the feelings and thoughts we should all have when examining a relationship, in that it is not the superficial features but the underlining memories that make it all worth while. When a relationship hits that unfortunate moment where it all seems to be breaking down, we, as human beings, seem to instantly draw ourselves to the negative aspects of that person, as Joel did early in the procedure, in an attempt of sorts to make everything right within our mind. What Eternal Sunshine successfully expresses is that when breaking down the relationship moment by moment, more often then not the happier events outweigh the bad and that should be our determining factor to keep the relationship going. Too many moments are wasted on gut-instincts and logic, when it comes to love one must live every moment for what it is because we only have one shot in this world and we might as well make it worthwhile. What happens if that relationship doesn't work? You pick yourself up, let the relationship go, and, in time, move on. If you try your best and nothing seems to work in that relationship then perhaps it will never work and you shouldn't play out a fantasy that you know will never be. We have all experienced moments where we feel as though there is opportunity to ask someone out or express how one feels for a certain individual but have chickened out due to nerves, 'gut-instincts', or views of superficial matters. Eternal Sunshine promotes the ideology of living within the present and letting the course of the matter play out as it may. If we all relied on nerves and logic, would anyone really fall in love?
"How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each prayer accepted, and each wish resigned." - Alexander Pope Is ignorance truly bliss? And if you could erase a person, what would the consequences be? "Eternal Sunshine" answers these questions, in a way that most Hollywood movies could not. Michel Gondry and Charlie Kaufman have created one of the most original, touching, funny, and unique films of recent years. It explores the mind and the heart, deeper than other movies have dared to do.Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) is on the shy side. He's rather quiet and ordinary. Joel is stuck in life; he has no real relationships, a job he hates, and doesn't know where he's going or what he wants, but is too nervous to break out of his niche. Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet) seems like his complete opposite. She's spontaneous, wild, and eccentric. Her hair changes from red to blue to orange to green, depending on her mood. Clementine doesn't care what people think, and is free and impulsive, doing and saying what she wants.Clementine and Joel have a wonderful relationship, then break up because of petty arguments and irritations about each other's personalities. Joel tries to talk to her, then discovers she has had her memories of him wiped, by a company named Lacuna, that specializes in removing unwanted memories. Angry and hurt, he decides to undergo the procedure himself, confident he'll never miss Clementine. As the various memories are erased, Joel sees their best and their worst moments together. They argued and fought, but they were also happy, and for a time, they really loved each other. He realizes he'd rather have the pain of their relationship than have no memory of her at all. He begins to regret his decision, and desperately tries to stop the procedure. The film focuses on Joel's attempts to hide Clementine in his mind, and his struggle to fight the process.Jim Carrey's performance is wonderful, a complete change from his usual antics. He is sympathetic and believable; the rubber face that is usually contorted in a silly grin is subtly controlled, every line and expression honest and real. He is becoming a gifted actor and hopefully the public will forget the Ace Ventura side of him. Kate Winslet, who is one of our greatest actresses, gives one of her best performances. She gives a complexity to her role, which could have easily been clichéd and simple. She shows Clementine's want for attention, but also her incredible loneliness. Both of these characters aren't perfect; there are times when you understand why they dumped each other, and fought. But you also see why one loved the other. The supporting cast of Wilkinson, Wood, Dunst, and Ruffalo hold their own, as the eccentric team who run Lacuna, and have their own opinions about the process.People have called this an "anti-romance" movie, but I don't feel that. I think it is the ultimate romance movie, for it shows the complexity and pain of love. How much it hurts when it's gone, and how wonderful it feels while it's happening. "Eternal Sunshine" explores the mind with an intensity that is both painful and eloquent at the same time, like love itself.This film will make you reconsider your opinions about many things: life, love and memories. Gondry has brilliantly made it confusing and fast, yet clear and profound at the same time. The film is delicate and soft, but it hits you right in your heart. This is definitely a movie everyone should see. Because if they did, love would never be the same again.


                
On a Valentine Day, Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) feels the impulse of going to Montauk instead of working. After spending the cold day on the beach, he meets Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet) on the train station and they have a crush on each other. Joel and Clementine do not know that they were mates in the past. Joel has just erased Clementine from his memories when he found that Clementine did exactly the same, when their relationship ended. However, along his erasing process, Joel becomes astonished when he finds that he still loves Clementine and he does not want to lose her, fighting for keeping the memories of their moments together instead."Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is another intriguing and original screenplay written by Charlie Kaufman, certainly one of the most intelligent writers in the contemporary Hollywood. With the exception of the boring "Human Nature", all his other recent screenplays ("Confessions of a Dangerous Mind", "Adaptation" and "Being John Malkovich") are at least very originals. The love story of "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is fascinating and the cast is stunning. The underrated Jim Carrey and the magnificent Kate Winslet give other awesome performances, showing a great chemistry in their leading roles. The supporting cast, with the names of Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, Tom Wilkinson and Mark Ruffalo is superb, and it is really worthwhile watching this great film. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Brilho Eterno de Uma Mente Sem Lembranças" ("Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind")
''Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind'' is a big and strange name, but it matches perfectly this movie. I can say this is one of my favorite films at all, and one of the things that makes it so special to me, is the fact that it can be interpreted in multiple ways. Jim Carrey finally has a serious role and Kate Winslet is great as Clementine, the very extroverted girl with the most hair varieties you can imagine. (It is different from the British girl characters she is used to play)The story is focused in the relationship of Joel Barish and Clementine Kruczynski. Joel discovered that his ex girlfriend Clementine erased him from her memories, using the procedure of Lacuna's clinic, developed by Dr. Mierzwiak. Angry with that fact, Joel decides to erase his memories with Clem as well, but during the procedure he sees that he actually loves and wants to keep his memories with her. The movie shows their new meeting without remembering each other and Joel's memories of their relationship. The End is enigmatic, but far from the cliché.I really recommend it!aka "O Brilho Eterno De Uma Mente Sem Lembranças" - Brazil
Everyone at some point feels like Joel Barish.Joel has decided to erase his girlfriend Clementine from his memory. Literally. That's only fair though, because she has already had Joel erased from hers.Apparently, there is a medical treatment that can do that...as the doctor who pioneered the technology explains, "Technically speaking, the procedure is brain damage." If only it was that simple.Joel and Clementine are extremely complicated thirtysomethings who because of their many flaws and quirks actually make a perfect match. Most importantly, they love each other. We learn this along with many other bizarre and fascinating details as the film traces every memory Joel has of their problematic relationship. The labyrinthine journey through his mind takes the fuzzy fantastical form of dreams: some of his memories of Clementine are nightmares, but quite a few are startlingly beautiful treasures. It is these that Joel desperately tries to salvage, but by the time he realizes how he feels it may already be too late.Over the course of the film we also meet the entire staff of Lacuna, Inc., the four-person medical firm who is systematically destroying Joel's memory of Clementine. These are very weird people. Collectively they resemble the sort of slapstick professionalism you might witness late night at a video store. Still, as the plot (and Joel's memory) unravels, we discover that memories may be fleeting, but the past is absolute. Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it. The careless employees of Lacuna Inc. experience this truth as their lives intersect, parallel, and collide with Joel and Clementine and one another. Their struggle through the night against Joel's memory of his love will change each of their lives forever. What I like about movies written by Charlie Kaufman is that in an underhanded, diabolical way the film itself is always asking the audience questions. So even if you could somehow willfully change what you remember, could you ever really change how you feel? And does Fate even care about what you remember? Paradoxically, Joel and Clementine seem perpetually destined to be together, and equally doomed to break up. To me, that is the one unanswered question that lingers long after the credits roll: "Does love overcome fate, or does fate overcome love?" In the real world there may not be an answer, but in the present reality of Joel and Clementine, I think the answer is both.How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each pray'r accepted, and each wish resign'd. -- Alexander Pope, "Eloisa to Abelard"
This film is very original in its concept and execution. Everything is very intentional in this film including lighting, colour choices, names, etc. You watch this film and really get a sense of "Wow this director did an amazing job with the details". All the actors here did an amazing job. Genuine. Entertaining. Beautiful piece of art.


                
"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is one of the many masterpieces that proves why we all love film in the first place. Directed by French director Michel Gondry, and written by accomplished filmmaker Charlie Kaufman, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is equal part romantic comedy, psychological thriller, science-fiction, and non-linear narrative. Taking a break from comedy, the film stars Jim Carrey in a more dramatic performance as a man who volunteers to erase every single memory of him and his ex-girlfriend, played by Kate Winslet, whom coincidentally has already done the same thing. The film then takes us on a wonderful and imaginative journey through this one man's mind, as he tries to fight against those who try to steal his memories away, while at the same time, trying to fight for the woman he loves. First-time director Michel Gondry makes his second directorial debut in such a stylish fashion. He perfectly guides the movie with enough clever execution and brilliant uniqueness. Writer Charlie Kaufman has written such a beautiful script that contains witty humor, sharp characters, and true dialouge, which was able to win him a Best Original Screenplay Academy Award. Besides Carrey and Winslet, this remarkable cast includes Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo, and Tom Wilkinson, all bringing such memorable performances on screen. But it's the romantic relationship between Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet that carries the movie, and their adventures into trying to keep their memories together from falling apart. Jim Carrey may be more noticeable in more comedic-driven films, but he still provides great dramatic performances, and this is one of those movies that shows how great an actor he is. But, Kate Winslet is the scene-stealer, as the light-hearted, charismatic girlfriend, with a different choice of hair color in nearly every scene. It doesn't matter what role you give to Kate Winslet, because no matter what, she will still be awesome in the role! This movie also provides some of the beautiful uses of imagery that I have seen in a while. In a usual Charlie Kaufman movie, something weird always has to happen. Accompanied with a memorable soundtrack, beautiful effects, and stylish editing, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is pure filmmaking at it's finest. Although there were some characters that kind of got me annoyed, especially Elijah Wood's character, who seems sort of lost into his given performance. It was just a few moments where the movie loses a bit of it's magic. But, that doesn't hurt the movie's momentum, though! Those flaws are out-shined by how beautiful this movie has been made to look. This is probably one of my favorite movies, and it will definitely be a memorable one, as well. "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind", in my review, "a magical romance, fantastically well-made film".


                
Just got back from the theater and I liked it a lot. But then again, I just like moving images. It reminded me not so much of John Malkovich or Memento (to both of which it bears some resemblance), but rather of Lost In Translation.(note: for a short resume of it all, see bottom)Why? Only a very small part of the message was the same (when and how do we burn down our bridges), although tackled here in a different way. In Translation the whole point was that you don't always have to burn down your bridges (life follows the course it has to follow), while this one says the same in a less subtle way, by, instead of looking at the "standing at the precipice"-moment of decision (like LiT did), going beyond the decision point and saying "see whY you shouldn't? there's the good stuff!" and ultimately also ending up saying the river flows the way it should flow. Still, plus.But the general atmosphere was fairly similar, and that's what did it for me - yep, sometimes just the atmosphere, sound dumb I know. This lukewarm melancholy that comes over you for example when you remember when you were little the first time a girl did something to you that made you understand - for the very first time - that you were something special in someone else's life. It's the whole melancholy that gets built up by focusing on the Good Stuff while sh*t is happening. LiT however does a very neat trick in looking for solid ground in finding a different way of being Here and Now and Self; Spotless Mind's message is on the Good in Memories. The whole memory stuff is my thing. I love it. I see it in every film (mainly because I try to see many films about it). So that's another plus.So the minus? Well, I had the impression the script got messed around with, and now that I've read some of the trivia here I'm sure it was. A) The tone isn't balanced at all. People DON'T go see this thinking it is a comedy - because it isn't (Lost In Translation made the same error selling itself as one). It has some fun moments that successfully counter the melancholy, but the moments are scattershot. The start is good, because confusing and suddenly gripping. But the whole sequence where they begin to erase his memory and the erasers get stoned is boring and pointless (except for seeing Kirsten Dunst in underwear) and serves to hide the fact that the main story doesn't have a lot to go on (i.e., the memory erasing itself is kinda nifty the first time, but...) B) The point they're trying to make is diffuse. When Patrick uses Joel's lines to get to Clementine (another useless side plot) you get this naive "it's not about the right words, but about the right person" idea. They try to tell us we should learn to live with painful memories; at the same time, there's the idea of making a relationship work if you keep focusing on the good stuff; there's the idea that the same stuff always happens (though they toned that down in the final script version... which may just not have been the thing to do); etc.The bottom line here: they should've decided on which point to make, what tone to go for, so or make it more of a comedy, or, my option, cut the annoying bits, and focus on the role of memory in social life and the actual NAture of the relationship between a very good Carrey, and an, as always ab-so-lu-te-ly FAbulous Kate Winslet (people, she is GRAND). As it is now, while nice (yes, that word) with some wonderful moments, and nibbling at some great topics, you still get the nagging feeling you've been watching the exposition of a gimmick, rather that the wonderful film it could have been.The Beck cover song rules!
It took me a little while to work this movie out because it was a little odd at the beginning. Okay, I knew it was about how a man (Joel) was having all memory of his ex-girlfriend (Clementine) erased from his memory, and that it is basically a love story in reverse, but as I said the beginning left me a little baffled. Basically Joel goes to the beach and meets Clementine and they begin to hit it off and after their first date he parks outside her house so she can get her toothbrush and some guy comes up to him and asks him what he is doing. Suddenly it jumps to a scene where he is driving home crying, and for a while I thought there was a sudden jump of two years to when they had broken up. When, later on in the movie, the scene where they first met was completely different to the opening scenes of the movie I was under the impression that there was a huge continually stuff up. However, how can a movie, with a huge continually stuff up, get a rating of over 8 on IMDb? Well, all is explained in the end.As I mentioned, this is basically a love story in reverse. The story begins after they have broken up and Joel discovers that Clementine has had him completely erased from his memory, so he goes and visits the same doctor to have the procedure done to him as well. This is when we get to the core of the movie as it jumps between Joel's memory and events going on in Joel's bedroom with the people who are doing the erasing. Thus what we have are in effect two stories going on which at first do not seem to be related at all, but slowly become interrelated.The way this film has been set out makes it quite different to the 'boy meets girl, boy loses girl, and boy gets girl again' typical Hollywood theme. If seen in the normal order then that is basically what the film is, but it isn't. The film begins with the break up and then we watch, through Joel's memories as they are progressively being erased, the relationship as it unfolded. However, the relationship begins with the break up, and then moves through the fights – all of the painful parts – however things begin to change when we get to the good parts – the parts that Joel does not want to forget. Joel knows what is going on, and when he realises that all of the good parts of the relationship are being removed he suddenly wants it to stop, and thus we have this psychological fight where is tries his best to retain his memories, while the doctors on the outside are fighting to complete the process.I guess sometimes, especially when we go through painful experiences, we would like them to be removed from our memory so they do not come back to haunt us, but the question is then raised is that healthy, and is it possible. We are told at the beginning that all evidence of the relationship must be removed because by seeing (or even hearing) one element from that relationship can end up triggering those forgotten memories. This is where the film gets interesting because one of the assistants, who assisted in Clementine having her memory erased, falls in love with her and uses his knowledge to start a relationship with her. However therein lies the problem – while she may have forgotten, he hasn't, and what is worse, he is using the knowledge that he gained from assisting Joel in deepening the relationship, but this has an opposite effect.Then there is what is going on on the outside, but I won't go any further than that because I have already pretty much spoiled the movie (even though I have put a spoiler alert on this review). However, what I picked up in the movie is the idea of removing memories (and it appears that many are well aware of this aspect as well). Just because we have bad memories, or more precisely, memories that hurt us, does not mean that they are useless. First of all our memories define who we are, whether they are pleasant or not, and to remove those memories will end up undermining our character. Secondly, if we seek to remove the bad memories it does not mean that only our good memories will remain. As can be seen in this film, the good memories of the relationship are inextricably tied up with the bad, so by removing the bad, we are also removing the good. It is clear that Joel wanted all of the bad memories removed, but when he suddenly realised that these bad memories were connected to the good memories, and the good memories were also being removed, that was when he wanted it to stop. Finally, just because all of the bad memories are removed does not necessarily mean that we will not repeat the same mistakes. In fact, by removing them means that we are more likely to do so. As Winston Churchill once said: he who forgets the past is doomed to repeat its mistakes.
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is an inexhaustible serum formulated by lofty doses of trepidation. The film takes a similair high-octane approach within fetching out its countless events to that of one of my all-time favorites, Requiem for a Dream, making just about every conceptual message it has in store function freakishly well. Charlie Kaufman's script is the key module to this movie's heart-rending brain cluster that is surely guaranteed to tumble over and cause any other romantic narrative to look puny in comparison. (Verdict: A)


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004) is one of the best films I've ever seen. The plot revolves around Clementine (Kate Winslet) and Joel (Jim Carrey). They play a couple who's relationship has crumbled. Clementine ends up going to a doctor who specializes in this procedure that erases memories you would like to forget, and she erases all memory of Joel. After Joel finds out that she has done this, he also decides to have the procedure done. During the procedure, he starts to change his mind and doesn't want to let go of certain memories of her.This film features incredible performances by every single cast member. Kate Winslet in particular gives a remarkable performance, very deserving of that Academy Award nomination. And Jim Carrey is also great here, this is probably my favorite film of his filmography. If anyone thinks Carrey is only capable of doing comedy, then I'd suggest they watch this one, because he nails it. Kirsten Dunst gives a skilled supporting performance, as does Ruffalo, Wilkinson, and Wood. The writing is so well done and balanced. The dialogue between Clementine and Joel is very revealing and written in a beautiful way. When you cast great artists such as the two leads and give them writing like this, it's just bound to be a hit. I for sure suggest this wonderful film! 9/10.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind understands what relationships are like in a way that is uncanny. While masquerading as a happy movie about a loving couple, Eternal Sunshine shows the darkest and most harmful parts of relationships.The film is about Joel (Jim Carrey) a guy in his thirties who has dated a quirky woman named Clementine (Kate Winslet). Their relationship is difficult and marred with unhappiness. When Clementine stops talking to him inexplicably, he finds that she has had an operation that erased all her memories of their relationship. Joel is distraught and gets the same operation. The film then becomes a narrative within Joel's head as he relives all of his memories with Clementine as they are erased.The narrative is experimental, completely fragmented with some scenes that are bizarre within Joel's head. This leads to some unique, memorable, and just plain weird moments. This uniqueness gives the film its identity and the lack of linearity in the dreams both leaves the viewer the fun job of piecing together a narrative on his own while also giving the filmmakers license to contrast memories directly against each other, even when they are from different time periods.Our characters are very quirky and not entirely likable at first. Joel is reserved and awkward, a combination that initially turned me off to his character. Clementine, on the other hand, is very expressive and emotional- perhaps to a fault. it isn't until you see the best moments these people shared together when you begin to like them. Both the characters and the film itself feel very genuine when we see their happy moments.What is the ultimate point of Eternal Sunshine? (SPOILERS follow) What does it have to say? In the end, Joel and Clementine stay together. They know all of the horrible things that they will do to each other and they stay together anyway. The audience is happy that they stay together.Why do they stay together? An optimist would say that it is because they are meant to be. It seems unlikely that two people would happen to fall in love again if they had no memory of their history. Maybe some people are just soulmates and they will always find each other. In fact, the same phenomenon occurs to the Kirsten Dunst character when her memories are erased- she finds the same man and falls in love with him again.The more pessimistic answer, and in my opinion the real answer to the question is that people tend to ignore obvious red flags when starting a relationship they are excited about. The two leads share one day together, having fun as "strangers" before they are given documents telling them about their past relationship. Joel and Clementine have hard physical evidence that proves they are incompatible. Their original relationship became unhappy and borderline abusive, and the two of them have documents that detail exactly how much they come to hate each other. This is the biggest red flag that a person could ever receive: hard proof that the relationship won't work. Still, the two of them are excited about their budding relationship and their first day together, so they ignore this giant red flag and date anyway. They don't look at the documents and see how they can better their relationship, they just blindly get back together, doomed to fall into the same traps they did before, because it is the easy choice and the exciting choice. The movie ends on an optimistic note, but a viewer has to wonder about the dark implications of this and the ignorance that it takes for them to stay together.When Joel is going through the memories of his relationship, there is an overwhelming feeling both in him and in the audience that he should stay with Clementine because the two of them have such good memories together. In essence: it doesn't matter that the relationship has grown into something horrible and toxic, they should stay together because they used to be happy and they need to hold on to those happy memories. Any person who has seen a relationship through knows this feeling as the end nears. This movie makes the audience actively cheer for that outcome. It's not until you think back on the movie's message that you realize how delusional this idea is.The main points the film is making are common justifications that people have to stay in broken relationships: it's easy to ignore red flags, no matter how large, and it's hard to break up with someone you have good memories with. It's eerie how easy it is for the audience to cheer for these irrational justifications, and it tells us something about ourselves.In all, Eternal Sunshine is a romantic film that really knows what long-term relationships and toxic relationships are like. The more engaged viewer will leave with an interesting message about the darkness of relationships. I strongly recommend the movie as a study of the irrational behavior people have when in relationships.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004 movie) has earned a place in moviegoers' hearts, not to mention plenty of "best movies of the 21st-century" lists. The mind-bending romantic tragedy with Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet is the perfect pairing of bizarre screenwriter Charlie Kaufman and whimsical French director Michel Gondry. If you think this makes the movie sound penetrable, you have no idea. As the movie opens, Joel is seized with an inexplicable compulsion to ditch work and take the train to Montauk, and on the train he meets Clementine. For all they know they have never seen each other before, but somehow there's a connection, a distant shadow of Deja Vu. During the course of the film, which moves freely, dazzlingly, forward and backward in time, they will each experience fragmentary versions of relationships they had, might have had, or might be having. This film in particular, is actually about a man named Joel (Jim Carrey) who is heartbroken to find out that his girlfriend (Kate Winslet) has gone through a procedure that deleted every memory of him from her mind, so he decides to do the same. In the process, he realises that he still loves her, and will do anything to keep his memories of her.The movie is a radical example of Maze Cinema, that style in which the story coils back upon itself, redefining everything and then throwing it up in the air and redefining it again.
I started to watch Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and after first 15 minutes I realized I could not turn it off and drive to work (which I was supposed to do). I did what Jim Kerry's character Joel did <U+0096> I called my boss and left her a message that I would be late. I stayed home and I watched the film. I cried, I laughed, I sighed, I felt <U+0096> I lived through it. There are not so many films that we don't just watch but live through <U+0096> for me, ESotSM was that. Finally, the Charlie Kaufman's film that I absolutely love. "Being John Malkovich" amused me; "Adaptation" irritated me <U+0096> too much of Charlie in there for my taste even if he looked like Nic Cage. Eternal Sunshine<U+0085> is Kaufman's masterpiece about relationships, memories, reality, and about intolerance, impatience, inability to listen to the others, to understand them. How easy it is to insult the one you love the most. How difficult it is to forgive yourself for that. How often we rely on the modern technology to fix our inner problems. How seldom we realize that painful and happy memories go together. You can not get rid of ones and keep the others. It may not be the best romance film ever but it is damn close. It is a tender and poignant Valentine Card that Kaufman sent to all of us <U+0096> to remind us that the love exists, that relationships can survive, and even if they die, we have the memories of them, and nobody or nothing can take our memories from us. Is it just a coincidence that Kaufman references for the second time to the tragic and great love of Eloisa and Abelard in his works? I applaud to Michel Gondry for his brilliant directing; to the supporting cast, including Tom Wilkinson, Mark Ruffalo, and Kirsten Dunst. Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet played their best roles ever and I hope to see Carrey more often in the dramatic performances. But in the beginning of everything there was a word <U+0096> without Kaufman's screenplay the film would not have happened. Thank you, Charlie.


                
It's a good film that tell a story about a person who failed in his love.Joel(Jim Carry) is an introvert person who works in magazine and Celementine(Kate Winslet) is an extrovert person who works in a library and story is about this two persons and the relation between them and... .This is non linear film,the first scene is when Joel woke up and suddenly ditched his work and he went to Montauk.Then he fell in love with a girl (Celementine).Then movie continues with some romantic scenes and then suddenly you see Joel who found out that Clementine is with someone else and even she doesn't know him anymore(you'll find out that it was a flash back).the viewer can't understand why they separated.Joel decided to remove Celementine of his mind,in the process he remembered what happened to them (flash backs) and who should be blamed for this situation.He understood that made a mistake.then ... It's a good movie because it has a innovative way to tell a story.


                
Charlie Kaufman writes movies with uniquely bizarre premises and utterly human themes. In Being John Malkovich, he deals with identity, aspirations, and the hard reality of existence. Adaptation is about the creative struggle and the need to adapt and evolve with the circumstances. In Synecdoche, New York he presents us with a stylized look at our perception of life and other people. In Eternal Sunshine he searches through the meaning of love and memory. All of these descriptions are trite, insufficient, and probably inaccurate. They are, however, what I recall learning from and seeing in the films.I just re-viewed Eternal Sunshine. I think it is his best script, and one of the best scripts of the 00's. In all his films, Kaufman is able to create a bizarre world filled with eccentric characters that are surprisingly like each of us. I have not had to deal with the rise and fall of a relationship like Joel and Clementine do in the movie. I have had to deal with the peaks and valleys of ones. I can most certainly understand the place memory holds in our value system.I recently saw a lecture on the meaning of happiness. The speaker noted that there are two main types of happiness: that which comes from experiencing and that which comes from remembering. This movie very effectively illustrates that there is a disconnect between the two. The lecturer noted that people who moved from Ohio to California would say that they are happier. They aren't. They remember the hard winters and are comparing their present experience to their memories. We tend to filter our memories to extremes, either very good or very bad. We tend to not place emphasis on the middle.One of the many problems with Joel and Clementine in the movie is that they place more emphasis on present experience rather than memory. In the end, Joel comes to realize the importance of memory, and its supremacy to the present. Even though he knows his relationship with Clementine will probably fail, he is will to move ahead, if only for the pleasant memories of pleasant times.The themes of this movie are similar to the themes of Dark City, another very good movie. The two might make an interesting double-feature, even though the forms of the movies are very different.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004)Shifting Inner Realities and True LoveThe simple brilliance of the basic idea (erasing selective parts of the mind) and applying it in a way that feeds into pure romance (erasing only memories of a relationship with someone) makes for a movie that still could go all wrong. But it doesn't. Jim Carrey as Joel, the main thread we have through this misadventure, is at his best--comic without being plain old stupid, and feeding some mild angst. There are moments when you wonder, is this necessary, is this really that funny (like the dancing on the bed) and I think it depends on who you are. But most of the time you are waiting for the next improbable twist, which you swallow wholeheartedly because it's just so fun, and so enchanting. There is a confusing charm from start to finish, and you can't expect to get every detail or nuance, not the first time anyway. Some clues--watch the changing hair color of Joel's sometimes girlfriend Clementine (played with steady conviction by Kate Winslet), watch the weather. And be patient. Some bits get explained after the fact.The other engaging aspect to the movie is its visual trickery, tightly conceived so that when reality breaks down the movie doesn't just devolve into chaos, or into special effects. We feel as though we are shifting with the main characters from one reality to another. Brilliant, and beautiful, too.Seeing the movie a second time had a strange unpeeling effect that at first was welcome, because I understood it far better. In fact, I understood it, period, which I can't say about some other mind-shifting movies like Memento. And the problem grows that part of the movie's enjoyment is how it puzzles you. There are lots of movies that don't work as well on second viewing because they have lost their surprise, and this is a little like that, but it might take two looks to get to the saturation point. The happy ending lacks some sparkle now--it seems too packaged. A totally amazing twist, which should be doable these days, would be to make a movie that constructs itself from the DVD in slightly different ways every time you see it. Then your own reality would jostle around in spooky ways. As it is, it's still so weirdly curious and detached and romantic in steady spurts throughout, it's a special experience, one of those movies to talk about. In the end, pure Love beats it all.
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is, no doubt, a difficult film, unless one has read introduction or reviews before watching it, but it is absolutely a good one. The idea of erasing memory is not a fresh one actually, but the uniqueness of this film lies in the way it handles the process of erasing. Compared with other films, cartoons or books with this idea, which only take it as one part of the plot, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind does not only show us Joel's (Jim Carrey) memories about Clementine (Kate Winslet) in a reversed chronological order, but also makes a connection between his inner thoughts and the outer realistic ongoing. For example, when Joel hears Patrick (Elijah Wood) talking about how he steals his ideas, words and gifts to date and please Clementine during the erasing process, there is a reaction in his inner thoughts that he wants to tell Clementine that Patrick cheats. What is more, the pace of presenting memory is dealt with appropriately. Sometimes several pieces of memory are erased one after another in a compact way which causes you a kind of pain in heart that you can hardly tell, because the process is so fast that you do not even have time to resist Clementine's disappearance. Some other pieces of memory are dealt with in a relatively slow and peaceful pace, such as the seaside house episode and the one when Joel and Clementine meet each other for the first time. These pieces are so wonderful that you are unwilling to erase them and feel even more sorrowful when they are erased. The mixture of different paces to handle the erasing process has successfully avoided a monotonous slide show of memory.As for the cast, Jim Carrey has once again proved his talent. Different from his roles in the past, Joel is a quiet character with rich, complex inner world, which does not require much performance of exaggerated body language, and Jim Carrey has shown his ability in the subtle performance, such as the eye contact and the tone he speaks in, so as to fit in the role in the film. Elijah Wood is good, too, presenting a fairly realistic young man Patrick who courts girls with the advantages he takes of his work, and has erased all the traces of a Hobbit.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind just keeps us thinking about the way we treat our memory. Good memory is to be cherished, but what about the nightmares? Shall we just bury or erase them? Bad memory is painful for us, but doesn't it, together with the good part, make us whole people?
The greatest thing about this movie is that there are really weird science fiction kind of staff going on but the movie doesn't feel like a science fiction movie or even a weird movie , it all feels natural. Reason for this are : 1)Honesty : the actual love story is one of the most honest ones , it has its ups and downs like real life ,there are some serious things they don't like about each other , they will never live happily ever after , yet you feel like they might always love each other and its heart warming. 2)Acting :very natural , staying away from overacting , Jim Carrey actually surprised me , he should have an Oscar nomination but ironically you need to overact for that.3)Lightning and camera : i read that Michel Gondry didn't want to use any lightning at all but they used some in the end , the camera also reminds you that it's there , it's shaking a little , these even sometimes make you feel like you are watching a documentary. While they tried to market it as a romantic comedy , i think this is an anti-romantic comedy , a very sad and deep movie. with the things falling apart in most of the time in the movie i felt like my heart was falling apart. and with lines like ; " Clementine: This is it, Joel. It's going to be gone soon. Joel: I know. Clementine: What do we do? Joel: Enjoy it. " it connects everything to real life itself in an upsetting but enlightening way.


                
Before the i watched this movie, everyone said it's overrated, overrated, oooooooverrated. And after these returns i thought it's overrated.
WHATEVER
This movie has a good story and awesome acting performance. But, most important for me: AWESOME EDITING!!!
Lovely soundtrack and cool side story into the bargain!
ENJOY IT!


                
The movie takes place the weekend of Valentine's Day and is about a man who's getting the memories of his girlfriend erased through an operation, but is having second thoughts in the middle of the erasing, but he can't wake up. A movie where anything is possible.


                
A good movie, which make you feel the characters and the movie.
It is pure and beautiful.
Jim Carrey is awesome.
Can't tell more.


                
Considered by many as a "Modern Classic", it's the story about a man who discovers his ex ask a service to memory erasing program which he tries to forget her, only to regretted later.Jim Carrey has even to this date an interesting career, after his nineties comedies he decided to enter into much more "intellectual" films like The Truman Show, Man on the Moon and of course this. In which he gives one of his best performances of his career, playing an introvert, lonely and melancholic character.Kate Winslet, Clementine, is the more crazy girlfriend that fills the protagonsit´s boring life with her... craziness. Not a fan of characters like her, but she works greatly on this storyline. This almost reach a sense magic realism or even surrealism, it establishes a world where unreal things like an institution that erases memories and dream-memory scenery happen without questioning.All to tell a very basic but somewhat not very common message.
Eternal sunshine is a mind twisting filmthat leaves you questioning future possibilities. There is something quite addictive about this film that will require many revisits. I love this side to Jim Carrey and with a whole array of other big names, this film is a must see!


                
Don't you love when a simple film makes you cry? What a breathtaking piece of art! So great it makes you forget that Jim Carrey is the same actor as in Mask. The main beauty of this film is that it's so brutal because it's true, it get's you in a very personal level. I can say, it made me almost angry as I felt an extreme invasion of privacy, which you may say is absolutely pathetic since everything in this film is impossible. But that's exactly what great films do, right? Make the impossible, possible, in a way you can feel absolutely every emotion. It even makes me want to be called Clementine!
Thank you Mr. Kaufman, you truly are a genius!


                
