Reviews of Volume 3 and 4Volume 3: 10/10Futurama was even funnier than The Simpsons in its heyday (which, to my eyes, was seasons 8-10), and much of what made the series so great was perfectly exemplified by the DVD collection volume 3. There's an equal mix of cool sci-fi tales, brilliantly creative humor, and the addition of genuine heart that made this show unbeatable. Favorite Episodes: Time Keeps on Slipping, Amazon Women in the Mood, Parasites Lost, The Luck of the Fryfish, That's LobstertainmentVolume 4: 10/10Probably my favorite volume, this last collection of episodes has all the humor, heart, and beautiful animation of the previous seasons. As the show wound to a close, the series satisfyingly touched on many emotional levels that most shows, animated or otherwise, wouldn't even dare approach with a ten-foot pole (most exemplified by Jurassic Bark). Special mention must definitely go out to the final episode, The Devil's Hands are Idle Playthings, which is one of the series' best episodes (the only flaw being the lack of screen time given to Farnsworth), full of big laughs (Dan Castallaneta's guest role as the Robot Devil is priceless) and a strong emotional climax, capping off with a touching final scene that provides a sense of closure between the love and burgeoning romance of heroes Fry and Leela, while still keeping an open door for future possibilities. Fry, Leela, Bender, Farnsworth, Zapp, Kif, Calculon, Chicken Lawyer, Robot Devil, Morbo; I'm gonna miss you all. No doubt, it's been a great four seasons.Favorite episodes: The Devil's Hands are Idle Playthings, The Farnsworth Parabox, Where No Fan Has Gone Before, Kif Gets Knocked Up a Notch


                
Futurama is one of my all time favorite cartoon series. Never gets old. This show is so smart and funny. Why FOX ever canceled this show is beyond me.Instead they have crappy programs like that lie detector game show and other lame junk.Adult Swim was dumb for no longer having Futurama in its nightly line up. It is the only reason I watched it. As far as it being on Comedy Central, at least it is still on the air. As much as I love The Simpsons I can actually say I like Futurama more. Looking at all the nominations and wins the series received while on the air with FOX just proves how dumb FOX was to cancel the show.WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?They brought back Family Guy. Why doesn't FOX and Matt Groening bring back Futurama?


                
This show has always been ignored, or passed over by some old Simpson's fans, simply because it isn't the Simpsons. Futurama and the Simpsons share little in common, aside from one thing...they are both extremely funny. Futurama however, continues to push the envelope of what is entertaining. With an extremely amusing cast of characters, plot lines, laugh out loud jokes and even some emotional moments, this show has everything. Adventure, Comedy and Romance can all be found within the cornucopia of episodes this show has to offer.In the Simpson, the quality has gone downhill and has kept going further and further down. In Futurama it is the exact opposite. It just gets better and better and better.Anyone can enjoy Futurama as it is full of smart laughs, slapstick humour, and great characters. I give this show ten out of ten. If you enjoy The Simpson's, Star Wars, or anything else, this show is perfect for you.


                
Futurama is an absolutely hilarious show. The jokes are great and the characters are unique. Fry's stupidity is hilarious. Bender is great. The professor says some really funny stuff, especially the insults he comes up with. The whole show is an entertaining, comic masterpiece. I was actually pretty surprised at how good the last season was. My girlfriend and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I'm deeply saddened that this show is canceled.. Again!! It's better than a couple of the adult animated series that are still running on Sunday nights. The last season was so funny that it made us even more confused that it's being canceled. How is this happening when some other terrible junk is still on the air?? It's a brilliant show. The creators did an excellent job and I'd love to thank them for this. It's worth watching again and again! I will miss seeing new episodes.


                
This marvelous animation, from the creator of my all time favourite motion picture, The Simpsons, uses a subtle integration of cgi graphics with a more flashy version of Groenings style of animation to produce half hours of non stop gags (quite intelligent in some cases) and fun adventure. The pop culture references so great in The Simpsons only go farther and wider here in this story of Fry, a pizza delivery boy sent through suspended animation to the year 3000 from the year 1999.Phillip J. Fry, better known simply as 'Fry', was a pizza delivery boy in the late nineties. The first episode deals with his being frozen in a cryogenic capsule for a thousand years, in the background through the window we see the changing of New York, which has become New New York, and remains the central setting for the series after this episode. Fry soon meets Turanga Leela, a one eyed girl who believes she is an alien, who was raised at an orphanage. (we later find out she is in fact a mutant and her parents live underground) Fry runs from Leela after being assigned work as a delivery boy (for he wished for a fresh start) and meets Bender the robot, who is programmed to bend, and has a selfish and indulgent persona, enjoying cigars and alcohol (incidentally the fuel of all robots). Leela then turns to Fry's side and the three find Fry's only living relative, Professor Farnsworth, who employs them in his delivery company, Planet Express. Other members of the crew are Zoidberg, a alien lobster like creature, and Amy Wong, a wealthy martian, as well as Scruffy the janitor (often ignored despite caring for the company deeply) and a Jamaican businessman who is good at financial operations. The series generally follows adventures on different planets, or Earth, involving a variety of recurring characters like Zapp Brannigan, who admires Leela, and many 'heads', famous personalities in the form of heads inside glass containers filled with fluid, such as Richard Nixon. The series' style shares much with The Simpsons, but is cleaner animated and uses cgi for spacecraft and other objects to some degree. Also of note is the colour of skin, pink rather than Simpsons yellow. The characters are great, and the humour and dialogue are very worthy of the corner box's schedule. If you only allowed programs of this quality on the TV guide would be almost empty. This series is very amusing and enjoyable, and is almost as good as The Simpsons for entertainment. The characters have interesting personalities and the plots are, considering it's setting, quite extraordinary. Quite an enjoyable show.So, all in all, thanks Matt Groening for another brilliant series, and may there be more episodes!
As most of us know, Futurama is a really, really funny show, and every character has something special about them. There is nothing wrong with this show at all! I don't see any flaws, and I don't care if there are any. This is a show with a truly touching and hilarious story line.The show is about Phillip J. Fry, a 25 year old pizza man who gets frozen in a test tube in a New York City lab on December 31, 1999. Poor Fry accidentally falls into the tube and can't get out. He is finally unthawed on December 31, 2999, exactly 1000 years later. He gets out of the tube and is mortified with what he sees, and at the same time, ecstatic. He hated his job as a pizza boy, which is what he did that for a living. When he came out of the tube, he meets Turanga Leela, another major character. Leela is quite obnoxious and has a quick temper, but some good comes out of her. Then Fry meets Bender, the slam-bang funniest character on the show! His trademark quote used in almost all episodes is 'Bite my shiny metal ass.', and no one says anything. Fry then becomes enrolled in Planet Express, a delivery crew in the year 3000 with Leela and Bender. The head of the Planet Express is Hubert J. Farnsworth, a 160 year old man. Well, it is a cartoon. At times, he's unbearable. Hubert is Fry's great x30 (the word great is used 30 times) nephew, making Fry actually older than his 160 year old nephew. The other three people who work at the Planet Express are Hermes Conrad, Amy Wong, a woman actually from the planet Mars, and then John Zoidberg, a hilarious human sized lobster. He has two giant claws that are sharp and used a lot to open food. Fry, Leela, and Bender are the crew who go on hilarious missions in outer space with the company spaceship. This show is anything but bad!Futurama has a truly touching and hilarious storyline. I cried tears of joy in one episode, I remember. If you don't like the show, that's sort of okay with me, but here's what bender will have to say: "People who hate this show can bite my shiny metal ass." And the show kicks ass! Be sure to look for it on DVD and Blu-ray today.


                
Fry is normal pizza delivery boy of the year 1999 with a lousy job and his girlfriend had just dumped him for a better man. He has nothing to live for when he accidentally gets frozen in science lab on 31st of Decemeber 1999 and wakes up in the year 3000. He finds his great-great-...-great grandson, a mad old scientist, and works, that's funny, as a delivery boy, but this time he delivers different stuff with a space ship in outer space. His team at work are his best friends: Leela - a cyclopean human mutant, Bender - probably the most complex character, a bender robot, full of vices like drinking problems or stealing, doctor Zoidberg - a crustacean human doctor (if you would ask me, he is the funniest), Amy - a Chinese girl born on Mars and heir of one hemisphere of the planet, and Hermes - a Jamaican bureaucrat (that's funny, bureaucracy continues to extend even more in the 31st century).The comic characters are not as strong as they were in the other Matt Groenig's creation, The Simpsons, but Futurama is more fluid, more dynamic, very stupid, but still smart and ironic. I really don't understand why this show has been cancelled, I'm looking forward to next year's announced production.


                
The television series Futurama is nothing short of brilliant and in my opinion is the best television series ever. I personally do not actually like science fiction movies or series aside from this one show which i give an exception too.Futurama is easily leaps and bounds above the rest as it focuses substantially on character development and does avoid the common stereotype of "a family" as the focus. Instead the focuses of Futurama is simply several unique and hilarious work colleagues and there many adventures across the universe. What also is very unique is the characters are all different and each have there own opinions which provide an excellent contrast in the series. Another aspect of Futurama which surpasses other animation shows is the quality of the visuals. Futurama is notorious for having excellent visuals and has won several Emmy's for its animation achievement. The positives do not stop there; Futurama is amazing at portraying an amazing amount of emotion into the episodes that at some times had my holding back tears. This level of emotion is not even present in the Simpson's.One final positive thing worth saying is that the show is able to appeal to all audiences, not just sci-fi lovers. For example by 50-year old mother can't stand sci-fi and she absolutely loves the show. The series itself does however contain some sexual humor that is structured rather uniquely to simply pass over young children's heads. Essentially all the sex jokes made will not be understood by the younger viewers.Of course the show is not perfect as at it does of course have flaws. But thankfully these flaws are out shined by the brilliance of the series.All I have to say is the biggest mistake in television history was to cancel this show, and put Family Guy back on instead of this. Conversely I am glad there are several more movies coming out which will provide the shows many fans with much more laughs. Overall I give the series a 10. One of the two television series I have ever given this too. The other being the Simpson's.


                
Now that is not to say the Simpsons is bad or anything, I really like it, but it has jumped the shark for a few years now. Futurama is everything I love an animated series to be, funny, original and witty. I seriously don't know where to begin praising the show. Well for one thing the animation is amazing. The characters are really well drawn, the backgrounds are audacious and the visual effects are eye-popping. And the music is brilliant, it is cleverly composed with some funky songs featuring such as "Conga" and "Sunshine of Your Love" and the theme tune is definitely memorable. The writing is outstanding, the comedy works brilliantly and the more touching and subtle parts work just as well. The episode ideas springing from a brilliant concept are really original and fun, and the pacing is great. And the characters with the help of a truly talented voice cast are really unique and endearing, especially Fry, Bender and Zoidberg, and Leela is a feisty and headstrong character that I related to immediately. Overall, a truly wonderful show, with all the fun and originality that are lacking in the later episodes of the Simpsons. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I am a fan of Family Guy, at least for the first 3 1/2 seasons. What they are doing now is just completely opposite of what Futurama has done in all of its seasons. This series has one thing that most shows nowadays don't really have anymore. Consistency. Normally in a series, there's quite a few episodes that I wouldn't want to watch. Futurama, however, is the rare series that I wouldn't mind watching any episode at any time.I could easily watch reruns of this show forever, and have been watching them on adult swim for the past few years. I felt that Futurama was taken off-air in its prime. Just recently I learned that new episodes have been in the works since mid 07. It is my sincere hope that they continue producing quality episodes for years to come.


                
Not many, mind you. Not many at all. Since its debut in 1989, The Simpsons has been a blessing: comedic work of extremely high quality. The Simpsons has had some of the best double entendres, sly shots at celebrities, tappings into pop culture personalities and events, genuinely funny and creative material and some of the most recognizable and lovable characters TV has ever produced.Wanna know what Futurama is? Take those factors and double them. No, triple them.I'm not kidding. It's really that good. Matt Groening is a certified genius, and his magic touch turns anything into comedy gold. He can take the most sinister and disturbing of subjects and have you split your sides laughing at them. Not many people can do that.Futurama is one of my all time favorite shows. I rank it right up there with Scrubs, Arrested Development, Andy Richter Controls the Universe and Da Ali G Show. Again, it really *is* that good. Groening's work focuses a lot on building the characters of his shows, and where the Simpsons were one yellow family with distinct personalities and demeanors, the differences in Futurama are much greater, transcending not only gender and ethnicity, but even species and (heck) time itself! Let's take a look at the characters: Professor Farnsworth: old and wrinkled. REALLY old and wrinkled. Unofficially trademarked the phrase "Good news everyone!" in his own trembling old man's voice, in a reference to some random invention he came up with in just about every episode. Morally ambiguous at times, and clearly immoral at others, he lives to invent lots and lots of weird, random stuff (to give you an idea: the smell-o-scope) that serves to be some of the episodes' background story.Bender: one of the most popular TV characters of all time - an amazing feat since Futurama was mostly a cult favorite rather than mainstream. He's a robot that doesn't give a crap about you, anyone or anything. He's got attitude coming out his shiny metal wazoo. And speaking of that, search for the phrase "bite my shiny metal ass" and see how many results come up. (Great line at that) Leila: one-eyed, purple-haired, sexy-in-a-tank-top, ass-kickin', human-lookin' alien. The leader and the brains of the group that Professor Farnsworth sends out to do some missions.Fry: Beavis and Butthead's long lost cousin. Not really, but seeing how big of a dumbass he is, one might conjure up that guess. A lovable idiot.Dr. Zoidberg: a big blobby crab, obviously the group's own doctor, even though he knows as much about medicine as much as Fry knows about...anything.Captain Zapp Brannigan: ahh, here we go! Aside of Family Guy's Quagmire, I can't think of a funnier character on an animated sitcom. No, ANY sitcom at all, actually. One of the most HILARIOUS characters you'll ever see. This guy is just insanely funny. He's arrogant, he's self-absorbed, extremely egotistical, oblivious to his own failings and glaring incompetence, indulgent in pampering himself with metrosexual treatment every now and then, has an eternal (1) grin and (2) crush on Leila, and never stops torturing his poor alien subordinate Kif who (1) does the real work all the time, (2) gets credit none of the time and (3) takes the blame every time Zapp screws things up (which happens quite often). One of my all time favorites, and once you see this show, he'll be one of yours too. I GUARANTEE this! Too bad he's not a main character.This show is pure quality. It's creative every way a show *can* be creative, and it's funny as much as any show CAN be funny. Sadly there are no more than 10 stars in IMDb's rating system, so I have to rate it verbally: I give it the highest possible recommendation.


                
The title may be blunt and probably wrong, but that's how I feel about this show! It may have only lasted only four seasons, but realize this: That proves it's excellent. Some of the greatest shows in TV history have lasted incredibly short times. Freeks and Geeks, My So-Called Life, Arrested Development, hell, even Family Guy (when it wasn't popular!) And there are countless more causalities of the flawed system they rely on. I hate you, Nielsen Ratings!!!!Some of the greatest things I've ever seen are somewhere on this show. One of my favorite episodes would have to be "Godfellas". What happens is that the ship is being attacked by Space Pirates (you know - Pirates, but in space!) Long story short, Bender is shot out of a cannon into space, and is unreachable since he was shot at full speed plus the speed of being shot out of a cannon. He floats through space endlessly, until he goes through an asteroid field and a small meteor lodges into him. The meteor contains a group of near-microscopic organisms whom begin to worship Bender as their god. Bender is flattered, and he does anything he can to exploit this. And then, every time he does something to try and help them, he only makes thing worse (ex. The crops are not getting enough light, so Bender uses a magnifying attachment to give more light. The fields, and the people, burn to death.) Well, the people grow disbelieving of him, and the 'radicals' find his nuclear stockpile and everyone dies. He floats on more, until he finds a galaxy that is speaking in binary...In the B-Plot, Fry goes crazy with the loss of Bender, goes to a Tibetan monastery, and locks monks up in a closet. But that's not important.The binary-speaking galaxy is actually God. Or a space probe that collided with God. Either way, it's God. Bender can't believe it. As God says:BENDER: You know, I was God once.GOD: I saw. You did good until everyone died.From here in, it becomes the most theological and brilliantly crafted thing about God in modern TV, or even film, history.GOD: Bender, being God isn't easy. If you do too much, people get dependent on you. And if you do nothing, they lose hope. You have to use a light touch, like a safe cracker or a pickpocket.BENDER: Or a guy who burns down a bar for the insurance money.GOD: Yes, if he makes it look like an electrical thing. If you do things right, people won't be sure you've done anything at all.Bravo.It ends up that monastery Fry and Leela go to is a group that uses a telescope to search for God in space. Fry realizes that it is futile, so he, without thinking (LOL), spins the telescope ball, and it lands exactly on God. It is a high-frequency microphone, and God hears Fry's prayer to get Bender home. God then sends, now knowing where Earth in, Bender speeding faster than the speed of light (with a parachute) to Earth. And, as Leela states:"This is, by far, the most unlikely thing that has ever happened."I'd say. This episode outlines the general brilliance of an underrated series.I maybe a HUGE fan of The Simpsons, South Park, and Family Guy, but I'll take Futurama over them any day.ALL HAIL HYPNO-TOAD!!!!!
Well 2 days ago making a review for the Futurama movie I realized I have not put a review down for the show that started it all. The show is about Fry a 21 year old pizza delivery boy who always wanted to be an astronaut and when he accidentally gets himself chrogenically frozen and wakes up in the year 3000. The show is hilarious from the start of the first episode till the end of the last. I think that if you love The Simpsons then you will definitely like Futurama as Matt Groening has done a brilliant job changing from series to series which is a very difficult thing to do. Overall the show is a must watch for everyone and despite the fact the idiots a Fox canceled it after 72 episodes. I rate this 97%.


                
10 stars is almost too little for this show. Futurama has all the humour and heart of The Simpsons, yet it is so excitingly different. Sci-Fi tends to be a creative genre, and Futurama is no exception.The jokes vary from being very 'Simpsons-esque' to simply laugh out loud funny. There's lots of sight-gags and hidden jokes, as well colourful and funny characters. The animation is very impressive for a television show. It's a real mix of CGI effects and cell animation. Since Futurama contains a lot of explosions and what not, the animation really does it justice. The characters range from super-cute (Nibbler) to down-right stupid (Fry). Everyone gets their funny moments, and even the background characters have their share of the fun. Now that's how I'd describe Futurama - fun.For some bizarre reason, Fox absolutely hates this show. They cancelled it, which is a real shame because this show still had tons of potential left in it. But it's being revived, and I hope the next few seasons are as good as the last ones.


                
I've read other viewers' comments and have seen that most have felt the way I have about this amazing cartoon. I know I can relate to others when I state that I thought this show was absolutely terrible when it first came out. I honestly didn't care about this show at all. I thought it was just a waste of air-time. After this show got canned from Fox, it went on to Adult Swim and couple years later I just happened to be watching this show that I used to despise and soon fell in love with it. This show had hit me with its funny scenes and punch lines, the great variety of different characters all with different characteristics, and even some of their serious dialogue. Futurama has such great comedy and it DOES get better and better as the series moves up, as most people say. The Simpsons looks like it's going down-hill as of right now. The writers, in my perspective, are getting pretty desperate.. Too bad The Simpsons are still on instead of Futurama. (don't get me wrong, I still like The Simpsons but.. Futurama > The Simpsons.. am I right or am I right :])Anyway, I regret ignoring this awesome cartoon, only soon to realize this might as well be the best cartoon airing on T.V. The sad part is that I fell in love with this show AFTER it got canceled because I was too stupid to actually give this show a chance... I don't see how my comment really helped anyone out, but I could care less.Hell, I made this account just to comment on Futurama :P


                
This show is just pure excellence. It has the same type of humour as Simpsons but without all the dull morale police, "celebrity" guests etc...If you have not watched Futurama, I would describe it as: Imagine Simpsons, where everyone but Lisa (who is the main drawback to Simpsons) goes into a time machine and travels 1000 years into the future and they all change characters and appearances and live on a spaceship instead of a town.This give the authors a completely different freedom to implement their humour and it most certainly works. A typical show of Futurama is more or less 100% humour time (so in that aspect more like Family Guy than Simpsons) compared to Simpsons which nowadays tend to be 50% humour, 20% drama, 20% morale police and 10% celebrity guest stars/ references that adds little or nothing to the show.My favourite character is Dr Zoidberg :)


                
Even better than how good the Simpson were.When the Simpson came out, they were so ugly that I refused to watch them for years. But when I gave them a chance, I saw that the lame absurdity was actually to mock society's stupidity, a parody of us, and yet in it I also found heart warming wisdom. My favorite episode was about why Maggie, the baby, doesn't have any pictures. Homer tried to quit his job but went back for her. His boss put a poster "Don't forget, you're here forever" and Homer covered up words and characters to write "Do it for her". It made the stupidest average gross men lovable. Which is a miracle.Futurama was done by the same brain and heart. But thank god it moved away from family and basic romance because I really have enough of that.It's still the stupidest among average humans in all its glory.I like how it reflect on different people... throwing mutants in the sewers while welcoming way more horrible looking aliens with open arms... I think we're too hard on each other, we bully each other for the stupidest reasons... and go too far when we are threatened by politically incorrectness about race and religion... I don't know what the creator tried to say, but it spoke to me about tolerance... if we can't even do it for each other... well, we should start there.Most of the time it's about how stupidity and laziness can get you in the worst troubles... I'm against asking for it to the point of taking booze, smoking and stealing... but seeing a robot with so many human flaws instead of "the perfect man of the future who will serve us"... Hell I love that robot! The voice actor are all doing a fantastic job. I wouldn't like Bender without any other voice than John DiMaggio. When I found out that the same man did the teen, the old man and the lobster (Billy West)... I was in awe with his talent.I saw people complain about bad episodes... I'd like to see them try to write just one.You can't rush or force genius... put it in a schedule... and expect god to shine... By the way they showed the best god I've even seen, besides Bender... I had tears to my eyes. "When you do too much, people become dependents, when you do nothing, people lose hope... when you do things just right, people can't tell that you did anything at all"... Then bender, after being saved by god by what seemed like a sudden random action, said to fry "We have to help them, don't count on god, he basically said so himself!" I felt sympathy and respect for god. Another miracle.I'm glad that the show got resurrected for another season even if it ends up being its doom... People complained... but honestly...You can do a version of hypno-toad with a bender toy, pull its string and let it speak out its catchphrase, over and over, for 30 minutes... and I'll be delighted.That's how a damn good of a job that guy alone is doing... everything else is just icing on icing... on icing.Everyone in the show did awesome, but Bender just have his own category entirely... How he's arrogant and a jerk to actually hide a sensitive side... after all the shows starts by him trying to commit suicide because his job was used for suicide, and I think he met fry at the suicide boot as he mistook it for a phone... Then every other mean thing was just to either escape his need for love, make him look cool to get loved... and it worked damn well to make him lovable. I like how he gets in awful troubles for his unlawful and unhealthy actions, even if he's immortal... Kids don't do it at home unless you're a robot... At first it seems like encouraging people to be this way and glorify that stuff... but when you actually pay attention, it's the other way around... Like every impoliticly correct show like south park and American Dad... You see how much people get in trouble for their stupidity and flaws, yet they try anyway and end up pulling through... in an amusing and inspiring show.Thank you for this. From the bottom of my hateful and bored heart... Thank you for making me feel love and gratitude.Every single one of you. Even the janitors in and off the show.Love you all ^_^
Whenever someone mentions Futurama it always somehow steers to the simpsons, i don't see why. Futurama should be a show taken for the credit it deserves. Simpsons is good, but gets a bit worn out after all it has received, i find it is a bit over-rated. Futurama is a nice fresh show, it's jokes are well thought out, but even if there not they're still great.I don't find it fair that simpsons 21 counting seasons and futurama is almost at it's sixth, it certainly would deserve to be as popular as the simpsons. Once you've seen the witty ideas and jokes of futurama you'll never go back to the simpsons. I'm not saying the simpsons is bad, i'm just saying it thinks it's better than it is.Futurama shows well characters and jokes right from the start and has all different ideas you'll never predict, some jokes are so memorable that every time i think of them i give a giggle, marvelling at it's work. I must say that sometimes the series takes an advantage at it's future setting and gets a small plot hole, but other than that it's a great show that i recommend.Simpsons is more of a seven, but futurama is a ten out of ten.


                
Futurama was created by Matt Groening, the genius behind The Simpsons. It is one of the most hilarious, original, and unique shows ever made. Of course the show would be nothing without Fry, who is probably my favorite character of all-time. In fact there is not one, repeat, NOT ONE weak character in the whole show. There are also quite a few emotional episodes, particularly in season 4, and that's one of the things that made The Simpsons great. My all- time favorite episode has to be The Sting. The voice acting is superb, especially since we've got Billy West (Ren & Stimpy) and Maurice LaMarche (Pinky & The Brain). The animation is beautifully done and the music really surprised me as being even better than in The Simpsons. Futurama needs to come back, canceling it was the biggest mistake in television history. This is the second best show ever made, the best being The Simpsons. Face it FOX, Seth MacFarlane will never be Matt Groening.


                
Sometimes I feel like Futurama was made for me. It has everything I love in a show (nerdy jokes, romance, lovable characters, huge world, satire, dungeons and dragons, freeze frame jokes, clever writing, plot twists, continuation, inter dimensional travel, space ships, aliens, an endless list of awesome quotes, and robots) squished together in a futuristic little package. It's light hearted and gives the gift of endless laughter to anyone willing to watch. You can relate to the characters who each have their own flaws and back stories. They are all kinds of crazy in their own way, but the great thing is that nobody in the show cares! Their craziness brings the planet express crew (mainly bender, fry, and leela) together as friends and gets them in and out of a whole bunch of crazy (and awesome) adventures. This show also has its heart-felt moments, and the fact that these moments tend to be thrown into an episode that's making you laugh 90% of the way through makes them that much harder to bear. The show even gets philosophical sometimes, like when bender talks to a god-like space entity in "Godfellas" and when The Professor is put into a spot that makes him second guess the evolutionary theory in "Clockwork Origin".This series did not deserve all the crap it was put through during its life span. It was really ahead of its time back in 1999. Now that sci-fi is becoming more and more popular, I hope that it can return one day in some form.


                
This has got to be one of the greatest animated comedies ever and by far the best Sci Fi series on television. All 72 episodes are just as funny the 5th and 6th time through as they were the 1st. I also love how it usually focuses on the three characters of Fry, Bender, and Leela, but it also often shows great moments from such amazing characters as Dr. Zoidberg and Zapp Brannigan. It totally sucks that this show was given such a lousy time slot by Fox and replaced by shows that barely lasted a season. This show has so much beautiful animation, much more detailed than simpsons or family guy, and it also has some of the funniest quotes and one liners in TV history. A definite must see for anybody who loves animation, comedy, or science fiction.


                
Alright. Since I can't (I mean I could if I had the time) go back and review each episode, I hope this review will do the series justice. Futurama is a show that has been discontinued a few times,many has always came back. The last time it was cancelled, it didn't come back. And this made people sad. But do not worry, because Matt Groening will always be pushing for a channel to pick it up again. Now let's talk about the show. Futurama is a fantastic show which can pull your heartstrings and do a 180 and can make you start crying of laughter. Thus is the magic of Futurama. The cast a characters never grows old (especially the professor) and each has their moments. The sound and music is good, and the theme is based on Psyché Rock by Pierre Henry. There is comedy, due to it being a comedic show, but some episodes (i.e Jurassic Bark, Luck of the Fryish) pull a sad or sentimental flip flop from the standard fare. The comedy may not appeal to some, but it fits my personality just fine. In the end, I give this goofy, lovable show a perfect score of 10/10.


                
Futurama is the best show I've ever seen
I wish they made as many as simpsons that would be great


                
Best show ever made. Don't care what anyone says. I like this show better than ANY other cartoon. It is smart, VERY smart, and extremely funny. People who don't like Futurama are the same people who don't get the jokes, and are the same people who like Aqua Teen Hunger Force- which is a show for emo little 8th grade Hot Topic kids. Never have I watched a smarter show with so much witty humor.I even have a tattoo of the Planet Express ship! I really hate how IMDb makes you write a minimum of 10 lines. There is not much else to say except that you are missing out on a great thing if you have never watched this show. So, with one more line to go, I will say "Good News, Everyone!"


                
It may look like "The Simpsons," but Matt Groening's "Futurama" stands on its own as a show.And what a phenomenal show it is. It follows the story of a temporally displaced delivery boy named Philip J. Fry, who's been cryogenically frozen for 1000 years, as he befriends (and becomes a member of) the Planet Express, an interstellar delivery company (sort of like an outer-space FedEx). The PE is run by Fry's senile nephew, Professor Farnsworth, piloted by a beautiful cyclops called Leela, and represented in the Central Bureaucracy by Hermes, a former limbo king and loving bureaucrat. Also along for the ride are the lobsterlike Dr. Zoidberg, the too-cute-for-Leela's-own-good Amy Wong, and Fry's best friend, a binge-drinking, cigar-chomping, potty-mouthed, felonious robot named Bender Bending Rodriguez. (And who can forget Scruffy the janitor and Qbert, Professor Farnsworth's clone?)Other characters make occasional appearances. The noteworthy ones are the evil robotic Santa Claus, the tyrannical corporate sleaze-monger Mom, the idiotic Captain Zapp Brannigan (who constantly pursues Leela, with no thought to the risk to his life and limb), and Kif Kroker, Zapp's chameleon-like underling.The animation (especially the digital moments) is fantastic. The humor is very underrated in its cynical simplicity. And the guest spots by celebrities (usually, they play themselves as disembodied heads in jars, another fine product of the future) add a hilarious touch to this already out-of-this-world masterpiece. Here are a few episodes I recommend: Xmas Story; The Honking; How Hermes Requisitioned His Groove Back; Where No Fan Has Gone Before; Luck of the Fryrish; and Amazon Women in the Mood. If you're looking for a show that guarantees hours of laughter, look no further.


                
