In 1999 the series "The Simpsons" was on season 10 and beginning to run out of creative steam - its last universally praised episode was Thirty Minutes Over Tokyo, aired in May that year (from then on the series has been a money grab and more and more oriented to children rather than adults). So it was with huge anticipation that in the midst of the turn- of-the-millennium frenzy, Fox announced a new series from the creator of The Simpsons that would be set a full 1000 years in the future.I, for one, was a huge fan of The Simpsons back then (not anymore) and of scifi (still am), so I couldn't have been more eager. And then it came out. I think I dropped it after 4 or 5 episodes and over the last decade I have been watching bits and pieces, mostly through not changing the channel over dinner.The animation and the visuals of the show in general are high standard. There are a few very clever ideas about the future chucked into it as well, some original and some adapted from scifi literature. And yet the series totally fails at engaging the viewers and fueling their curiosity (this fact is borne out, or rather, the reason, that the series was prematurely cancelled in 2002). Why? I'll try to answer based on my own experience.The first and foremost problem with this series is the tone. The Simpsons are a dysfunctional middle-class family of the American suburbia. You know what to expect from that premise. The day-to-day life of the family is used to depict and criticize (using a generous helping of wit and sarcasm) specific individuals or institutions and society in general. I have no idea what the tone is in Futurama. You have a random guy that gets accidentally transported to the future. Is it about him trying to go back? Nope. Is it about how bleak and dystopic the future is? Niet. It doesn't feel like anything, and that's usually a big problem. It's not scifi, it's not wacky space adventures, it's not a quest to go back, and it's not grossout comedy, but rather a very insipid blend of it all in a horrid and overused sitcom format.Secondly, let's look at the characters. In The Simpsons, the characters are very strong and internally consistent, you tend to know how they will behave and react because they have clear-cut personalities and motivations. They are also deep and feel human so it's easy to connect with either one of them, according to your own personality. There's nothing of the sort in Futurama. The main character is Fry, a bungling doofus of probably less than average intelligence who has no redeeming feature whatsoever. He's not smart and idealistic like Lisa, structured and systematic like Marge, cunning like Bart, aloof like Maggie or a complete idiot (yet creative and likable) like Homer. He's a selfish, immature, dull average Joe. Mind you, Fry is the very person with whom the audience is supposed to connect with, since he is the only real human of the series and we are his contemporaries. The rest of the cast is just as bland, random, annoyingly quirky, one-dimensional and off-putting as he is. In a massive casting misstep, the writers followed the 90s canon of politically correct diversity quota, even though the series is set a whole millennium later. Thus, we have a Jamaican overweight guy, an Asian chick, an old man, a "handicapped" lobster-man, the good-looking chick and the completely devoid of scruples annoying alcoholic a-hole. Bet you you had never seen such a bunch before? Lastly, I found the script lacking if not completely non-existent and the setting in the distant future is never fully taken advantage of. There were many potential directions the story could have followed, instead, after a promising start with the dumbass protagonist arriving in 2999, the whole thing gets bogged down in utter nothingness. You could use the distant future setting for social or political criticism of our own time, as is usual for scifi. They never do this consistently. You could bestow Fry with some kind of drive, any would do really, but the most obvious would be trying to figure out a way to go back to 1999? I guess? Yet this is almost immediately lost and only picked up again once in a blue moon. Or you could have him help out the crew in some kind of quest or errand. Instead, he just blends in with the bunch of misfits as yet another good-for-nothing and off they go into yet another workplace sitcom with the most contrived plot devices. The rest of the cast being weird aliens is now and then exploited to produce creative twists or turns in the story, yet they do the same stupid trivial and mundane things as they would have done as next door guys in 1999. For instance: the lobster guy has a go at stand-up comedy and flops. So they write to his uncle who was a very successful comedian for tips. Mmmh-uh. They didn't need to be lobster men from 2999 for this to happen right? Oh yes, but they write letters to one another using ink they produce from their ass. So there's your pun.To sum up, although technically flawless, the series had a very interesting premise which was never exploited. They recycled all the worst clichés and devices of 90s sitcoms, just as they were growing old and boring audiences in 1999. Maybe this series could have worked 10 years earlier. It was almost a case of deceptive advertising, an original scifi comedy was announced and a dull, trite, workplace sitcom was delivered. Very disappointing indeed.


                
I had been watching "The Simpsons" for ten years when I learned that Matt Groening was creating a second show. I figured that this new one might be interesting, especially since it would depict a man from the 20th century getting cryogenically frozen and waking up 1,000 years in the future. Well, despite a few funny lines, "Futurama" turned out to be a wasted effort. Bland, uninspired story lines made the show a real cop-out. It should come as no surprise that "Futurama" eventually ended while "The Simpsons" is still on. A few years ago there was a crossover episode between the shows, and that's as much as we need.In conclusion, avoid "Futurama". Matt Groening's other show is the one to stick with.


                
