I know when I've found a great show, because it becomes hard for me to describe it's merits, mostly because there are so many. Futurama is one of those shows.A simultaneous send up AND tribute to great sci-fi, pop culture movies and other animated shows, Futurama is a triumph. Unbound by the 'nuclear family' aesthetic of the Simpsons, Groening and his team have created some of the most wonderful, unique characters of any show, blending old archetypes with new ideas. My personal favourite is Zapp Brannigan: the most heavily decorated military leader on Earth who also happens to be an incompetent, womanising buffoon, showing us that the worst people are still doing the most important jobs in Groening's vision of the future.The show was destined to be a cult classic from the get go. Things like the fact they created a whole cipher language and placed it in the show and on the DVDs, allowing fans to decrypt hidden messages. Subtle ideas and near subliminal frames in the first season set up plots for later seasons, hinting at a dynamic vision. Brilliant animation, blending traditional techniques with just the right amount of modern CGI. A majority of the non-human characters have wonderful anthropomorphic qualities, making them more believable, unlike classic sci-fi where fear of the unknown is a given. Episodes that hang together coherently, no matter how bizarre, with each one having many great quotable moments. Yes, Futurama has a lot going for it.In later seasons they weren't afraid to move away from just being a comedy, either. With "Jurassic Bark", "The Sting" and "The Devil's Hands..." we were shown poignant storytelling, giving real heart and depth to the characters, while seamlessly retaining the trademark quirks. And, like the Simpsons, each episode has those little extra details in the background that reward repeated viewings.The show was sadly discontinued in 2003 but after talks with Fox the same team - almost exactly the same team, in fact, showing that all that were involved in it's creation really enjoyed working together - is now developing a completely new set of features, due to be with us in 2008. I am confident the quality is going to be just as high.In an era of mediocre reality shows, poorly written suspense soap-dramas and bland Hollywood remakes of old film classics, a multi-faceted gem like Futurama stands out like a supernova. Highly recommended.


                
Futurama is an outstanding television series that is extremely well written and developed,with an absolutely stellar voice cast.I have my doubts that any one reading this hasn't watched it yet,but if you haven't then I would highly recommend you start.It is from the same people who brought you the Simpsons,but it is very different,the humour is quite similar but the characters and the concept is certainly not similar.I grew up watching this show as a child,Fry,Bender,Leela and the rest of the gang are like family members to me and it would go high up on my list of favourite animated series.The show has been cancelled before and I'm sad to see it leave again,they had such a wide variety of fantastic episodes,ones that are hilarious,and even emotional,it can be very versatile.The final episode dosen't end in a way that it has to be the final time we ever see these characters,I could easily imagine the show coming back,or at least doing a movie to finish it off once and for all,I just hope to see the Planet Express crew again soon.A classic series that kids and adults will love,I would highly recommend Futurama to anyone looking for a good comedy or animated series. Phillip J. Fry is accidentally frozen in 1999 on New Years Eve and wakes up in the year 3000,where he starts working with a delivery company run by a crazy professor,where he works with a robot,cyclops,talking lobster and others as they are sent on many adventures. Best Episode: The Late Phillip J. Fry Worst Episode: The Honking


                
This show has to be one of the greatest shows of all time!!!I mean this show is really funny and has a lot of action at the same time.this is the kind of show i'm looking for!!!I will watch this show anywhere at anytime.this is the perfect show for me!!I hope one day they make a cool movie if this in 3d!!!that will be so awesome!!!I bet it would make a lot of money and I know I would go watch it. This show is just really great!!!one big thing that makes this show fantastic and wonderful to watch are the characters and how humorous and funny they are!!!Especially the robot!!!he just cracks me up!!!I almost fell off my bed lat time!!!another thing that makes this show cool to watch is how it is relating to the future and how It is in the future, that just makes it even cooler because of all the cool gadgets and all the things that humans have never seen before,This show entertains my family and I and I will never stop watching it.I hope everyone likes and enjoys this show as much as me!!!


                
Futurama is the best show since the yellow family down at 742 Evergreen Terrance! It's funny and contains hidden jokes. FOX moved this show and other comedies around the schedule like a chessboard thus causing viewers to miss it every single week. 7PM?? Why did they want this show to die? It was worth seeing for Fry's discovery of the future, Leela battling something or avoiding Zapp, Bender doing hilarious things, Zoidberg being a loser, and the Professor saying "Good news everyone!" Well, at least, we would always have DVDs and Adult Swim to look forward too despite no new episodes unless a Family Guy-like miracle happens. Season Four was sort of a bust compared to the others since FOX was canceling it and the writers was rushing story lines so the show could end happily. If you don't believe me, try to watch those "emotional episodes" such as Jurassic Bark and the series? finale. At least those "episodes" beat the recent episodes of The Simpsons. Why don't they just cancel that now and focus on bringing this show back? When you have the chance, watch Futurama, Family Guy, and the Aqua Teen Hunger Force every Monday to Wednesday from 11pm to 12:30am on Adult Swim!
This show is great! It has that zany "Simpsons" style of humor.To understand the characters and where the series takes place you should catch first the opening episode called: "Space Pilot 3000", which introduces you to the story. The series is just incredible, crazier than The Simpsons, beautiful animation, and innovative and touching plots - usually referenced from great moments of Cinema. Let me introduce you to main characters: Fry - The delivery boy, as stupid as his laziness.Bender - The lazy futuristic robot, that drinks alcohol all the time, and is practically evil...Leela - An "alien" captain who appears to be not lazy.... :) A great Simpson alternative! Too bad it was canceled - who knows, they might return.


                
Futurama really is one of the smartest series of our time. Not every episode was gold, but some were the best that animation could offer. Unfortunately, Fox canned it because of "low ratings" and I hear the same thing happened with Comedy Central. But at least CC gave it a dignified ending. Nevertheless, the episodes we have are truly outstanding and showcase the shining qualities of the writing, animation, and themes. Definitely worth watching and buying the DVD's. Not to mention, without Futurama, we likely wouldn't have shows like Rick and Morty... let that sink in. Futurama is just one of the greatest sci-fi series of all time.


                
This is the first adult cartoon I've consistently watched. Sure, I've seen a few episodes of "Family Guy" and "the Simpsons", but I never got into them, that and my parents wouldn't allow me to watch those. Now that I'm older, I decided to watch "Futurama" after hearing a ton of praise for the show. And it deserves every bit of it. The main purpose of shows like "South Park" and "Family Guy" is to make you laugh, "Futurama" does that but it also does so much more. This show makes you think about mortality, relationships, and religion. It can also makes you cry. Try watching "Jurassic Bark", "Luck of the Fryirsh", and "Lethal Inspection" without shedding a tear. I'm kind of sad the show got canceled yet again, because I've just recently started watching it, but at least it had the dignity to end. I'm looking' at you, "Simpsons". If you're old enough to watch adult cartoons (which if you're reading this, I assume you are), go check this show out, you won't regret it.


                
This is one thing that got better with age.When it first came out, I watched it sometimes. It wasn't the Simpsons, no, and it wasn't Family Guy. But I still enjoyed it to some extent. But, it got canceled, and sadly I can't I noticed it gone.Until I started watching the series again recently.Wow.This is one show that grows on you. Maybe I got older or maybe my sense of humour developed but I find every single episode to be well done. The comedic timing is excellent and every character has a developed and interesting personality.But one thing really stands out. Futurama does not seem to be afraid of emotion, unlike recent Family Guy, American Dad, and Simpsons episodes. Many of the stories in Futurama involve personal battles of love and friendship, and often the show ends on a intelligent or introspective note rather than a gag. Episodes like "Godfellas", "Jurassic Bark", and "Leela's Homeworld" really can touch you if you're open to what the creators are trying to say.So give it a shot if you haven't before. And if you have and didn't care for it, another viewing might open your eyes to what is likely one of the best animated series ever aired.


                
Futurama is one of the few adult animated television series I enjoy.The Bad: 1. Humour can be overly rude at times, but does not ruin the series much.The Good: 1. Likable cast of characters, with the likes of Fry, Leela, Bender, Professor Farnsworth, Dr. Zoidberg, Hermes, Zapp Brannigan and Amy. 2. Excellent voice acting courtesy of Billy West, Katey Segal, John DiMaggio, Tress MacNeille, Maurice LaMarche, David Herman and Frank Welker. 3. The animation may not be high art, but it has its unique appeal. 4. The writing is very good, with well-written episodes and funny humour. 5. One of the few adult animated shows that realises the balance of not being too politically correct, but not being too mean-spirited at the same time, just like The Simpsons. This show is a good example of showing that political correctness and freedom of speech are by no means dichotomous, which is what shows like South Park have a really bad habit of presenting. 6. Character designs are simple, yet appealing at the same time.Matt Groening knows how to balance his humour and two of his shows are evidence of it. Futurama is a fantastic series, but it is not as good as The Simpsons, in my opinion.


                
There were many shows I used to watch during my childhood, I'm buggered If I can name them all. Imagine me sitting down and watching TV all the time. There have only ever been 2 shows that has stood the test of time with me. First is Britcom Red Dwarf - which is actually a lot like this, except no animation. The second is this.I have only seen the first 4 seasons because those were the ones I grew up with and to watch the new ones, it would seem like I was betraying those memories. If that makes sense, This was my favourite show at one point.I really like all the characters but one has stood above the rest as "The greatest", Bender. He is utterly hilarious, I love his utter rudeness, his "evilness", there is nothing about him I don't like.I have to say Matt Groening REALLY outdid himself with this one. I liked the Simpsons before they went into...whatever they are now. The Simpsons would've been better than this but nowadays no one on The Simpsons is trying anymore.My favourite episode, now that is a tough one. Even the bad ones were thoroughly enjoyable as a kid. I would have to say "The Devil's Hands Are Idle Playing Things", it struck a finishing note that was perfect. It had humor and I felt positively uplifted at the last line "Please don't stop playing, Fry. I want to see how it ends." I'm STILL uplifted by that line when I re-watch it.People can trash this show, I don't care. The fact is Futurama (Seasons 1-4) are childhood favourites of mine that still hold up. I can't give you all a review of seasons 5-whatever the latest season is, because I have never seen it(because it feels wrong to me, I can't explain it). What I can say is that Seasons 1-4 is a bloody masterpieces of an animated show. I could be bias because its a childhood favourite, I don't give it 10 because of the dud episodes and the fact I haven't seen the latest seasons.


                
A different world to the 'Simpsons' this series in many ways feels more mature and distinct than its somewhat related predecessor, baring a similar art style (mostly) this more direct tackle on genre is fantastic and hilarious coping greatly with the challenges and tropes it faces I highly recommend


                
By the creater of the Simpson. It is a bit the same ambience, very imaginative, with characters high in color and new ideas at each episode. Whether you had a good or a bad day, just sit down and enjoy!


                
Here in the year 2017, just eighteen years into Fry's long-term freeze, it's hard to imagine what will happen over the next several centuries. There will be alien invasions, more alien invasions, and yet more alien immigration, and emigration. Us Earthicans will have a number of world governments, ultimately culminating in the wonderful talents of Earth President Richard Milhouse Nixon. Yet through it all, we will have Futurama to keep us company. It will tell our futures, yes, but it will also make us laugh, as it has for nearly twenty years now. At its most basic, Futurama is a hilarious show. Its consistent high- quality in both humor and heart is good to see, as is its originality in storytelling. It sometimes leans too much into the show's own universe of inside jokes, but it never stays there too long to be very boring. There are also a fair number of much more serious episodes. One about Fry's long suffering dog comes to mind.For a show set more than nine hundred years in the future, Futurama is astonishingly ahead of its time. A true comedic masterpiece.(I have seen this show many, many times over the past several years.)
Even though the saying isn't correct, this pnemonial show (futurama) will be ending soon. It is sad to see one of the most creative shows on T.V. go, the only show that could imagine what they wanted to. The limit was endless and they achieved it, making me feel sad for characters that weren't real people. I got the same feeling when I watched Toy Story 3, we all knew it would end eventually but we never wanted it to. I think that this T.V. series is worthy of being passed down for generations. I don't think I will ever see a show this amazing for a long while.R.I.P. FuturamaSponsored by Slurm


                
Modern Animations Are Popular With Shows Like The Simpsons, Family Guy And American Dad...However In My Opinion One Stands Up Above The Rest "Futurama" Not Because It Happens To Be The Only One I've Listed That I Give Above The Rating Of 6 But I Really Do Enjoy Watching This Show, Bender Is Hilarious; He Is Funny All The Time Even In "Hell Is Other Robots" When He's Trying To Be Good, I Love All The . I've Seen Every Episode Up To "The Devil's Hands Are Idle Playing Things" And How They Ended The Show Off Then Felt Right(Even With The Feature Films) Plus I've Heard Season 5 & 6 Are Crap(In Australia TDHAIPT Is The End Of Season 4, Season 5 Is The One Fans Have Been Waiting For And They've Just Finished Season 7...I Will Take A Look At It Sooner Or Later.) I Recommend This Show If You Want Some Of The Best Comedic Writing From A TV Show Besides HIMYM, However Thats Just An Opinion.


                
Futurama is an animated comedy series about a lowlife pizza deliver boy(Phiip J Fry) who accidentally gets frozen in cryogenic storage and awakes in the year 3000. There he befriends a robot named Bender, a one eyed woman named Leela and his only surviving relative. Professor Hubert Farnsworth, a scientist who owns a deliver company named the Planet Express. The Professor then hires his uncle Fry and his friends to be part of his new crew.I think Futurama is a misunderstood and underrated comedy. It has been hiding in the shadow of Matt Groening's other work, The Simpsons for too long. Futurama is very funny and in its prime with 8 seasons. It continues to show originality and humor in several fashions with many characters.Original and very funny comedy.


                
Futurama is the story of Fry, a pizza delivery guy who doesn't quite fit in with the world of 1999. He has a crummy job, no respect, a girlfriend who just dumped him after repeated cheating, and no friends. So on Millenium Eve when he accidently falls into a cryogenic chamber, the rest of the world goes on without him. Even his parents insisted that a police search would be a waste of taxpayers money. Fry is unfrozen on Millenium Eve 2999, and soon becomes friends with Leela, a cyclops alien, and Bender, a hard drinking foul mouthed robot. Together, they start to work for Professor Farnsworth, Fry's greatx20 nephew, and share a multitude of crazy adventures. This series is incredibly funny, and is often much funnier than the Simpsons, which was also created by Matt Groening. Because it is set 1000 years in the future, there are no societal rules for the writers to follow, and they have the opportunity to create anything they like - after all, who's gonna correct them. 4.5 out of 5


                
It's a funny, smart and entertaining show. I really hope it gets a revive I would love to see new episodes!


                
Futurama is probably my favourite Western animation, I first watched it because it was "from the creator of The Simpsons" and found myself preferring it. The style of animation is similar to that in The Simpsons although the characters look more human.Set 1000 years in the future Futurama follows the life of Fry, a 20th century pizza delivery boy who got frozen in a cryogenics lab on New Year's Eve 1999. He awakens to find himself in a strange world where he makes friends with Bender, a kleptomaniac robot and Leela, a purple haired cyclops who is the only one of her kind on Earth. The three of them find employment with Fry's great-great-great... etc nephew, the 150 year old Professor Farnsworth. Their work for his delivery firm takes them to a variety of strange worlds although not all of their adventures are on alien planets, some involve the professor's strange inventions and others just involve them living their lives on 31st century Earth. There is also a good collection of secondary characters such as Dr Zoidberg the incompetent company doctor who is a crustacean, Zapp Brannigan, leader of the Democratic Order Of Planet's military leader who is also infatuated with Leela. The show manages to have several guest stars even though it is set centuries in the future by having the technology to keep people's heads preserved in jars, strangely this even works for people who are long dead in the present.Like all series there are a few week episodes but these are far outnumbered by the excellent ones, most episodes will have viewers laughing and one or two might you cry. The voice actors all do a great job as do the animators.


                
SPOILERSYes, yes, I know this is not a Holiday show, let alone movie, but I really wanted to comment on it. This show is created by who else than Matt Groening, who obviously created the Simpsons. Although it may not be as good as the Simpsons it is still a fantastic comedic cartoon. The characters in Futurama also have overbites like the characters in the Simpsons. The characters are not yellow, though. As you know by now, Futurama takes place in the future, so there are robots, aliens, one-eyed aliens that look like regular humans, people from Mars that look like regular people, one hundred sixty year old men, and much, much more. The future contains tubes that suck people to places, booths that can kill you, and hover cars. A pizza delivery boy named Fry who goes out to deliver pizza. It is almost the year 2000. At the place where he is supposed to deliver the pizza he falls into a freezer. He is frozen. One thousand years go by. It is the year 3000. When he thaws out he is flabbergasted at what he sees. He learns that his nephew Professor Farnsworth lives close by. He meets a robot named Bender. All he does is drink and smoke cigars. He meets Leela, a one-eyed alien that looks like a regular human. She chases him to make him get his delivery job. He finds Farnsworth. Bender, Leela, and Fry become delivery people, alien, and robot. Fry also meets Amy, Hermes, and Dr. Zoidberg. All of them go on zany adventures.Overall, this is a fantastic cartoon. Although it may not be as good, it's still great. I never found this show to be as funny as the Simpsons, though. I mean, there's laugh-out-loud moments, but just no as much as the Simpsons had. I also found some endings to Futurama are incredibly sad and depressing. Some of the endings include the ending to Jurassic Bark, when a flashback shows that Fry's dog in the past had waited next to the pizza parlour for Fry to return for the rest of his life. I mean, it's so sad, the dog had waited for him. The dog's eyes were so sad and hopeful. Also the end in Time Keeps on Slipping was really depressing. Anyway, this is a great show.9/10Recommended Titles: The Simpsons.
"FUTURAMA," in my opinion, is an absolute FOX classic! I don't think I've seen every episode, but I still enjoyed it. It's hard to say which episode was my favorite. However, I think it was always funny when a mishap occurred. I always laughed at that. Despite the fact that it only lasted four seasons, it was nice that all the main characters stayed with the show throughout its entire run. It seems that no one stays with a show throughout its entire run. Everyone always gave a good performance, the costumes were well-designed, and the writing was always very strong. In conclusion, I hope someone brings it back on the air for fans of the show to see.


                
Since Futurama was made by the guy who created The Simpsons, probably the greatest cult cartoon of our time, it had a lot to live up to. Most people I know enjoy it, but think it fails overall. Their problem is, they're comparing it to The Simpsons, in which case, OF COURSE it's not gonna live up to your expectations. If you let the yellow family go, however, and actually watch the show for what it is, you will love it.Basically about the adventures of Pizza Boy, Fry, who was frozen for 1,000 years and woke up in the year 3000, Futurama is a Sci-Fi spoof. To be honest, I find it funnier than The Simpsons at times, because it really plays on how society isn't much improved 1,000 years later. People have flown to the edge of the universe (literally; there's a billboard and everything), created robots that run on alcohol, and turned the internet into a virtual reality realm, and yet lonely guys still rent porno on Saturday night. The only difference is that the girls have multiple arms and antennae.Futurama is a hilarious program that shows us how stupid we really are, by making us laugh at even stupider people (or aliens, take your pick). If you let yourself go and just watch it without mentally comparing it to The Simpsons, I'm sure you skeptics will enjoy it. Because, really, shows can never be as awesome as other shows, but that doesn't mean they aren't awesome on their own.


                
