This movie tries hard to convince you that right is wrong, black is white, up is down, and most importantly, that the antagonist is the protagonist.The main character is Luke, a jobless deadbeat who is arrested for sawing off parking meters while drunk. He is sentenced to two years in a chain gang. Despite the fact that he is apathetic, rebellious, irreligious, selfish, and totally deserved to go to jail, we the audience are asked to root for this person.The law-officers are portrayed as evil, and somehow rules are "bad" and those who defy authority are heroes.The plot is long, drawn-out, and boring. We simply watch two hours of this man Luke smart off and try to escape the chain gang, until he finally dies at the end during his final escape. Then he is called a "world-shaker." What? This man contributed nothing to his fellow human beings except to be a deadbeat rebel, and yet he's some kind of hero? The most Luke ever does in his life is eat 50 eggs. How inspirational! Don't waste your time with this movie that tries to warp the rules of morality, logic, and good-movie-making.
Watching this movie was a massive letdown for me. It was supposed to be a gem of American cinematography -- instead, what we've got here is a failure to enjoy even a few minutes of it. I'm sorry, but the direction seemed particularly weak to me -- and only afterwards, I learned that this was Stuart Rosenberg's directorial debut. Oh heavens, but it showed! It took me literally four attempts to get through this turgid movie; it couldn't possibly be moving slower; there is no clear narrative line -- only disjointed episodes, and once you've seen the first 5 of them, you know that the remaining two dozen or so will be just more of the same.This movie is affectation from start to finish. Sorry, I did not see it as realistic -- rather, as a movie *playing a game* called "Let's be brutally realistic." But that's exactly what's wrong: you can see, the whole time, that this is just a movie *affecting* realism. The actors appearing here, led by the super-handsome Paul Newman, are *not* real prisoners. Sorry, but they're just too clean-cut, their hairstyles are more admirable than this reviewer's hairstyle has ever been... and when Paul Newman is supposed to look disheveled, you can see that it's just make-up artists at work.Imagine an ugly actor playing the part of Luke -- would this movie have been such a huge hit? I'm certain it wouldn't; Newman carries the movie on his shoulders, with his boyish charm, yet he is just as affected as everyone else.The most annoying character, to me, was the one played by George Kennedy. Sorry, I couldn't picture Kennedy as a real prisoner for a single minute. He was an *actor* playing a prisoner -- that's all. I just didn't buy his portrayal and couldn't buy it, no matter how much I strove to suspend my disbelief. Awarding an Oscar for such a histrionic performance is something I can't possibly fathom -- perhaps, as sometimes happens with Oscars, it was awarded to Kennedy as a summary appreciation for all of his work in all his other previous movies.There is no doubt that _Cool Hand Luke_ features lots of great actors -- so the blame for the movie's failure to impress must be assigned to the director. It's primarily the director's job to ensure that actors don't fall into that trap of appearing to be just theatrical actors, not real persons.Don't get me wrong: it wasn't the movie's unsavory milieu that put me off. Although I'm no fan of prison movies, I have great regard for a true classic like _The Shawshank Redemption_; I also quite enjoyed Stanley Kramer's similarly themed (prison escape) _The Defiant Ones_, or _The Green Mile_ with Tom Hanks. But no matter how much I tried, and how much I appreciate Paul Newman as an actor, I just couldn't enjoy _Cool Hand Luke_ one bit.Oh yes, _Cool Hand Luke_ features a classic quotation about the failure to communicate -- but one such catchphrase is not enough to rescue such a monumental bore of 2 hours' length. If one wished to be sarcastic, one might say the catchphrase is so good because, as the screenwriter admitted, it appeared "subconsciously" in his mind as he was writing the script -- without him intending to use the phrase at all. Seeing as those things that the movie's creators apparently *did* intend to accomplish, didn't pan out, it's probably good he did not intend to create a classic catchphrase -- because that conscious intention would probably have misfired like the rest of the movie.


                
It seems like Paul Newman was trying to outdo Steve McQueen in 'The Great Escape'.Both actors competed for similar roles.Acting is decent, but honestly Newman was much better in other movies like 'The Sting', 'Butch Cassidy', etc.The script was what hurt this film.Scene after scene goes nowhere. The writers should have focused on plot development, but it's so straight forward.Newman gets captured and beaten. Escapes. Gets captured and beaten. Escapes. Gets shot in the end and dies. How remarkable is that?He eats 50 eggs. So what?He plays the banjo when his mom dies. So what?He prays to God in the end and winks. So what?The only good scene (and there were almost none) is the poker game where he bluffs that he had a hand. I kid you not: This is the only good scene.The same people who love 'Pulp Fiction' would love this film. They've been brainwashed into thinking this is a great film. ('Back to the Future' is so uncool, but 'Cool Hand Luke' is rad, man!')
Very good movie about a lost suicidal rebel in a southern USA chain gang setting.Production style is ahead of it's time setting a trend for more of the same later on in late 60's all through 70's,particularly the cinematography and directing styles.The Luke character here is a good representation of failures of the Justice system,incarcerating an obviously traumatised war veteran instead of more suitable Psychiatric/social treatments.Still,a lack a clear statement in the movie leaves too much room for different interpretations which may lead to a true clear message which the story's atmosphere demands.If not for this indirectness,this movie would have made the highest classic rating I can give for a drama......


                
