This film got me from the first frame to the last. It's not even because of the story (which I love, of course) - it's just so very well made. And so modern. The kind of angles and perspectives the camera uses, the way it zooms in and out or even allows itself (literally) to get dirty - the way this whole picture was shot is just something I haven't seen in an American film released prior to this one. And yet, although it is considered a classic, when people talk about the "New Hollywood" somehow 'Cool Hand Luke' is hardly ever mentioned - despite the fact that it came out only a couple of months after 'Bonnie and Clyde' in 1967 and before 'The Graduate'. I look at this film mainly as a character study but the story arc also works very well and it hasn't aged a bit. This is one of those rare films that was way ahead of its time and which has simply everything: great acting, iconic characters and scenes, wonderful music - and the cinematography is just unbelievable. Funny, tragic and moving, 'Cool Hand Luke' is one hell of a film. What we've got here is NOT failure to communicate - but a 10 star masterpiece.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Having had the advantage of reading Donn Pearce's novel about a year before seeing Cool Hand Luke, it was with great anticipation that I awaited it's transfer to the big screen.  I was not disappointed.Cool Hand Luke could easily be classified by the misguided as just a prison yarn, but it is so much more than that.  It is the story of a man who refuses to be nailed down or conform to the rules and regulations of a society that he has never craved to fit into.  When Lucas Jackson is arrested for cutting heads off parking meters, his explanation to the prison captain(Strother Martin) is "Small Town, not much to do in the evening", which would have us believe he was just being drunk and stupid.  Later, to one of the other inmates he mutters the same answer, but importantly adds "just settlin some old scores".  It is a brief but important point in helping to define the character of Luke beyond just being drunk and damaging public property.  As a service man, we also discover that Luke won a bronze star, achieved the rank of sergeant but came out as a private.  Again, early evidence that Luke is unable to conform to any body's rules but his own. Yet, we are given clear evidence that Luke knows what is right in principal and what is wrong.  At one point in the film when they are putting Luke in the box under less than reasonable circumstances, he tells the boss, "calling it your job don't make it right, Boss."  In a visit from his mother Arletta(Jo Van Fleet), Luke says plenty about his own character by telling her, "A man's got to go his own way" or as he also puts it, "I tried to live always free and above board like you but I can't seem to find no elbow room". As Luke enters the prison that will supposedly be his home for the next two years, we meet the other inmates.  Some of them wear chains, some of them do not.  It is a point early in the film that director Stuart Rosenberg, emphasizes.  We understand quickly that sooner or later you conform.    You either walk the line the way the bosses tell you to, or they will find the means to get you to walk the line.  As the Captain reiterates, "for your own good, you'll learn the rules" A point driven home often.What we discover about their crimes is minuscule.  One is jailed for manslaughter after hitting a pedestrian with his car, another is a paper hanger, another new inmate is charged with breaking, entering and assault. The nature of their crimes is unimportant to us.  It enables to view these prisoners as men, and while we don't feel any genuine sympathy for them, feeling disgusted by their crimes would have been a distraction from the true purpose of Pearce's story, and Luke as the focal point.
Because of his individuality, it doesn't take Luke long before he unexpectedly becomes a hero to the other inmates.  It is not a role he chooses, or even wants.  It unexpectedly imposes the burden on him of having to live up to the expectations of others.  He never truly understands the nature of this hero worship, and would be just as happy if he didn't have to deal with it.  He is still trying to find his way in the world, and if there is any real purpose for his existence.Another principal character is Dragline(George Kennedy).  It is he who finally establishes the fact that Cool Hand Luke is a man who can not be beaten.  Dragline's admiration for Luke seems to extend from the fact that he(Dragline)has learned the rules on how to get by, but yet regrets having lost some of his own individuality in the process.  He is the rest of the inmates in microcosm.  I can't remember a role that George Kennedy has ever been better in, and he deservedly won the best supporting actor award.Cool Hand Luke is not without it's humorous moments especially in the  early going.  It is these moments that help move the film from the early stages to the darker more despairing later stages.  Perhaps, for that reason alone we are even more effected by Luke's dilemma.In translating his novel to the screen Donn Pearce along with Frank Pierson, has managed to bring the heart and soul of his nove to the big screen.  Lalo Shifrin's memorable score emphasizes often the repeated drudgery of working on the chain gang.  Director Stuart Rosenberg made more good films after Cool Hand Luke, but in my opinion never achieved the same degree of perfection that he does here.   As Cool Hand Luke, Paul Newman give one of the most memorable performances in a long distinguished career.  It is not an easy task portraying a man who travels the road from being a sincere individualist, to a man who may be beaten and defeated, yet in the end is still unwilling to accept that fate. Although Rod Steiger won the best actor award that year, one could argue that Newman's role was more difficult, as it required substantially different subtle ranges in character.  As for the failure of Cool Hand Luke to achieve a Best Picture nomination, I'm at a loss to explain that malfunction, especially when the likes of Doctor Doolittle and Guess Who's Coming To Dinner, far lesser efforts than this were nominated.Cool Hand Luke is a true classic in every sense of the word.  It is a film that will long be remembered.My grade: A+


                
I first saw "Cool Hand Luke" the first week it came out. Went to see it with my father at a theater on the Upper East Side in Manhattan. We were just a few blocks away from the hospital where my Mom was dying of cancer and we just needed a break. It was cathartic. Feeling as beat up and left for dead as I was at the time, I came across a character who knew how to take the punches. "Luke" is a beautifully crafted film. Not one wasted frame or moment. Donn Pearce and Frank Pierson's screenplay is nothing less than a working man's parable of a truly good soul who just couldn't seem to get a break. In ways, it could be said he truly didn't let himself. But the strength within Luke that would not let him compromise who he was for who he was told to be, the resilience to fight back against those who tried to fight him on that was inspirational. Whether it was a carefully chosen remark or just one of them Luke looks, They knew They couldn't knock him out no matter how badly They knocked him down. Seems he handled life like that, and it was an example I've clung to and have tried to follow in the almost fifty subsequent years. Conrad Hall's cinematography was breathtaking, providing the scope of all the integral parts of the story with the immediacy of all the most intimate moments. Any single frame could hang on your living room wall as the centerpiece. The cast: Dennis Hopper, Strother Martin, Lou Antonio, Ralph Waite ... and George Kennedy. Academy Award Winner George Kennedy. "Dragline". The most unforgettable "gentle giant" I believe I've ever seen on the silver screen. Each and every one of them, in all their glory and in the simplest of nuances, helped raise Paul Newman's masterful portrayal to an ever higher level, maybe his best work ever. The character is very much the story in "Cool Hand Luke" and the ensemble brings it to life. Frustrating, challenging, confusing, pain- in-the-ass life with just enough of that rebellious spirit to bring hope to those facing some of their tougher times. I saw the film four more times that first year, and probably twice each year since whenever I could find it. Check in with Luke and the boys for a breath of fresh air and some world-shaking hope. Can't speak for anyone else, but Luke is right up there with Atticus Finch for me when it comes to celluloid heroes, these are the two whose stories got me through some really, really bleak times. And for me, "Cool Hand Luke" was ultimately a story of hope. The story of a man who never gave in. Never gave up. And never stopped grinning. All that they piled on him, all they tried to bury him under ... just wasn't worth his getting worked up over. Wasn't gonna get to his spirit.


                
"For the secret of man's being is not only to live but to have something to live for. Without a stable conception of the object of life, man would not consent to go on living, and would rather destroy himself than remain on earth, though he had bread in abundance." - Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Stuart Rosenberg directs "Cool Hand Luke". The plot? Paul Newman plays Luke Jackson, a young drifter who returns home after WW2. Luke's been dealt one bad hand after the next, and, no matter how he plays his cards, always seems to lose. The film opens with Luke, drunk and shameless, knocking the heads off parking meters. The authorities try to cash in on our everyday movements, and this lack of freedom ticks Luke off. The poor guy just wants to be free, man.After being arrested, Luke is sent to a Florida prison. What then unfolds is one of the greatest existential movies of all time. Luke's experiences, his conversations with God, his isolation and alienation, and a pair of profound scenes, both involving his mother, elevate "Cool Hand Luke" above most prison-break movies.Of course this period saw a number of strong prison flicks ("The Great Escape", "The Bridge on the River Kwai", "King Rat", "Birdman of Alcatraz", "Papillon", "Cuckoo's Nest", "The Hole", "Escape from Alcatraz", "A Man Escaped", "Riot in Cell Block 11" etc), but "Cool Hand Luke" takes a far more mythical stance. We don't know much about Luke. He's held at a distance, never looks anyone in the eyes when speaking and always has a sly grin on his face. And yet behind his smile we sense deep pain, though its a pain matched by a dogged spirit to continue fighting. Interestingly, whilst a film like "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" had a system that despite its flaws genuinely tried to heal and help others, Luke's social institution is corrupt and in many aspects pointless. Still, for a while Luke abides by it. He goes about the state's business with a smile, cutting grass and paving roads. He only has 2 years in chains. He can make it. And like he says, he has no place else to go. No plans. He plays his cards with cool, detached ambivalence.In one beautiful scene, Luke's dying mother comes to visit. What follows is a touching conversation, she informing us that tried her best with Luke, giving him nothing but love. And yet, no amount of motherly affection has helped her family. Because of this, she says, she "wishes mankind were like dogs". She wishes she could abandon her children and forget about them, never having to worry or fret about how they are, what they'll do or where they'll go. Of course she loves Luke, but hates the agony he puts her through. And yet we sense that she understands him intimately. Perhaps she admires him because she too has been dealt a life of bad hands.Luke's outlook changes when his mother dies and the prison warden locks him in a box for no particular reason. When the Boss says "Just doing my job", Luke replies "That don't make it right." From here on Luke begins to fight back. He refuses to spend his life on his knees and refuses to submit. The film then becomes a tale of resistance and idolatry. The other inmates quickly begin to idolise Luke, worshipping his never-give-up spirit. But rather than fight themselves, they sit back and exalt Luke, relying him to personify their own desires. Luke begins to resent this. "Step feeding off me!" he yells. But they're content to sit on the sidelines. He's a one man revolution, and like many revolutionaries is praised for his stance from afar but never actively supported. Why do men have to die for causes before we take notice?The film ends on an ambiguous note, in which Luke may or may not be riddled with bullets. Does Luke smile? Does he die? Does he survive? If he does survive, is his survival merely wishful thinking on the part of his fellow inmates? Note that the film's final image is a brief shot of a photograph. It was established in an earlier sequence that this idyllic photograph represents a lie. We also know that the photograph's image was staged and that the photograph itself was torn to shreds earlier in the film. The ending thus suggests that though Luke has died and the system utterly beaten him down, the men nevertheless choose to believe in him. They believe he has risen - indeed, the film is filled with Christian imagery) - that he's survived death and still fighting the fight, sticking it to the man for all of mankind.But like that photograph, the inmate's belief is an illusion. Luke is dead, and though his fighting spirit remains in the hearts of these men, it will take something larger to wake them up and shake them out of weak surrender. In the end, "Cool Hand Luke" suggests something almost contradictory: that hope must be held onto lest we submit, but that such hope, fuelled by a kind of mythologising and shared delusion, is precisely what engenders submission. 9/10- An accidental masterpiece. The planets really lined up for this one. The only flaw is an overly silly (though iconic) car wash scene.Worth multiple viewings.
This is an absolute perfect movie in every way.Storyline,acting,settings---everything is perfect.Hollywood used to make great movies like this before it became the special effects driven computer generated movie making schlock capitol of the world.The great Paul Newman plays a prisoner locked up in a Southern jail after a night of petty crimes.His constant struggle to be free even while locked up makes this one of the greatest roles ever seen in a movie.Newman is at his absolute peak playing the cool Lucas Jackson.I was so struck by Newman's performance in this movie I was determined to name my son Lucas Jackson,but alas,I only had daughters and my wife wasn't too thrilled about naming either of them Lucas.Oh well.George Kennedy plays Jackson's enemy turned buddy and he is absolutely perfect also.His portrayal of Dragline is Kennedy at his finest.The sublime Strother Martin plays the prison captain and damn is he ever good.He was always so underrated as is Kennedy too,I think.In fact this whole movie is full of familiar faces that would go on to other big time roles in TV and movies.In this movie everyone meshes perfectly to create an unforgettable movie that will stay with you long after many other movies you've seen fade from memory.You must see this movie.


                
Cool Hand Luke is perhaps Paul Newman's most memorable character. He was outstanding as Hud, but he seems to have topped that performance in this 1967 classic.Newman plays a man named Luke. After cutting the heads off some parking meters, he is thrown into a prison system where he's forced to do some hard time tending to country roads. This character has to be one of the biggest enigmas in film history. Luke is likable enough. His mother points out to him that he's even had some good jobs. The viewer is left to ponder why in the heck he can't stay out of trouble.Not much is told about his past. We know he fought WWII, and even won some medals. He has no wife or children to care for. He has a mother who appears to be dying of lung cancer or some such ailment. His other family members seem to hold a grudge against him. We never really learn why he feels the need to cut the heads off the parking meters, but he's caught red-handed. The prison he's sent to makes its inmates work their tails off, but it looks like they'll treat you fairly if you follow their rules. Luke has no intentions of following any rules laid down by the warden or the "bosses" that watch over the road work, though.After taking a tremendous beating from the toughest inmate (Kennedy), Luke quickly begins to win the admiration of his fellow prisoners. His spirit catches on with the others, and they begin to get their work done more quickly and effectively than ever before. Things begin to go downhill for Luke once he learns of his mother's passing. He repeatedly tries to escape, and soon the warden and his cronies are out to break his spirit and make him conform. The film becomes a test of wills, and a fascinating character study.The biggest question the viewer is left with is "why?". Luke could have simply served out his time and then gone on to a more normal existence. That seems to be out of the realm of possibilities for the character, however. He isn't simply out to impress the other prisoners. At one point he even demands they stop trying to feed off of him for all their strength. Luke seems like a man who simply cannot allow others to tell him how to live. There are a few moments where he openly questions the existence of God, but that angle doesn't go very far. It merely makes the guards want to abuse him even more, but that's about it. It becomes almost frustrating to see this man keep digging a bigger and bigger hole for himself. At one point Luke is forced to literally do just that.What exactly is the film trying to tell us? It doesn't seem to be advocating disobedience. We cheer for Luke when he's causing trouble for the guards, but we feel his pain when they punish him. The film's conclusion is more somber than inspiring.Rosenberg's direction is outstanding, and the supporting cast shines. George Kennedy earned an Oscar for his performance. Overall this is an excellent film not to be missed! 10 of 10 stars from The Hound.
Luke (Paul Newman) lands himself in a Deep South prison farm for drunkenly cutting the heads off of parking meters. Once at the farm Luke refuses to be ground down by the system and its grinning warden (a brilliant Strother Martin). As things role by Luke becomes something of a hero to his fellow inmates and this is not lost on the authority in charge of the farm. Things are sure to come to a head as Luke rebels to the point of no return...Division of Corrections. Road Prison 36.The close examination of Cool Hand Luke over the years has rightly thrown up the fact that it's a Christ allegory. Which is just fine given that Stuart Rosenberg's film is one of the finest films that the 60s had to offer. It also boasts, arguably of course, the Paul Newman signature role (yes even better than The Hustler). As the title suggests, Cool Hand Luke, both the film and character, there is a great deal of cool here, in fact for a great deal of the first half of movie it's laced with comic touches as we warm easily to the "rebel against the system" machismo and charm that Newman provides as Lukas Jackson. Yet the film then shifts considerably at the mid-point to give us something far more potent and dramatic to alter any preconceptions the audience had of this just being a movie about a macho loner earning our sympathy.Calling it your job don't make it right Boss.Much in the film has been firmly ensconced in the memorable moments department, 50 eggs, tar that road quickly, the "Kick a Buck" poker game, "still shaking boss", a mountain of rice to be eaten, sneezing bloodhounds, the boxing match and one of the greatest and most iconic of tag-lines ever, "what we got here is a failure to communicate", all forming part of a truly great whole. However, revisiting the picture often brings the realisation that so much more is on offer than at first thought. Luke is a real war hero (this has been missed by both pro and amateur critics) whose crime is pretty tame for the sentence he finds himself faced with. The Dragline (George Kennedy kicking up a storm of acting quality) and Luke friendship that builds with grace and thunder, sexual frustration of the incarcerated male and a mother and son arc that attacks the soul and lets Newman show many of his acting peers just how grief should be acted out on screen..."Well, I don't care if it rains or freezes, Long as I have my plastic Jesus, Riding on the dashboard of my car. Through all trials and tribulations, We will travel every nation, With my plastic Jesus I'll go far"With Newman, Kennedy and Martin holding court with every scene they are in, it would be easy at first glance to ignore the supporting roles, but Rosenberg ensures that supporting players make telling marks. It's a roll call of sweaty and twitchy character actors that features the likes of Anthony Zerbe, Joe Don Baker, Clifton James, Harry Dean Stanton, Dennis Hopper, Morgan Woodward, Wayne Rogers and J.D. Cannon. Filmed in Technicolor and Panavision, Rosenberg and cinematographer Conrad Hall do an amazing job of making Stockton, California feel like the actual Deep South. Film unfolds to the backdrop of a sun drenched land inhabited by life's unfortunates and the supposed upstanding face of American officialdom...Iconography and martyrdom unbound, Cool Hand Luke is a slow-burn classic of deep thematic worth. 10/10
"What we got here . . . is failure to communicate!" -- Hardly.Someone once remarked that "there is no accounting for taste".  That said, I throw in my tuppence for this film as the "best" ever made.  Whether you are a deep thinker or a fluffy gen-X-er, this film provides much food for thought.  Indeed, it will probably remain as the best treatment of Buddhist philosophy ever produced.'Nuff said


                
Okay, I had written an enormous blurb about how great the ending of this film was and how the ending is a film's most important part, but I think we all understand that well enough. I am going to talk about something else:George Kennedy's Oscar winning role. Wow, is he awesome! I, like I assume many people of my generation are, am only familiar with Kennedy through his role as the police Captain Ed from the Naked Gun series, in which he was hilarious, and his stint selling breath mints on infomercials. I never expected that he ever won an Oscar! And it was entirely deserved. He created a very complex character in this film. Bravo!I loved Paul Newman, too, of course. I just looked at who else was nominated that year, and I have not seen either the winner of that year's best actor Oscar (Rod Steiger in In the Heat of the Night) or one other nominee (Spencer Tracy in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner), but of those I have seen (Warren Beatty, Bonnie and Clyde and Dustin Hoffman, The Graduate) I would personally have picked Warren Beatty, seeing as Bonnie and Clyde is one of my very favorite films, and I love Beatty in it. Anyway, Cool Hand Luke was a masterpiece itself, and I do give it a 10/10


                
The movie Cool Hand Luke captures the spirit of the period in which it came to the big screen. Luke the main character is a larger then life person in one respect and yet, he is a loser. He is at the same time fiercely independent and yet he still is boastful and looks for ways to build himself up. Research will show the interested that the daily life of the prisoners were true to life. Luke's message to others is to live life to the fullest and do not meekly take dirt from anyone. You can't help but like Luke. Almost anyone can look into Luke and find bits and pieces of him (her) self. I think Luke is not a child of the 60's, 70's or 80's but rather is a character that is ageless. Luke took risks and accepted the consequences. I like Luke, but feel sorry for him too. In the end his greatest victory was a defeat.


                
This film is one of Paul Newman's most poignant performances. Newman plays "Luke," a southern convict and loner who shines through his tough exterior, humor, and smile. The film concentrates on a chain gang set in post World War II (1940s), yet has a strong appeal towards the 1960s. Released in 1967, the film depicts modern day conflicts, which are conveyed through the camera transitions, directions, music, and screen play. The film also offers an excellent opportunity to see fine performances from Jim Jeter who played "Hans Dorfler," the blacksmith on "Little House on the Prairie," Ralph Waite and Robert Donner who played "John Walton" and "Yancy Tucker" from "The Waltons," and Morgan Woodward who portrayed the role of "Punk Anderson," (Jock Ewing's friend) on "Dallas." This is a wonderful film worth the attention of all who enjoy movies that deal with conflict, the criminal justice system, and themes from the mid-20th century.


                
Cool Hand Luke contains Paul Newman's greatest performance in my opinion. This is one of the great American films of the late 60's. It contains a lot of great performances, including George Kennedy in a sharp, focused characterization. The film is a beauty to behold and a national treasure. Everybody should be required to see this movie. Oh, by the way, I'll never eat another boiled egg as long as I live.


                
This movie had to inspire One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and it is one of the best films I have ever seen, though after he gets caught the second time, you begin to sense there is no hope or direction left in him as his attempts always get destroyed but yet he still remains a hero to his peers who view him as a person who won't give in to the system.. The ending is one of the few endings that can actually make you sad or depressed.. Newman's best performance


                
Paul Newman is one of the greatest actors of our time. He portrays a free spirit that has no direction, perhaps lost in self pity. But he winds up the role model for a cast of pitiful souls that are cowards to be free themselves. This is not unlike the theme of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. I feel Newman could have done very well in that movie as well. I get a little something more from the plot each time I watch this movie, and enjoy it most when I am feeling lost. In the end, he is consumed by the others feeding on him. Until he got his mind right......boss. A failure to communicate goes way beyond words. The boss could see the trouble coming from the first time he looked at Luke, and we see a complex struggle thereafter... Now get that dirt out of my hole!


                
One of my "Top 10" movies of all time.  Paul Newman's "Luke" is one of his better performances.  Another favorite of mine is "The Sting".The chain gang is realistically recreated and the idea of a guy in prison being the "hero" and the authority being "the bad guy" reflects the time of the movie's release in the sixties.Also, the movie has one of the great lines in filmdom...."What we have here is a failure to communicate!"


                
This was a great movie I enjoyed It from beginning to end. the characters in the movie the actors they were all great. The story is about a man Luke (played by Paul Newman). He is in a jail out in the country and every chance he gets he trys to escape. Kinds of reminds me of Steve Mcqueen in The Great Escape; because, every time Luke escapes he gets caught and locked up.The quotes from the movie were also good like what we have here is failure to communicate. They also had great scenes like when Luke ate fifty eggs. All in all it was a great movie I could watch it over and over again 10 out of 10 stars.
I never really thought much of Paul Newman's acting until he played Cool Hand Luke. When I was growing up in the 1950's, I viewed Newman as sort of a poor man's Marlon Brando. Even his glorious role in "Cat On a Hot Tin Roof," I viewed as mainly an attempt to emulate Brando's magnificent performance in "A Streetcar Named Desire." I was impressed by his role in "Hud," but thought that was due more to the excellent script and direction than to his performance. But with "Cool Hand Luke" I came to realize what a truly gifted actor Paul Newman is. Like any great actor, Newman actually becomes his character, a nonconformist of a prison community who would rather die than surrender his individuality. He captures the essence of the protagonist who is rebelling against the system or as it was termed in the 1960's, the establishment. Without Newman this film would have gone nowhere, not even with the brilliant performances of the rest of the cast, especially those of Strother Martin, George Kennedy, J.D. Cannon, and Jo Van Fleet.Though Strother Martin is most remembered for what became a catchphrase in the counterculture movement, "What we have here is a failure to communicate," I like the line he throws at Luke when they first encounter each other, "Cuttin' heads off parking meters! Just where'd you think that was going to get you?" because that line epitomizes the diametrically opposed personalities of a Hitler-type authoritarian monster who appears harmless to the naked eye and that of a rebel who is determined to crush tyranny in any form that threatens the freedom of mankind. This tension and antagonism is also central to another movie classic, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," based on a novel written during the same time period, where we discover it between McMurphy and Nurse Ratched. This is indeed high drama and it takes the likes of Paul Newman and Jack Nicholson to pull it off.


                
This is one of my favorite films of all-time, so it's easy for me topoint to the reasons why. First off, what we have here is PaulNewman. His performance is a thing of beauty. He wields hischarm and charisma like  the battered son you wish you had. Thefilm is brilliantly photographed, loosely scored and all of theperformances are strong. But it is Newman, very simply, whocarries this film.


                
OK...I can't add anything accept I didn't read anything (I didn't read every review) on Joy Harmon...or Lucille. Man O' man was she hot! I can't imagine sitting in the theater back in 1967 and seeing her do her thing. That was soft porn for that time period. Joy Harmon didn't have much of a movie career, but easily has one of the most memorable performances, at least for all normal men that is. Today she has a bakery in Burbank, CA...ironically minutes from where I live. She's 67 now, but I'd still like to see her. Her baker is called Aunt Joy's...Google it.For the blowhards who actually took the time to write anything negative about this film...get a life! How sad is your life to ask questions like, "I didn't get the meaning of this film?" or "Newman's performance was bland?"Bland? Are you kidding me!Let me school you a little...to play a role a subtle as Newman did is acting at its highest level. He couldn't hide behind words but only use the squint of an eye or slight smile to communicate an entire scene. To not understand this reveals how many Vin Diesel and Keanu Reeves movies you've purchased!This movie is a classic in every area. There is NO sense of commerciality here and selling out of anykind. To use a musical phrase, this movie laid back in the pocket and never left.Brilliant casting and direction as well.10/10 A+ Brilliant...and so on


                
Paul Newman may have one of the silver screen's richest careers, but it's hard picking a single film of his that shows off his star power in better light than "Cool Hand Luke." Co-star George Kennedy got the Oscar and Strother Martin delivered its most famous line, but this is a Newman film through and through, maybe his best one, and along with "Lawrence Of Arabia" maybe the most perfect movie of the 1960s.Newman plays Lucas Jackson, a decorated war veteran who has a hard time adjusting once back at home. After he is arrested for cutting the heads off a row of parking meters, perhaps inspired by Bob Dylan, he is sent to a prison work camp for two years to "get your mind right," as the prison's Captain (Strother Martin) puts it. Only Luke has different ideas, after living his life the way the Man wanted only to be rewarded with violence, guilt and heartbreak.Luke has come through this crucible with breezy bravado and an indomitable spirit that gives the film much of its power. When he faces another inmate named Dragline (George Kennedy) in a boxing match, Luke quickly gets the tar beaten out of him so bad the other inmates lose their appetite for carnage and tell Luke to just stay down so Dragline will win. Luke won't quit, though: "You're gonna have to kill me," he grunts."Let him draw some blood, maybe the guards will break it up," says one of the smarter inmates, a check-kiter named Society Red (J.D. Cannon)."I wouldn't want to frighten him," Luke grunts back.The film actually works as something of a comedy for the first half, with Newman's lovable-loser persona on a par with his role in "Slapshot" years later. We sense a deeper pain, but Newman brilliantly keeps us at bay with his killer grin. Then as the film develops, Luke's uniquely unbending character and his popularity among the other inmates ("You're a genuine original," Dragline notes) make him a target of the camp bosses, especially after Luke addresses the chief screw, Boss Godfrey a.k.a. "No Eyes," with less than the requisite amount of humility after No Eyes shoots a snake Luke is holding. Luke winds up locked in a box, a ridiculously excessive punishment made worse still when the Captain announces it's being done because Luke's mother just died and they want to keep him from getting ideas about "paying his respects." The only worse thing one can do than incarcerate a man wrongly is proclaim it is being done for his own good. After that, Luke really has no choice but to rebel, a role he seems reluctant to take, alternately blaming God and the other inmates for "feeding off me".Like another institutional inmate flick, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," there is an interesting Christian subtext that runs through "Cool Hand Luke." Luke becomes a figure of compassion and inspiration for the camp's other inmates, performing miraculous feats and challenging their spirits to believe in their own greater power. Actually, the message seems less orthodox than one you would get in church, rather more in line with the philosophy of Christian existentialism, where one is left to do what he feels best in a hostile environment and God comes in the form of a quiet voice inside rather than thunder from on high.You could make "Cool Hand Luke" today and it would be just as impressive, but something about the time the film was made adds to its relevance. Questioning authority became quite the thing to do by this time, but few films raised those questions as entertainingly and intelligently as Luke.And what a rich ensemble! Kennedy, Cannon, Joe Don Baker, Dennis Hopper, Anthony Zerbe, Ralph Waite, Wayne Rogers and the other actors playing the inmates mesh superbly, as do the authority figures played by Martin, Luke Askew, and Clifton James as Carr the floorwalker, who sets down the rules of the camp in a terrific speech. Harry Dean Stanton shows off a fine singing voice, while two other actors give powerful performances without delivering a line; Morgan Woodward as No-Eyes and Joy Harmon as a girl who washes a car in one of the most memorable torture sequences ever put on screen.Make no mistake, this is Newman's film all the way. He laughs, he screams, he prays, he fights, he even sings and plays the banjo and shows some skin. And he earns our devotion every bit as much as Luke does his prison comrades, giving us a figure of inspiration to hold onto long after he's gone.


                
Full of so many great scenes, this ranks as not only a classic of film history, but also a representation of the period it was made. Filled with so many classic and ground breaking scenes this film has to to be at the top of the list for any self-proclaimed film buff. The egg eating scene was so well created that it ranks as one of the most memorable scenes. The scene were Joy Harmon is washing her car has to be one of the most erotic, yet somewhat minimalistic (in terms of showing body parts) scenes in film history. And who can forget the famous line, "What we got here is a failure to communicate." Paul Newman's character was trying to come to terms with the institution of prison as a means to punish the lawbreaker, while he was also trying to understand the limits of punishment that man has to endure within the cofine of the penal institution.


                
This film a treasure trove.Starting from a script (Donn Pearce and Frank R. Pierson) that not only captures life in a Southern prison camp, but also the characters in it, this film tells a rich rollercoaster of a story.  Even the smallest characterizations like Society Max and Bobaloogats (young Dennis Hopper) are human and wonderful.  And that's not even mentioning the superb work of Paul Newman and George Kennedy, who won a Best-Supporting Oscar as Dragline. Unforgettable lines delivered... unforgettably.The acting only scratches the surface of what is lovable about this movie. While the story is entertaining it is also richly nuanced, sometimes suggesting the story of Christ, sometimes acting as a primer for Existentialism.  I myself lean toward a more Existential interpretation -- but the greatness of the movie is that this does not distract a first-time viewer from a compelling story.  It adds depth, not pretension.Director Stuart Rosenberg keeps the action moving.  The pace and overall construction of this movie could be a textbook for aspiring filmmakers. His work with legendary cinematographer Conrad Hall on this movie is gorgeous. Watch this one on DVD in widescreen if you can.The great visuals are backed up by the music, especially the simple but versatile Lalo Schifrin theme, which is alternately melancholy, menacing, and ecstatic.This movie never gets old to me, and I've seen it many times.  The filmmakers have created a rich world, full of human characters and a dense symbology.  Look for motifs of stoplights and stopsigns, crossroads and bridges.  This is one film that is top-level in nearly every department, especially the one that really matters: it is a story that just gets better and better as it gets older.  And I'm not "just standing in the rain, talking to myself."


                
**Spoiler warning**--If you haven't seen it, be aware that I do divulge some details of the movie in order to explain what I like about it.  I won't reveal the ending, but to get into what interests me about the movie I have to get into the plot and symbolism...This movie works on many levels.  On the surface it's about the harsh world inside a chain gang, made easier when Luke becomes a part of it.  The other members of the chain gang live vicariously through Luke, who, in his easy-going nature, represents an alternative focus for the chain gang. Luke wins his fights and poker hands with, as Dragline says, "a whole lot of nothing."  That smiling, unassuming, unrelenting demeanor makes Luke a free-spirited hero to the prisoners.  Cool-Hand Luke plays against the wrathful hand of the warden, who sees Luke as a threat to his authority.Most people who talk about this movie stop here at these obvious themes of individualism and non-conformism, but there is heavy biblical symbolism all throughout the movie.  Luke represents Christ for the other chain gang members.  His loving easy-natured resistance to the anti-hero warden gives the chain-gangers a saviour to live through.  There is a lot of "soul" symbolism.  Note the number of eggs equates to the number of members of the chain gang.  Remember that Luke tells the other prisoners to "stop feedin' off me," and in a subsequent scene the prisoners help him avoid punishment by actually eating off his plate.  There are numerous scenes with cross symbolism, my favorite being the position Luke is laying in after eating the eggs.I have read the book the movie was based on looking for the Christ symbolism, but it's not in the book.  The book was based on the writer's actual experiences and observations in a Florida chain gang.  The movie goes way beyond that and vastly improves on the book.  The direction was inspired (both ways).  If you watch this movie enough times you will begin to appreciate how little is wasted in it.  I personally find it easier to understand Christ's impact watching this movie than reading the bible.As for the performances in this movie, George Kennedy definitely deserved that Oscar, and Paul Newman was wonderful as the reluctant hero.
One problem with society is its tendency to marginalize those who are different or don't fit in and, to a degree, this is what "Cool Hand Luke" is about. Luke is a loner who is picked up by the cops one evening for cutting the heads off parking meters while drunk. However inconsequential this crime might seem, it gets him two years on a chain gang and what transpires over the next couple of hours shows how one man resists a system which seemingly has no place (or use) for him. Despite the overall downbeat tone, the film still manages to have a sense of humor which is heavily derived from situations that one might find while in prison. It also helps that Paul Newman as Luke is so likable and "cool." The title of the film comes from a scene in which Luke is playing poker with the other guys and wins by bluffing the other guy into folding. He says that "Sometimes nothing is a cool hand," and from then on is called "Cool Hand Luke." Aside from Paul Newman's excellent performance, Strother Martin gives a great turn as the prison captain who, while seemingly easygoing on the surface, is quite authoritarian and does everything in his power to beat Luke into submission. He also gets an awesome quote which has become quite famous: "What we've got here is a failure to communicate." Not only is that a great line, but the way in which he delivers it suggests a weariness with the way that Luke has thus far managed to resist being broken. It was also nice to see Harry Dean Stanton, Ralph Waite and Dennis Hopper in supporting roles. Lastly, the cinematography and score by Lalo Schifrin were also excellent. My favorite element was a repeated closeup of a guard's sunglasses which showed the reflection of what he was looking at, and in general, the on-location shooting gave a very palpable sense of what the characters were feeling whether it was the scorching sun or pouring rain. Overall, this is an outstanding entry in that latter days of Hollywood's golden age which has been extremely influential on the films that have come after it. Whether you feel like you fit in or not, "Cool Hand Luke" tells a great story with fine performances from its cast.


                
(93%) One of the finest films ever made about the rebellious spirit of man, which is perfectly cast by both super cool Paul Newman and George Kennedy in the lead roles. Newman's low dialogue, yet not exactly silent role, is filled with subtle brilliance as you know exactly what the guy is thinking and feeling every single time he appears on screen, which is something beyond the control of both the writer and director, it's just 100% Paul. The movie is one of great memorable moments such as the mass egg eating scene, the road sanding scene, and the brilliant part in which Newman sings a few lines of plastic Jesus that shows exactly how he's feeling more than normal spoken words ever could. This is a superb film, and anyone who considers themselves even a small fan of cinema should watch this at least once in their lives.


                
