This is one of those films I managed to not see for decades. When I finally saw it recently, I was left at quite a loss. What is it that draws people to watch bored characters make themselves into losers for no good reason? In Cool Hand Luke, the main character, Luke, played by Paul Newman, ends up in prison for a short sentence he earned by destroying public property (parking meters). For anyone with any shred of common sense, serving the short sentence would be enough. Get in, get out, lesson learned.But, to make the story interesting, Luke manages to create friction where there was none, for no good reason other than tendency to self-destruct. He is not an anti-conformist, not very smart, and not really having much of a goal. He is healthy, and perfectly capable of earning a living. But he decides to go down in flames, albeit with questionable style. I found it torturing to watch dumb character doing dumb things. In few instances we see Luke trying to talk to God, but the "conversation" is lacking, uninspiring and pointless. Those moments make Luke sound like a spoiled, self-absorbed, angry teen.Perhaps the book's author and filmmakers would like to believe that Cool Hand Luke is a story about someone who was wronged, or searching for God, or inspiring others to be different, but it is none of those. This film falls flat on its face in all departments, and earns only high marks for its shallowness and decent performances. For a truly great story about anti-conformism, one should watch One Flew Over The Cuckoo's nest. Cool Hand Luke is nowhere near that.All in all, this depressing, pointless story is the best way to ruin your evening. I gave it 2 stars only for Paul Newman's performance, otherwise, it would be a firm zero.


                
Recently shown on cable tv I had in my mind this was meant to be a "classic". The tale is of a man put in prison and trying to escape. The 'good guys' are the prisoners; the 'bad ones' of course the gaolers. Try to convince the victims of such criminals that such a scenario is justified. Not only is this picture extremely dated, and it shows, but the movie is wholly unconvincing. And quite frankly, Paul Newman in the lead gives a performance of utter blandness. The most laughable thing about this picture is how the likes of the individual who wrote the headline comment here (titled 'the evangelist') can write such twaddle and pretentious nonsense. Surely he must be joking? Lets face it this movie is about losers and will appeal to the like-minded. 2 out of 10.


                
I stumbled upon Cool Hand Luke while watching Spike Lee's 25th Hour (2002). In a scene with the main protagonist the poster for Cool Hand Luke hanged on the wall. Knowing how carefully the directors choose these details and being sort of movie buff myself, i wanted to see it. Needles to say, it's position on IMDb Top 250 movies of all time was an additional motivation.Up to a point this movie confirmed my expectations. On the one hand, the main protagonists of Cool Hand Luke and 25th Hour are hardheaded guys who don't fear going against the grain. On the other hand, this is where any similarity or any possible symbolism end.Luke is a type of guy who hits the wall, doesn't learn form that mistake and goes hitting the wall again. And the audience should feel sympathetic, because the wall is so mean to Luke. Not sure what the intentions of the authors were...


                
