'Cool Hand Luke' is the (long) story of a charismatic misfit in a Southern segregated convict road gang. There is an interesting turning point in the film where Luke (Paul Newman) refuses to shelter from a deadly(?) rainstorm with the rest of the gang, and defies God to do anything to him; his character is defined by this sort of bravado. In the next scene, he learns that his beloved mother has died and the famous 'Plastic Jesus' song scene follows. Luke then simply becomes reckless and hurtles towards his doom.The problem with the film is that this interesting pivotal moment - his mother's death and how Luke might feel he had provoked God - is all but obliterated in the corny dramatisation of the convicts' lives. Clichés abound; apart from the effective depiction of the back-breaking work of the gang, the compound seems to be more like a frat house. Perfect hairstyles, no fights except on Saturdays, plenty of food and booze, and basically everybody manages to keep their chins up, play poker and have a good laugh most of the time. Other reviewers have cited the 'Hogan's Heroes' and 'Bilko' similarities. They're right.So what could be a really affecting story just turns out to be a series of upbeat and downbeat setpieces, with a 'modern' nihilistic ending. Actually, there's a completely irrelevant bit tacked on after that where George Kennedy tells the gang what a 'world-shaker' Luke was. No he wasn't, he was possibly a complicated character but we learn nothing about what he really feels or why he did what he did. Whether that's Paul Newman's or the script's fault I can't tell, but Paul Newman does his overblown 'Hustler' performance, chewing more scenery than eggs in the process. A curate's egg, even - a few parts of this bad egg are excellent.
Yeah, I know I'm gonna get sh|t for this, but I still don't know what the hell I just watched. No pun intended, but I went into Cool Hand Luke almost completely and utterly cold. Like 98% unaware of anything about it. Yes, I knew of its communication "speech" having loved the Guns N' Roses classic Civil War (though I always thought that was a woman's voice!!), I knew of the egg eating contest and that it had Paul Newman in it. That's it. I had no idea on the setting, plot, drive, other actors, year it was set in, nothing else.And yet, I still bought the Bluray because I've heard about it my whole life and thought: well, it's a classic I must see and it was on sale and<U+0085><U+0085>at least I got it on sale. On the positive, it's well shot. I liked the score and the acting was believable. Paul was a looker back then, definitely. And the nice shot of male butts for a "PG" film was welcomed.But, other than that, I can't see the appeal. The main "hero," or I suppose, "anti-hero," wasn't so fun to watch. I got where his arc was going and where it had to end. Unfortunately, since that was established early, at least for me, and I kept thinking he'd finally be "cool," but wasn't, and hence, he also wasn't much interest to me. As a matter of fact, since I got Luke's storyline early on, I kept wondering about the rest of movie was about. Well, it's obvious, but not too interesting. Unrealistic, despite the year this was made. Reminded me of the musical South Pacific I saw live. Sadly, or at least not for me, I wanted to laugh out loud throughout the play<U+0085>but, thought better of it since that might be considered rude to others.I wanted to laugh (at both that play and here) because I didn't believe that's how men act, no matter the timeframe or book it's based on.Surprisingly, from all I wrote above, I didn't hate the movie, I just expected more. I thought something would stand out. (Sadly, I waited the whole movie for that "female" communication speech due to hearing it most of my adult life, and it didn't have the same impact had I not been expecting it. That's not the movie's fault, however.) But nothing really did. It concluded as I thought it would, though I really hoped for something different.Enough ranting. Now, anyone want to buy a one-time used Bluray copy of this? Free shipping!
