Truly a memorable movie, and more than just a documentary about southern road gangs. It's a study on the theme of the indomitability of the human spirit in the face of oppression. I was about to name this as Newman's finest performance until I thought of Eddy Felsen in "The Hustler" and Frank Galvin in "The Verdict"; it's impossible to choose among such a cornucopia of acting achievements, but Luke is right up there (the analogy to Luke as Christ becomes a tad heavy-handed when we see him, at the close of the egg-eating scene, stretched out, arms outward, feet crossed, as if crucified; none the less, it's a powerful image). There is no doubt, however, about George Kennedy as Dragline; it is his finest achievement, and fully deserves the Oscar he got for Best Supporting Actor. It is also fascinating to find so many familiar faces among the inmates - actors such as Dennis Hopper, Harry Dean Stanton, Joe Don Baker, Ralph Waite. and Wayne Rogers - who would go on to fame in their own right. This movie can unquestionably be called a classic. American Movie Classics just started (11/2000) showing a beautifully restored letterbox version which shows it in all its glory.


                
Perhaps one of the last of the chain-gang movies (until it was briefly shown in the beginning of 2000's "O, Brother Where Art Thou?), this has always been (1) an interesting film (2) a wonderfully photographed movie.You hear more about the story and about Paul Newman than you usually hear about the cinematography, but it's good and this movie should be seen in widescreen. It was offered as such even on VHS.When I looked at this film sometime in the '90s, I was surprised that the famous line from it: "What we have here is a failure to communicate," was only used twice, and the second time being the last sentence uttered by Newman. I had thought that Strother Martin had said it several times. Boy, Martin was one of the more effective villains in some 1960s film, a mean-talking sadistic guy.This movie was another of the pioneers in promoting a new thing on screen: the "anti-hero," so it was popular in the protest decade of the '60s. Newman's character fit right into the period where the rebel is the hero and the authority figure is the bad guy. You've seen this repeatedly ever since, although filmmakers have always loved rebels.George Kennedy gives Newman memorable support as "Dragline" and was aptly awarded for his performance. Someone who I always remembered was the prison guard who said nothing, just stared through his sunglasses. I can always picture that guy and those reflective glasses. That, and eating 50 hard- boiled eggs have stuck with me for over 40 years!


                
In Cool Hand Luke Paul Newman shows us what the underside of what life is like as a rebel. Picture James Dean doing this part had he lived to do films like these.Newman plays his usual non-conformist rebel type, but he's really a rebel without a cause. He's in his early forties, a Korean war veteran who just hasn't found his place in civilian life. He gets himself busted for no great cause, just on a drunken spree in some Southern town he decides to knock the heads off a bunch of parking meters.That lands him a stint in a county jail with a lot of outdoor work on a road gang. He fights with, but later wins the respect and becomes friends with George Kennedy the head honcho in his barracks.The real tragedy of Cool Hand Luke is that Newman is a failure in life, it's why he's in prison. He gains the respect of his fellow convicts for those ways, but that involves going against the penal system and in the end that gets you nothing. Can you picture James Dean as a forty something doing what Newman is doing? It would have been his kind of role for sure.Newman does a fine job playing the non-conformist Luke who seems to be just going on the path fate has decreed for him. George Kennedy got his Oscar winning career role as Dragline. Other men in Luke's barracks are Wayne Rogers, Robert Drivas, and J.D. Cannon and they fill their roles well.Strother Martin as the warden of the place is the guy with the film's favorite line, "what we've got is failure to communicate." Martin and his correction officers have many interesting ways of getting their point across.Cool Hand Luke may very well be the saddest role Newman ever undertook in his long career.
Sentenced to a stint on a chain gang for a minor offence, a disillusioned former soldier becomes an unexpected role model for his fellow inmates due to his unwillingness to conform in this iconic prison movie starring Paul Newman. Often cited as one of Newman's finest performances, 'Cool Hand Luke' certainly provides him with one of his most complex and dynamic characters as he has to balance pretending to be subdued by the wardens and actually feeling subdued by their harsh treatment. It is also easy to relate to Luke's uncertainty with what he wants to do with the rest of his life, which surfaces in a touching scene in which he is visited by his mother who is shocked that he has no plans for the future. As the film progresses though, Luke becomes bent on escaping captivity, and the way he is treated, it is hard to blame him. On the same note though, his wanting to escape goes directly against his characterisation as a man with no plans for the future. It also never quite gels that he would escape given that he was serving a quite minimal sentence. Prison escape movies are almost always interesting though, and Luke's ingenuity is remarkable in itself. The entire film is also buoyed up by the genuine sense of camaraderie that radiates between the prisoners throughout; they are not out to attack one another, but rather share a strong bond similar to POW inmates. The film has several memorable scenes too beyond the famous "failure to communicate" exchanges and Lalo Schifrin's slowly swelling score is a blast, especially during a pivotal boxing match.


                
"Cool Hand Luke" is a crime movie in which we watch a man who is a cool and gutsy prisoner in a Southern chain gang. There we watch him refusing any authority and he does not care about anything except himself. This has as a result the other prisoners to admire him and see him like their hero. Although the camp staff has an another opinion about all of that and they do their best to destroy and break him.I liked this movie because of the plot which I found simply magnificent, also the cast was well picked and these choices had as a result this great result. Of course the direction of Stuart Rosenberg was for one more time very good. I also believe that the interpretation of Paul Newman who played as Luke in this movie was one of his best interpretations ever. Another great interpretation that has to be mentioned is George Kennedy's who played as Dragline and he was simply outstanding on it (won the Oscar for Best Actor in a Supporting Role).Finally I want to say that "Cool Hand Luke" shows us the truth behind the rural prisons on that times and how this influence all of the people who are getting involved with it. Also this movie wanted to make us think about the choices that we make in our lives, how important are and if were correct or no. Also I believe that it wanted to show us the fight of a man who wanted to be free and indented from anyone and anything.


                
'Cool Hand Luke (1967)' was and remains one of Paul Newman's most iconic performances, with the image of Luke Jackson <U+0096> with his piercing blue eyes, blissfully carefree smile, dogged determination <U+0096> forever entrenched in the minds of all who see the film. Having experienced a lifetime of difficulty and oppression, Luke is one man who never learned to conform to society, and who is willing to sacrifice himself in order to avoid compromising his own integrity. On many occasions, the motivation behind Luke's actions are dubious at best {his numerous escape attempts appear to have been orchestrated for the mere sake of rebellion}, but this all adds to the lure of his enigmatic personality. Many critics have noted the film's scattered Biblical references, with some proposing that Newman's character is an allusion to Christ, who mentored a group of "disciples" before offering his own life in the face of tyranny. Directed by Stuart Rosenberg, and wonderfully captured by cinematographer Conrad L. Hall {whose final film, 'Road to Perdition (2002)' is among the most beautiful of the new century}, the story of "Cool Hand Luke" remains one of cinema's most definitive prison dramas.Influencing, in some way or another, just about every prison movie that followed, and bearing more than a passing resemblance to Milos Forman's masterpiece 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975),' the film's legacy has continued to stretch into the present, and the Captain's (Strother Martin) memorable line "What we've got here is failure to communicate" continues to be quoted often. Of course, it is Cool Hand Luke whom we shall always remember so vividly, his nickname representative of his independence, individualism and unwillingness to conform. Newman's superb performance was nominated for an Academy Award at the 1968 Oscars, but he was beaten by an equally-memorable Rod Steiger for 'In the Heat of the Night (1967).' Unthinkably, the film itself was denied a Best Picture nomination, presumably to make way for the epic musical 'Dr. Dolittle (1967),' a childhood favourite of mine that nonetheless should never have been nominated. The picture's single award went to George Kennedy, who is marvellous as Dragline, a tough, imposing but supportive inmate who strikes up a very close friendship with the prison's resident "messiah."
A man who refuses to bow to life in a prison called tyranny and tyranny! Have you ever asked yourself .. What if Forest Gump was from Tom Hanks? What if a perfume was a woman other than Al Pacino? What if he had a beautiful mind than Russell Crowe? Similar questions; any immortal performances in general .. Have you asked yourself such questions? If you should add a new question to the group; What if Cole Hand-Lock was from Paul Newman? Answer: Nothing! It will not be a feature film, and will not get a similar rating! Paul Neumann does not play the role of life for him; and personally I rated his performance as one of the best timeless performances.
Wanted to see this in ages; a total classic, much quoted and copied (as well as the much emulated 'scantily clad girl washes car knowing there are men watching' scene). Brilliant performance by Paul Newman as the titular Luke who's put in prison and endears himself with the rest of the guys with his can-do, jokey attitude and willingness to do stupid stuff as well as his aloof and singular need to break the rules. The egg scene was really funny. Humour, drama and quite a lot of heart, and an interesting study in human behaviour and dog psychology. Really enjoyed it, didn't know what to expect but can see shades of every other jailhouse drama in this. Shows how a film can be honest and psychologically affecting without resorting to graphic violence and brutality. This is a clever film, and his character is intelligent and crazy - dangerous because he just doesn't care and is somewhat damaged and at odds with God. A young Dennis Hopper puts in an appearance. George Kennedy is good as the crazy using sycophantic "big brother" of the jailhouse, who's not so bright. Incredibly watchable.


                
Booze and parking meters don't mix apparently. At least it didn't work out too well for Luke played by Paul Newman.I got really attached to the character of Luke as the movie progressed. It felt like a real person. Even though he made a mistake which landed him in prison, he is not a bad guy. His shenanigans don't hurt anybody but constantly make things worse for himself. That doesn't stop him though.They made an excellent decision to have the character of the guard who doesn't speak. One of the characters called him the man with no eyes due to him always wearing mirrored sunglasses.This is a good movie to watch on a warm summer day while drinking a cold beer. Even though it may be a hot, miserable day at least you are sitting back watching a movie and not working in the sun on the side of a road.


                
One of the reasons that the late 60s/early 70s was such a powerful era in filmmaking is the emergence of the anti-hero (defined as an individual with heroic qualities, but not in a position we would usually find a hero). This is symbolized greatly in 'Cool Hand Luke'. We can identify with Luke because his crime is venial and his concerns over the great questions of life are ours. It is because of this and his persuasive charm that the other prisoners (played remarkably well by Kennedy and a host of others to include Wayne Rogers, Ralph Waite, Dennis Hopper and one of the actors who played a crewmember on 'Alien') live vicariously through him.Filled with memorable scenes (the boxing match, 50 eggs, the fealty of his fellow prisoners who help him finish his food after his stomach is shrunk in solitary confinement, 'shakin' it here boss', the sneezing dogs, and of course the carwash part) and outstanding character development (created by what is said and what is not said, i.e. the visiting brother), one of screen history's most repeated lines and the great acting of Newman, this movie deserves to be called a classic. Released the same year as 'Bonnie and Clyde', it makes one long for the days when you needed a real script to make a movie.


                
Cool Hand Luke, released in 1967, is about a rebel character, Luke, that is incarcerated for cutting off the tops of parking meters. Luke is played by Paul Newman. As punishment, he is placed in the southern penal system in which he is housed with other inmates in a dormitory style building and works all day long on a chain gang. The film makes a strong statement against our penal system and those that challenge authority and the system. At the beginning of Luke's incarceration, he is a non- conforming loner, somewhat of an underdog, but soon earns the respect of the other inmates via a boxing match, card games, and a challenge to eat 50 hard-boiled eggs.Luke challenges and boxes one of the films other main characters, Dragline, played by George Kennedy. Luke is out matched, but refuses to give-up the entire length of the match. The match is brutal and the effects and camera shots enhance every striking blow. Luke earned the name "Cool Hand" when he skillfully won a poker match by bluffing the other players. During the egg eating contest, once all the bets were placed by the other inmates, Luke wins the bet and accomplishes the task of eating 50 hard-boiled eggs. At this point in the film, Luke has earned the respect of the other inmates and is idolized by many of them. Later in the film Luke makes two escape attempts and is subsequently caught. During his final capture, while trying to give-up, he is shot and killed by the officers. The film concludes with a scene where the inmates are recollecting, with great admiration, their time spent with Luke. The film realistically portrays what it would be like working on a chain-gang cutting grass alongside the roads from dawn to dusk. The cruelty and harshness of life "behind bars" is expressed throughout the entire length of the film via consequences endured by those that go against the system. We all like to root for the underdog and in this film; you are apt to root for the underdog, Cool Hand Luke, for the entire length of the film. Paul Newman's portrayal of Luke was masterful and George Kennedy's portrayal of Dragline provided an equally outstanding supporting role. If you liked The Shawshank Redemption, Cool Hand Luke is its 1967 count-part with the exception that our hero loses in the end.
From director Stuart Rosenberg (The Drowning Pool, The Amityville Horror), I had seen and heard plenty of reasons to try this classic film, and I wasn't going to miss it when the opportunity came along. Basically Lucas 'Luke' Jackson (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Paul Newman) is sent to prison camp after cutting heads off parking metres, and gets a reputation as a hard man, and he gains an enemy with leader of the prisoners Dragline (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated George Kennedy). Luke is very competitive, and not afraid to prove himself in a challenge, whether it be boxing, a game of poker - where he gets his nickname, or eating fifty boiled eggs without puking. He seems to be used to the prison camp life until his mother dies, and that is when he begins a constant attempt to escape. He manages to escape twice and get quite far, but they catch him both times, and the final time, joined by now friend Dragline, he is shot. Also starring J.D. Cannon as Society Red, Lou Antonio as Koko, Robert Drivas as Loudmouth Steve, Strother Martin as Captain, Jo Van Fleet as Arletta, Live and Let Die's Clifton James as Carr, Morgan Woodward as Boss Godfrey, Luke Askew as Boss Paul, Marc Cavell as Rabbitt, Dennis Hopper as Babalugats, Harry Dean Stanton as Tramp, Licence to Kill's Anthony Zerbe as Dog Boy and Joe Don Baker as Fixer. Newman is superb is the leading role, I can see reasons why Kennedy got the Oscar, and there are plenty of influential moments to be enjoyed, a great prison drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Music for Lalo Schifrin and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. Paul Newman was number 16 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Luke Jackson was number 30 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, "What we've got here is failure to communicate" was number 11 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, the film was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for the girl washing her car, and it was number 71 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Very good!
"Cool Hand Luke" lives up to its name.This ultra-cool anti-establishment film stars Paul Newman, perfectly cast as a cocky hot-shot prisoner who refuses to accept the servile conformity demanded from him on a chain gang. The film joined the same year's "Bonnie and Clyde" and "The Graduate" to usher in over a decade of marvelous films that seriously questioned all sorts of establishments, and made Hollywood (and movies) relevant again.Full of iconic images and scenes, like the chain gang boss and his reflective aviator sunglasses; the girl in tight pants and halter top soaping up a car (parodied ever since); or the sight of Newman lying in crucifixion pose on a table, belly distended after engaging in an egg-eating contest.Character actor George Kennedy gets sidekick honors, and Jo Van Fleet appears in a memorable cameo as Newman's mom.A true classic from the 60s.Grade: A


                
Luke Jackson (Paul Newman), a dissident in mini-size, has to serve a sentence of two years in one of the American road prisons. Through his bullish, but cordial kind, he gains respect from his fellows prisoners. When he hears of the death of his mother (Jo Van Fleet), he tries to escape several times, but always gets caught. To scotch Luke's rebelliousness, the guards try to break his will with abasements and random beatings."Cool Hand Luke" works quite well as a metaphorically hedged political film, due to the seemingly naive screenplay, which, in principle, prostitutes the blatant worship of heroes. The inhuman rap system, which is established on dictatorial bedrocks, symbolizing any form of government in a way, tramples on every dignity of man, nips the free spirit in the bud and tolerates no protest. It begins immediately with the prologue, when we watch the drunk and incapable Luke demolishing parking meters. For that, he gets sentenced to two years. Being questioned on his motivations, he utters, that he comes from a small town and has "not much to do in the evenin'". Later he becomes a rebel with a cause, idolized by his jailbirds, who entrench themselves behind their own lethargy.Rosenberg's film also has some of that spurious adventure theme. Everyone remembers the egg scene, the dusty country road reflected in the sunglasses of the main guard, and we remember Luke's smile, exactly described by buddy Dragline (George Kennedy) at the end: "You know, that, that Luke smile of his. He had it on his face right to the very end. Hell, if they didn't know it 'fore, they could tell right then that they weren't a-gonna beat him. That old Luke smile." With that role, Newman became the idol of so many little boys and young men, and set himself a lasting monument. This is probably the most important forerunner of the modern prison movie and a true representative of New Hollywood.


                
Luke (Paul Newman) is a guy that's angry with God and with the whole world, he has nothing to lose and nothing to win. One night he gets drunk and he destroys some road signs and gets imprisoned in a hard labour Texan jail."Cool hand Luke" is one of the most popular movies about convicted, and maybe idealizes a little what it means to be in jail.Paul Newman's work is just awesome (as usual), he was the perfect actor to play a rebel-charismatic-stubborn hero. An emperor of the losers. "Cool hand Luke" is a piece of cinema mythology itself, and the answer to a big question: can anybody eat 50 eggs? *My rate: 8/10


                
I had vague memories of seeing this movie years before and was keen to relive it.There are more iconic moments in this film than most people remember and it has one of the all time great movie lines. 'What we have here is a failure to communicate.' Oft quoted but who would remember where it came from. Iconic moments include the egg eating bet (not sure why the director chose to leave the Christ on the Cross pose as the last image in this scene - I don't see Luke as Christ figure - although he has disciples and his NO. 37 are biblical references - Luke.37 )and the hot and sweaty scene stealing car-wash girl - again often copied ( One Night at McCools comes to mind) but again who remembers its origin.Cool Hand Luke is one of Newmans best parts - he gets to draw on a range of emotions - but as the film draws to a close i still see him as a loser not a rebel not a hero but a man out of time and out of options. A desperate man in need of something he can never find - happiness. When at one point he is visited in prison by his mother he his chided by her for once being 'sensible' and making them worry at his attempt at normalcy. It seems he tried to settle down but it just wasn't for him.Right from the outset we know Lukes destiny - he can't be seen to win but by being the anti-hero he brings a little hope to those he leaves behind. Watch out for a young Harry Dean Stanton and Dennis Hopper. Small cameos also to the Council Leader from the Matrix -and Pa Walton.
Prison life in the late 1940s is brought vividly to life in Cool Hand Luke, the story of ones man's fight against authority. Paul Newman gives one of his finest performances as Luke. George Kennedy just about steals the scenes with his award winning acting. Strother Martin is perfect as "Captain". Jo Van Fleet is seen only for a few minutes but is memorable as Luke's mother. Look for Ralph Waite who is excellent as "Alibi Gibson". Waite would go on to be cast as the father of John Boy in The Waltons. Great work by Wayne Rogers who went on to co-star in M.A.S.H.  Much credit must be given to director Stuart Rosenberg. The film is visually stunning with an amazing amount of effective close ups.


                
Paul Newman played the quintessential loner who tries to buck the system. He underplays the role to the point of perfection. He's not only a loner to his cell mates, but also to the audience. Strother Martin is excellent as the Captain, while he sounds rather tame is actually brutal. Its a little melodramatic, but it ultimately is about the result of alienation. Great if you are in a rebellious mood.


                
Small town misfit Lucas Jackson ends up in a road prison for 'criminal damage against municipal property'. Despite the rather unusual crime he committed and his standoffish attitude he eventually gains the respect of prisoner and guard alike. This is a neat little film which showcases Newman's undoubted talent. His excellent performance as the non-conformist 'Cool Hand' Luke lends much to a film which has been eclipsed repeatedly as best prison movie. What the film lacks in the depth of it's characters it makes up for in audience feeling towards Luke and his desire to find his place in society yet not change his ways. You can't help but love his stubborn arrogance as he goes up against the system and many of the films ideas can be found in better and deeper movies like 'The Shawshank Redemption'. It's sad to think that it is better remembered for the egg-eating scene than for it's symbolism and regard to those who choose to live as social drifters.


                
"Cool Hand Luke" is a classic cult film. Lots of people love it and it's ranked very high in the IMDb Top 100 list. While I, too, like the film I can't say I am quite as sold on the film as the crowd--I think it's very, very good but wonder if perhaps it's a tad overrated. But, there certainly is a lot to like about it as well.Let's first talk about the good. The acting is exceptional. The fellow chain gang members are made up of LOTS of very familiar faces--as is like a Who's Who of character actors. Additionally, the stars of the film (George Kennedy and especially Paul Newman) are great--and at the top of their game. Additionally, the writing and especially the dialog are great. But, the writing, while very, very good also left me a bit cold at the end with its vague ending. Additionally, the film is very episodic and seemed a bit disjoint. Still, it is a heck of a good film--and one that probably would appeal most to guys (I have NEVER met a woman who loved the film, though I am sure there are plenty who will read this and take exception).


                
This movie is a classic and deservedly remains an icon and one of Paul Newman's best roles by far. However on this viewing and having lived in this country now for almost five decades, I have to point out the inaccuracies in this movie...From what I have learned, the prison system in this country jails disproportionately much more black and Latin men, in this movie, I don't think I saw any evidence of that little nugget. The other interesting thing about this movie, is the most memorable scene with the hot blonde woman played by Joy Harmon...in my memory, she really grinds herself into that car's window while wet and soapy for awhile, on further review, the scene only lasts about three seconds!!! I think they should probably do a remake and extend that scene and play some really great hot and heavy music, or maybe somebody should just make a cool music video with the scene and play it in slow motion for the greatest effect!!! But over all this movie stands up to time and I am actually amazed that they haven't done a remake with Denzel Washington or Will Smith playing Paul Newman's part and Forest Whitaker playing the big dudes part...
Cool Hand Luke is a film about a man who is sent to a rural prison for taking off the heads of parking meters. At the prison, he becomes part of the chain gang dealing with hot, back-breaking road work. As this man lives in prison, he becomes the short-talking, cool inmate that can either get under your skin or become your best friend. Of course as time goes by, his cool personality gets him into trouble by constantly breaking out of prison and being put back in. At the end of the film once you this his "cool" mind is put to rest, he breaks out of prison again to see what the Almighty has left for him to live for; and that is nothing can get you a pretty cool hand. This is a well-made film although it does have some minor flaws including over-dramaticism and unrealistic situations. Cool Hand Luke is a decent prison film but it surely is no Shawshank. But watch this movie and receive some sentimental, witty laughs.
This is definitely a classic! The movie follows cool and gutsy Luke Jackson (Paul Newman) who is sent to a prison camp and quickly gains the respect of the other inmates. After learning that his mother has passed away, he decides it is time to break out of prison. He escapes, gets caught again, escapes, gets caught, and each time the camp staff attempt to break his spirits. Newman is his usual amazing self, with his famous wit and charm he brings to most rolls. George Kennedy was also another standout in this film earning an Oscar for his performance. There are many classic moments in this film, such as the infamous moment where Paul Newman eats 50 hard boiled eggs in the space of 60 minutes to win a bet. This really is a great film, looking at a man's determination and will, that gets taken to the limits. RIP PAUL NEWMAN! My Rating: 8.5/10
The title character of "Cool Hand Luke" is perhaps the definitive anti-hero in film. His nonconformist stance lands him on a chain gang where he is predictably at odds with the guards. However, his fellow inmates idolize him. A battle of wills ensues, with Luke tirelessly striving for freedom and his jailers trying to break his spirit.Paul Newman landed an Oscar nomination for his performance; one which I think ranks among his best. George Kennedy won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar in the role of a gregarious fellow prisoner. The rest of the cast is solid, including Strother Martin and Jo Van Fleet in small but memorable roles.The script was nominated for an Oscar and contains more depth than I had previously realized. There are allusions to Luke as a Christ-like figure which are subtle and thought-provoking. However, the script's greatest triumph may be that it effectively makes us root for this anti-hero despite the fact that he does little that is heroic in the usual sense.The direction by Stuart Rosenberg is well handled and, combined with the cinematography by Conrad Hall, gives the film an attractive yet authentic look. Also worth noting is the Lalo Schifrin score, which was nominated for an Oscar.Today this film is deservedly regarded as a classic; one which I recommend wholeheartedly. However, I would caution that it's probably best considered as a 'guy' movie, so I don't know if it will hold as much appeal for women.


                
Cool Hand Luke retells the archetypal struggle of hope in the face of adversity. It tells of defiance in the face of overwhelming pressure to conform. It presents to us an injudicious judicial system, whose wanton brutality and heartlessness confronts the audience. Vicariousness (which we all to some degree can identify with) is examined, in the most depressing of circumstances, namely, imprisonment. Much meaning is conveyed throughout the film and the film's overall message remains as relevant today as it did when the film was made. Luke says in the film, 'sometimes nothing can be a real cool hand.' That, in a sentence, embodies what Cool Hand Luke is about. The director is trying to say that there can be victory, regardless of circumstance and that hope, persistence and optimism can prevail against all. It is Luke's hope that keeps his smile on his face; it is hope that typifies him as a hero to his inmates, it is hope that continues to fuel his escape attempts and, above all, it is hope that keeps his spirit free. It was Thomas Carlyle who said, 'he who has hope, has everything.' The truth of these words is personified in Luke. An air of invulnerability surrounds Luke throughout the film and it is hope that acts as his protection. Even on the doorstep of death, Luke is seen smiling. From beyond the grave Luke tells those who lived vicariously through him 'keep Hope alive.' It is also this that the director is telling us. Ultimately, Cool Hand Luke tells us that freedom of spirit is of far greater importance than that of the body. It is a reminder to us; we who are 'free' to ensure that we do indeed, lead truly free lives. That we should not live our lives in a vain effort to conform to our bureaucratic systems but rather, live our lives in the way they ought to be lived. The director is telling us to be free and to hope and it is that that Cool Hand Luke so skilfully imparts to us.
