The rebel character in Hollywood after the death of James Dean went through a period of transition and did not gain definite new characteristics until the late sixties...The three established rebel/anti-heroes in movies were Paul Newman, Warren Beatty, and Steve McQueen...In 1967, screen audiences were exposed to two new rebel hero characters, Clyde Barrow, a rebel without a cause with enough guts to strike out against any bank, and Luke Jackson, an anti-hero 'born to lose,' but a man full of pride and dignity..."Cool Hand Luke" resumes Newman's career as another rebel, a non-conformist, a perfect hero who beats the system wherever...Superbly directed by Stuart Rosenberg, Newman exhibits a complete arrangement of emotions invading every nuance and implication... Resources of his true command of his technical acting are breathtaking in their impact... The motion picture (nominated for 4 Academy Awards) won him his 4th Academy Award nomination... Newman is again a cynical loner, but he's also charming, and everything is calculated to involve us with him; like "Hombre," the film begins and ends with closeups of his face, but here, appropriately, he has an engaging smile<U+0085> The opening, where he drinks beer, unscrews tops from parking meters and mumbles to the arriving cop, recalls Dean's drunken incoherence at the start of "Rebel Without a Cause"<U+0097>an apt title for Luke<U+0085> He breaks rules for no apparent reason, wherever he is, including the chain gang to which he's sentenced<U+0085> Unlike Paul Muni in "I Am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang," who steals only to eat and is turned by society into a hardened criminal, Luke is a criminal from the start, and his crime isn't motivated by hunger<U+0085> It's a meaningless anti-authority gesture<U+0097>the existentialist "gratuitous act," committed purely for the sake of committing it<U+0085> Luke engages our sympathy not because he is economically deprived or the product of an unhappy home, but because for him the act of rebellion is its own justification: he's the perfect sixties hero<U+0085>Initially, Luke alienates the prisoners by his indifference and sarcasm, and the top dog, Dragline (George Kennedy) picks a fight with him<U+0085> Luke is severely beaten but keeps fighting, and this<U+0097>plus his continual defiance of the guards<U+0097>wins him the men's respect<U+0085> Their admiration grows when he proves he can eat 50 hard-boiled eggs, one after the other, in only one hour, another gratuitous act ("somethin' to do"). But Luke gradually becomes a victim of the excessive admiration, rebelling because they expect him to, which leads to a pattern of escapes and captures<U+0085> As the warden says, "What we got here is a failure to communicate. Some men you just can't reach." Even though Luke becomes subservient after torture, he again escapes<U+0085> Dragline admires the way he fooled the guards while planning all along to escape<U+0085> But Luke says he really did break down, and asserts: "l never planned anything in my life." Even his last act is motivated not by heroism but by impulse<U+0085>The physical punishment Newman's characters often undergo reaches an extreme here, as Luke constantly invites pain (in his fight with Dragline, he says, "You're gonna have to kill me."). Underlying his sometimes vigorous rebelliousness is despair at a cruelly indifferent world<U+0085> But the men need a hero, and Dragline perpetuates the myth, telling them that he had "that Luke smile" to the very end<U+0085> We last see a montage of shots of Luke smiling<U+0097>the men's vision of him as unbeaten and almost immortal<U+0085> Newman's performance is among his best, and Luke is one of his definitive studies of non conformism<U+0085> As in "Hombre," he underplays, but in a loose, relaxed, "cool" manner<U+0085> He's affecting in a wide range of moods: quiet detachment, wry contempt, raw courage, exhaustion, exuberance, gentleness, anger, resignation<U+0085> There's a superb1y understated scene in which Luke's dying mother (Jo Van Fleet) visits him<U+0085> Like Rocky Graziano, he says he tried to live cleanly, but could never find a way<U+0085> But the mood is quite different here: instead of intense emotion, there are on1y ingenious expressions of uneasiness, regret, sadness, acceptance<U+0085> Newman conveys his unspoken affection entirely through his glances and reactions, as she wistfully remarks that she once had high hopes for him<U+0085> The actor even survives the film's pretentious attempts to make him a mock-Christ figure<U+0085> Besides the obvious sacrifice-resurrection parallel, he's even shown in the exact crucifixion position following his fifty-egg (Last Supper?) ordeal<U+0085> There are two badly conceived dialogs with a God he doesn't believe in<U+0097>after which he realizes, "l gotta find my own way," a rather unconcealed statement of existential despair<U+0097>but Newman performs them with quiet conviction<U+0085>. His mock religion is better suggested by the bottle opener he wears in lieu of a religious medal<U+0085> And the despair is effectively dramatized in his reaction to his mother's death<U+0085> The men leave him by himself, and he sits on his bed, playing the banjo<U+0085> With a sad, breaking voice, he sings a religious parody: "l don't care if it rains or freezes, long as 1 got my plastic Jesus<U+0085>" He looks down and begins crying, but sings faster, obsessively, withdrawing into himself and expressing his utter loneliness in a world that has no God<U+0085> It's one of the most moving scenes in all of Newman's work<U+0085>Paralleled to "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Cool Hand Luke" is a character study, which works beautifully, very well-made with sense of graphic imagery and cinema view, a good-looking film with superb photography in Color, extremely good as an entertainment...
Greetings again from the darkness. I went way too many years without watching this movie again, so when Cinemark included it in the summer classic film series, I was in my seat nice and early. Mention this movie and the first thing people do is quote one of the most famous lines in movie history: "What we have here is failure to communicate." No question that's a great line. But there is so much more to this movie and it holds up beautifully 45 years later.Based on the novel by Donn Pearce, who spent two years on a chain-gang, this is the story of Luke (Paul Newman) who just can't bring himself to conform to the rules, regardless whether those be the rules of the military, society, prison, or those self-imposed by the convicts. We are introduced to Luke as he drunkenly cuts off the top of parking meters on main street of a small town. Later, in a throw away line, we learn he was gaining revenge on someone. It's the clear indication that while he doesn't always want to fit in, Luke clearly knows right from wrong.There are so many terrific scenes in this film, that it's not possible to discuss each. Every scene with the prison warden, played by Strother Martin, is intense. Each of the Boss guards are frightening, especially Morgan Woodward as the sharpshooter behind the mirrored shades. There are numerous impactful scenes featuring the group of convicts. Even though we learn little about the individuals, we realize the fragile male psyche is on full display. Despite the power of all of these characters and scenes, the real strength of the film is the relationship between Luke and Dragline (George Kennedy). Watching the early cat and mouse game, and the subsequent transfer of power, feature two amazing actors at the top of their game.George Kennedy rightfully won the Best Supporting Actor award and continued on to become one of the most successful and prolific character actors of the 70's and 80's, and his career culminated with his iconic role in the Naked Gun series. As for Paul Newman, this is one of his best performance in a long line of standout performances. This one is in the middle stage of his career and he exuded manliness with a touch of sensitivity. He and Strother Martin would meet again in one of the best sequences of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.Watching Luke win over all the convicts, including the previous leader played by Kennedy is stunning, yet gut-wrenching when offset by the scenes with the guards who are hell bent on getting Luke to understand his place. They understand the risk he poses to the systematic rhythms of the prison.The supporting cast is downright incredible. This was the feature film debut for: Ralph Waite (4 years later he became the beloved paternal figure of TV's The Waltons); Joe Don Baker(Buford Pusser from Walking Tall); James Gammon (later the crusty manager in Major League); and Anthony Zerbe, another iconic character actor of the 70's and 80's. Also featured are Dennis Hopper, Harry Dean Stanton (singing a few songs), Wayne Rogers (from MASH), Richard Davalos (James Dean's brother Aron in East of Eden), and Rance Howard (Ron's dad as the sheriff). In a brief, but truly great scene, Jo Van Fleet (also from East of Eden), appears as Arletta, and we quickly understand Luke's background.Often overlooked by film historians, "Lucille" putting on a show for the convicts as she washes her car, is a scene that is meant for more than titillation. As she creatively buffs the windows, the reaction of the convicts reminds us that these are still men and no amount of humiliation and degradation can change that. One of my friends argues that Joy Harmon was clearly cheated out of an Oscar for this scene.The score is the handy work of Lalo Schifrin and expertly captures the moment ... especially in the black top scene. Director Stuart Rosenberg was known only for his TV work when he got this script. He went on to direct another prison movie in 1980 called Brubaker. Starring Newman's Butch Cassidy co-star Robert Redford, the film was a decent prison drama, but not at the level of Cool Hand Luke ... which by the way, was installed into the National Film Registry in 2005.


                
This film is set in America's Deep South in the years after the Second World War. Luke Jackson, a down-on-his-luck war veteran, is arrested for vandalising parking meters while drunk and sentenced to imprisonment in a brutally tough prison. At first his offhand, seemingly arrogant, attitude alienates not only the prison governor and guards but also his fellow-prisoners, and he is soon challenged to a fight by another inmate named Dragline. The tall, powerfully built Dragline is an easy victor, but Luke's determination and fighting spirit, never knowing when he is beaten and refusing to quit, arouse the respect of the others, especially Dragline who becomes his close friend. Luke becomes a hero to the prisoners because they see him as a rebel who refuses to be beaten by the system. (His nickname stems from the cool way in which he plays a hand at poker, but it also refers to his remaining cool in the face of persecution). Luke makes two escape attempts, but on both occasions he is recaptured and brought back to the prison for punishment by the guards who are determined to break his spirit. It seems that they have succeeded, but then Luke and Dragnet make one last break for freedom.On one level this film is a critique of the inhumanity of the American prison system, part of a tradition going back to "I am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang" and continuing more recently with "Brubaker" (also directed by Stuart Rosenberg) and the less successful "The Last Castle". The regime in this jail is particularly inhuman. The prisoners are put to work all day digging ditches in the hot sun. (It is never made clear whether the ditches need to be dug and the prisoners are a useful source of free labour, or whether putting them to demeaning and useless work is seen as a means of keeping them under control and of giving vent to the sadistic impulses of their jailers). There is a long list of petty regulations, breach of which is punished by "a night in the box", a tiny cell used for solitary confinement. The guards take a perverse delight in tormenting and humiliating the prisoners. Strother Martin's governor (who prefers to be called "the Captain") is a particularly frightening figure, a little man with a grating, high-pitched voice who can even make a piece of bland management-speak like "What we have here is a failure to communicate" sound like a terrifying threat.The film is more, however, than a social-realist exposure of conditions in America's jails. It was made in the sixties, the decade when the times they were a-changing and when traditional concepts of authority were being challenged everywhere. Like a number of films from the sixties and seventies, "Cool Hand Luke" reflects this popular mood. The film with which it has most in common is "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" in which Jack Nicholson does for mental asylums what Paul Newman does here for prisons. Newman's screen persona was often that of the cool, detached outsider. This may have had the effect of narrowing his range as an actor somewhat- he could often seem too laid back in more traditional types of film, such as Hitchcock's "Torn Curtain"- but it meant that he could be excellent playing anti-heroes in films of this nature. ("Hombre" is another example). Here, in one of his best performances, he makes Luke a symbol of the little man standing up against authority. We learn that he was a hero in the war and was decorated a number of times but that he finished the war as a private after being demoted from sergeant. The implication is that military discipline was as uncongenial to him as prison discipline and that he lost his rank for some act of insubordination. Even his crime can be seen as a protest against the petty tyranny of rules and regulations of which parking meters are a symbol.There has been speculation about the possible religious implications of the film and whether Luke is intended to be a Christ-figure. Certainly, the shot in which he is seen in a crucifix-like pose after the egg-eating contest is derived from standard Christian imagery, but in my view this is not a deliberate Christian allegory along the lines of "Whistle Down the Wind" or "The Omega Man". In orthodox Christian thought, Christ is much more than a rebel against authority or even a man unjustly persecuted; he is also the Son of God and the Redeemer of mankind. One scene does not an allegory make. Nevertheless, there are undoubted religious overtones to the film. If Luke is an allegorical figure, the allegory is not with Christ but with Everyman, a man in search (sometimes a despairing search) of God. He claims not to believe in God, yet has long conversations with Him. The song he sings after the death of his mother is irreverent, possibly blasphemous, but blasphemy is the sin of the angry believer, not of the unbeliever. A true atheist cannot blaspheme, because there is nothing for him to blaspheme against.Newman was nominated for "Best Actor" and George Kennedy won a well-deserved "Best Supporting Actor" for his portrayal of Dragline, but I was surprised that the film was not nominated as "Best Picture", especially as the nominations in 1968 included a film as weak as "Dr Doolittle". Whatever the Academy may have thought, however, "Cool Hand Luke" is a film that has matured well. It is a multi-layered film that works well on each of its several levels of meaning. With "I am a Fugitive<U+0085>." and "The Birdman of Alcatraz", it is one of the greatest of all prison dramas. This was Stuart Rosenberg's first feature film, but like Orson Welles ("Citizen Kane"), Sidney Lumet ("Twelve Angry Men") and Bryan Forbes ("Whistle Down the Wind") he made a great film on his first attempt. 9/10
I read another comment on here that said that this and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest are two films which are pretty much identical. While I was watching Cool Hand Luke I did recollect the other classic (to me still much more extraordinary) guys-locked-up movie Cuckoo's Nest, as it did have its hero knocking an authority as tough as a ton on bricks. But there's a big difference between the two films- in Cuckoo's Nest, you had in Nicholson a rebel-rouser who didn't mind getting some real words across to people with his plight, and the people he was locked up with are actually, to a basic degree, sane. Newman is, much as the title suggests, 'cool', as he really doesn't have that much dialog for most of the picture, and the system he's bucking isn't supposed to be "helping" him and the people he's with. They're there on the chain gang to bust ass and do the work that nobody in their right mind would do unless pointed by a gun to do so. Though on the other hand, this dynamic from Newman, amid a very good prison movie, still makes Cool Hand Luke quite memorable for its ways of bucking the system.It's also by turns an often funny movie, with the centerpiece of the 50 egg bet being one that is just sheerly, unabashedly entertaining. And it's the kind of scene that does almost remind someone of that scene in Cuckoo's Nest where they all get riled up during the 'baseball game' on TV. But sometimes the filmmakers doing Cool Hand Luke do perhaps push a wee bit much allegory on such a simple set of events, less a story, than necessary. At the end of the 50 egg sequence, Newman is basically laid out on the table- and I'm sure it's meant to be intentional- in the form of Christ. This is played up for a lot of the rest of the film, as it's perhaps really intuited that he's suffering for the other prisoner's sins, and may even perhaps someday die for it all. This side ends up becoming a little preachy, even if its meant to be subtle, which I don't think it is, and it detracts from the greater pleasures of watching a picture like this.Because really, aside from the allegory, this is just good old prison picture, and one that pushes the boundaries of the prisoner-escape angle, such as that Newman's Luke escapes for the whole second half of the movie! It's also kind of bittersweet that the filmmakers decide not to show how Newman gets captured, but leaves it at first on the prisoners- who after getting beaten up by Oscar winning George Kennedy's rily character, and getting them to fix a road like its some competition- and then just suddenly he's caught again. At one point this even leads to the now classic line, once sampled in a Guns n Roses song, "what we've got here is failure to communicate" by the always great character actor Strother Martin. Though if you're not really looking for message or allegory, it's also just a really neat 'guy' movie, in the best sense of the word, with scenes like the torturous girl-washes-car-in-front-of-chain-gang scene, and of course ones that just show them acting like real guys. It's populated by a plethora of acting talent, with Kennedy, Dennis Hopper, Luke Askew, and even a guitar strumming/singing Harry Dean Stanton! (Which is a hoot if you've seen as mant Stanton films as me).And then finally there's Newman himself, definitely in one of his seminal roles even if it's not a full-on total masterwork. Here he actually does create a character out of someone who is really sort of a nobody with no real aims. He doesn't even know what do to when he breaks out of prison, even as he gets as far as Chicago. "I never planned anything in my life", he says at one point. That the character only has maybe 15 lines in the film isn't a problem for Newman either. He makes such a thin character, ultimately, likable and strong, and fulfills such an anti-hero very believably, especially when he's most needed to put up his acting chops towards the end of the picture. Even if you're not too much into prison movies- and this one does have in it the kind of spirit that speaks back to the films of the 30s (in a good way for the old-school fans)- it's worth it just to see what Newman does, alongside the other actors. It also holds up pretty well decades later, which is a credit not just to Newman but to the screenwriters and director Stuart Rosenberg, probably the highlight of an otherwise journeyman filmmaker career.


                
The many other reviews posted by the time of my writing discuss the plot and other aspects of "Cool Hand Luke." So, I'll just comment on the source of the movie and what I think the aim was in making it. The film is based on a 1965 novel of the same title, by Donn Pearce. The premise for which Luke is jailed and then continues to try to buck the system, escape and then return is ludicrous. Unless one can see that Luke puts life and energy into the prison and his fellow inmates. He is a spark of hope that helps these men survive otherwise monotonous and endless days of drudgery. I don't know if it is that way in the book, but that seems to be the intended drive for the plot in the film. It shows how much difference one person can make – not just in prison, but in the life of other people wherever they are. Donn Pearce himself spent time in jail and prison. He ran away from home, a suburb of Philadelphia, when he was 15. He lied about his age to get into the Army in 1944, then went AWOL and then turned himself in. He spent 30 days in the stockade. Then, before he got shipped out, the Army learned of his true age (his mother had written a letter) and threw him out. But he was then old enough to join the Merchant Marine, which he did. He served on ships that took him to various European ports and to India. He was caught in France for counterfeiting American money and was imprisoned. He escaped and crossed the Italian border. From there he got forged papers so that he could sign on a ship going to Canada. From Canada, he crossed the U.S. border and revved up his criminal activity. He went into burglary and safe cracking. All of this was by the age of 20. In 1949, he was caught and sentenced to two years on chain gangs in Florida. Pearce began writing stories based on his experiences and the characters he met. His 1965 novel was the first of four. Between books he worked as a freelance journalist. He wrote the screenplay for this movie, and he has a cameo shot in the film as a prisoner named Sailor. In a 2008 bonus video that comes with the DVD of the movie, Pearce says that his character of Luke is partly autobiographical. He says one-third of the character is based on him – the eating parts and working hard. Another third was based on a real guy named Cool Hand Luke. And the remaining third was just general stuff to tie the two characters together. Director Stuart Rosenberg and Warner Brothers assembled a fantastic cast for the film. Paul Newman is excellent as Luke. George Kennedy is stellar as Dragline, a role that garnered him the Oscar for best supporting actor for 1967. Strother Martin is superb as the Captain of the prison road gang. Many notable stage actors fill the roles of fellow inmates and guards. Lou Antonio is Koko, J.D. Cannon is Society Red, Wayne Rogers is Gambler, Clifton James is floorwalker Carr, Luke Askew is Boss Paul, Robert Donner is Boss Shorty, Charles Tyner is Boss Higgins. This is a highly regarded film that most people should enjoy. Newman and a number of the crew said that this was one of their favorite films to have been in and worked on.


                
Cool Hand Luke is an engaging movie with symbolism, about one of the great characters of cinema. Throughout the whole film there is symbolism, which supports the things that have been said earlier by characters. I like the inventive and fitting camera work that supports the messages and lends more power to the film. I also like the sound design, which especially in the beginning often has a dazzling effect, in combination with the cinematography, like, when the camera closes in on the ventilator.It's the kind of film with symbolism that doesn't get much appreciation from the art-house crowd (you know you're one of them, don't lie to yourself), since it could be dangerous to acknowledge the symbolism in a film that is easy to understand for everyone, with characters that are emotionally engaging. People could falsely believe that you like it for those reasons, which could lead them to doubt your intellectualism.In the film things are often told twice in two different ways. Usually within a few minutes, in the same scene or in two successive scenes. Like in the scene when Luke bursts out: "Get out there yourself. Stop feedin' off me. Get out of here. I can't breathe. Give me some air." Oh, how right Luke was when he yelled those words to his fellow inmates. A few minutes later they are literally feeding off of his plate when he has to clear his plate but apparently has no appetite, putting this line into a completely different (more positive) light.Notably, the initiator for him to yell those lines is that when they show him his picture with the two women, they don't want to believe him when he says it was staged. The movie closes with this very picture. To me this said that we, the audience, have fed off of him. We let the film be our catalyst for our wishes to have the guts to fight for a boundless world, our wishes to have enough of a will to shake the world. Oh, how right the film was with that.Some folks may wouldn't call this symbolism. Well, I do. Other than some of the art-house stuff it's symbolism with an intention behind it. It's not just thrown in there so that the audience can find some meaning in it, just so that we have something to think about, while the filmmaker failed to do so himself. No, this symbolism supported the story and our understanding of the characters.Needless to say that the Luke character spoke right out of our hearts. I love the fact that he essentially stayed a loner till his last breath, since films with a main character like that usually end with the guy being very social and as a functioning part of society. Sure, it's depressing that in this world there seems to be no place for good ol' Luke, but then again, I think there ain't a place for good ol' Perception de Ambiguity either.


                
Paul Newman can sleepwalk his way through a movie. Don't bother seeing "Torn Curtain," for instance. But give him the right part, engage his interest, catch him in the right mood, and he delivers a performance as good as anyone could provide. As good as Brando, Olivier, as good as anybody. In my estimation he has given at least four performances that reach asymptote: "The Hustler," "Hud," "Cool Hand Luke," and "The Verdict." Others may have been almost as good, "Hombre", maybe, or "Harper", but they restricted his acting to a stereotype or else the story wasn't worth much effort. Early in his career, he was socked solidly into a super-macho sort of position, his nasal, abrasive, Southern-tinted remarks dripping with synthetic testosterone. But beginning with "The Hustler," he found his true métier. "Luke" was one of his finest. The plot is utterly believable. The locale -- near Bakersfield -- evocative. You can feel the shimmering heat. The entire cast is superb, and what a cast! Strother Martin is always good but here he outdoes himself. Harry Dean Stanton, Joe Don Baker, Anthony Zerbe, a veritable pantheon of fine character actors. There have been many movies about charismatic outlaw heroes. The kind of guy who says, as Robert E. Lee Pruitt did in "From Here to Eternity," "If a man don't go his own way, he's nothing'." Or the kind of guy who, wittingly or not, is enacting a nascent social movement, like Ghandi. The best of these stories don't build themselves a moral explanation around the essentially unknowable. Who knows why Ghandi or Cool Hand Luke did what they did? Who knows why any of us does what we do? We can justify our acts, but only through post-hoc reasoning. In sociology this is called "accounting." I account for my acts by buffing logic in such a way that I come out on top . Sometimes underlying themes are necessary to hold an otherwise uneventful story together, as in Joyce's Ulysses. No such subtext belongs in "Cool Hand Luke," because the events we witness can stand on their own two legs, but the subtext is there nonetheless. Not only is it there, but it's blatantly there. Luke addresses God as "old man," from time to time, and has an extended conversation with him towards the end in an abandoned church. After eating his fifty eggs he is left sprawled on a table in an attitude of crucifixion. The very crossroads shown in a helicopter shot just before the closing credits is cruciform. The Christian symbolism is irrelevant and distracting in an otherwise memorable movie. Luke's conflict is not with God. For that to be true, there would have to BE a God. His conflict is more profane. He's at war with rules and regulations, which of course means society. Strother Martin's captain is right when he says about Luke's punishment, "This is what he wants." And, by the way, this movie shows the corrections officers as at least semi-human, some of them, but also absolutely irresistible. You cannot win with these guys. They can't be outwitted. And they are unsubtle. They will beat the crap out of you until you yield, and we all eventually yield. Don Pierce's story was autobiographical. What a guy he must have been. In one of his articles he is sent to North Africa to interview Timothy Leary, then in exile. Refused an interview he climbs on top of the roof of Leary's hotel, half drunk, and leans over the edge trying to peek through a window, during which exertion and in this awkward posture, he releases a blast of intestinal gas. Would you reveal something like that about yourself? George Kennedy won the Oscar for supporting actor and deserved it. The only other time he displayed any energy in a part was in "The Dirty Dozen," which didn't place nearly such demands on him as this role. You're not likely to forget this informative, wildly comical, and ultimately tragic movie once you've seen it.
One of the all-time great prison films. Great work by the entire cast, particularly Newman and Kennedy. The tinder-dry vegetation of the San Joaquin Valley doesn't look much like the South, though. Some people have written of this film as a Christ allegory, but I just didn't see it, aside from some of the sardonic gospel music in places. In any case, everyone should see this film. Grade: A+


                
Nothing else in the Stuart Rosenberg canon quite prepares you for COOL HAND Luke. It was an instant classic and it hardly mattered who the director was, (though I guess a bad director could have messed things up). This was the great anti-establishment movie of its day, (a late sixties REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE), with that blue-eyed beauty and most iconic of anti-establishment actors, Paul Newman, cast in the title role. As Fast Eddie Felson and Hud Bannon, Newman had already held two fingers up to the establishment and in many ways this was the role that came to define him.The plot, by now, is familiar to generations of moviegoers. Newman is sentenced to two years on a chain gang for screwing the heads of parking metres, in itself something of a motiveless crime; he claims he was just settling old scores and you know from the second you see him he isn't going to stay put so it's a movie about a man who becomes a hero to his fellow prisoners for continually running away and for being continually brought back and it's full of classic scenes; the car-washing scene, the egg eating competition, the tar- rolling scene, the boxing match between Newman and George Kennedy.The casting, of course, was crucial. It was a movie full of identifiable character parts where the actors cast as prisoners, the warden and the screws all had their marks to make, (though no African-American or gay prisoners)? Kennedy got the Supporting Actor Oscar and Strother Martin was magnificent as the warden but it has one of he great supporting casts, all brilliant and too many to mention with the wonderful Jo Van Fleet taking the only significant female role as Newman's mother. It was adapted by Donn Pearce and Frank Pierson from Pearce's novel, Lalo Schifrin did the score and Conrad Hall photographed it in Panavision so did it really matter who the director was or was this just one of those movies that was destined to become a classic from the pre-production phase? Like I said, nothing else Rosenberg ever did came close.


                
The "men in prison" genre is one that has been done to death from "The Big House" on up to the premium cable series "Oz", but this entry has to rank as one of the all-time best. Newman plays the title character, a rather aimless ne'r do well who gets drunk one night and decapitates several parking meters. This lands him in a labor camp for two years (!) where he alternately aggravates and inspires the other inmates and the guards. His chief aggressor upon arrival is hulking, dim, loud-mouthed Kennedy who challenges him in several ways. However, in true movie fashion, they eventually become best buddies. The prison is populated by a huge array of other types such as sensitive Waite, meticulous Cannon, mentally-challenged Hopper and over-eager Antonio, to name a few. After a while, the authorities begin to resent the influence Newman has on the other inmates. When he attempts escape, he is given "the treatment" and is ground down to total subservience. Or is he? Newman gives a performance here that is nothing short of brilliant. His charm and charisma are on full throttle, but so are his sensitivity and insightfulness. He looks great and turns in a heavy-duty portrayal. Kennedy, who won an Oscar for this, is also very strong. His not-too-gentle giant is somewhat infectious and engaging. It's a fully realized characterization. Note how, even though it is never directly mentioned, he can't read. A better array of supporting actors from this time would be hard to find. The inmates are all good, but the guards and officials are even better. Martin is unforgettable in his fairly small role as the warden and spits out the iconic catch phrase, "What we have here is a failure to communicate!" Woodward is super-imposing as the rifle-toting (and wordless) chain gang boss. Best of all is a brief cameo by Van Fleet as Newman's chain-smoking, beaten-down mother. Bette Davis was foolish to turn the role down, but the film is better for the incredible authenticity and lack of obvious acting that Van Fleet brings to the part. It's interesting to note that Davalos, who beat out Newman for his role in "East of Eden" is now relegated to that of a virtual extra, barely getting an opportunity to say or do anything of note. The film boasts many memorable vignettes including the famous, nausea-inducing, egg-eating contest, a scene involving the pavement of a road and the classic one in which a scantily-clad, buxom lady teases the inmates by washing her car as they look on. It's interesting to watch this viewpoint of a southern prison/chain gang with the inmates mostly getting along very well, affectionately interacting, betting, dancing and so forth (Drivas' little go-go moves on the front porch are, perhaps, a bit much, though.) Of course, it's practically science fiction now as there is not one minority in sight within the prison camp and someone convicted of Newman's crime would be (un)lucky to serve any time at all nowadays! Fans of beefcake are in for a treat with the tan men spending huge amounts of time shirtless and in their underwear. Newman even does what is the closest he ever came to a nude scene - a dimly-lit glimpse of his bottom as he's changing into a nightshirt outside. ("Pa Walton" Waite goes even further, stripping down in broad daylight and showing a remarkably fit rear end for his age.) There's also a terrifically evocative and pleasing score by Lalo Schifrin. If this nicely-directed film has a flaw, it is probably that it's just the tiniest bit too long. However, the pleasures it yields make that seem like carping.
On the face of it, Cool Hand Luke tells a simplistic story about a guy who breaks the law and is sent to a rural prison, where he must earn status among the prisoners. This in turn sets him against the guards and governor, who want nothing better than to knock him down, and the plot goes from there.Where this film excels is in its depth. It can be read in a number of different ways, from example as a religious allegory and also in terms of status and power in the modern age. In essence there's a microcosm of society inside the prison with each character fulfilling a different role or tier. Paul Newman plays the classic rebellious character, a man unwilling to conform, ever, and he does it in such a brilliant way that I'm surprised he didn't win his Oscar.Newman's the perfect fit for the part: upbeat, funny, and incredibly sympathetic. I haven't seen all of his films, but I find it hard to imagine he could better his role here. Equalling him is George Kennedy, also at his best, and fully deserving his best supporting actor Oscar. His character is perfectly written and, indeed, this film is perfectly made, with great attention to visual detail throughout. It's also notable for featuring a number of classic sequences, from the egg eating to the 'Plastic Jesus' song and of course the escape attempts. A fantastic film indeed.
Here's a thought: would "The Shawshank Redemption" have ever happened without "Cool Hand Luke?" Both films examine prison life in a tall-tale sort of way. Heroes of questionable morality perform valiant acts in defiance of cold and rigid prison wardens and life is at its most fragile, balancing between the joy needed to stay alive and rock-bottom depression.However you choose to compare the films, there's no doubt both are on greatest film lists. "Cool Hand Luke" simply has the distinction of being first.Paul Newman's Oscar-nominated performance is one of his very best, or at least one of my favorites to this point. I have not seen "The Color of Money," but I have little doubt that Oscar was rewarded to him for having been screwed over so many times.As Dragline (George Kennedy, who won an Oscar) so perfectly points out in his ending monologue voiced over a montage of Luke, Newman's smile alone makes Luke such a magnetic character. There's always a sense that he knows something you don't, that he has mastered some secret of life that makes him impervious to hardship. His tacit contempt for authority makes him much more likable than your typical anti-hero (if he can even be considered one), and it also primes us for his few dramatic scenes, which are soft but moving.Lucas Jackson is an honored war vet who is thrown somewhat needlessly into a prison work camp in the south after beheading parking meters while drunk. Compared to the crimes of some of the others, it's a bad deal. Luke quickly falls out of favor with the prison guards with his subtle defiance, and it takes him some time before he's initiated with his fellow inmates.There are so many memorable scenes in the film because the most pivotal moments are also the most visually appealing. Director Stuart Rosenberg and writer Frank Pierson appear to be on the same page in really emphasizing scenes such as the "Lucille" scene in which a local woman erotically washes a car as the men look on from their work post, the subsequent boxing fight between Luke and Dragline and the egg-eating scene. Prior to Luke trying to escape after "getting some rabbit in his blood" when a personal tragedy befalls him, the plot doesn't have a whole lot of places to go, so the scenes become entirely about character development, which pays off for the rest of the film. The escape attempts have an underlying strength because of the entertaining first act or so.The sense of camaraderie amongst the inmates is another thing you can't help but take notice of. Sometimes scenes are designed that way, but even when the focus is elsewhere, the extras and supporting actors are enhancing the environment, creating a mood for the film, one that expresses how caught in a bubble they are and gives you the sense of how prisoners will insist on life even in rough conditions."Cool Hand Luke" eventually evolves into a story of leadership, the qualities that make a man great, or "an original" as Dragline says. Luke becomes an inspiration for his inmates through his attitude and his actions, though more an ideal to aspire to as opposed to a role model to emulate. Newman's performance hammers that home as truth for the audience too, which makes "Cool Hand Luke" a classic.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit http://moviemusereviews.com


                
I believe the key to understanding this movie is to see our life in the life of the prisoners. Like the prisoners we are made to do work against our will, we are made to live around certain people, and submit to unyielding authority. If there is a God, like the guards, he can only be distant, judgmental, and utterly unwilling to listen to us. Like the boss with the reflective sunglasses, we can only see ourselves and our inability to please God when we approach Him, while He always hits the mark perfectly in his own holy righteousness.Into this prison, into this all too familiar world, comes Luke, a man who's only crime is that he has never really been given a decent chance in life, a decent 'hand.' It is clear from the beginning that Luke is really innocent, essentially a good man who was never put in a position to succeed at life or find his purpose in life. This is proved by the fact that he won medals serving his country at war, but is never given credit for that service. It is striking that he explains that the chains of prison aren't medals but represent bad mistakes after his nephew asks why he isn't wearing chains. This innocence and respect for morality sets him apart from the other inmates from the start.There are several other strange and almost startling things about Luke. For one, though he knows what terrible hands he's been dealt, he fully uses that nothing hand, making it a 'cool' hand and smiling as if in spite of his own fate. And the truly miraculous result of this is that it works. Using nothing beside a courageous unwillingness to give in and a joy unspeakable Luke beats Dragline in a fistfight, wins a poker game, eats fifty eggs, and escapes prison three times. Through all this Luke teaches the others (and us) about real freedom, real hope, and real courage. Freedom that comes like a breathe of fresh air when you are least free, hope like a fiery lighthouse when things are most hopeless, and courage like a rock no matter how bad the odds. And how does he do this? Though the movie doesn't admit it, its obvious that the real key is humility, or as Luke puts it 'nothing.' Luke takes himself lightly and that is the secret to his success midst suffering. Life will always give us nothing, but humility will give us the power to both recognize and use that nothing to its full potential.It is clear that the presence of Luke both physically and in spirit (the magazine) is an enormous comfort and inspiration to the prisoners. But they take this for granted and bask in Luke's glory while continuing to let him suffer at the hands of the bosses. I may be misinterpreting Luke's character, but I think there is a real compassion in Luke for the inmates that transcends mere camaraderie, he is angry at them for 'feeding off him' because he sees them simply using his sense of freedom, hope, and courage instead developing their own, and not living out the sheer independence that he embodies and suffers for.But besides the story between Luke and the other inmates, there exists the story - or more accurately the battle - between Luke and the bosses. It is a battle that he fights on his own and that he freely admits that he lost. The bosses did break him as he fell into the grave he had dug himself, moaning his apology and declaring allegiance to the bosses and the God which he had once mocked. But that is not the end, if it were than we would be back where we started. In a prison with no respite from the powerful justice of authority. Luke rises again, he escapes, a final triumphant miracle.But Luke knows that life outside is little different from that within the prison, that no matter where he is he will be dealt his hand of nothing. He brings his conflict to the God the bosses finally forced him to believe in - he prays, asking in extreme humility what the purpose and meaning of his life is. The lack of response prompts Luke to reinforce what he'd always found true - 'he'd have to find his own way.' Or in other words, he'd have to be his own God. But God does answer. Dragline enters with the bosses right behind him. And that's when Luke realizes the purpose of his life, what he was meant for, and what he was meant to do. As a fellow prisoner he could never really help the others, but as a martyred hero he could inspire them to find their own hope, freedom, and courage through humility. And even more than that, work out a communication with the bosses that is no longer a failure,that there can be peace between inmates and the Captain, between us and God.This may be a bit of a stretch, but I think Dragline is the first to latch on to the lasting significance of what Luke did. It is Luke which gave him the opportunity to shatter the guard's mirror glasses so that he would no longer see himself in those judgmental lenses, but the eyes of the judge; and though it is physically impossible, I sincerely believe those eyes were actually the eyes of Luke, looking in defiant grace and mercy at Dragline. That is when he realized just how much Luke was indeed a world shaker - that he shook even the guards to the point of acceptance. That God at heart has the independent spirit of Luke. Or maybe that Luke was right when he called on God to find he was talking to himself. That may come as a shock, but no more shocking than a 2000-year-old carpenter who also shook the world.
Paul Newman had so many great performances in his illustrious career that it would be hard to pick a 'best' from the bunch. But certainly, that of Cool Hand Luke would have to be a contender. In actuality, Newman speaks very little in the picture when you come right down to it, but he accomplishes more with his looks and attitude than a lot of actors do with a lot more dialog.The strength of the film lies in Newman's portrayal of Lucas Jackson, a non-conformist who under most circumstances wouldn't even be considered a criminal. But he's paying the price for a drunken jag resulting in some damaged parking meters, and without trying, ingratiates himself with fellow prisoners following a physical beating at the hands of fellow prisoner Dragline (George Kennedy). That confrontation sets up the story for Luke's repeated attempts at escaping not only from the work farm, but from his own restless sense of being a prisoner in his own skin. Director Stuart Rosenberg magnifies Luke's struggle for redemption in the strongly imaged fade out right after the egg eating contest, showing the prone Newman in a crucifixion pose with arms outstretched and legs akimbo.Newman's not the only standout in the picture though. George Kennedy earned a Best Supporting Actor trophy for his portrayal of Dragline, the nominal head of the prisoners who is so inspired by Luke's work ethic and integrity that he eventually comes around to calling him 'my boy'. Strother Martin also makes an impact as the prison captain, and I wonder now if his signature line in the picture, which is now a staple of middle managers and parents everywhere, was the first time it was ever used - "What we have here, is failure to communicate".To be sure, there are a lot of great scenes in "Cool Hand Luke" - the fight, the car wash, the egg eating contest, the escapes. I myself could watch Carr the floor walker (Clifton James) over and over again as he explains what it takes to earn a night in the box. But for all of it, it's Newman's performance that pulls the whole thing together, as he keeps on swinging and smiling, inspiring the viewer to root for the underdog while he's thumbing his nose at the face of authority.
Sentenced to two years' hard labour with the chain gang, a cocky rebel (Paul Newman) becomes a legend of invulnerability.Cool Hand Luke is a not so radical updating of chain-gang genre films, this labours slightly from Luke being portrayed as a Christ-like figure. But Newman seizes the role with relish, arguably making more of it than it deserves. A scene involving an egg-eating contest is firmly ensconced in film lore. In 2005, the United States Library of Congress deemed the film to be "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry.
This is my second favourite movie, even though its hard to even pick "favourite" movies. But this is definitely second( Butch Cassidy is first :) ) I don't think I really need to say much about this film. It is just amazing!! All you have to do is just see it for yourself. People say how the mid-60's movies are pretty bad, but this one just proves them that not all the movies in the mid-60's were terrible. My favourite actor is Paul Newman and he always pulls off a great performance. I'm not sure if George Kennedy deserved an Oscar for this, but I'm absolutely certain Paul Newman did (even though he didn't win it). Luke is one of the greatest characters of all time; he never gives up!! I love the scene where he eats 50 eggs in one hour, that was incredible, I can barely eat 2 eggs in one hour!! I'm a girl but that car wash scene was so funny and agonizing at the same time, I could feel their pain! Although I love the fact that Luke doesn't really seem affected by it.Another actor that did a superb job was Strother Martin delivering a merciless performance and I will never forget that famous line he spoke.Anyways if you take a look at this movie yourself, you'll understand why I love this movie; its a real "Cool Hand".
I think that cool hand Luke had a profound effect on the camaraderie men show toward one another and the ability of good men who do bad things to be redeemed, or to continue to rebel in an effort to show folks that some behavior "aint all that bad" and that some of us in power just don't get it and have a misplaced sense of entitlement. The film seems to show, if compared to today, a republican point of view, shown by the great Strother Martin and his cronies, versus a democratic point of view, shown by the chain gang inmates, who fight and resist at first but ultimately come together through egg eating contests and never ratting each other out. even race relations were fostered, as Luke stopped off at a black family home to knock off his chains, a clear reference to the opposite of the way things used to be and the good nature of blacks, who could have easily been mad and turned him in. If only the stolen truck had resulted in a clean getaway, this would have been my favorite film, but they caught Luke, and for that I am eternally angry, meaning the film served its purpose.


                
Paul Newman was excellent as was George Kennedy and the rest of the cast. It was nice seeing a very young Ralph Waite,Waltons patriarch, very young Dennis Hopper and of course Strother Martin, who teamed up with Newman in Slapshot. I digress. This movie was basically about an impish 30 something guy that got bored easily. Thus his antics that got him in jail also got him in trouble while he was in jail. Newman was a thrill seeker . The fact he was a military man further shows he is a man that likes to take challenges in life whether they are acceptable of society or not. He is not a sociopath ... more like a goof ball if you ask me. The fact that he had 2 year prison sentence is irrelevant. He tried to escape for the challenge more than anything else. He seemed to enjoy the camaraderie of the cell . The cell was more like an army barrack anyway where everyone slept in one big room. Thus the fact he kept fighting when he clearly lost , also he got involved in that lame egg eating challenge. Attempt escape of prison with year and half or so to go is on the surface a very stupid thing to do, most of us can agree. Especially in a prison that , truthfully , did not seem all that hardened to me. Again, Luke was a thrill seeker and had no choice in his mind. When they showed that picture of Luke with the debutantes looking completely different that was another example of that being the case. Luke was the type of guy that would sneak into a super bowl, attempt to do Evel Knievel type stunts or even Harry Houdini type stunts. The plot was that simple. The ending was awesome and always look for LUKES smile. That is telling . Great movie and great acting . If they do one thing to properly memorialize Mr. Paul Newman , I ask they do nothing... in other words , no remakes of this great piece of film writing.
I have watched this movie many times and it gets better each time. At the end of the movie when George Kennedy comments that Luke was a world shaker, it becomes quite obvious the plot line is meant to remind us of a similar story of Jesus Christ. The moral of the story: Well, sometimes prophets are more successful than other times. Sometimes their message changes humanity and sometimes they just get dead, as was the case for Luke. This is one truly great movie. To think that movies like "The Departed" and "No Country for Old Men" are winning best Picture awards while this picture did not, mmmmm what's the message here. Hollywood does have it's moments such as "Crash" of 3 years ago, but seems to be rewarding mediocrity more often these days.
A work prison serves as a setting for a showdown between rigid established authority and anarchic rebellion. By extension, this is a social metaphor for everything that happened in the 60s - Kent State, the Chicago 7, etc. The 60s were about rebelling against and trying to change the established order and having those in power strike back, usually with excessive force, and Cool Hand Luke is all of this in miniature. Here Paul Newman plays Luke, the essential rebel without a cause, butting heads with prison warden Strother Martin, who tells him, in a perfect encapsulation of the Establishment's attitude toward the youth of the 60s, "Boy you need to get yourself right in the head..." Martin gets the script's best material as the spokesman for Law and Order, warning the new cons, "Man tries to run, he gets hisself a set of leg-irons. He runs twice, he gets two sets. Don't nobody get a third set." In his world, as in the button down world of LBJ and Nixon, the most the individual could hope for was to be ignored. To raise a fuss was to get slapped down. The supporting cast is superb, especially George Kennedy as a tough, none-too-bright convict who becomes a reluctant admirer of the cool, anarchic Luke, marveling how "He just kept coming back with nothing." The script is a marvel, wonderfully memorable and full of ideas and attitudes about society, the value of and need for regulations, the place of the individual etc. and very entertaining, despite a bleakly existential message: there is no salvation or redemption, no reward for virtue, merely consequences for getting out of line. Also significant is the fact that the picture is firmly set in the humid, sun-scorched Deep South with its backward looking traditions and entrenched unwillingness to modernize. A rebel is not only slapped down, he is dragged backward in time against his will. So much here is watchable, meaningful and resonant that even 40 years later it deserves an audience.


                
With Stuart Rosenberg's COOL HAND Luke in 1967, Paul Newman completed a series of five films, including THE HUSTLER(1961) by Robert Rossen, in which he provided audiences with an extraordinary hero/anti-hero unparalleled (bar Marlon Brando) in cinema history. As Luke, the former war hero turned social misfit imprisoned for chopping the heads off parking meters despite claims he has "a score to settle", Newman gives a striking and unforgettable image of a man that just won't lie down, no matter what treatment he endures. Whether it be the seemingly endless torture by the guards, treating him as a dog in order to discipline him after his second escape attempt, or the stomach-churning scene in which he upholds his bet to eat 50 eggs in the space of one hour, Luke always proves his doubters wrong and grows to become a hero for the others prisoners. His bravery, "more guts than brains" as states the incarcerated lawyer, and downright stubbornness leads all the others, even the ultimately naive tough guy Dragline (played by George Kennedy in an Oscar winning role), to silently worship him as their hero...the guy standing up for the things their cowardice won't allow them too. Newman's role became iconic, and this is down to some legendary scenes that have turned this movie into an all-time great. For instance, the Saturday afternoon fight scene with Dragline, in which Luke just won't "stay down" despite the barrage of punches coming his way, concluded by him muttering: "to keep me down, you gonna have to kill me!". Or the scene where Luke is able to push the other members of the chain gang to work at twice the speed, thus giving them more free-time and puzzling the guards. The film is also filled with memorable one-liners, such as: "What we have here, is failure to communicate." This in a way sums up the entire film, Luke is a rebel, someone who won't be repressed by the rules set down, whether it be those of the guards or of his inmates. His incarceration is due to his nonacceptance of the rules set down in the outside world, his reason for his crime being that it was "a small town, not much to do in the evening". But the world to which he is introduced represents many more "limits" which, every time he breaks, imposes increased and harsher punishment. He pushes the Captain, played with a peaceful but easily ignited rage by Strother Martin, into demonstrating to the full extent his "mean son-of-a-bitch" side, whose wrath parallels Luke's vision of the "Old Man" up above who sees him solely as a "hard case".As he says, "You've got to admit, You ain't dealt me no cards in a long time". The spectator may or may not like his character, but what's sure is that definitely dosen't give a damn whether we do or don't. And that's what makes COOL HAND Luke such a powerful movie."You run one time, you got yourself a set of chains. You run twice you got yourself two sets. You ain't gonna need no third set, 'cause you gonna get your mind right", the other characters, the other members of society are doomed never to comprehend him, leading to his actions being completely unpredictable. But as he says himself, "I never made a plan in my life". The movie may not be beautifully filmed or as exciting as other prison escape movies such as Steve McQueen's THE GREAT ESCAPE and PAPILLON, but that is not its point. COOL HAND Luke represents a cultural and historical milestone, with Newman's performance up their with the very, very best. 18/20


                
This film can't help in a way draw subliminal comparisons to the life of Jesus Christ for me. I love the film without this comparison but also because of it. There are so many examples Luke makes juxtaposed to what both experienced as teachers, miracle makers, and risk takers. Those who doubted lived vicariously through them.Luke is, because of is character, doomed to die from the beginning, never giving up trying to be free from the rural prison and it's brutal guardians. It is as if it was time he was put there for those who needed someone to taunt and scorn but trying to show others opportunities they could take if they chose.We get, in the initial scenes of the movie, how loved he is by his mother and an unspoken feeling by Luke of his feeling for her which is the same. He is searching for something and someone to believe in him. He has that in her but as the movie moves forward also in the inmates who follow him and his earthly exploits.He shows a miracle to his peers by eating 50 hard boiled eggs in an hour letting those who thought him a fool and those he impressed or thought he was just running on dumb luck and borrowed time increase their wealth by betting on whether he could perform this feat, especially Dragline, George Kennedy, his protector and ultimately Luke's Judas. It is not without forethought that this brilliant screenplay by Donn Pearce has him placed on his back in a crucified position after accomplishing his mission of eating all the eggs.When word gets to the prison that his mother is dead, Luke immediately mourns her with a song sung tenderly and quietly from his bunk about the "plastic Jesus" on the dashboard of is car. He is never the same after losing the one person who loved and his rock escaping from the road gang and prison at every opportunity. The risks he takes to remove himself from the rural prison and life itself are almost careless yet brilliant, the last successful attempt at escape driving away in one of the bosses trucks after taking the keys to the other two so they could not immediately chase him.A total failure to communicate his need to educate the men in the prison to "stop feeding off of me" and take their own risks with their consequences in this life which is an everyday risk is the message I am left with ringing in my ears after Luke is shot and carried away bloodied from the shot entering is body.The director, Stuart Rosenberg, and Pearce have given a clear message to all who view this classic. "Down Here on the Ground", (the main title song), live your life for yourself not through the beliefs, success or pain and loss of another.
Cool Hand Luke is a great picture that demonstrates to us how a movie can be made simply. I love this movie for the fact that it doesn't try to lure you in with flashy effects or stylish editing. The characters in this movie are great to watch as they learn to like good ol' Luke. Even the chef and the security guards sympathize with him! The movie might be slow for those with a short attention span. But for movie fans looking for a nice and well though out drama, this movie shines. Paul Newman plays Luke like no other could, rascally and smug, yet oh-so likeable. George Kennedy does a good job as his big, bodyguard jailmate. And Strother Martin plays another great character as the prison chief. The acting gets a 9. Directing gets an 8. Cinematography and visuals get a nice 9. The story gets an 8. And the music gets an 8 as well. So, overall I give this movie a 9. ***A little trivia fact for Angelinos*** The music played when they are trying to pave the road as fast as they can was used for ABC's local Los Angeles affiliate ABC7 at the start of their Eyewitness News program back in the 1970's and 1980's.


                
Cool Hand Luke is a movie that has a lot to offer the avid movie go'er. Everything from unique cinematography, to awe inspiring acting.  Cool Hand Luke is firmly planted on the ground, with real people, and I guess that's why I love it so much.  The difficult life of a chain gang, and how the social infrastructure that the prisoners have is fascinating.  George Kennedy is fantastic!  You can't help but appreciate the love life motif riddled throughout the film, and afterwards, you can't help but feel good about yourself.  A definite must see.


                
this is my favourite film of all time, I've read all your 'critical analysis' of it, but for me I can't pinpoint what is good about it. My heaven is a Sunday afternoon chilling to Cool Hand Luke, the ultimate hero. Maybe the film plays on our fear of prison, we all would like to think we would be cool in the same situation. I don't think that Newman takes enough plaudits for his role in this film, take his Oscar for 'Colour if Money', a sympathy vote if ever i've seen one, ' OK so he's getting old let's recognise him '!! If you want the real performance check out Cool hand Luke.


                
