Admittedly I didn't care for Six Feet Under the first time I saw it.  Alan Ball's first few episodes seemed a little too reminiscent of American Beauty.  It's not that I don't like American Beauty, in fact I love it; I just don't like to see clones.  Once you get past the similar wicked wit the two share -- you'll find that Six Feet Under is completely different.Each episode goes into a different direction every week.  These characters -- like real people, grow and make mistakes.  This is a wonderful show that is about those who deal with death, but isn't it ironic how Six Feet Under is true to life.


                
Six Feet Under is one of the hardest shows to talk about, despite it being one of my favorites of all time. Whenever I recommend it and am asked, "what's it about?", I struggle to explain adequately. How can you? Of course it's about a family of funeral directors. Of course it has the deepest analysis of death of any TV show to date. But anyone who's watched the show can tell you it is so much more than that. Anyone with an interest in great television should see this, however. IMO, it is required viewing on the level of Wire/Sopranos.Part of the way this show works, though, is to see it as a whole. When you finish the last episode, it's as if the repressed force of all five seasons washes over you and the real message comes through. It's quite extraordinary and I've never experienced anything like it. I won't spoil the ending, but it is easily the best final statement of a TV show that I've ever seen. Once it's finished, you realize why it is so great - it's the most real, visceral depiction of a family I've ever seen. In other shows, it's fascinating to watch the family dynamics, and you really get invested in their struggles. In Six Feet Under, you feel like you're a part of the family, and that pulls you in far deeper than you will expect.Part of this buildup, though, can make it a little odd at first. For at least the first season, I didn't really "get" it. After hearing so many rave about it whose opinions I trust, I was perplexed. I thought it was a little dated and episodic through that first season. Good, and funny, but nothing too remarkable. It was somewhere in the middle of the second season that the show "clicked" for me, and suddenly I just had to keep watching. In the end, I felt that any flaws I perceived along the way just added to the overall narrative. For example, I disliked Ruth for a long time, but looking back she's very important to the series as a whole. Maybe the best part about Six Feet Under is how it can reach so many emotions. From the tense, morbid opening sequences where you sit on edge, just waiting for the episode's death, to the warm, hilarious, and sarcastic family conversations, and the gut-wrenching sadness you feel as you grieve with the characters, the show has unmatched versatility. Yet at the same time, nothing is artificially exaggerated - even with the occasional quirky, surreal sequences, things are presented simply and realistically, and are more powerful as a result. Even the most fantastical scenes don't break your immersion.Certain episodes and scenes are probably etched into my mind forever. Six Feet Under is a show that becomes part of your life, and I've never seen anything else like it.


                
A drama series that takes a darkly comical look at members of a dysfunctional Pasadena family that runs an independent funeral home. The story of the lives and loves of the Fisher family, Alan Ball's creation (and sometimes writing) is certainly dark, but at the same time very layered, thoughtful, moving - by the end of the second season all the main characters have changed somewhat from what they were, and that's not meant as a criticism - and very funny. These are all qualities found in Ball's earlier script for "American Beauty" (who'd have thought he used to write for "Cybill"?), but there are people who can't abide the film while loving the series. Maybe it's the HBO connection... labels, who needs 'em? The closest the show ever gets to formula is the obligatory scene where the week's dead person is unveiled (the temptation to play spot-the-corpse-to-be is unavoidable, though the writers often wrong foot the viewer); the understandable desire to give all the main players something to do meant season 2's impact was diluted a bit, mostly due to Mathew St. Patrick as Keith (did we HAVE to get his family involved?).Otherwise, the series is well nigh impossible to fault - the acting and writing are top of the range, the humor never gratuitously tasteless (and the fake commercials shown in the first episode have never returned, an early indication that this show may know when to quit), the series intriguingly inverts the usual male/female nudity ratio, as well as seeing homosexuality and drug use as aspects of life that are neither good nor ill (though no one will ever confuse this for "Queer As Folk" - Channel 4 or Showtime versions), and the title sequence illustrating the journey to the grave combined with Thomas Newman's sublime Emmy-winning theme music never fails to draw you in. For a show that's basically about death, this is full of life."In Loving Memory," in case you're wondering, was a 1970s British sitcom set in a funeral home. The difference between this and "Six Feet Under" is the difference between, say, Avril Lavigne and Reba McEntire.


                
The thing I learned in IMDb, if the show has 8 rating it still could be dumb show, but if it has 9 rating, it must be really good. Six Feet Under almost got 9, how could that be, it's just slice of life drama.Slice of life, no action, no murder, no supernatural, no thrill, no mystery, and superhero stuff...I honestly kinda worried at first, if I would not like the show. Since I am big fan of Dexter, I though this show is worth checking, at least there is Michael C. Hall in it.Just like my expectation, watching Michael C. Hall itself is enjoyable hour. Also, just like other show with 9 rating, Six Feet Under is really good. It's hard not to love this show, because; first, you got this lovely score by Thomas Newman for the opening.2nd, you got Amazing cast. Great acting overall.3rd, The most powerful thing of this show is the writing. Making a slice of life story into something this refreshing is just genius. Oh I just realize the creator is Alan Ball, the one who made American Beauty.Overall Six Feet Under deserves the almost 9 rating in IMDb, and all the awards it got. If you have not watched, go watch it! It is great show :).


                
The wonderful thing about cable TV is that it can get away with a lot more than primetime television. Most people know this from watching such things as THE SOPRANOS. Sex, drugs, gore. Nothing is "too much" for them.And SIX FEET UNDER follows this example but by focusing on the Fisher family, a truly messed up group of undertakers who own/operate a funeral home in southern California.Each episode opens with the death of someone, and this sets up the premise for that week's show.The very first episode starts with the death of the Fisher patriarch, Nathanial Fisher (Richard Jenkins, RUMOR HAS IT). He's driving home a new hearse when it is struck by a bus, killing him instantly. He leaves behind his wife Ruth (Frances Conroy, THE AVIATOR), his eldest son David (Michael C. Hall, PAYCHECK), his younger son Nate (Peter Krause, THE TRUMAN SHOW), and high school daughter Claire (Lauren Ambrose, PARTY OF FIVE TV series). This was a very effective way to get "into" the Fisher family from a viewer's standpoint. Nothing pulls a family together like the death of one of its closest members. Although they were coming together anyway for Christmas, the Fisher's are now forced to deal with each other on a very tight level. David has been working at the funeral home all his life and feels that his life may have been wasted. He also has to deal with his homosexuality and his inability to "come out of the closet" to his family and friends. His love for officer Keith Charles (Mathew St. Patrick, REUNION TV series) is felt throughout the series, and is on and off thanks to David's psychological hurdles. Matriarch Ruth comes out to the family on her own as she tells them about an affair she'd been having for some time with a hairdresser (male); this comes out during the viewing of her husband as he awaits internment. Younger son Nate gets news of his father's death while having sex with a stranger (Rachel Griffiths, VERY ANNIE MARY) in an airport maintenance closet. We soon learn that her name is Brenda and with her comes an entirely new set of baggage for Nate in the form of love and a relationship he never thought possible. And finally we get young daughter Claire, a highschooler who learns of her father's death immediately after trying crystal meth for the first time.What made the show initially entertaining and oh-so-watchable, is the effects of death on all the characters. They deal with everyone else's grief better than their own, as they are distant from it; it's a business. But as the series rolls on, Nate learns that they are here to do more than business. The dead visit the family in ethereal form, teaching them very tough lessons (from how to stand up for yourself, to dealing with a SIDS death). Even the family's father Nathaniel, who started out dead in the beginning episode, turns up at crossroads and tries to help them deal with difficulties.The series starts out with a bang and keeps going for the first several episodes. Most viewers will be glued to their TV's, wondering what's going to happen next; a tribute to writer/director Alan Ball. But toward the latter half of the first season the series goes a bit astray. The initial enjoyment of watching how death affects the family is swapped for a more soap opera style plot that delves into how the characters effect other characters. Although this isn't horrible, it isn't as gripping as the show's initial premise. Gone are the dead's visitations (mostly), as are the quirky commercials for hearse sales and corpse foundation putty.But even with these issues there's still a certain pull that the series has thanks to some strong writing and the deadly subject matter. The big question, though, is is it worth going on to season two?
Didn't know anything about this series till I watched it. Watched it over a year so much faster than when it was released. When it started off, wasn't sure of the whole theme off it, but it grows on you. Each episode has a slight variation though the main story continues. The concept is unique and superb. The story writers do a great job. didn't know if I was weird to actually continue to have an interest in this series but somehow I ended up watching it. The director is superb too, to make such a dark concept interesting is an art. The actors are quite good, so many weird characters makes you wonder if that's the real world and if you are living in in cocoon on Mars. One of the few series which culminates superbly...last few and especially the last episode are classics. You should watch it but be prepared to be a shocked in a weird way.


                
Much like Alan Ball's "American Beauty," this artsy drama floats on a thin line between macabre and gorgeous, often stumbling upon greatness in it's journey.I just finished watching the entire series from beginning to end. I do not recommend doing this. The show was clearly made to be seen week after week. Watching it like I did will only depress you.Every show is centered around a death. What a cool concept. The trouble is if you have any heart at all, you will mourn the loss of several of the show's main characters along the way with little warning. I do believe the Fisher family is surrounded by more death than the average American folks, but hey, it's a TV show.If anyone refers to this show as 'realistic,' you should probably stop reading their review immediately. It's far from it. It is total Hollywood. Everyone has limitless money and questionable employment, yet lives in Ethan Allen-furnished homes in L.A. or in beautiful apartments with skyline views. They drink expensive wine and eat at five star restaurants on a whim. Adults 'intern' for fun while commuting in brand new cars. Hippies with no jobs live in Topanga Valley. EVERYONE smokes marijuana. It never really is clear where all the money comes from. One character in particular owns a gorgeous Seattle home on a hill overlooking the downtown area and guess what she does for a living? Works at a food co-op. Man, I chose the wrong line of work.All in all this show has a ton to offer but don't expect to see "The Wire" or "The Sopranos" here. I'd get it for your girlfriend or wife as something that she will love and you will probably be able to sit through and might even enjoy. I will admit, I did shed a tear in one of the episodes in season five.And the things you have heard about the series finale are true: it's the best I've EVER seen.8 out of 10, kids.


                
*Spoiler/plot- Six Feet Under, 2001, HBO TV eps. Tells the story of a small Los Angeles funeral home business and features a look into the owner's family members and their personalities including the people & decedents they come in contact with and the competitive nature of the death business.*Special Stars- Peter Krause, Michael C. Hall, Frances Conroy, Freddy Rodriquez, Lauren Ambrose. *Theme- Every family and people must make their own way through life.*Trivia/location/goofs- Shot in Los Angeles, featuring a LA casket making company and the Russian owned flower shop is located on Ventura Blvd at 14325. It is a converted old gas station. Peter Krause went on to star in a TV series portraying a serial killer.*Emotion- A superior quirky, unique well produced, and actor casted story of flawed people in a off-beat profession involving death that most people will contact eventually and tells stories about the curiosity about life's livings and endings. A dark sit-com for the subtle TV viewer.
