Not too long ago I was watching "The Hustler", and it was quite obvious that the film and practically everything about it was undeniably cool. Especially the way Jackie Gleason walked, the way he was dressed, the way he spoke, he wasn't trying to be cool, he simply was.On a minorly related note, "Amelie" is a film that wants to be quirky, it wants to be cutesy, but it fails because it tries too hard: The exaggerated camera movements and sound effects, the ultra-luminous (yet rather nice) cinematography designed to turn Paris into a fantasy world, the odd quips of dialogue on orgasms, but the absolute biggest fault of the film is with the lead character known as Amelie.Amelie is a woman-child who likes to take it upon herself to do selfless good deeds for everyone around her, and the entire storyline revolves around her attempts to fix various problems for everyone within her vicinity. The only problem is that Amelie's selflessness isn't real, she's only doing this to feed her own sense of accomplishment so she can crack that god-awful smile at the camera once that good deed is done. Not long after it becomes extremely apparent that she's a psychopath who breaks into other people's appartments to screw with them (because she, not the police or any authorities, must be the one to deal with bad people), appoints herself as an unneeded tour guide for a blind man and basically does whatever she wants, regardless of whether it actually helps anyone.The film has clearly taken cues from the French New Wave (Amelie even watches "Jules Et Jim" at the Cinema) but it has taken those editing and storytelling tricks to the nth degree and spoiled the entire film, even Amelie is taken from Irene Jacob's character in "Three Colours: Red" and made even nicer and sweeter until she's just plain obnoxious It's an unbearably naive film that's filled with so much sugary fake charm that it becomes sickening rather quickly, and once the cutesy novelty wears off you realise that there's just no substance to the storyline at all. Some people have been enchanted by the magical qualities of it, but I was completely put off as the whole thing was over-the-top and rather self-indulgent. A film like "L'Atalante" finds the poetic beauty in the banality of life and simply displays it in all of its ordinary glory. "Amelie" constantly forces you to accept its own childish and faux-magical view of the world, some people can accept it, but I can't.
Two of my friends had told me how much they had enjoyed this movie, so it was a big surprise to find how much I disliked it. The main character, played by Audrey Tatou with the most off- putting mannerisms, was so artificially sweet and coy it made me want to puke. Almost the entire ridiculous story was riddled with self-conscious cuteness. I say 'almost' only because after forcing myself to watch it for almost an hour in the hope of some improvement I couldn't stand it anymore and switched it off.In summary, if you admire sugar-coated dross you'll love this movie; if you don't, then steer well clear of it.


                
Let's be honest: is this film really worthy of being in the Top 250? What with all the psychotic behavior and the annoying, creepy smiles Amélie cracks from time to time while she's trying to be cryptic and heroic, this film is easily one of the worst I've seen. The worst part is when people go on trying to defend it, saying that the character is simply misunderstood and that since the film is french, it offers a different perspective. Do we have to remind people that foreign films also have the ability to suck as much as American films? And I tried to give this movie a chance but the more I tried, the easier it was to find things that I didn't like about it. So go ahead, defend it as much as you like, but it doesn't change the fact that it's one of the most annoying films of the decade.


                
I hate to be one of those negative people, but I hate this movie with an incredible fiery passion. I think it's very possibly the most overrated film of all time. I watched it a while back expecting to see something amazing but I was disappointed beyond words. The main character is very possibly the most annoying movie creation of all time. She's really cutesy and pale and she doesn't say anything. She's like a cross between Shirley Temple and a mime. By the end of the movie you just want to reach into the screen and choke her. Beyond that, as far as I can tell, the movie has no point whatsoever. And just for record, I'm not just saying this because I'm an idiot American who can't appreciate French cinema--I actually love French films (my favs are The Girl On The Bridge, La Haine, and Leon: The Professional). But this one just makes me want to pull my hair out. Anyway, I'll certainly attempt to watch it again at some point and give it another chance, but so far I'm at a complete loss as to why this movie is ranked at #18. Feel free to reply and tell me why I'm wrong.


                
And I didn't.The scenery is fine and I actually enjoyed the surrealism, but just couldn't get past the plot and main character.Is this really what we want people doing who have no idea what they want in their own lives ... to go around and jump into other people's lives whether those people want it or not?What we have is an early-20s, female, socially adolescent do-gooder who resorts to match-making, forced coincidence and, yes, even trespassing, illegal entry (and a potential arson charge, to boot) to fill her internal emptiness because she can't find a man.  And when she does find someone, she doesn't know what to do.To some, it's a great movie.  Not to me.


                
...in conversations about this movie who simply doesn't like it. When I say that "I hate it", everyone starts to praise the whole movie. Reasons I don't like this movie are:1) All too happy in a too sweet way 2) Soundtrack, which is the most stereotyped soundtrack I have listened to 3) Characters. The main character is simply a nut job 4) The overall look and feeling of it. Those zooms and tracking shots...I've always thought that if Amelie would have been an Hollywood movie, everyone would have said "It too sappy", but now when it is in french: "Aaah...it's so nice." Yet again, I feel I'm the only one who thinks this way. For some reason this movie just didn't work for me. I'm not a pessimist or anything, but all that chirpy and happy feeling just don't cut it. Having watched other Jeunet's movies, I think that his style just doesn't work for me.


                
This movie is extremely static. It is a character study hitched to a romance. What is seen visually is more often than not an illustration for the voice over narration. It is very close to a book-on-tape. The title character is atrocious. She hasn't enough strength of character to confront a loud-mouth unless it is from the back of a crowd. Don Diego de la Vega could have risen to the challenge without donning his Zorro suit. I don't know when unlawful entry becomes burglary. None of the petty crimes she commits are ennobling or endearing. Amelie is a sad case, which makes the love story rather frightening. The man becomes intrigued when he sees her quasi-pretty face and guesses that they might have something in common. That he gets her in the end turns the whole film into ahorror story. What has become of French film! and


                
I watched this movie because it was a rainy day and i had nothing else to do, but God this is an awful movie. there was nothing funny, exciting,romantic or moving about it. the only reason why people think this is because of the music(which really worked on my nerves). I had to think some time about why I hate this movie so hard before it became clear to me, but this is my conclusion: The character of Amelie is so freaky,(she's a total freak)that if she would have existed nobody would want to be associated with her. Probably she would have been bullied so much in her youth that she would have psychic problems and probably be in some kind of setting for mental people(sorry if my English isn't correct). And there is no normal person who would fall in love with her,like happens in the movie. if it was a spastic thin ugly guy who never washes himself it should have been a little bit credible, but otherwise this is completely wrong. Happy feeling? I felt miserable, and angry because I had lost so many time on this movie. everything Amelie did ennoyed me, and the reactions of the people ennoyed me even more, they should have reacted like: WTF go away are you sick in the head or what? Conclusion: if she would have died a terrible death with nobody who cared about her at the and of the movie, it would have cheered me up. the only positive thing about this film is that it is spoken in french, nothing more ennoying than French people talking English in Paris. Another thing: why does she look Chineze? the family Poulin is just a bunch of marginal people who have no friends. and the way they react they are just little children who will never be able to get a good job and earn money. and if Amelie wanted to try to step out of this marginality, and start acting normal, then it would be a good movie, now it sucked, because it is much to unrealistic. I can continue this for hours but I don't want to loose more time on this "thing"(dont want to use the word movie)but I Will stop here.
I had expected this movie to be great, given all that I'd heard about it, but it goes nowhere. Not every movie has to have a plot, but every movie should have a _point_. (Am I supposed to be happy that she winds up with the porn-shop guy? How sweet.) What really ruins it for me, though, are the pointless references to Princess Diana's death that seem to be there only to make fun of people who were upset by it and Diana, for not being "worthy" of their grief.One star because I can't give it zero.
After a snappy beginning, Amelie became unbearably boring.  The title character was the principal problem.  About two-thirds of the way through the movie, I lost all interest in what would happen to her. I wanted to scream out, "Just say something.  Anything."   The ending was ludicrously delayed.  What did everyone else see in this movie?


                
This movie I watched for a few minutes and well, the unexpected plot, cartoon type characters, I was sort of caught off guard. From the start I found the Amelie character, in some ways criminal. Even her devious look on the cover shot I wonder, maybe she would have worked in a Bugs Bunny cartoon as the girlfriend of Wile E. Coyote. Not to be malicious just this movie was so odd. It seems so many people like this movie and for the life of me I cannot understand why. People I've read who like the movie there is a strange correlation to hash usage. To me this makes me wonder if I should stat smoking hash. Well the state I live in has very strict laws and guess that is not a viable option.


                
This is one movie that shouldn't be in the top 250 of all time. It's merely a rental at best. Actually I'm french, so I saw the french version. And it isn't any better then the dubbed.It's just trying to be something it's not,A good movie. IT's shallow and and it try to dazzle us with the dumb flashy things going on because it doesn't have anything else going for it. But most important aspect for me is entertainment, and this movie doesn't deliver at all. Major snooze.Please do yourself a favour and pass this along and go see a superior film such as dude where is my car.


                
Like being beaten to death with a really colourful baseball bat.  Just because a movie doesn't make sense doesn't mean it's magical.  Recommended only to pseudo-intellectuals who want to force chuckles at all the amazingly un-funny proceedings.


                
This movie is very gentle, and very poor. Just a caricatured vision of a not very interesting character, full of gimmicks and cliches. It's just a commercial for Montmartre. You should see the place now totally invading by buses full of tourists!


                
Everyone was telling me how great this movie is, and it was already running for months in local theaters... As Jeunet did 2 great movies with Caro (La Cité des Enfants Perdus and Delicatessen), I was expecting a lot. Granted, the movie starts out cute. But once Amelie sees her destination, everything turns out to the worst. Her acting is as if she's a Jesus freak on heroine. At that moment I had to switch off the DVD and was happy I only borrowed the DVD from my brother. Hard to say which is my favourite movie, but this is definitely my all-time non-favourite movie. Too bad I am not allowed to give 0 stars.


                
I cannot begin to understand why this movie is in the top 250 on IMDb. I tried to like this film but now that I have wathced it twice (!) I honestly have to say that this is one of the WORST films I have ever seen. Most of you will probably like it because it has a "deeper meaning" and that it's deeply philosophical. I have to disagree. To me, this is just one movie about a weird chick looking for something she cannot define. This results in a movie which is boring as hell and left me with an empty feeling. As I said, I have watched it once, thought it was crappy, read some reviews and went back to it again. And my opinion did not change at all. Most of you will strongly disagree, but what the heck. That's why opinions exist, right? Anyone with me on this or am I the only person who hates this movie?? Thanks for reading!


                
First things first, with its incessant and unfunny narrration this is a boring film. smug is not the word to describe the nature of the film and its main character.  the attempt at humour is so forced, and "clever" only someone without a sense of humour or fun could find any thing funny in this plodding and often insulting film.  i think most of the critics and then sections of the public that follow critics have had a taste bypass, i would love to see how people react to this film in ten years time, with embarrasment that they like it in the first place.


                
What are you thinking? How can this be one of the best movies of all time? Maybe in on the list, but in the top ten movies? This was a pretty good movie in my opinion, but I could write a book about better movies than this.Think about the movies you are making this sound better that it. Taxi Driver is not as good as Amélie? A Bridge on the river Kwai? 12 Angry men? Come on people! What were you thinking?


                
If this film were a person it would go around telling people how clever it was.... often indicating that it was not.The film is a complete waste of 2 hours, filled with bizarre moments and a central character that is nothing but annoying.A few intriguing characters appear (for example the boy who works at the grocer), but they are quickly lost in this film, which attempts to stun the audience with its surreal moments and imagery.This film clearly displays everything that is wrong with French cinema today.Avoid at all costs.


                
First I'm German so pardon my English, if I got mistakes in spelling.I'm a real film fan. I own more than 100 DVD's. Among them are most of the top 250s of the IMDb list. This one just got my attention because of the high votes and interesting summary. But i never managed to watch it completely because this movie is one of the most boring, annoying, meaningless piece of bullshit I ever saw. Is it meant to be some kind of an art film? Then go and watch "Pi" or "Requiem for a dream" instead. The cinematography tries hard to be original, but it's no compare to a David Fincher movie (Fight Club rules!!!). The narration is annoying as hell in this movie, it's too fast and has no substance. The actor are everything else than believable. Mr. Jeunet just made "Alien 4" into the weakest of all alien movies (yes even weaker than "alien 3" and AVP), and he just went back to his homeland. Never set foot on Hollywood again!


                
Maybe I'm being too harsh, but I expected a lot more. Perhaps the movie itself isn't awful, but it seemed as such to me because it was such a big let down. There was all this hype about a great, funny, quirky French film that was sweeping the nation, and so that's what I expected it to be. In reality, it was painfully formulaic in places and not nearly so delightfully quirky as, say for example, making your bed while listening to music from The Matrix. It was a let down, and not a particularly engaging movie. I would never, never watch it again.


                
I thought I had rented a winner for the evening with the wife, well she didn't make it past the 6th chapter.  I endured the whole thing so that I could fairly give it a 1(awful).  Take Chocolat, the Dish, and similar movies about the meaningless musings of life in a socialist society and cut in half.  I will give a positive to the pranks Amelie pulled but that is the best I can do.  One of the four least favorite films I've ever watched.


                
This movie has a weak plot, doesn't go anywhere and fails to bring any kind of excitement. Although it is categorized as a comedy, it is not funny or witty at all. Save your time and money and watch something else.


                
What is all the fuzz about??? This movie has no plot, I didn't laugh about one joke because they are simply not funny! And what are the easiest jokes? Yes, jokes about sex. And there are plenty of those here spoiling whatever 'cute' effect Amelie is supposed to have! This is the worst of French filmmaking, not the best! Not even the cinematography in Amelie is original, it's been done before, only more convincing. Conclusion: Avoid this glossy nonsense!!!


                
This movie ranks as one of the worst films I have ever seen -- and I actually like foreign movies.  I would've given it a zero out of 10 if I could have. My problem with this one?  1) No plot 2) what's with this chick who goes wandering around in strangers' houses seeking revenge (foot cream in the toothpaste, and what not)?  What grounds does she have to get in to these houses?  3) she's chasing after some guy -- gets him to the coffeehouse to meet her -- and then the idiot sits and plays coy.  Won't strike up a conversation, or anything.  How stupid is that?  He comes to the door of her apartment, yet she just sits at the door; won't open it.  Stupid women irritate me, and she is one of the stupidest.  4) I couldn't care less about any of the characters, either; just as there was no plot development, there was no character development either.Bottom line, if you want to see a GOOD French film, see a classic like "Jules et Jim" or "Cousin, Cousine".


                
