To start off with, I heard a lot of good things about this movie when it was on the big screens but never got around to see it before it disappeared. Sitting here, long after in the aftermath, I might never forgive myself for missing that opportunity. Eventually I did get around to see it, though a small TV never does a film the same justice a theater does, and being a bit sceptic about the small hype this movie caused made me prejudice about it, but I must say I have never been so wrong before. And I am happy saying it.This movies biggest crime, and yet its biggest asset, is that it is in French. Subtitles just does not bring full justice to a movie like this, and it is bound to scare off most of the audience not used to subtitled movies. Sad to say so, but I believe it is the truth. I do not know any French at all, but I sure wish I was fluent watching this movie!Compared to most other films "Amelie" (and I will stick to "Amelie" since "Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain" is a bit long to write) is based on a rather ordinary and plain story everyone can relate to, but it is given to us in a very special kind of way, mixed with wonderful little subplots and an almost chaotic amount of details. We get to see and experience the world and especially Paris through the filtering eyes and fantasy of Amelie, A Paris that might feel small and limited on the screen but in fact is just as big as it is in the eyes of Amelie.Director Jean-Pierre Jeunet brings to life the world of Amelie with colors, masterful camerawork and a few special effects (Well, I have certainly felt like melting a couple of times too in my life!). Some people I spoke to before seeing "Amelie" criticized it for being too childish and unrealistic, but I believe it is an essential part of the movie since Amelie herself is a very childish and imaginative young girl. She just happens to fall in love one day when she decides to embark on a quest. Jean-Pierre Jeunet manages to bring us along without losing control of the set or the plot. It is exactly this kind of movie that could easily be overdone and lose all of its magic in the hands of the wrong person, but Jean-Pierre Jeunet never slips a single time. For you who think you never heard of him before he is actually the same man who brought us "Alien 4" back in 1997, (I still refuse to believe he was involved in that horrible film...), and the wonderful "Delicatessen" in 1991.Audrey Tautou could not be overemphasized for her importance in portraying Amelie. I am a bit embarrassed admitting it but I was almost falling in love with Amelie myself, forgetting she was only fiction on the screen. However she does not carry "Amelie" solely by herself. The cast makes an excellent whole and it is hard imagining switching anyone without affecting the whole outcome. Everyone manages to make the most out of their role and even though we only get to know some of them briefly they come alive just as much as Amelie herself does.I could go on forever about "Amelie". It contains so many details and switches in tempo and camerawork it has to be seen more than once to take in and understand everything. Damn it, "Amelie" made me happy, laughing out loud at times, and very few movies affects me like that.I very rarely give movies a 10, and I was indeed considering a 9 for a while, but for me this is one of those movies I will come back to time after time. Long after the CG thrills of hyped fantasy movies and big budget Hollywood productions have faded and been forgotten, Amelie will still be jumping around in my heart, doing all those silly and charming little things I wish I dared to do too...


                
Not a lot of movies create their own sort of universe. Some that come to mind include "The Wizard of Oz", "American Beauty" and "Vertigo." These movies are so distinct and original that they seem to have created there own spot in the universe, untouchable by anything else. You can add "le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain" to that list.Here is a film so original, so funny, and so warm that it left me with smiling for hours and the people on the sidewalk thinking I was crazy. Yes it is heart warming, but not in the phony Wal-Mart commercial sense; but in the sense of how good you feel when laughing with a dear, dear friend.The film tells the story of French waitress Amélie (Audrey Tautou.) She is in her early twenties, lead a gloomy childhood and is missing something in her life until hearing of the Death of Princess Diana causes her to drop the cap of a bottle which rolls along the floor and dislodges a tile on her bathroom wall. What she finds behind that tile leads her to the decision that she is going to do what she can to make the people around her happier by whatever means possible.Amélie goes about this with great success. One particularly wonderful scene shows Amélie helping a blind man across the street and rapidly describing what's happening around them to give him a picture of the world he doesn't get to see. This is only one in a mountain of selfless deeds she does to make people happy.As she continues enriching the lives around her, Amélie becomes challenged with the fact that if she only helps others anonymously, she may live her life alone and without the happiness she brings others.Amélie's conflict is what rounds out the picture and makes it complete. The movie is deep and takes Amélie's inner struggle seriously, but it's never heavy. Brilliantly hilarious, "Amélie" has a wonderfully funny script and is brought to life in visual splendor by director Jean-Pierre Jeunet ("Alien: Resurrection", of all things) and has at its center Audrey Tatou giving one of the warmest, most sincere and funniest performances you'll see this year.I can't tell you how much I love this movie. Just thinking about it gives me goose bumps and I can't wait to see it again. SEE IT IN THE THEATRE IF YOU CAN! This may be the year's best picture and is not to be missed.


                
A year ago, if someone would have asked me "What is your favorite movie ?" , I would not have known what to answer exactly, maybe Fight Club, maybe Vertigo, Indiana Jones even would have come to my mind.Since June, I have but one answer: 'Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain' !!! It is simply unique in his kind.  And now it has come out in the US, I am a bit frightened, because everybody there describes it as a simple 'feel-good movie'.  It is so much more than that ! Never before has a movie INFLUENCED my life in such a way.  Audrey's performance is simply stunning... she plays with an innocence, a wit, a smartness and naïvity that even someone with 40 years experience could not have done better. (please, will someone give an oscar to that girl, she makes Kidman & Blanchett look pale :-) The score from Yann Tiersen is so beautiful that by now I'm addicted to it ( I read here somewhere something about 'accordeon jingle', please, get some education ;-). The story itself could easily have been abused, and I'm sure that if Hollywood had made this movie, it would have been ridiculous, but now it is a beauty, a pearl amidst broken hearts.This movie is for everyone who understands passion or who has lost his/her childhood somewhere along the way. If you love art & music, sunshine & poetry than you are qualified for seeing this movie, be warned though...this movie can change your life (and maybe..it will ;-)!
Audrey is superb, Matthieu is better than himself, every actor gives a stunning performance, the scenery is beautiful, the whole movie is amusing, entertaining and charming, even CGI is perfectly done ! 10 out of 10 !!!a 21-year-old Amélie fan who can enjoy the little things in life again


                
A slice of heaven right here on earth, "Amelie" is a joy to behold, and has some of the most gorgeous cinematography I've ever seen in a movie. 
Audrey Tatou is perfection as the title character.  A combination of Audrey Hepburn, Dolly Levi and Roger Rabbit, she involves herself in the world surrounding her as a means of really enjoying living. There are moments when she finds complete and total joy just walking down the street. 
Some of it is hilarious, too..like when her pet goldfish habitually tries to commit suicide, or when she is on the telephone with the man at the porno shop, or when a character is asked "Are you a congenital shmuck"?But for the most part, its a human comedy, about love, of course.
Just beautiful.  10/10.


                
I had heard superlative comments on this film and it does not disappoint.Paris is the backdrop and what a Paris, A Paris of La Boheme and the Merry Widow. Audrey is brilliant in the role of Amelie, projecting a true joie de vivre.The film is full of surprises in both plot and characters. I left the theatre feeling lighter. It is truly one of a kind, eccentric, unusual and uplifting. I will not say more on it as it would spoil the fun.I gave it a 10 out of 10 for something so completely out of the ordinary and so very unhollywood.


                
Amelie is a film that struck a certain chord with me. Every now and then movies come along that speak out to you and emotionally touch you in some way. Amelie is one such film for me. I related to its innocent charm and delightfully shy protagonist played by French sensation Audrey Tautou, the way very few films have. Part of the reason we watch movies is to learn something about ourselves or recognize characters that are remarkably similar to us and the way we are in real life. For all of us shy, introverted, quirky, and odd-ball eccentrics out there who have trouble relating to "normal" people, Audrey Tautou in this film is our personal hero. Instead of going into much detail about why the film works, I'll instead try to explain what it meant to me personally. Sure I guess this means I have to open up maybe more than I'd like to about myself, but oh well. The way Amelie's childhood was presented is similar to my own. I am an only child to divorced parents and very rarely had friends as I was and still am very much a loner. As a child much of my time was spent alone so I entertained myself in all kinds of silly ways. Just like Amelie does in the film. Of course I gained my fixation with films at an extremely early age, but also did stupid things like give my stuffed animals personalities and have conversations with them, draw pictures and create stories to go along with them, and laid in bed listening to the radio with the windows open on a lazy summer day imagining creatures out of the cloud formations. Apparently there are legions of us out there. Even today I enjoy solitude far more than the company of most people and still use my imagination to think of stupid little things. Amelie did an amazing job in capturing what the world is like through the eyes of a person who doesn't really fit in, but finds joy in the simple things in life. Like the fresh spring breeze on your face, the sound of the rain, the chirping of birds, the touch of fur, and popping bubble wrap. Actually popping bubble wrap was always an exciting and rare treat during my youth. Jean-Pierre Jeunet's film also has a marvelously fun nifty view of sex. For Amelie sex is not something that is intimidating, temptingly desirable, sinful, adult, or lustful. It's just another of the many silly things that people do in this world that make us human. Two people taking off their cloths and rubbing up against one another. How sweet! In fact many people have insulted the film for it's unique view and open attitude towards sex. For shame really. Sure there's a lot of it actually. Amelie's first sexual encounter, the orgasms, the object of her affection working in a porn shop with a stripper and putting price tags on didoes. But it's all in good fun and filmed with the naivety that a character like Amelie would view sex as. Anyways the movie really works. Cinematographer Bruno Delbonnel does an excellent job in filming Jeunet's crazy vision and Audrey Tautou with her funky hairdo, wide brown eyes, and whimsical voice and kitten like mannerisms and shyness brings the movie to life. As I said I relate to this movie and understand the character the way I do with few other movies simply because it is frighteningly very much like I tend to be in real life. "You mean she would rather imagine herself relating to an absent person than build relationships with those around her?"Hmm, so would I sometimes. Audrey Tautou's been a more reliable friend than most people and has put a smile on my face and lightened my day at the thought of her more times than one. And I still say I'll marry her one day.


                
Waiting for `Amelie' to begin in a theater fraught with noisy college students drinking cheap beer, I wasn't expecting anything more than an over-hyped flick from our friends in France.  I slowly began to realize as I watched Amelie skip stones in the canal that for the very first time, a film deserved all of hype it had been accorded and more, and I felt so blessed to be a part of this revelation.Possible SpoilersIt's hard to put into words how much I loved `Amelie.'  I felt as though I were sitting next to Monet, watching as he effortlessly splashed brilliant watercolors across his canvas.  I had this strange but fantastic feeling of being inside the mind of Amelie, seeing everything in the vibrant colors she viewed life with, and wanting to remain there much longer than the two hours allotted.  It was just so refreshing to watch a movie where your imagination was free to soar rather than feel confused by the apparent deja vu from last year's first installment of the same pointless drivel.
I almost always loathe films with subtitles as I feel that they get in the way of viewing the characters actions and facial expressions.  `Amelie' is the first film where I adored the subtitles and in fact, had a nagging urge to go out and learn French that is still with me today.  Much of this can be attributed to the delightful Audrey Tatou.  Her expressive eyes and sweet caring nature provided the viewer with fond memories of Audrey Hepburn and prevented me from being distracted by the subtitles.  Could a 23 year old actress with little experience be just as fantastic as Meryl Streep and Katharine Hepburn?  I really wasn't expecting it but Audrey Tatou revitalized my interest in film and left me wondering why her name didn't appear on Academy ballots and what possessed the Academy to favor `No Man's Land.'An already perfect film couldn't get much better but along with the lovingly created cinematography and delight of rising star Tatou came the wonderful story of a true do-gooder.  `Amelie' is a film that begs  you to get happy and should give some short-term contentment to even the most depressed of individuals.  Little moments like the tragically funny early years of Amelie are very special and the best I've seen on the silver screen.  The scene where Amelie is skipping stones in the canal should be studied for years to come as the greatest technical moment in cinema.Movies like this one don't come around very often.  Perhaps the creators of films that pander to dumbed-down audiences who apparently can't tell that their watching last year's film should take the hint.  The movie-going public wants to be inspired and wants to be provided with the same imagination they have when reading a great novel. This is why `Amelie' remains #18 on the list of best films.10/10
It is the best film i've ever seen.Only the French could make films as good as this. Amélie explores the trivial things in life and it brings you to some realisations of your own in that our lives are so simple and we only need the simplest of things to keep us happy. Amélie is a must for anyone


                
This gem is one of the most memorable French movies of the new millennium. Amelie wears its heartwarming charm in best way possible. If you have not seen this movie, go and see it now.


                
This movie is stylish beyond belief. But what strikes me most is the way it manages to capture the reality of human emotions, how internal monologues are played out in the form of TV programs, how dreams are simulated by the magical movements of inanimate objects and talking photographs! It is a charismatic portrayal of inner existence and the most natural desire to pursue happiness, both in our life and that of others.


                
This piece of art just shocked me.Not by non-sense visual or sound effects,not by its hard,war scenes,not by its too-profound-to-be-understood psycho-socio-sexual comment ,but by its  h u m a n i t y. Humanity...Just think about that.Have we all forgotten the sense of this word?In a world that depresses us into our little caves,in a period when no-one is safe and sure about the intentions of his/hers neighbour ,thoughts about giving LOVE and HAPPINESS to the people surrounding you,me,everyone are really really precious. I do not want to speak about the plot,this you have already read in other comments around.I only want to say one thing.If you believe that people can love and give,then just go see this movie right now.You deserve it!P.S:The soundtrack is just "parfait" as well...


                
This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It is romantic an absolute non-icky way, it shows a humans kindness in whole new lighting and Nino and Amelie share this delicate, tender, gentle love without many words said. Jean-Pierre made this film colorful like only few other people did or could do. Paris looks absolute dreamy and it makes you wish you were born in Paris, in Montmartre, with french as your mother tongue. It makes you wanna do something beautiful with your life, to yourself and to others, of course. It makes you brave, although you think of yourself to be the worst coward ever to live on this planet. Acting is perfect and I still can't get over the fact it didn't win an Oscar for best foreign film. Music goes along with the movie just great, it just right, it sets the perfect mood for the viewer. I really recommend this movie to everyone because I can guarantee you won't be disappointed!!!


                
**very mild spoilers**
I rented "Amelie" reluctantly.  I had the impression that it would be a "girlie" film with meandering narrative and boring angst-ridden characters.I am so glad I was wrong!  What I did get was a "magical realism" tale of an introverted woman trying to improve the lives of the people around her. Amelie, through clever scheming and gentle intervention, facilitates delightful life experiences for her fellow characters.The film does move at a slower pace, but the plot points are endearing, and it never drags. Every scene has a subtextual significance, where every shot adds a tiny sense of guilty voyeurism as we peek gentle into these people's lives.The plot devices are purposely stretched to fantastical lengths at times. Laurant and Jeunet use this "magical" aspect of the realism to cultivate an optimism and effervescence that you won't find in any Hollywood movie today. The mood is always dreamy in this film, yet is never childish.The characters will warm your heart.  Audrey Tatou is perfect as the shy-yet-smouldering Amelie, and Jamel Debbouze is perfect as the impish Lucien.You will love the sub plots of Amelie convincing her father to travel, and how she seeks gentle vengeance on the wicked grocer.  The scheme to introduce herself to Nino, and the plot to do matchmaking at the cafe.  All of these little stories are bound to tweak your heartstrings!In the end: Amelie will leave you with feeling that "Pay it Forward" should have left you with... a buoyant and optimistic affection for humanity and life!
I highly recommend this movie to anyone, whether you are an action fan, an intellectual, or a feel-good Hollywood movie buff.  There are clever plot elements and characterization that are good for all movie fans!
9 kernels of popcorn out of 10.
Are you a romantic? Do you notice the little things around you in life? This movie will show you that there are more people in the world like you and me.I urge you to see this film. Five reasons: the story!!! the special "filters coloring" the details the actors the unusual crooks in the road of the filmFall in love with Amelie, I have!


                
I've never ever felt so good after seeing a movie, and I'm not even a romantic. I've seen it four times at the movies, and I'll buy the DVD the second it gets up on the shelves. I wasn't the slightest bit surprised to see that it's a top10 movie here.


                
The first few minutes of the film leave you wondering where on earth it's going, but be patient, it's all worth it. Amelie is a real feel-good film, though not in the stereotypical Hollywood style. Its full of mystery, humour, and moments that make you think 'I wish I'd thought of that!' - for example, the way she sends Nico on a wild-goose-chase in the park at the Montmartre carousel. Audrey Tautou is wonderful as Amelie, a simple girl on the surface but with astonishing inventiveness, bewildering all around her.As a director, Jean-Pierre Jeunet has a unique style. He seems to make great use of colour - some would say to unnecessary extremes, but for me it gives the film a sunshiny feel, whatever the weather in the film. He also likes to zoom about with his camera's, but again this all adds to the way the film completely draws you into its own world, just as Amelie draws Nico into her world without them actually really meeting. A few nice special effects top it off, and there are a few little details that you probably won't see the first couple of times you watch it.I'm no film expert, but I loved this film, its my favourite of all time (so far, anyway), and I'm in danger of wearing out my DVD. There are some people who don't see what all the fuss is about: for them it's too sickly-sweet, or they see Amelie as a meddler or nosy-parker, but I think they've just somehow missed the essence of the film, poor things ;) Don't read too many detailed reviews before watching it, or you could spoil the surprises. Just get the video and watch it. And then watch it again. And again.


                
I didn't realize it until I stopped speaking French, but this is a very sweet movie to watch while brushing up on your language skills. Amelie's sense of humor is exciting and this is a fantastic movie to watch on an introverted night.


                
This film is such a magical portrayal of imagination, emotion, and humanity.It is truly so beautiful, funny, and touching, and even if you typically don't enjoy foreign films, reading these subtitles is totally worth it!


                
This is a spoiler free review so feel free to read the hell out of it. To begin with, This film is one of the best films I have ever seen and It's so sad to realize how late I am in viewing this. Amelie Poulain is the girl you've been looking for, the girl everybody's been looking for, the perfect girl. 
This film has brilliant direction and screenplay, it's plays with it's characters and we feel everything each character does. 
it's a perfect film, don't miss this one out.


                
The amount of details in this movie is so big that you have to watch this more than five times to get all the particularity. I'm not a fan of romantic movies, even less french movie; but, this is an exception.I like how they created the apex, and how beautiful all the characters are. All of them is full of details and have is own world. Glass Man told one of the most beautiful prhases is movies: "So, my little Amélie, you don't have bones of glass. You can take life's knocks. If you let this chance pass, eventually, your heart will become as dry and brittle as my skeleton. So, go get him, for Pete's sake!".Go on and enjoy two hours of brilliant actions and deep characters. You will not regret.


                
This week I chose to watch the comedy, romance Amelie (2001). The logline reads "Amélie is an innocent and naive girl in Paris with her own sense of justice. She decides to help those around her and, along the way, discovers love." There was a little more gratuitous nudity and sex scenes in the film than I cared for. I feel like most of these could be left out without missing anything in the movie. In spite of this, the movie was an exciting visual tale of a playful, yet extremely philosophical young woman named Amelie. Amelie spends a lot of time trying to help those around her and then scientifically trying to figure out how it all works together. In the process, she discovers something she can't figure-she can only feel. She finds love. Much of the writer seemed to make commentary about the world and how everything doesn't always amount to a black and white explanation, but instead there are so many grey areas that should be embraced for what they are and lived without being figured out. Much of the story of Amelie is about making human connection and that in the end love trumps all. The dialogue is all French with subtitles, so be prepared to read, but the story and writing are both good so it's not taxing. The acting was good, especially on Audrey Tautou's part. She really made this movie along with the artistic components. The art direction, editing, and directing are the trifecta that made this story twice as interesting. The cinematography and lighting were handled by Bruno Delbonnel who also worked on things like Across the Universe, Big Eyes, and Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince. Overall, the story was interesting, the visuals were amazing, and I would recommend this movie to a friend.


                
A feel-good movie everyone should see! The film conveys a positive message that leaves you feeling warm inside. This was an absolute pleasure to watch, and quite frankly, they type of film I can watch again and again because it just makes you feel so good! Brilliant acting. Brilliant plot, excellently executed. Audrey Tautou is at her best!


                
Yann Tiersen is such an amazing composer. I admire his work. Yann Tiersen did an amazing job!


                
Amazing movie telling how you should take a chance and get what you want instead of sitting back and letting everything slip away! If the story does not move you in some way, even the most miniscule amount, I do not know what can. Audrey Tatou is great as the shy girl out to make her small world in Montmartre a better place by finding little ways to make someone's day, but forgetting to look after her own happiness in the process. Mathieu Kassovitz is adorable as Nino the eccentric collector. Jean-Pierre Jeunet is excellent at what he does and I cannot wait to see his new partnership with Audrey Tatou in "The Long Engagement"!


                
this must be one of THE BEST movies I have seen in the past couple of years. It managed to demonstrate the technical side of today's high-tech movie making (excellent job on digital sound and CG effects), while preserving the artistic qualities. Amazing cinematography, plot and acting. This movie made me laugh my ass off. A comedy and romance all in one. I saw it twice in 2 days and will see it again.Wish all movies were less Holleywood-hype and more quality, like this one. I am not all artsy and anti-holleywood, but I am getting a bit tired of the cliche movies coming out of USA.


                
