This movie is one of the most overrated movies I've ever seen. If it would have been in English it probably wouldn't have even been noticed but now it's a French movie and everyone thinks that it's a blast. IT HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE!!!


                
Every single moment of this movie is calculated to be lovable. With a wink. I hate these movies that attack you with whimsy, and this is one of the most violent I've seen. Not only is it achingly cute but it's also "naughty" with wild offscreen sex and endearing porn shop employees. I don't understand why in these romantic comedies I'm supposed to care about whether two people who don't even know each other get together or not. I'd rather see Amelie as a movie where this couple gets together and then he gets to find out what a nutjob she is. Can you imagine living with this woman and her wacky schemes? There are a lot of clever little details, like the identity of the photo booth guy and the traveling gnome, but these don't take away the pain, they just dull it. ** out of ****


                
There is no dispute of the inventiveness in some parts of the film; the strong cinematography and beautiful music scores but as usual with the director's previous efforts, Amelie is full of freaks who seem to live in another planet, French movieland.The seemless half an hour of introduction is occassionally funny and downright weird most of the time, however, the movie starts to drag on after one hour and Amelie's journey to help others and find her own happiness seems like director's excuse to throw us with too many oddball characters and pointless subplots.For example, at one point, the movie moves from the lead actor's(Mathieu Kassovitz) possible lateness for the date with Amelie in the cafe to being kidnapped by terrorists. Most people will find it hilarious and inventive but I think it's just another freakish and non-sensical idea of the French director. The initially sweet romance of Dominique Pinon with the waitress turning into wild sex in the toilet is tastelessly amusing and could have been edited out altogether. The part of Amelie teaching the mean grocer a lesson by messing up the house is like scenes taken out of a regular Hollywood trashy comedy.
All these strange (notice how many times, the equivalents of "weird" are used here and in many critics' reviews) characters and subplots make the last half hour of Amelie like an eternity. Many times, I wish the movie could just finish off before 2 hours. Mind you I'm the sucker for 2 hours over drama.This movie is a love it or hate it movie. For those looking for a fun ride and something different from mainstream cinema, Amelie may be a treat. For someone like me who have to care for the characters in order to indulge in the movie, Amelie is just a cold art fare.  My rating 3 out of 10.
One of my favorite foreign language films this year is "A Time For Drunken Horses" from Iran....(A view of a chinese in London)


                
I've heard numerous people go on about how "Amelie" represents a "revival of French cinema." If this is true, then the future of French film looks a lot dimmer than even the most pessimistic Francophile could have guessed.Like "Delicatessen" and "The City of Lost Children," "Amelie" is a stunningly made film, with wonderful music and some awe-inspiring visuals. But this is supposed to be a narrative-driven film, and the film falls flat here.The plot could basically be described as Jane Austen's "Emma" meets Dreyer's "Gertrud" meets a theme park ride, as a succession of episodes follows Amelie's search for true love, in the process helping others in their own quests, blah blah blah. If this doesn't sound like enough to maintain a 130-minute film, you're right, and even though the actors try their best, the movie runs out of tricks after just half-an-hour and plods along for the remainder in an entirely predictable pattern you've seen a million times in hackneyed Hollywood romances.This pedestrian storyline takes place against a complete fantasy world with absolutely no resemblance to the "real" world, but unlike "Delicatessen" and "The City of Lost Children," Jeunet tries to ground it somehow in reality, setting it in both a specific location (the Montmarte district of Paris) and at a specific time (1997, around the same time as Princess Di's death, which in Jeunet's Disneyfied Montmarte is the only world event of any significance). This renders the entire "fairy tale" approach (complete with wistful narrator) moot -- "once upon a time" has no meaning when the storyteller goes to such lengths to place his tale in an actual place and time.So why the colorful, gussied-up, theme-park aesthetic that dominates the film? It appears that Jeunet simply does so for the purposes of nostalgia, to harken back to the "gay Paree" image that in all likelihood never existed and certainly doesn't today. Whereas the real Montmarte is heavily populated by impoverished immigrants, Jeunet's is as white as a Republican Party convention, and the one token minority character, an Arab, is as French as de Gaulle. Sanitation problems don't exist in this Montmarte, nor for that matter do fast-food restaurants, chain stores, or any other symbols of modern society. Even the beggars are happy and content. Intentionally or not, there is something quite reactionary about the world view Jeunet presents us with, and the occasional pseudo-documentary flourish doesn't change one jot the fact that nothing in the film is "real."Jeunet has dismissed this criticism, saying that his film is not about the social problems of today but about the struggles and triumphs of "the little guy." How can you not like that? But in the real world, "the little guys" are impoverished, overwhelmingly non-white workers living in abject squalor, more concerned with where their next meal is coming from than with finding "true love." These people don't exist for Jeunet, so his smarmy claim of sticking up for those who can't stick up for themselves is a self-serving fraud.To sum up, "Ameile" is a visually gorgeous film with some fine performances, all of which are negated by the insipid and unoriginal purposes they're used for. If Jeunet had the guts to take the premise and set it in something at least approximating the real world, this would've been an interesting stylistic experiment, along the lines of Godard's "neo-realist musical" "A Woman Is a Woman." But Jeunet (who despises both the directors of the nouvelle vague and the neo-realist movement) seems to have prostrated himself before commerical success, and in the process produced a work little better than the mega-budget, star-driven garbage pumped out on a routine basis by Hollywood. French cinema can do better than this.


                
After suffering through this movie, I feel entitled to comment on this mess of a movie. OK, I admit the only reason why I watched it in the first place was because it was ranked high up on IMDb top250 list. I had however strong suspicions that this was not the kind of movie I'd like and I was very right for sure.The main problem with this movie is that none of the characters are real people. Nothing they say or do make any sense. Amelie, her mother and her father are all prototypes from a comic book. I suppose the way we see the characters portrayed in this movie is suppose to be witty and clever, but..oh.rrr..its very un-funny and reminds me why I (mostly) hate French comedies. It's all very dreamy and 'romantic' (but in a very bad, overcooked way).But If you like 'Life Is Beautiful (1998)', Ally McBeal and irritating self-centered main characters, then you probably like this one too (and obviously many of you do..so what can I say..)Go catch some 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?' or (anything else for that matter) to flush this one out of your system.


                
I now know why I hadn't heard of the film "Amelie", before watching it in film studies, as it was rubbish. The film was based around a girl called Amelie, who discovers a box and tries to find the owner of it, this makes her feel the need to help others round her and along the way she discovers love. One main thing that was off putting was that the film is in French which means you have to read the subtitles, which is boring. I thought the film started off good but then became uninteresting and took to long. To understand and take in the film more you would have to watch it more than once as there is a lot of detail. The best feature of the film is the use of camera work and special affects, Jean-Pierre Jeunet, director of the film, has a great variety of shots which work well in the film. I would not recommend this film to many people, unless you have the patients to read subtitles.
This movie came highly recommended by nearly everybody.  Thus, perhaps my disappointment was a result of high expectations.The movie is original in the way that the life of Amelie (and her friends/family/acquaintances) is presented; However the novelty wears off after an hour or so, and all that's left is a trite, highly predictable movie that I wound up turning off.  3/10


                
Or at least it SEEMED like hours...Oh my god, here goes my hope for French movies... I usually don't like them. I watch one every two years or so. Afterwards, I always know WHY I don't like them...Everybody was full of praise about this movie. I went to see it with good hopes, but as always I was disappointed: The movie starts out fresh and funny, but after the first half hour or so, it is dragging on and on and on and on and after 90 minutes, I was sure that it was at least a 150 minutes movie. I was terribly bored by Amelies endless chase for this guy and was only happy when the movie was finally over.A movie for women? Maybe, definitely no movie for people who like characters acting straightforward...


                
Figuring out who we are and how we fit into the world is a shared experience among all young adults. This film takes us on a journey as we follow Amélie, Audrey Tautou, as she is coming of age. Through short, fast, intense shots we see the world through the eyes of Amelie. She spends her days focused in on details and rarely takes a step back to see life as a whole but she comes to learn that this is no way to live.The story begins with Amélie as little girl. Her father believes she has a heart defect and decides to home school her and keep her secluded. She is lonely and under the strict rule of her neurotic parents. Amélie retreats to her imagination and through creative cinematography and CGI we see the world just as six-year-old Amélie does. As if Amélie's life isn't tragic enough, she also witnesses the death of her mother and is then raised by her father.After this fast-paced, detailed oriented, introduction we fast-forward to Amélie is a young adult living on her own. Any hope that the film will ever slow down is diminished. One evening, Amélie discovers a hidden box that was left by a little boy who used to live in her flat.This starts a life-changing journey, that night she decides she will track down the owner of the box and if he is moved by the gesture she will continue to do random acts of kindness and meddle in people's lives. Alas, he is deeply moved by being reunited with his treasure and thus begins many adventures for Amélie.All the while, however, she continues to be absorbed by life's details. She processes the world in little bits and is often removed from the real world into her imagination. She imagines a film produced about her life after her death she has become a famous figure known for her random acts of kindness but still dies alone. At this time she grows up even more and realizes she wants to find love.The film as a whole is so fast it is often disorienting. While this unique cinematography is clever and helps us understand Amélie and her point of view, it is information overload and too much to absorb. Often, this leaves the viewer fatigued and uninterested in keeping up. It isn't until the end when Amélie has learned and grown that she, and the film, finally slow down and enjoy life.
Please do not be fooled: Amelie is sick in the head. The titular character has very palpable schizophrenia, obsessive compulsive dissorder and I believe some autism too.She behaves more like an alien in a flesh suit, than a person. The world she lives in is brightly overexposed, yellow, sacharine and tragically depressing. She belongs in a nuthouse, and the movie should be a documentary about her lunacy. I know she is not a real person and a movie character, but someone please end her suffering.


                
Amélie is an innocent and naive Parisian girl who decides to help others surreptitiously, however she has difficulty in helping herself.Directed in an unconventional style by Jean-Pierre Jeunet, the only point of relevance is its excellent cinematography, because this film does not have a story, seeming more a set of sketches of Amélie on her daily routine intertwined with other sketches of her helping others but not herself, in the final giving a romantic ending that to me just seemed silly, the whole movie. It may be original, it may be French, it may even have been nominated for five Oscars, but at least for me, that does not mean it has to be any good. In fact, I found it extremely annoying. I know I'm in the minority here, but this movie did not captivate me or inspire me in any way and made me even more annoyed than I was already.
Spoiler warning...Films, the best films, tend to use three rules as a frame.1.  The relationship between the film and the audience.  This can be as simple as "breaking the fourth wall" or making a social commentary, usually the more subtle or outlandish the better.  This is why 'Wizards' sits higher on my list of films than 'MASH'.2.  The relationship between different ingredients (plot elements, photography, sound, etc.)  'Catch-22', 'Moulin Rouge!', and 'Eraserhead' are good examples.3.  The existence of the world outside what's onscreen.  'Lola Rennt' and 'Fight Club' understood this real well.This film takes the rules and puts them in a new context; not the war film, or the action film, or the comedy, but the romance.  In other words, ignore the plot.Jean-Pierre Jeunet sits higher on my directors list than, say, mind-numbing stylists like Tony Scott.  Even 'Alien 4' is interesting when understood in the right context.  Jeunet operates by taking a story frame and expanding on it.  Not with plot, but with visuals.  Look at when Amelie is photographing the clouds.  How would Spielberg have handled that?Spielberg, Howard, Zwick, and Bay are all action men.  They pride themselves on "doing things": telling stories.  Jeunet operates by observing.  He is Amelie watching the bar patrons squabble amongst themselves.  This observer philosophy is carried on in the movie by Amelie talking to us about going to the movies and watching other people's reactions (I do that at the theatre, it helps enrich the experience)Meanwhile, Jeunet has his eye on other things (literally).  He and David Fincher are probably the two biggest users of what I now call the "New Color" method.  Dozens of films have copied it whether they're the 'Matrix' films or 'Lord of the Rings', even 'Hellboy'.  What else makes this unique and/or interesting for our culture?--The "screw Princess Di" motif.  Who should waste their time caring for "celebs" anyway?--Yet another brick in the wall for the glorious American evil known as the MPAA.  Consider, this was "R" while the empty, toxic 'Fast and Furious' was given a kiddie-friendly rating.  What's next?  Jerry Springer gets a "G"? This is also another nice slap in the face to Cannes (especially now that redneck Michael Moore won).--The gliding camera contrasting with the James Stewart-style voyeur.  Here we have the mixing of styles.  The glider is Jeunet's vision in action.  The voyeur is stagnant, much like the "men of action" I mentioned earlier.  How ironic...--Notice how we are invested in the lives of others besides Amelie, both important to the story and not.  Just examine how the suicide jumper is revealed.  That's the world for you...--The audio philosophy this time is 'Delicatessen' meets 'Eraserhead'.  The best of 2001 in my book.All this film needed was more exposure, since we Americans are deprived of foreign film thanks to Hollywood, to be a complete classic.  Now, due to French relations, that may never happen.Final Analysis = = Learn from this...
After reading so many of the rhapsodic love-story reviews for this flick (this does not deserve to be called a movie) on IMDb, I decided to give it a try, and I tried to like it. Unfortunately I had to force myself to finish the movie and ultimately I regretted every second of time I spent watching this cute but naive girl and the rest of the unbearably annoying cast.Amélie sets out to change other peoples' lives, and some, if not most of her methods are questionable and would only work in a fictional setting.Throughout the story we are shown her fantasies that, as far as I could tell, were supposed to be somehow unusual or bizarre, but just felt childish to me; of course, that is almost certainly intentional since she was not really given a chance to "grow up." Unfortunately, in the end, the whole series of events felt forced.


                
When I saw this film, my first thought was <U+0084>what a load of primitive crap...". OK, film begins well, but later just fall in pieces because of all his silliness and bizarre issues (main character got nothing with "cuteness", it is more like watching a freak or mental cripple – I think it is all came from untidy story concept: Amelie behaves like a child, but the whole film as content is quite adult). Film really creates a clash that is bizarre, and not in a particularly good way. Yes, film has its own good scenes (individual ones), but the whole movie is just exaggerated attempt to show extraordinary person without thinking where that extraordinary thing comes from – I'm talking not about beginning of "Amelie" where all of this is poorly "explained", but more about film authors artistic responsibility not to try feeding audience with pathological issues. Even for the sake of entertainment. That is just not fun and it can't be fun. Unless you are primitive with your world outlook. I'm totally agree with those who thinks that it is a dull and absolutely overrated movie. Overrated and disappointing.


                
Very weird movie. 
Didn't like the story and it's very monotone. Don't watch it.


                
