'Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain' finds its charm in the little things. The story about Amélie (Audrey Tautou) is a modern day fairy tale and that is exactly how it looks the entire film. We have a wonderful story about Amélie who decides to help people around her, making them happy. Not by doing great big things or giving money, but by little things. She helps her father by making him believe that his gnome from the garden is on a trip around the world, she helps a lonely neighbor by just visiting him, she helps a stranger by returning something she found in her home. On the way she falls in love with Nino (Mathieu Kassovitz) who's hobby it is to collect photos from automatic photo booths. Photos that were tossed away because people thought they didn't look good enough. He puts all those photos and pieces of photos in a big book. There is a little mystery in the book as well, of course I will not spoil that for you. The story is not only sweet and charming, it has some great moments of comedy as well.The movie looks colorful and bright almost constantly. Even the sad parts from Amélie's life, her youth for example, look almost strangely happy. In this world, Paris actually, Audrey Tautou is the perfect inhabitant. She has one of those faces that seem to smile the entire time. She looks like she just pulled a joke and she is waiting for you to find out what it is. In a way her character is really doing that here so it does not feel strange.In short 'Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain' is charming, funny, romantic bright and full of life. This is the perfect lighthearted movie.


                
In 1974, in Enghien in the northern suburbs of Paris, the girl Amélie Poulain was born and raised alone by her cold hearted father and her stressed mother due to a mistake of her father's evaluation of her heart conditions. Her mother dies in a weird accident and when the shy and daydreamer Amélie Poulain (Audrey Tautou) becomes a young woman, she moves to central Paris and works as waitress in the café Deux Moulins in Montmartre. On 30 August 1997, Amélie finds a child treasure hidden behind the wall that belonged to a dweller from the 50's, and she decides to anonymously return it to the owner. He seeks out the man and when she witnesses his happiness, she decides to become the "godmother of the rejected", anonymously helping people that are her acquaintances using her fantasy and little tricks. She convinces her father to travel abroad using his garden gnome; she helps her neighbor that is an outcast and lonely painter and the super that misses her unfaithful husband; she also helps her hypochondriac colleague that works in the tobacco shop and the man that stalks the other waitress acting like cupid; she plays pranks to an employer that mistreats his employee with abusive relationship. When Amélie finds the album of photos of an intriguing collector that collects rejected photos in the Photomaton of the Gare de l'Est, she seeks him out and falls in love with him. On 28 September 1997, Amélie Poulain finds love."Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain" is certainly one of the sweetest and most original movies of cinema history. The surrealistic screenplay is stunning and it is impossible not falling in love for the character performed by the expressive Audrey Tautou. The direction and the acting are top-notch, supported by awesome camera work and the cinematography, excellent edition and magnificent soundtrack. This is a delightful romance even when you watch it for the second time, My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "O Fabuloso Destino de Amelie Poulain" ("The Fabulous Destiny of Amélie Poulain")


                
I have loved this film for some years now and I never wrote a comment about this movie, today I have heard all kind of opinions about this film and I have heard what critics have to say about it. This film is loved by many people, but it is easily underestimated, specially by those who want films to give them deep philosophical lessons and impressive point of views of our society. A film doesn't need to be deep to be a masterpiece, if Amelie would try to be more deep than it already is it would ultimately become a worse movie, this movie is not about taking things seriously, this film is about giving people an experience, a pure cinematic experience and it does such a rare thing as having the vast maiority of people who went to see this in the theater leave the theater more happy than when they entered. It is such a powerful experience many couldn't stop smiling for a week walking around in the streets thinking about the film and looking like a fool! I am quite sure this has never happened in the same collective way to any other movie than Amelie......in movie history! That is why this film is unique, that is why this film changes the life of people like the tagline says. It is because it enters straight to the hearth of people and people begin to ask themselves about their own reality and why they can't feel the same way in our universe as in Amelie's universe. A film doesn't need deep messages about humanity to change the way we see life, love, humanity...This is such a simple, universal film everyone can understand. The movie is perfect in every way and it is quite wonderful the way things worked out. Because I am quite sure the director alone couldn't make this movie, how good the direction might be I think there are 2 other factors almost as important, Audrey Tautou and Yann Tiersen. From the beginning Emily Watson was supposed to play Amelie, before she became pregnant. Watson is a great actress but never do I think it would have worked, mainly because Tautou IS Amelie in this movie and Amelie is FRENCH, Watson is not. The angelic Amelie has since become almost a symbol for France and tourists visits the cafe and makes Amelie tours around the city, the prize of the apartments in the neighborhood has sky-rocketed thanks to this movie! Yann Tiersen is also extremely important. Originally Jeunet had someone else working for the movie, but one time he heard one of Yann Tiersen's songs in his car and fast he ran to buy all albums from Yann Tiersen and decided he should make the music for the film. Yann Tiersen had anyway only 15 days to make music for the film and said he didn't have time, Jeunet proposed he could include some of Yann's old songs into the movie and the result was 9 old and 9 new absolutely wonderful, heavenly beautiful tracks all completely perfect for this film. Nostalgic, happy, sad, energetic tracks who together with the cinematography set the right mood for the film.Another great thing about this movie are the colors, always mixing between strong red and green colors which makes you feel you are in a world which only could exist in your dreams, the most beautiful ones you ever had. You could go on about everything which is perfect in this movie, the simple odd characters you so easily feel sympathy for and they are presented in a way only Jeunet could present a character. The odd Jeunet humor we have seen before in Delicatessen and City of the lost children, a humor which only exists in his universe. The simple plot is effective and right not to be more complicated than it needs to be and it has a beautiful message we don't often see in movies: generosity. There is also romance in this movie, but no relationship dramas, dialog, grand romantic scenes ala Titanic. No, this romantic trip is as beautiful and simple as our best memories about love and happiness.Everything in the movie represents the best things about life, love and France. Yes, it is so french and it is so good in being french that you feel like you are french or at least wants to be sometimes when you are watching this film. Everything from Montmarte (a character in its own in the movie), Audrey Tautou to Yann Tiersen is so french, maybe I should add it is a beautiful, positive point of view of french culture without being idealistic (all people have many problems and no one has a perfect life), never becoming uninteresting or boring. I hope only those who have seen the film reads this, because I don't want people to get over-hyped about this movie, it is a simple beautiful movie with the ability to conquer the hearth of people, nothing more than that. That is why I waited long time to write about the film, I knew I couldn't stop myself from making this movie sound like the best film of all time. Because, it was the best film for me, but will it do the same for you? I hope it will, enjoy the movie!


                
this might be another case where the massive hype surrounding the movie raised my expectations so much that the end product, even though it was entertaining, funny and touching was hardly as good as i expected it to be.
audrey tatou has done a wonderful job playing the role of the shy and introverted amelie, her magical discovery and how it changes her life are smartly portrayed. the movie's narration and style are delightful and the movie constantly entertains with its funny touches. having said that a lot of the scenes are very predictable and cliched, particularly the episode with the grocer. funny yes, but cliched.the movie honestly is wonderful and cute, but thats about all. i fail to see how this is one of the greatest movies of all time. top 10 most definitely not. another case where, on a rare occassion, the american audience has been exposed to a non-hollywood style movie they go totally gaga. last year's crouching tiger being another case in point. sad but true.amelie though is a nice movie, but nothing great for people exposed to other wonderful movies from around the world.a cute but disappointing 7!


                
If any friend of mine ever asked me to recommend a film as an introduction to world, or 'foreign' cinema, I always went for this glorious Gallic romantic fantasy.Not only is the storytelling intelligent and engaging, the artistic design is crammed full of fascinating detail, brilliantly stylised in bold colours and full of directorial flourishes.To my mind, Audrey Tautou is absolutely perfect, not just as her cheeky impish match-making and good Samaritan but as also as an advert for a modern Femme du Paris. The whole project might as well have been co- produced by Tourism France as it covers what us foreigners feel we think Paris IS but in a modernised and fresh way. Nothing overtly quaint but still employing the best bits of what makes France individual, elegant and great.Re-watching the DVD after some seven years I found the whole escapade still refreshing, uplifting but not in a sugar-coated way and dazzling in its effects, which I'm sure were pioneering back almost ten years ago, when it was made. The final freedom-on-a-moped escapade is absolutely and wonderfully youthful and brilliantly done. What, though I feel is one of the film's strongest points is how every age group is not only represented but championed and integrated and that every character has enough 'stuff' so that not only do we care for each of them but also the whole community in which they live and thrive, as a whole. That is a major achievement. That 'Amelie' is still in IMDb's top 50, as voted by us, must make it a classic.


                
possible spoilers, may not be significant..The narrative:.Is fairly consistent but is often confusing and many scenes are unnecessary. I followed the story with the French subtitles and it seemed like the film was trying to be a love story of wanting and thinking about life, but the majority of the time felt uncomfortable into the genre. The acting is average. Tautou (The Da Vinci code) is engaging and presents a stereotypical view of someone missing something in life. Her character falls well into the story. However the story is always interesting. Audiences are thrust deep within Amelie's mind to introduce her thoughts and feelings. The narration by the narrator is engaging and is very simplistic. Overdone but still an interesting technique. 'This is<U+0085>he likes<U+0085>' When the film states 'this was the day her life changed forever' I was expecting something huge when it turned out to be pretty much insignificant, it wasn't as spectacular as I assumed it would be. Regardless the mystery behind the whole plot is enough to keep audiences hooked. The film was nominated for 5 Oscars and deserved the nominations for direction and cinematography which were outstanding throughout. Many stories are encoded, and different issues but personally I couldn't really follow the film because it tried to do too much at once, perhaps after a few watches then it might be fantastic.The direction.The editing, camera angles and shots are outstanding in this drama. Amelie often has flashbacks or visions and the direction is breathtaking. Sometimes the film is sped up extraordinarily fast to capture a fast shocking scene where as some scenes are slowed right down to capture the different moods of the characters. There is one particular shot I found outstanding which was when Amelie was standing alone at a train station. The camera is in a bird's eye view position and is looking at length towards the central protagonist which gives such a deep meaningful sense of loneliness, a fantastic moment I the film.watch it if...you like different camera shots, paced scenes and a possibley predictable love story.7/10
I put off watching this film for the longest time. I mean, the cover art is just a girl smiling, which could mean anything. After so many placements on people's favorite movie lists, though, one has to wonder about it.It's a romantic, delightful film filled with fun dialogue between the humorous characters. Amelie is a sneaky girl who devotes her life to helping others once she discovers one man's long-lost boyhood treasures in her flat, but after helping so many, she soon finds herself falling for a man, whom she cannot muster the courage to confront without using one of her mysterious tactics.The music was light-hearted throughout the film and placed very well in the scenes. The best thing about the film has to be its actors and scenery. With so many complex characters, the potential to turn the neighborhood into a highly-functioning mental ward runs high, but who can blame them with a girl like Amelie running around causing so many positive coincidences? I would rank this movie very high amongst the others. There were camera tricks, animations, and other special effects that worked beautifully, as well. This movie was definitely worth looking into.
A fun, beautiful film from France. Visually, one of the most beautifully shot movies ever.Audrey Tautou, is so cute in this role, and gives the character a great warmth.I haven't seen any one the director's other films but I hear they all have a similar look.I can't wait to see Audrey in her next role, Hopefully something in the US. I think she could definitely add a much needed sincere softness to some of the leading lady roles in Hollywood.One of my favorites ever! 9/10


                
Jean-Pierre Jeunet is probably my favourite contemporary French filmmaker. I love his unique visual style that borders on surrealism with the stylised colour palette, the warm yellows and greens and the dreamlike tint, and I love his highly imaginative, complex schemes, those 'clockwork' or 'domino effect' sequences which are so characteristic of his films. I fell in love with his movies with The City of Lost Children and while Amélie didn't knock that one out of the top spot for me, it's a great, funny, heart-warming movie with a very positive message that makes the world a happier place.Cinematographer Bruno Delbonnel paints a fairytale-like picture of Paris which makes a perfect background for the story of the waitress-fairy, Amélie, played by Audrey Tautou (she's just adorable here), who wants to bring happiness into other people's lives. This is typical Jeunet, but the way he starts the film, the way Amélie summarises her past and the life around her through juxtaposing various statistical data, is reminiscent of another director's work with a very distinct (and painterly) style: Peter Greenaway's. Being sort of fascinated with statistics myself, I found that a welcome addition. Another clear influence that should be mentioned is Wong Kar-Wai's Chungking Express (another favourite of mine) which has a lot in common with Amélie story-wise.For me, Jeunet hit the mark four times in a row (with The City of Lost Children, Alien: Resurrection, Amélie and A Very Long Engagement), and while I don't consider Amélie his best, it is clearly his funniest, warmest and most easily digestible work. A real feel-good movie.
Many, many people reflect on this film and find it fluffy, cartoonish, and wildly unrealistic.  While the fact that this is mainly an emotional film (as all good films are) necessitates a certain degree of hyperbole, I disagree that it is all that unrealistic and charge that Amelie's detractors are those who are unrealistic.  The simple, undeniable truth of this film IS the only simple, undeniable truth: that of human emotion.  Amelie is a person unable to separate how she feels about the world from how she interacts with it.  This translates into behavior which is often brave, sometimes crazy, and always lovable.  In this sense, then, Amelie is not a superhuman or a saint (for she is also painfully aware of her shortcomings and petty vanities), but a person who has the courage to actually be herself and let her emotions, no matter how fanciful or "unrealistic" they may be, shape her world and the world of the others around her.  Simply put, every single person could be Amelie if he or she wanted to, except for our cynical and bitter insistence that people like Amelie don't exist.The main conflict, of course, comes when Amelie falters and cannot allow herself to follow through in this fashion in pursuing her own true love. Truly, if ever the dangers of worldly cynicism (or "realism" as we are fond of calling it these days) have been shown more accurately in a film, I would love to see that film.So, if the above description appeals to you, you will love the film.  If it doesn't, then you need to see it even more- the message is there not for the romantics who believed in this stuff all along, but for the cynics who maintain against all evidence to the contrary that the world is a rational place.


                
... but this film could easily be regarded as the category killer of the romantic comedy genre. There are very few ways that anyone could make a better "boy meets girl" film than "Amelie". It makes the endless succession of Hollywood romantic comedies look dull and ordinary by comparison.But what a curious pedigree! The director, Jean-Pierre Jeunet, gave us bizarre nightmares and post-apocalyptic alienation in "Delicatessen" and "City of Lost Children", although it must be said that both of those films include beautiful romantic moments. "Amelie" retains some of the surreal elements of the two earlier films, but there is a lightness of spirit about Amelie that sets it apart and makes it something truly special.Audrey Tautou gives a magnificent performance as the quirky, clever, but intensely shy Amelie. We believe that we truly understand her as she secretly makes changes in the lives of those around her, playing matchmaker for some, bringing unlooked-for happiness, punishing the wicked with impish glee, but when it comes to her own pleasure and happiness, we see her torment and feel her pain as she is unable to make that crucial final step. How the Academy failed to recognise the quality of this performance with a Best Actress nomination is frankly incomprehensible. I note BAFTA among others got it right.There is much more to like about this film. The ensemble supporting cast, music, cinematography, the curious use of colour (Jeunet films are alike in this respect, the look like no-one else's), the narration - just enough of it without being intrusive. I have very few criticisms. The subtitling can be a challenge to read at times and I thought at least one translation could have been better. This is hardly a fault with the original film, however, just the barrier of language. Finally, a small reprimand to Jeunet for reprising the classic bonking scene from "Delicatessen". It just wasn't as funny the second time around. Otherwise, great film, see it. If you don't like it, you have no soul.


                
During the last 25 years America has been making awful ROM-COMs. Unfortunately they have no ROM & no COM. What we have here is a French offering, that is very ROMY & extremely COMY. The main difference is that Amelie is-----ORIGINAL (and has lots of ROM & COM.) The "star" performer here is Audrey Tautou...who looks like she comes from another planet. She has bucket-fulls of sex appeal...and an unbelievable mischievousness that makes us love her. The cinematography here is exquisite, the use of colour very imaginative. Tatou is completely convincing as the girl who is "away with the fairies" in the nicest possible way. This is a piece of cinematic magic. It has to be revered, and it has to be appreciated......Simply Brilliant


                
Amelie is near perfect cinematic art.It is a refreshing movie, meaning it was better than half the films released that year."you will fall in love with three things while watching this gem":1.Amelie: she is as sweet as sugar. Audrey Tautou is amazing.2.Life: life's simple pleasures like dipping your hand in a sack of grain or skimming stones, everything wonderful about living.3.Movies: everything magical about them, cinematography, story , suicidal fish and punishing your nasty neighbors or helping them out.The film creates a world of its own. Amelie is funny,tender,smart... everything a movie should be.


                
Amelie promised to be quirky, cute and charming, and I think it succeeded. It mayn't be to everybody's tastes, but I really liked the film mainly for its irresistible and playful charm. The film may be a little too long, but what does compensate are a number of things.Firstly, the visuals are a feast to the eyes. The visuals alone make it feel as though you'd just walked into a fairytale. The settings are colourful, the costumes lush, the editing crisp and the cinematography fluid with some inventive zooms. Secondly, the music score is wonderful, romantic, charming and sweet. I will say I have been on holiday four times to France, one thing that always sticks out as a highlight, asides from the beauty of the countryside and the majesty of the Parisian buildings is the true romanticism of the music itself. I love it, and I love France! Also, I love French, I enjoyed learning it, speaking it, reading it, I wasn't particularly great at it but it interested me. Hearing those charming french words caress my ears filled me with delight, it really helped that the script sparkled like bubbles on a glass of champagne. The story is ceaselessly charming and inventive, and I was surprised how quickly the film went as well. Finally I loved the performances, whether it was Mathieu Kassowitz's handsome loner, Rufus as Amelie's father or Yolande Moreau as Madeleine. But Audrey Tautou was the epitome of grace and charm as Amelie, the Montmartre waitress whose selfless "joie de vivre" leads her to improve the lives of her friends and neighbours. Tautou has natural charm, allure and a lovely face with an enchanting smile, and in my opinion Amelie is very iconic as a film character, annoying to some but enchanting to others. Overall, I loved Amelie, it was wonderful to watch, Tautou was enchanting and it was charming. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
Considering that there are a bazillion reviews for this film already, I really don't think it's that important that I do an in-depth review of this film. It is already well in the top 100 films on IMDb, so it's obviously a very good film.Instead of the usual view of the film, I'll talk about it from a psychological perspective. Amélie is a nice lady who is severely hindered by an Avoidant Personality. This means that she's so worried about being rejected by others that she always keeps her distance from them--particularly anyone who could become intimate. In other words, instead of being actively involved with others, she lives a life of quiet desperation--hoping that somehow things will work themselves out but completely terrified to act. So, she sublimates her energy into doing things to help others--but always at a distance and anonymously. Most of the things she does for others are very quirky and strange--but ultimately very helpful and kind. In one of the cases, however, she attempts to gain retribution for an emotionally abused young man through passive-aggressive actions. Fortunately for her, she meets a man who is also Avoidant (his hobby is very detached yet shows an interest in others)...but how can two such obvious misfits who are afraid of commitment find a way to connect?! Aside from the psychological aspects of the film, I really appreciated the look of the film. The odd 1930s style of Amélie's clothing and the homes in the film, the choice of colors (with lots of sepia tones), the cinematic tricks and the quirky little gimmicks (such as the pictures and lamp in her room coming to life) all help to make this a magical picture that you cannot forget.Overall, a delight. Oddly, however, despite the very high rating, I think that Audrey Tautou mas made better films, such as HE LOVES ME...HE LOVES ME NOT and A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT.


                
Amelie is a quirky romantic comedy. It is refreshing to see those two words together. One of my favorite things about this movie is how it manages to be bizarre, unique, and surreal but still deals with real life issues. Issues that are so close to my heart, however, and I do not know if everyone can connect to the story. I think this piece of literature exemplifies everything I've studied in my World Literature class and that is why it speaks to me. First of all, it revolves around the "artist figure." Amelie is an artist, disconnected from society but wanting to impact it. That is why I identify with her so much, because she is a shy individual and she learns that she can't keep letting her chances for happiness pass her by. It is great that she is helping those around her, but you can't truly help others until you help yourself. That beautiful, heartfelt central message is what had me in tears. Good literature (and movies) give you an outpouring of mixed emotions which leave you not quite knowing what to think (and gives you a lot to think about after its over). The technical aspects of the film are quite brilliant. The script has believable dialogue. All of the characters and interesting and well rounded (The glass man being my favorite). Everything fits together in a perfect piece. The cinematography is quite stunning. Each camera pan and swoop is just breathtaking. The colors add to the fantasy of the story. All in all, from the performances, to the storyline, to the look of the movie is shear brilliance.
I had never intended on this. It was hard enough getting me to rent the movie in the first place. I've never really been into foreign language films. It's not because I'm small-minded or anything, it's just that I find it very difficult to appreciate the visual techniques and conventions that a director uses in a movie when I have to pay attention to these damn subtitles. But I heard so much about this film, and about the director that I had to swallow all of my concerns and just sit down and watch this movie. You know what? One of the best minor decisions I've ever made. That's what this movie's about. The little things, the small everyday pleasures that very few people care to notice. But Jean Pierre did, and that's how he came to make this wonderful film, told through the eyes of one beautiful little dreamer named, Amelie.For Amelie, life cannot be without enjoyment, even if it is somewhat less than others. As a child, Amelie was rarely loved, and as a compromise to her lack of companionship, she resorted to her imagination. This way of living became very regular to her, eventually becoming a major part of her identity. Now in her adult years, we get a glimpse of what her life is like. Half the time she is working, in a café called Montmartre, and the rest she is contemplating over her trailing thoughts of what goes on around her, like for instance how many people are having an orgasm in the instant she thinks of it. But then one day she finds a hidden treasure box in her apartment. She feels compelled to return the box to its owner, and upon delivery she receives a dignifying feeling of harmony and peace. From this day she continues to try and help those close to her who are in need of a change. And in her attendance to others she learns a great deal about herself, especially through the consolation of her neighbor, nicknamed the Glass Man.This is a beautiful little tale about changing for the better, after all life is about change, and it's important that we follow along with this change, otherwise your just keeping yourself locked up. That's why we get the impression that Amelie feels somewhat isolated from everyone else, she's not just different, she's afraid to face reality, to take a chance with love. Hence why when she does meet her possible match she continues to test him, lay out obstacles and leaves clues for him, all to see if he's not going to end up breaking her heart. Amelie touches people, and they begin to touch her also, and when I was watching this movie I also felt touched myself.Amelie is a peculiar, but charming, very lovable character, and actress Audrey Tautou portrays her with just as much sentimentality and curiosity as the character is intended to be. Another thing I really enjoyed about her is that she's both innocent, and at the same time a little bit devious. The pranks she pulls on that grouchy old store clerk picking on the bag boy is so funny, and very deserving, because I really didn't like that big bully (course there were a few occasions where I thought the guy was going to kill himself, and that made me feel a bit guilty).Jean Pierre's stimulating direction captures the world of Amelie very well. Everything, the bright colours, the cinematography, the overall feel and atmosphere of the film was made perfectly to give us a strong perspective on how she sees the world. It's ruled by her child like imagination, full of life and random ideas, like a beautiful dream.Le fabuleux destin d' Amelie Poulain, will long remain one of my most favourite foreign language films as it remains Jean Pierre's greatest piece. Its wonderful visuals create a fantastical world seen through the eyes of such a delightful character played by such a talented actress. I'm not going to go so far as to call this movie perfect, but it certainly deserves the rating I'm giving it, a solid 9.0 out of 10, a film to remember, and to watch again for another time.


                
I'm usually incredibly apprehensive about watching Foreign films, but after hearing the 4th person recommend Amelie I decided I might as well see why everybody thought I would enjoy it. I absolutely fell in love with this movie. It's a quirky, uniquely wonderful film. One of the main reasons people recommended this movie to me was because I was a big Pushing Daises fan, and Amelie and Pushing Daises both share that colorful, whimsical feel. The awkward love story and the awkward characters and plot lines are everything I could ask for in a film. Audrey Tatou gives an amazing performance, and it's difficult not to fall in love with her by the end of the film. Amelie is one of those films that changes your perception of things, and truly makes such trivial things seem so much more beautiful.


                
A truly inspiring film of mischievous goodwill, the innocence of Amelie played by Audrey Tautou alone makes the movie worth watching. I couldn't help but feel a throw back to my own childhood and somewhere within the embers that flame my own childish enthusiasm and innocence rekindled. I somehow got wondering and became infatuated with the idea throughout, that children growing up without ambition for all the childhood problems that they may become afflicted with are better off than the rest of us. Is happiness so much easier to attain when what strives to make you happy in life and love is quite simply simplicity? I wonder does being a complex individual in today's society and being subjected to strive for excellence, knowing that there is always something better, become a restraint to being happy and content in all aspects of your life? The cinematography and style captures the playful complexities of the wonderful world of Amelie and in a sense portrays her with a sense of autism whereby she is so in tune with her surroundings it allows her to interpret in a totally different way and in a sense see the true needs of those around her. If only we could all live in her shoes for a day, this film is masterfully creative and childishly mischievous, a truly great escape and a large resource for the playful romantic.


                
The ultimate love story movie
As the movie Zombieland stated : Don't forget the little things


                
If I were a director, this is exactly the movie I'd wish to make. Amelie is so creative. All the little impish goody things she does, the multiple plots, unusual photography, all well done. Personally I thought the first half was better than the second half, but it's still great. Audrey Tautou is excellent, as is everyone else in the movie.


                
There have been so many clowns in the film industry, some well none like Chaplin, Keaton, the Marx brothers, Harold Lloyd, Laurel and Hardy, Jacques Tati, Jerry Lewis, Cantinflas, and last but not least Woody Allen. Thanks to all of them the Clown has recovered his importance between the artist gender, defined the profession on the matter of the real life, the characters are living truly situations that are closer to the audience, making possible to recognize ourselves with the tragedy and comedy of the clown, which dignified the hard work that the profession require. This magnificent film bring the opportunity to see the clown universe on the big screen, and give us a huge lesson about life like the clown use to offer; Life is short, make the best out of it.


                
Quirky, clever, hilarious, romantic and whimsical are words which describe this French film. Amelie forever has a special place in my heart. (In 2001, it made a great date night, too!)


                
Sometimes, you come across a film that you can relate to through such a personal, emotional, and even relatable level that it soon becomes a favorite of yours. Amelie is one of those films, as it manages to invoke a whimsical and optimistic charm from its titular character alone. The film itself remains the highest grossing French film released in America, and it's hard not to see why. As this is a vehicle for the delightful Audrey Tautou, the film depicts contemporary Parisian life in such a poetic fashion that it could make anyone change their life.The story itself focuses on a shy waitress named Amelie who, upon reuniting a man with his lost toy box, decides to change the lives of those around her for the better, despite struggling with isolation. Later on, she begins having feelings for a man named Nino, resulting her to play some sort of set up to win his heart while fighting with her inner shyness. I think shyness is the key word to describe how relatable Amelie truly is. She means well and is looking out for those she knows, but still remains introverted and quirky, thus making it hard for her to relate to "normal" people, making her romance with Nino all the more unconventional. In addition, the first part of the film centers around Amelie's childhood, which perfectly highlights her spending time alone to be entertained herself, further emphasizing just how relatable the film can be to any introvert.As for Audrey Tautou, she shines fantastically as Amelie, capturing her joyful albeit neurotic personality to such a lovable degree, and it's always fun to see her smiling. The other characters are charming in their own right, particularly Amelie's reclusive neighbor Raymond Dufayel with brittle bones who tries finding the key to perfecting his repainted copy of Renoir's Luncheon of the Boating Party. Other notable supporting characters are Amelie's co-workers, from the hypochondriacal Georgette, to the stern albeit compassionate Gina, to the tough albeit caring owner Suzanne, in addition to the repugnant Joseph and the failed writer Hipolito. Whether it'd be Nino or these aforementioned characters, all of them stand out from their own distinct quirks, like collecting discarded photos, popping bubble wrap, or even lusting over one another through sex, and it's great that Amelie sees nothing but the joy in all that.Lastly, director Jean-Pierre Jeunet crafts a marvelous visual aesthetic ranging from playful camera techniques, compositional scenes, and even occasional computer animation, mostly for the creatures in Amelie's imagination. These methods help give the film a very tongue & cheek presence by design, and cinematographer Bruno Delbonnel splendidly films Jeunet's crazy vision to tremendous heights. Not to mention, although the film is very funny from its sardonic humor and characters alone, possibly the best jokes come from Amelie's childhood, which subverts the most expectations through visual storytelling. The film truly knows when to have fun with itself, even through the visuals that perfectly define the dazzling world that Amelie sees in her daily life. Needless to say, dazzling sums up Amelie perfectly well, not just because of how enchanting it is by tone and design, but also by how sympathetic it is. It's not often I've come across a film I can relate to given how introverted yet imaginative I myself am. If you yourself are an introvert or prefer to live life through the smallest and simplest of things, seek this magnificent beauty out and see whether or not it relates to you on a personal level or not. More often than not, I think it's better that we just forget about much of the world problems and just look on the simplicities of life. You never know what aspects you'll end up admiring.


                
Sweet, enchanting, and just a bit surreal--this is the kind of film Hollywood should be making, but just can't figure out how.


                
