I know this review (if anyone reads it) will get way more negative votes than positive ones. It easily makes my list of worst movies I have actually finished of all time with McClintock, Twilight and Bus Stop. There are other worse movies that I have turned off.Nothing about this was funny. Perhaps all the things that are clichéd to me were new 75 years ago when this movie was released. Even if that is so it doesn't help my opinion of it today. I honestly believe I would have found them clichéd even in the movie's own age. To think of other similarly released films like Gone With the Wind and then to consider how backward and simple this movie is only underscores how out of place it is in our time. There is only so much hapless buffoon I can take in a movie. This film crossed that threshold and left it in the dust before the first minute had passed. Then there were 87 more of those minutes.The female lead is not as bad as Charlie Chaplin. For what it's worth her physical appearance reminds me a bit of Emily Deschanel of Bones fame. It may be that she is on screen less and thus doesn't wear as thin as Charlie does.
When a new, restored print of MODERN TIMES opened locally, itwas a chance to see a "classic" silent just as its original audiencedid almost 60 years ago. The print was magnificent, with a crystalline image quality and richsound. The film, sadly, was not quite as fresh. Chaplin dusts offhis hobo character yet again, and creates a series of set piecesthat are humourous to be certain -- but annoyingly inconsistent.The skating routine rates as a classic; others come off as old, oreven forced (like his nearly epiletic wrenchwork that lands him in amental hospital). In other words, it's broad physical comedy with atrademark humanism. It may be time to reevaluate what constitutes a "classic" film. ITHAPPENED ONE NIGHT, from the very early '30s, is as fresh andfunny today as when it was released. MODERN TIMES comes offlike a dusty antique. One audience member behind me laughed, and loudly. at everyjoke and pratfall. The dry, over-loud laughs gave one the feelingthat he was responding to what he felt he should be laughing at,rather than what was inherently funny. Maybe it's time foraudiences in general to respond honesty to a film itself, and not itsaustere reputation.


                
