Modern Times exemplifies Depression-era America; a stream of disappointments, tattered dreams and missed chances that attempt to drag the characters down, but are defied by the ever buoyant hope of the American Dream.Scenes from Modern Times aptly capture the mood of America in the late 1930's; men superimposed by sheep shuttled into a waiting line, workers being pushed to go faster and faster, eventually consumed by the very machine they deigned to control. Yet elements of optimism shine through the weary film-Chaplin and his gamin dream of a home of their own, with cows ready to be milked and steaks crackling on the stove. Though their reality-a depilated shack "Is no Buckingham Palace" the two are able to sustain themselves on the "American Dream" of a more secure, fruitful life.Several aspects of the film called to mind a 1984-type reality (Though 1984 was written in 1949, 13 years after the birth of Modern Times) including the large two way screen in the factory, allowing the owner to be "Big Brother" to the workers as well as the police brutality and Ford factory line of men and machine.The film ends appropriately; dusty and bruised from pursuit, hardship and hunger, Chapin and his orphan girl head of hopefully into the sunset, convinced of a better reality awaiting them on the sun's return; a hope shared by many in America's Modern Times


                
One of this movie's most famous images--Chaplin sliding around inside the gears and cogs of a monstrous machine--provides a handy visual to go along with my opinion of the film in general: there are individual cogs that I remember as being brilliant, but when put together they don't make a totally satisfying machine.Unlike "City Lights" or "The Gold Rush" before, or "The Great Dictator" after, I didn't get caught up in the narrative of "Modern Times," and I felt there were longer gaps between the funny bits. However, some of the set pieces in this are hilarious, most notably the scene where Chaplin finds himself strapped into an automatic feeding machine that goes berserk; and a nimble scene on roller skates that showcases his athleticism.Sadly, "Modern Times" was an all too applicable metaphor for Chaplin's place in the film industry. New technologies were beginning to make his artistry obsolete, and the sadness of that is palpable in the film's final shot.I'm recommending "Modern Times" because it's a very good movie. I just didn't think it was as good as some of Chaplin's other well-known projects.Grade: B+


                
'Modern Times (1936)' is considered to be the last American 'Silent Film', made long after the era had essentially come to a close. It's fitting, then, that some use of sound seeps into the piece and usually signifies the modernisation of society, machines replacing man and bringing audio with them. It also gives us the first taste of The Tramp's voice, as he is forced into an uncomfortable situation simply to find work - though the song he sings is gibberish to keep the scene universally understandable. This picture is perhaps Chaplin's finest silent work because it not only has a message, taking a stance against the industrialisation of the workforce and its replacement by unthinking machines, but is also riotously entertaining throughout. It puts a smile on your face in the first scene and keeps it there until the last. Each slapstick set-piece comes incredibly close to brilliance, with a few easily crossing that threshold, and the feature is funny in the way only a film of this kind could be. It really is effortlessly entertaining and endlessly enjoyable, remaining a purely visual threat from beginning to end with some fantastic themes and inventive scenes. There isn't really a moment that doesn't work and the Tramp remains as endearing as ever. It's made even better because of its underlying point, one that is all the more relevant today and was actually somewhat clairvoyant, and is certainly one of the most purely cinematic pictures I've ever seen. A proper Chaplin classic. 7/10


                
in what so ever mood you are, watching Chaplin will make you happy with laughter, great actor, great performer, important film for every child, adult or any old person. and almost 80 years of ruling the hearts of people with performance, humor, acting, innocence.things will come out good if motive is truly to make people happy and smiling, and to make people forget their sad moments of life.superb comedy with great message funny sweet and awesome film


                
"Modern Times" would be Chaplin's last silent film stand against the encroachment of talking pictures, which in actuality were almost a decade under way by 1936. It also takes dead aim at the advance of a mechanized age, a modernizing society dependent on speed and efficiency at the expense of humanity. Fritz Lang's austere 1927 film "Metropolis" took a similar approach but with a much darker tone, daring to ask 'Who are the slaves of the machines"? For Chaplin, opposition to that slavery is on display in his comedic, almost manic depiction of factory life and the assembly line. One can't help but notice the influence Chaplin had on later film makers; I immediately drew a comparison to Lucille Ball's hilarious attempt to keep pace at the candy factory, blending elements of Chaplin's frantic pace on the assembly line with the dehumanizing aspect of the Bellows Feeding Machine.A startling aspect of the story line for me was the introduction of the communist element when The Tramp is arrested for accidentally leading a workers' revolt. One doesn't immediately connect the term 'communist' to it's Bolshevik roots dating back to 1917, but it was obviously on Chaplin's mind two decades later.Knowing that he did his own stunts, it was truly amazing to see Chaplin's dexterity on a pair of roller skates. The blindfold scene on the fourth floor toy shop was incredible, and made me wonder what precautions were taken to prevent serious injury in case all didn't go well. Obviously, the man had talents that went well beyond making films.I mentioned that scene from an 'I Love Lucy' episode earlier, but there's another observation I'd like to offer that might have influenced the opening to a popular TV show of the Sixties. In his domestic daydream involving The Gamin (Paulette Goddard), The Tramp is shown walking away from the camera and tripping over an ottoman as he approaches Goddard. One could surmise that Dick Van Dyke took inspiration for his own pratfall gimmick from the master Chaplin some quarter century later. Chaplin's genius would find his ideas being repeatedly recycled under the slogan 'everything old is new again'.
It seems the people who read my reviews always give the positive "helpful" votes for those films I praise, while they punish my comments for the films I don't like. I guess the same will happen now since "Modern Times" is the highest praised Chaplin film on IMDb.com and I'm giving it only a 7 out of 10. It's a very good film, a brave and interesting satire on the great depression in USA, but Chaplin's other films like "City Lights", "The Gold Rush" and "The Great Dictator" were in my opinion superior and much more enjoyable."Modern Times" starts with a frame of a herd of sheep, then cutting right into a mob of nervous factory workers, pointing out how the capitalism and the industrialization are treating people like a bunch of slaves. Chaplin's Tramp is one of those workers who looses his sanity from non stop work and gets fired. He then meets a poor girl, lands in prison, gets bailed out for helping stop a jail break and starts finding new jobs, just to get fired again. The story doesn't flow as smooth as some other silent classics from the famous actor/director and is made out of little bits and events which aren't connected. Apparently Chaplin made this without any script, and it shows. Also, some of his Tramp's goofy jokes today seem a little outdated and childish.------------ Still, putting the flaws aside, this is a quality film with human message. In today's mechanical age it even seems somewhat visionary since the poor, jobless couple back then can easily be found even today on the streets. But not to say the film is without humor, like when the Tramp picks up a red flag on the street that fell from a truck and gets mixed up with a communist leader or when the feeding machine proves to be a real useless disaster, something the machine haters will love to hate.Grade: 7/10


                
MILD SPOILERS!Though far from perfect, "Modern Times" is a quintessential movie.  Chaplin knew that movies were called MOVE-ees because they were a celebration of kinesis, that is, movement.  In fact, according to Chaplin, only fights and chases were "pure cinema".  Fortunately, his actual practice was less adamant than his rhetoric.  "Modern Times" is pure cinema to be sure but in a broader sense than Charlie would've defined it.  Though not always humorous (sometimes even when it's trying to be), "Modern Times" has some genuinely funny moments.  I love The Tramp's morning swim in his new pond.  Smartly outfitted, and spry of step, The Tramp skips out of the changing room, down the path, and to the end of the diving platform. Then, with prowess and aptitude, he dives...into about 2 inches of water! Of course, there are several delightful moments like this and, like so many of Chaplin's scenes, they are the stuff of legend.  In addition to humor, there are some dazzlingly tense moments.  As The Tramp is pulled through the gears of the machine you catch yourself saying, "That can't be safe, can it?"  And, of course, the blind-folded rollerskating scene is as good as anything in "The Matrix" (and no CGI either). 
Finally, in my opinion, (don't know about Charlie's) my point of entry into the movie was due to its pathos.  I liked the relationship between The Tramp and The Gamin (wharf-child).  Paulette Goddard is a strikingly attractive woman (with an eerie resemblance to Molly Shannon) and their relationship is touching and innocent.  As those first strains of "Smile" faded in, I knew that they had me.  To me, this is just as much pure cinema as the rest.       A second definition of kinesis illuminates what could be considered the flat side of the movie.  Kinesis is also defined as a movement that lacks directional orientation and depends upon the intensity of stimulation.  This is a pretty accurate description of large sections of "Modern Times".  Like many of the early Disney shorts, it suffers somewhat from a manic, unpredictable plot.  Until the middle section, "Modern Times" is little more than a series of gags.  Of course, this was probably quite intentional and Chaplin could've done whatever he wanted.  Nevertheless, I do think it holds the film back from perfection.  Finally, (and, for some reason, this almost completely stops at the half-way point) repetition of gags has a way of subduing some of the humor.  There CAN be too much of a good thing.Chaplin's Tramp, especially in "Modern Times" reminds me of two fictional creations, both on radically opposite ends of the spectrum.  While I'm not the first to observe this, as an inveterate Disney fan, I couldn't help but notice the similarity between The Tramp and "The Mick", Micky Mouse.  Like, Mickey, The Tramp is simple, uncomplicated, good (without being too good), resilient, and indomitable.  It's clear that Chaplin had a large influence on this little mouse and (seen accordingly) Chaplin's influence on cinema (and the world) is immeasurable.  Finally, and I just thought of this, The Tramp is a modern version of the mythical Sisyphus (especially as portrayed by Camus in his essay, "The Myth of Sisyphus").  Sisyphus was the guy who (due to his impertinence) was forever cursed to push up a mountain a boulder which refused to stay put. Camus sees all of us as toiling in equally grueling and fruitless fashion and yet sees something admirable in Sisyphus.  Though he never seems to get it right (like The Tramp), he refuses to quit.  Camus says that he imagines Sisyphus happy.  I have seen with my own eyes that The Tramp IS happy.  In a final act of blind un-reasoning optimism, The Tramp and his girl-friend walk away into the sunset in search of new ventures (and adventures). Their chosen path is right down the middle of an empty highway (desolate and empty as well as a blank canvas of hope).  Their faces are turned to the future and, therefore hidden to us, but we KNOW that they are smiling.
I was pleasantly surprised by this film. As a boy, I didn't much care for the Charlie Chaplin shorts that were shown on TV - not even after I'd had an encounter with him as a schoolboy in Switzerland. He walked past me and said "Bonjour" as I was returning from the village bakery in Glion with some bread and milk for my school colleagues. I preferred Laurel & Hardy. However, the position has now reversed.The film is a series of segments all of which contain amusing sections whether Chaplin is taking coke in prison, roller-skating blindfold in a department store or dancing at a night-club. There was a section that didn't need to be included - the 2nd time the machinery gag was used and the boss's head gets stuck. Paulette Goddard had some good moments, eg, she knows how to get by on the street and it's quite satisfying to see her going to bed in the department store, but I felt that she was too old for the character that she was playing. No way was she a teenager! I found the film funny. It's a love story with hope and it gives us the great message that you can have absolutely nothing and still be happy. Chaplin has converted me. I wish I'd said "Bonjour" back to him all those years ago.


                
Most people consider industrialization as a move forward in time because of decreasing necessity of physical labor despite increasing efficiency. Charlie Chaplin's 1936 film Modern Times takes a different stance by portraying industrialization as one of the casual factor of unemployment during the Great Depression.To begin with, the movie opens with a graphic match between farm animals and factory workers. This aims to show that the workers are living the life of farm animals, which implies unsanitary housing, poor nutrition, and disrespect from those in charge, whether they be farmers or employers. This is further elaborated on when Chaplin is working arduously in the assembly line, where he repeatedly falls behind and gradually begins to loose his mind. Eventually, his condition deteriorates so that the movements of screwing on a bolt become a stereotyped behavior that he is unable to stop during even his lunch break or after he leaves the factory. Consequently, he looses his job and is sent to a mental institution. The efficiency of the machinery is so high that it becomes impossible for an average man like Chaplin to keep up with, making him obsolete to his employer.After recovering in the mental institution, Chaplin is in search of a new job. As he is leaving the hospital, the film cuts to images of automobiles and throngs of people in an urban setting. Not long afterwards, he is wrongly imprisoned as a communist. Both the hospital and the prison represent an escape from the world of fast-paced machinery and waves of people moving in a purposeful and robotic manner. This is evident in that Chaplin repeatedly attempts to be arrested throughout the film so as to escape the harsh reality of unemployment. Keeping in line with its classification as a comedy, Chaplin ironically portrays a mental institution and a prison as more attractive living options for the protagonist than facing the modern industrialized world in which he is unable to find a job.Later in the film there is a quick scene of the Gamin's father, "one of the unemployed," sitting in his empty kitchen, clearly concerned about the livelihood of his family. This is an important, although brief, moment in the movie because it deviates from the comedic tone of the film as a whole. Here, we see the serious impact of unemployment on a family, one whom viewers may better relate to. Due to the nature of the Chaplin's loss of employment, as a viewer we can infer that the Gamin's father has likely lost his job due to modernization. Had the father lost his job due to personal vices or lack of professionalism, Chaplin would have included a man drinking, reclined comfortably in a chair. Instead, Chaplin's use of an unadorned man sulking in a wooden chair shows that the man is more concerned than he is relaxed.Later in the movie, Chaplin finds work at a factory while staying in a rundown shack with the Gamin. The scene begins with a crowd of people outside the factory gates, all waiting to be let in for work. Chaplin has a difficult time learning how to use the new machinery on his first day of work. He accidentally places a co-workers jacket into a machine, destroying a "family heirloom" that was in the pocket. This can be interpreted as the end of older traditions which are being dominated by modern industrialization just as the watch was "ruined" by the machine. Chaplin's co-workers also gets trapped in the machine and despite Chaplin's efforts, he is unable to free his coworker. Defeated and hungry, the co-worker asks Chaplin to feed him his lunch while immobilized in the machine. This clearly illustrates the domination of modernized machinery over human beings.Chaplin's film represents his perspective on the negative effects of industrialization on unemployment during the great depression. Although he makes some good claims, it is important to note that he uses hyperbole of the workers' conditions for comedic effects. For example, workers are rarely completely immersed in work with new technologies without any prior training or introduction to the methods necessary to attain efficiency. Nevertheless, on a whole, Chaplin's Modern Times rightfully earned its acclaim as a "culturally significant" work as deemed by the Library of Congress because it intelligently highlights some of the key downfalls of industrialization—unemployment being the most significant.
Though some of it might be lost in time. Today's public probably won't find it as funny as the 1930s public (I can totally imagine them laughing at Chaplin's faces), but some jokes are pretty universal and they genuinely make you laugh out loud. The gibberish singing of the tramp will probably never get old, it's quite sublime.There's also some very cool cinematic tools such as the classic gear scene, which was probably pretty innovative, or the final scene with the tramp and the girl walking towards the camera. That one gave me goosebumps. And the music is quite awesome too. Definitely a must-see to anyone who is interested in the history of cinema.


                
Initially, I found it hard to appreciate Modern Times because it is so unlike the films I usually admire and enjoy. I am used to feature films that either tell a story or expound a coherent and consistent idea. This movie does neither.It starts with the Little Tramp being driven to a nervous breakdown by the regimentation of factory life. He recovers but is then imprisoned (by accident). He meets the Gamin (Paulette Goddard). He then accidentally foils a prison escape and is released. He has a succession of jobs, each of which he quickly loses. He sets up home with the Gamin and finally gets a more permanent job but is then forced to flee with her when the authorities try to put her into an orphanage. The movie ends with the couple walking off down the road to bravely face whatever the future may hold.This is a sequence of events in chronological order, but not really a story.It does have some sort of narrative arc, but most of the individual scenes are irrelevant to it. Similarly, it does have some (garbled) ideas to expound, but Chaplin is quite happy to shelve the ideas whenever he sees a good gag on the horizon.For example, he clearly wanted to say something about the dehumanisation of the assembly line. This is the inspiration for the opening sequence in which the Tramp is literally chewed up and spat out by the machinery. This leads on quite naturally to his final breakdown, where he dances round the factory like a disruptive, anarchic imp. These two scenes have an obvious thematic and dramatic link, but wedged between them is a whimsical scene with an automatic feeding machine. Although this idea plays better than it sounds, it does not really help develop the movie's story or its themes and feels like an awkward intrusion.After the Tramp's recovery from his breakdown, Chaplin's attention suddenly switches from the demoralising nature of work to the lack of it. However, his concern with the problem of unemployment is completely undermined by a plot device which means that the tramp is actually able to get work whenever he wants it. Of course, he quickly loses the various jobs he lands, but that says nothing about the precariousness of employment during the Great Depression – he loses the jobs by accident and purely for comic effect.The muddle and contradiction become even more apparent as the picture develops. After a period of deprivation, the Tramp bursts in on the Gamin to triumphantly announce that the factory has reopened and is hiring workers. He then thrusts himself to the head of the queue of people fighting for a job and is one of the last to make it though the gates. At this point we have to remind ourselves that this is the very factory, and the very work, that drove him mad in the opening scenes.There is also a scene where the couple try to visualise what it might be like if they were leading normal, middle class, suburban lives, but it is not clear whether Chaplin regards this as desirable or simply as a bourgeois trap, so the sequence ends inconclusively.And so on.At this point, it might seem that I am saying this movie is almost completely worthless, but against all these criticisms must be set the wonderful elegance, grace and precision of most of the comic set pieces.Chaplin perfected his art in a long series of classic short films, where he used the camera very simply, to record his performances, not to create them. Despite his growing ambitions in the Twenties and Thirties I don't think he ever really developed beyond this stage. His feature films, like Modern Times, are really just a succession of more or less stand-alone sequences, loosely strung together. He was still making shorts.Modern Times is undoubtedly less than the sum of its parts, but I found that once I had accepted this I could appreciate that most of the parts were pretty damn good. In the end I didn't regret the ninety minutes I spent on it.If you just ignore the pretentious claims often made for this movie (and Chaplin's own pretensions) I think you will find that Modern Times still has a quite a bit to offer.
