I know, I'm gonna get a lot of grief about this. But I just didn't like it.I watched one episode, and they turned a classic series into a clunky, awkward, poorly written show. There were five things I didn't like about this series: the animation, the plot, the characters, the humor, and the action.First of all, the animation looks cheap. It's not as nice as it was in the first version, and Edward looks entirely different than how he looked in the original series. Animation looks dumb and clichéd, which is a big no-no for potential fans.Second, the comedy was....horrible. There were too many jokes in the show, and they all felt forced. Even Ed admitted he was short. What's the fun in that? It felt like one of those shows with the laugh tracks. I never laughed once, whereas in the original series, I found the humor to be fresh and hilarious. But the humor never made up all of the show itself. It had the perfect balance between seriousness and comedy. This show seemed to drain out all of the seriousness.Third, the action felt lacking in something. When Scar attacked Ed in this episode, he grunts like someone out of Dragon ball Z. The original fight between these two was intense. It didn't feel real to me. Besides that, the action feels artificial.Fourth, the plot sounds lame and stupid. Many fans complain about how the original Full Metal Alchemist was bad towards the end, but I enjoyed it. The way it diverged from the original story was great. I'm not a big fan of the manga. It doesn't seem that interesting; frankly it felt average, and there are way too many Edwin scenes to balance. They changed too many things in this anime. The chronological order in the first series may be confusing, but I like it.Finally, the characters themselves are so....shallow. It's hard to swallow, especially since the characters are what make a story, movie, or anime great. Take the original Edward, for example. He may have started out cocky, naive, and inexperienced, but by the end of the series, he had grown up a lot and become more mature, responsible, and less arrogant. In this show, he seems more like a whiny, immature brat instead of a naive kid who just hasn't had enough experience yet.Alphonse sounds different, and I dislike that. His original English voice was better. Mustang, Havoc, and the others don't feel like themselves, frankly they seem out of character. It sounds like a bad fanfic. This show doesn't have the depth that the original did.
