Ill explain why this is the best series ever made and why i feel worthy of judging that.*Note that English isn't my native tongue* I've been addicted to series for like... forever. I could probably list at least 50 full series I've seen from all kinds.If i told myself 10 years ago or so that the best series i would ever see was an Anime i wouldn't have believed it.This series made me laugh out loud, cry and bring up pretty much every part of human emotion possible. The characters and story are pretty much flawless and there is little to none loose ends. There isn't a "stormy" story curve as many series suffer from - where the intro - mid part or ending is to short , to long or rushed. The pace through the entire anime is good.The series does not suffer either from things like to slow riddles-to-answers rate (Lost *cough*) or to fast story.All characters are developed in a brilliant way through the series.Of all movies and shows I've seen in my lifetime - if i would have to recommend one single series to someone it would be this one without hesitation.If i had an enemy i hated in real life more than anything - even i wouldn't be so cruel as to deny that person to see this show. I could deny them food instead and it would be merciful. Thats how good this show is.One thing that was a major concern early on was that this show would be to childish and silly. Don't be deceived, it is very mature and some elements are even horrifying.This is one of the only shows I've ever seen, where i haven't been able to personally come up with better ideas on how to make it.Perfection.See it.I also recommend original Japanese voices with English text for best experience.


                
Brotherhood is a welcome addition to the Fullmetal Alchemist franchise, fully covering the storyline of the manga by Hiromu Arakawa. It's a wholly satisfying series which manages to stay engaging throughout its 64 episode run. Even though it follows the storyline of the manga very closely there are a few changes present. But the story is so impressive that it doesn't really matter if there are a few missteps. There are only ten instrumental music pieces by Akira Senju in the entire series, however, some of them are very effective. The opening and closing themes are catchy rock and pop songs which remind one of the first anime. So, is Brotherhood better than the first series? The answer is yes. The first series was emotionally satisfying though it contained a lot of filler. The second season was, for the most part, disappointing. Even the first season unnecessarily extended the manga's chapters, however, there was clearly originality there and the direction was noticeably good. The film Conqueror Of Shamballa was bad, no question about it. In fact the film was such a disappointment for me that I didn't want to watch Fullmetal Alchemist again. But later I picked up the manga, read it, and was amazed by the story and artwork. There are good reasons why the manga became such a big success. The animation in Brotherhood is an improvement. There are underlying political messages in the story that remind one of the United States. In conclusion, Brotherhood is a must-see anime, and after seeing it I don't feel like watching the first Fullmetal Alchemist anime again. I'm not a fan of anime and manga but Hiromu Arakawa's work is one of several which have to be seen.


                
I'm a bit of a newbie when it comes to anime, I've seen a few but I'm still finding my feet. I was always told FMA is considered one of the top series and though I enjoyed it I wasn't blown away.FMA: Brotherhood however I found to be considerably better though the fact the same show was remade by the same studio and with the same voice cast baffled me. Now pardon my ignorance but the way I understand it the original series was an adaptation whereas Brotherhood was a loyal version of the original Manga?Regardless I consider to it to be considerably better. The character development seems rushed initially but quickly finds its pace, new additions bring a lot to the story and the actual story arc itself is on a far grander scale.Based on this I can only assume there was a lot of frustration with the original series as it can't have been considered a true adaptation of the source material. We're not talking minor differences here we're talking a different show altogether and certainly a heavily modified plot by comparison.The stellar voice cast, great animation, gripping story and excellent characters clung to me whereas the original series didn't and I fully understand why many told me it was the superior choice.Powerful, fascinating and devastating in places FMA: Brotherhood was a really enjoyable ride that I'm glad I was part of.The Good:Perfect voice castGreat charactersPowerful moving plot throughoutMore consistent in quality than the original seriesThe Bad:Couple of weak episodesRushed beginningI still HATE the over the top facial expressions that break from the anime styleThings I Learnt From This Series:Anyone who wants you to call them "Führer" is probably up to no goodEnvy is what is known as a "Trap" right?Sometimes dead is better (I totally said that in Fred Gwynnes voice)Kids should drink their milk!


                
Full Metal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a great way to waste some time. It is massive in its 64-episode length, but it hardly ever stops being interesting and its weak points are few. It's not mind-blowing, but I watched it happily all the way through and always wanted to see the next episode.FMA's greatest strengths are its story and pacing. The focus never gets lost and plot elements and backstory are revealed at such perfect pace that one can't help but get hooked. There are a ton of characters, but with maybe one or two exceptions they all feel relevant and have a part in the story. There are some anime tropes here and there (like the comic relief Major Armstrong), but mostly the cast is solid and likable.Occasionally there's also some surprisingly dark and even disturbing episodes, which give the series a more mature feel than one would initially expect. This improves the series vastly. The violence is quite heavy, and there's a lot of insanity and genocide hidden in the backstory. This is not a kid's show.The animation is high quality all the way through. The art isn't very detailed, but somehow it fits the atmosphere of the series. The characters are well designed and recognizable, despite a large portion of the cast wearing mostly identical military uniforms. The simplistic art style keeps things from getting out of hand and you can always understand what is going on even in the most hectic action scenes.However, there are some points that need to be addressed. Some anime tropes stick out rather painfully in the otherwise fairly mature series: the overly cutesy characters; the exaggerated comedy bits; the tendency to underline drama by having the characters act over-emotionally. These are all practically written in the series' genetic code, but anyone who hasn't been able to stand them in the past won't find them more tolerable here. The series could use a bit more music tracks, as you'll be noticing the same songs kicking in time and time again. Also around the 50th episode or so the series slams the brakes and slows down to a tortuous crawl for about 10 episodes. It makes what should feel like the climax of the series feel stretched and at times boring.Recommendation: In the end FMA: Brotherhood is a great, massive series that is thoroughly enjoyable from beginning to end. I wouldn't recommend it for a first-time anime viewer, but anyone who enjoys anime at least in some form will find it excellent.


                
There is a lot to like about the anime series Full Metal Alchemist. For starters: the alchemy and alchemists. They not only stay true to what alchemy really is per definition--a form of chemistry and speculative philosophy practiced in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance and concerned principally with discovering methods for transmuting baser metals into gold and with finding a universal solvent and an elixir of life--but they expand a bit on it with the principal of "equivalent exchange". The simple explanation of "equivalent exchange" is that in order to create something you have to give up or sacrifice something of equal value. Basically, you can't create something out of nothing. It was a blast seeing alchemy and the alchemists at work. They were nearly wizards or superheroes even with their skills.Beyond the alchemy and the various alchemists was the quest of Edward and Alphonse Elric to reunite Alphonse's soul with his body. Their journey led them all over the place all the while they discovered more hidden truths and a major sinister plot. Then, separate from the Elric brothers' quest was a larger scheme involving the country of Amestris, immortality and god-like powers. The main story and all of the smaller stories within the series were great. And they didn't drag the series on too long. They made sure to actually conclude the saga instead of having the Elric's interminably roaming the earth looking for an answer. I love that the show's creators did that. A show such as this--one that has a definite goal--has to conclude. I've seen other shows in which they come up with dumber and dumber ways to keep the show going by denying the main character the completion of his quest. Shows like that get tired and old real quick.So, there is a lot to like about Full Metal Alchemist like I said--which leads me to the small bit that I didn't like. I became real annoyed with the morals of the Elrics and other "good guys". Were their morals bad? No, just juvenile and childlike in their simplicity. There were two things in particular. 1.) Their concept of all life being sacred regardless of who's or what life it is. They took it to such an extreme that they were willing to sacrifice themselves to save those who were clearly their enemies. There was even one scene in which one of the protagonists pulled a gun on her friend to save a homunculus (artificially created being). Quite literally it would be like a wife pulling a gun on her husband to prevent him from killing the creature that murdered their child. Really?! Would you kill your own friend to save some other creature just because it has life? That's a hypocritical and oxymoronic action if there ever was one. Let me kill this guy to prevent him from killing a killer!!!!??? Supposedly she did it because she wanted to prevent her good friend from going to the darkside (in a manner of speaking) by letting his anger control him in that moment. People get angry, especially with those who've killed their loved ones. Why deny him that outlet, even if it results in the killing of the killer? Do these moralistic pollyanas believe that somehow a person can control their anger if denied the opportunity to seek revenge? I think quite the opposite. If someone killed a loved one of mine and I could get the chance to end his life that would bring me a least some semblance of closure. Conversely, if I had the opportunity and was denied it because of someone's warped belief that it would "make me no better than him" then it would only cause me to be more angry. Because now, in this highly unjust scenario, I have a dead loved one and the killer still breathes. Yes, this is my opinion and I know not everyone would agree. But I feel strongly about not denying someone a chance at their vengeance. How often must victims be chided for wanting justice? It may be considered a human frailty by some but even still, let it be the choice of the wronged person to forgive or not.2.) I took exception with the belief of some of the characters that they could, or even had to, save everyone. To begin with, it is the utmost of arrogance to believe that you can save everyone. Secondly, it is a farce to even believe that everyone deserves to be saved. I don't mean this in an economic sense or a social sense, but in the sense of just good and bad. Of course everyone has a different gauge of good and bad but I'd consider murderers and would be murderers bad, yet some of the protagonists saw that they needed to save them as well.Even with those nauseating moments of saintly altruism that were rather sophomoric in practice I liked the show. It was heavy at times and light at times to keep a balance. The heavy moments, which were reserved for some sort of lesson, seemed after-school special like--like they were spoon feeding you what you should understand from this moment. There were other heavy moments that were done more properly where I didn't think the message was overly sappy. Overall it was a well done anime. It'd be nice if they could reboot it with another quest for the Elrics.


                
All I can say is that act one is arguably slow. Act two picks up a little. And act three (episode 40+) picks up and delivers the "10/10" people give it. It is truely a well-crafted story. The ending isn't a complete one, but somewhat satisfying to an extent. Mustang isn't given much in the end until the last end credit song plays. At that point you wanted to a certain character get his legs back and see Mustang be whole again. Instead, these characters are swept under the rug. Did anyone want to see Mustang and her subordinate get together? They just never tie it to completion, which was something this could've benefited from.
the particular show has that set of extrapolated significance in it, that i always tend to turn back to it each time. Its definitely one of the finest anime and one of the most figuratively apt show to show the FIVE SINS in humans and all in homunculus form which means ""little man"" in Latin. It signifies a lot and you really need to keep toned to get the meaning. so a thumbs up for the EL-RICH brothers!!! has some of the most strong characters, and that human jest for revenge.My favourite one can the one in which ROY MUSTANG blazes up at envy and tries to burn it in revenge. I mean a scene could have taken long enough and i would have cried . and i am not joking. It is too real.


                
Note that English isn't my native tongue it's a great masterpiece of scenario plot art and other things but the basic rule equivalent exchange is strict only when the characters are serious in other times ed changes his hand into anything and when the story gets serious he can not repair it without winry's help or where he accidentally broke a radio he can fix it in a flash without knowing mechanics and electronics at all and the philosopher's stone is totally illogical this series is good for whom their emotions precede their logics it plays well with your emotionspersonally enjoyed it but not much as death note or evangelion


                
{im mostly pointing out the problems but is still a very good show)fma brotherhood is good and you should watch it but there are still some problems.because of the original fma they have a big budget but a lot of the time it look worst then the original and some of the whys the charters look like al are just weird to me and the outlining look really off to me but may can look pasted that. if you watch the original most of the voice acts are in brotherhood but there's one major charter who they changed that i hate the new voice actor for. al voice acter i just hate he irritating he sounds to much like a young innocent girl (p.s. al is a guy). OK here are some good things about the show. brotherhoods story is still great. it sticks to the manga's story where the original didn't. all the voice acts (beside al) are great if you can look pasted (and i hope you can) all the problems its a good show and you should absolutely see it


                
WHAT I LIKED1. Great characters with strong on-screen presence. 2. Amazing soundtrack.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Started strongly but lost intensity towards the end. The best episodes were in the first half of the series. This could have been rectified a bit by reducing the number of episodes and eliminating fillers.TOP 5 EPISODES1. Episode 04 - An Alchemist's Anguish2. Episode 19 - Death of the Undying3. Episode 10 - Separate Destinations4. Episode 01 - Fullmetal Alchemist5. Episode 02 - The First DayVERDICTA great anime with amazing soundtrack and strong characters.8/10 - Great
I always knew about this anime. I tried it last year, when a friend of mine pushed me. I already knew a little about the plot, but nothing else. So, I watched it. Thoroughly enjoyed it. I consider it one of the best anime out there. But here is what I see and believe about this anime:Plot- A very strong, tight and interesting plot,it has. But it is not something which is entirely on a different level. There are many anime out there who have better plot and story progression. When I see people going ape crazy that it has the most terrific plot and story in all of anime, then I just feel that this anime is hyped up and rated much more than what it deserves. I hear people claiming that it has flawless story and plot, to them I ask to go through this page=http://www.fullmetal-alchemist.com/forums/index.php?showtopic=13702There are plot holes in the story, whether you agree or deny. I say do not let your fanatic tendencies make u deny what is real.Animation= It is very well done, especially the fight scenes. I have no issue against it. Presentation= Presentation is always coupled with the story. I admit it has very good presentation, but the whole chi-bi slapstick does not work for me, and I was enduring all such parts of episodes. The worst part of it is that even when the story is actually standing at a very serious, emotionally mature stage, even then there is absolutely unnecessary and misplaced chi-bi slapstick comedy completely ruining the emotional and strong, mature feel of the situation the characters are in.*Spoiler= *Go see the 5th laboratory fight scene and post fight scene conversation between the lead characters.You will be ale to see my point. But it is up to u to like it or not. And there are many scenes in 64 episodes that have similar touch of unnecessary slapstick at wrong places. I rub this fault on the series writer.Music= To be honest, I think that Full Metal Brotherhood could have had better music and soundtrack. It is good, but I still feel that it could have been done better. The most complementing and excellent background music can be seen in Death Note/ Attack on titan in mainstream anime, but overall the best music is undoubtedly present in anime Mushishi.Characters= The essential protagonist is Ed. He is okay character and the show revolves around him. I have no issue with any characters except the fact that= * Spoiler=* As the hero of the show is Ed, then he must have been the one to take down the 'God' at the end because he was the main villain. But what happened is that secondary characters held the main villain down, and Ed merely threw in the last punch.It does not stand out to me as any act of heroism on the part of the hero of the anime. I mean the show revolves around Ed and derives the title from his character. I am just saying this because I wanted Ed, who is the center of the show to have his glory moment at the end to justify the title of the anime.Overview= It is one of the best anime out there, but when people say that it is absolutely the 'greatest thing happened to anime', then for such people I feel sorry, because their perception is limited by their fanaticism and hype around this anime. They disregard the possibility of the better anime in almost all respects, which are present out there. I do not believe that this is the best anime out there. It is at best a very good anime out there, possibly one of the very best.I know that on major anime portals and sites, this anime holds much command, but I feel that its high ranking is also because of the hype surrounding this anime. If you would just go about looking for reviews from major reviewers, in japan also, they do not claim or assert that this is the best anime in all respects. A Fact for your consideration= Japanese Government's Agency of Cultural Affairs, conducted a poll to list greatest comic series and anime in history of Japan.Full Metal was 4th in comic series and 9th in anime. Mushishi, Mobile suit Gundam were better rated in anime list than it. Full Metal Brotherhood is hyped up and it is also rated high in most overrated anime series on anime forums and sites.... just saying.... It is just my opinion, I have written what I think about this anime and why.... I do not have any problem with opinions held by others...
