This review is mainly meant for anyone who watched Fullmetal Alchemist and is either considering Brotherhood, has watched a few episodes and not liked it, or has read one of the negative reviews and was put off.When I first heard about Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, I was skeptical. Seeing as the original Fullmetal Alchemist is the first anime I have ever completely watched and is the spark that ignited my obsessive love of anime that I have today, a redo seemed unnecessary to say the least. What could possibly be improved upon a show as fantastic as Fullmetal Alchemist? With hesitation and doubt in my heart I started watching the series... and instantly hated it. I won't lie, my first impressions were not only that the show didn't live up to the original, but that it was also an abomination that was dancing on the grave of a greater show. I cried, I screamed, I broke things, I didn't do any of the above because I'm exaggerating and not actually crazy, but I was still quite upset. The criticisms bubbled up inside me until I was frustratingly glaring at the TV appalled at such changes as Alphonse's voice actor, or a lack of the opening starting with the classic "in those days, we really believed..." lines from Al. With each passing episode the insults to Fullmetal Alchemist seemed to grow, episodes that were lovingly crafted in the original series were apparently being lightly brushed on. Moments in the original that got me hooked fell flat in Brotherhood, and I was fed up and ready to write the letter of complaint to end all letters of complaint. But then, my eyes began to open. Right around episode 13 where the plot of the two animes separates I started to think that this story might actually be good. As the episodes began to fly I realized that it wasn't good, it was great. After finishing the series I knew without a doubt in my mind that what I had witnessed was my favorite anime of all time. The story of Brotherhood is better than that of the original on so many levels that the two shows truly don't compare. After having my eyes opened I was forced to drop the rating that I gave to the original to an 8 simply because now I knew how much lost potential it had. If you enjoyed the story of Fullmetal Alchemist, stick with Brotherhood and I guarantee you that you will not regret it. Not only is the plot and storyline vastly improved upon and more satisfying, the animation, music (in my opinion at least, some disagree), characters, and overall feel is far better. Therefore, if you are a true fan of the original series don't give up on Brotherhood after only a few episodes like I was so tempted to do, it is a show that grows into something that will go down in history as one of the greats of animation history and you shouldn't miss out.


                
Fullmetal Alchemist is, in a way, unique. It is very much a mainstream series, with the appeal of a huge cast of unique characters, action that commonly involves special powers, a fairly straight forward story with some mostly obvious symbolism, and a mix of comedy, action, drama, and even some romance. These are all common staples of long running anime series that lean towards a more commercial and public appeal. And yet, for a mainstream series, it manages to continually surprise with a very mature and serious tone. There is a great deal of tragedy and some moments are even frightening and memorable. Few series achieve such a perfect balance of mainstream entertainment and gut wrenching drama and tragedy.Such was what I discovered when I first laid my eyes on the original FMA series. And yet, for all it's greatness, it began to flounder in it's second season. As many series do, it took on its own form and story, and it was at that point that it started to lose its charm. So, Bones did the smart thing. They remade it. For most series, this would be pointless, but for FMA, it's very much welcome. Five years after the original series ended and the manga has had time to grow, this new FMA is better looking, paced better, and follows the manga, expanding the plot in a better direction.It's hard not to like anything about this new FMA. The action is fantastic and looks great, as it always did. We aren't subjected to single shots or poorly edited sequences. All the action is displayed and wonderfully animated. Likewise, all the charm is here as well, from the more serious scenes that fans will remember to the humor which is consistent and still funny. Bones took everything good about the original series and threw out all the bad, replacing those particulars with higher quality details. In a sense, it even feels like a new anime, and by episode 13, it has gone in a completely new direction.A better developed story and characters, superior animation, and fantastic details. These are what make the new FMA an instant new-age classic. Like FMA was the first time around, the new FMA will be one of the top anime to watch out for in the states.


                
Having been an avid fan of the first Fullmetal Alchemist series, i was highly apprehensive on hearing about this reboot, but the more i found out about the series, the more excited i became. I've always been a fan of the Manga, and the new series is being based completely of the manga storyline. This had be hooked, so i waited nervously for the first episode.The new series features better artwork that resembles Arakawa's style more closely than the last series. There is more humour, especially Ed transmuting a spear-head into his face. There is a new soundtrack, which admittedly, at times doesn't work greatly, but with some getting used too, i'm sure it will grow on me. Overall, i feel this series is a fantastic reboot, and is verging on turning Fullmetal Alchemist into the series it should always have been.


                
I started watching anime only in 2011-2012, introduced to Naruto. I never really knew any anime besides Naruto, Dragon Ball, One Piece and Bleach, even though I only watched Naruto.Then I watched Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, in 2013, yes, only one year ago.I had to say that it was nice at the beginning, with some of the usual badassery, but I started noticing those more 'intelligent' remarks of this anime, the dark story behind the two brothers and their gritty link to Alchemy.The songs were also good, some much better than the others (Golden Time Lover, Rain) but the five are really amazing.The story is, overall, very well made, but I think the ending was not as good as the rest of the series.Even then, this is definitely an anime I'll rewatch, again and again.


                
I really didn't like the original series because I felt the writing was completely poor until the very end to where it ended up kinda decent. But there was way too much crap writing and filler episodes in the beginning and middle to make it worth getting to the end for only a decent experience. Brotherhood steps up both the beginning and the end of the series so that the beginning is decent and tolerable, but it builds on the stories and the characters and weaves a complex plot into one hell of a story filled with intrigue, political plots, revenge, and redemption in a great action-packed bundle. -1 star for kiddie romance/comedy in an otherwise mature-themed series. But kiddie romance/comedy in Anime seems nearly unavoidable so I guess I'll learn to tune it out eventually.Additionally, after the Netflix instant viewing versions ran out for parts 1 & 2, I started watching the subbed version. Normally, I prefer a dubbed version if the translation and acting are decent, allowing me to pay more attention to the art and action of the anime. But in FMA, I can't stand the actor voicing Edward Elric. Alphonse was a little annoying in the original series as well, although the actress for Al in Brotherhood is a bit better. Anyways, even though the translation for the subbed isn't the best, the voices are way better in Japanese, so I'd definitely recommend the subbed version for this series.


                
What a great show! I didn't read reviews before I devoured this series within a week. I found it to be a profound and moving story; I'm not much of a crier when it comes to movies and TV shows, but this one had me in tears on more than one occasion.My only real complaints are that the last couple of seasons are just action scene after action scene. I still enjoyed it, but it's not really my thing as much as delving into the backstories of characters, building relationships, etc.Still, it's well worth the watch and I plan on watching it at least a second time--something I haven't done for a series in years.


                
At first I was going to say that once you got past the first few episodes the series truly began to become amazing, but upon further thought I take that back. This show is powerful from the very beginning, and while the first few episodes aren't as addicting as the later episodes of the series, they are beyond a doubt powerful enough to get you interested. In fact, the first 4 or so episodes have plenty of scenes and themes that can be quite disturbing and memorable. Once you get past the first few introductory episodes, the plot really starts to become addicting (specifically after a certain event which those who have watched the show can probably guess what I'm talking about) and it becomes really hard to not want to keep watching episode after episode to further the plot.Since this is the "Complete Collection One" of two of FMA Brotherhood, that means that you only get half of the episodes in this collection. Considering you get over 30 episodes, this is actually a pretty hefty collection and definitely has a sizable amount of content in relationship to the price.So, in short, Brotherhood is a fantastic and memorable series that doesn't last long enough to run itself dry, and the first collection you see here is a great way to become addicted to the story of the Elric brothers.


                
There just MIGHT be no #Anime better than this so far (Except DBZ and Death Note) to provide satisfaction on the same level as this show did.A show that transcends all norms of story-telling to deliver a story with utmost thrill and of utmost class. Convoluting with aspects of emotions, visual artistry and narrative to leave an ever-lasting impact on the viewer that MIGHT never be satisfied with another anime.The animation is sharp, crisp and vivid, as well as it is very unique, corresponding to the theme of the story itself. The #Animation is definitely one of the most amazing things about this show and it all comes into focus in the last 10 episodes, where every detail just intensifies the #Climax.The show definitely has adult content in it, in terms of the story and the plot, but it does not shy away from humor and light- heartedness from time to time. The storyline is very well written, as it flows with ease, while offering up all twists and turns.One small thing that just doesn't work well with the show are the different Opening and Ending themes that have been used. Just 2 of the opening themes (Again Yui and Rain Sid) and 1 Ending theme (Let It All Out) complement the show, the rest are just annoying.


                
Adaptations are tricky cases. You want to review the work objectively and fairly, but if you're familiar with the source material, you can't help but have your review colored because of that.Deviations in any adaptation will happen due to practicalities of producing a series or movie. But the true masterful productions manage to deviate while still remaining faithful, and the deviations add to the original charm and character of the source material.FMA: Brotherhood manages to be an almost near transliteration of Hiromu Arakawa's manga, containing very few deviations, and these deviations often are believable considering the context of the fictional canon, and add to the series' charm.Regarding production value, the animation is very slick and detailed, managing to remain smooth throughout. The music is quite good and fits within the context of what's going on. But the real charm is the voice acting. Both in the dub and the sub versions, the voice actors bring these characters to life. Edward and Roy Mustang in particular were gifted with talented voice actors, and they are the ones that often steal the scenes.Regarding the plot, it's suspenseful, entertaining, and full of awesome moments. What's even better is that the plot is built up, and episodes often end in cliffhangers, which basically serves to be a series to be binge watched, and while doing so, time seems to have no value.Overall, it's the characters that sell this show. Each character is deep and developed, and each are awesome, including the villains, but the real plot point is Ed and Alphonse trying to get their bodies back. Each time you pray that they do.Overall, the series gets a 9/10 from me. It's nearly perfect.


                
Long anime series often suffer from several flaws at once: due to the length of the production, the budget for each individual episode is limited, and the quality of art and animation decreases. The scriptwriters have to come up with "filler episodes" to artificially lengthen the plot, taking away the pacing of the series. Finally, with a fixed set of heroes and villains, the same people will fight one another again and again without a decisive victory for either side as that would end the series prematurely.Fortunately, Fullmetal Alchemist is the one exception to that rule. Even at a hefty fifty-one episodes, it retains a high quality standard during its entire length. Not only do art and animation consistently fulfill modern standards, the pacing of the series is nigh-perfect. Except for one side story focusing on a few minor characters, there are no filler episodes whatsoever. Many episodes end on beautifully crafted cliffhangers, and the steady development of the plot will keep everybody excited and waiting for more.The plot itself is also a masterpiece. From an initially highly personal goal, the adventures of the Elric brothers soon start to take a turn for the bigger, culminating in war, death and destruction on a large scale. Characters you've known and loved for twenty episodes will suddenly die, and no one will bring them back. There are many different factions fighting for control of the Philosopher's Stone, and every single one brings a new aspect into the story. Surprisingly, despite the overall larger-than-life plot, all motivations behind the characters' actions are very down-to-Earth, making them believable and even understandable. I'd even go so far to say that Fullmetal Alchemist has the most realistic set of characters of all contemporary anime.It is beyond me why the creators of such a dark and serious series chose to spice it with lots of awkward and often inappropriate slapstick humor. Even in the most dramatic situations, characters will suddenly transform into their chibi forms for a short laugh, and all too many conflicts end like a Roadrunner cartoon. Were they trying to make the plot more attractive for kids? Another (albeit minor) flaw is a slight lack of logic in some details of the script – one episode features the outbreak of a dangerous disease, and in the end, we learn that the disease was intentionally created by a group of people. But there is no explanation for how these people would have the skill to create a new disease, and it even comes out that they shouldn't have such skills at all. While these details are not that important to the main plot itself, it's still unsatisfying to find them.Even with these drawbacks, Fullmetal Alchemist is still one of the best anime series of the new millennium. An enthralling plot, believable characters you will care for and a perfect pacing are a guarantee for good entertainment from the exciting beginning to the powerful ending. If you haven't seen this series so far, make it the next one you start watching.
Now, I've just been recently introduced to anime by some friends of mine and I've managed to come across the 2003 series, Fullmetal Alchemist. And I can say I was astounded at the amount of quality this work contains. I've been an anime fan since.Then a few months after finishing the 2003 series, I saw that there has been a reboot series that followed the course of the original manga, entitled Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood. Admittedly, I was wary of watching since the 2003 series is what introduced me to anime. But was it worth it when I did watch it. The story was vamped up an extra ten times and the characterization was simply breathtaking. Now without taking too much of the plot line, here's my review.For the storyline, I am impressed at the continuity and twists added into it. Each episode is worth the watch and a part of the whole. Missing one episode feels like being ripped out of the story itself. There was hardly any filler and the story was direct and on point. And the ending was one of the mot fulfilling endings to any anime I've watchedThe art style greatly improved since the first series. There was more influence from the original style of the mangaka, Hiromu Arakawa. The background designs are beautiful and breathtaking.I really loved the fact that they elaborated the process within alchemy in this series. The philosophical and historical references add to the touch of mystery and excitement of the show.The music and instrumentals were simply soothing to your ears. Though I do admit I miss some of the background music of the 2003 series.But there are two things that stood out the most for me in this show and those are the characters and the action.The shows characters are the strongest aspects of the show because none of them are boring and flat. They provide you with the experience you want and they stay true to who they are. From the protagonists; Edward and Alphonse Elric to minor characters such as the Briggs soldiers, they all have a significant role in the plot and are fully developed for the role they are assigned.Each of the characters, especially the main and supporting cast, are given there own moments to shine. And their journey hooks you as you watch.The action is exhilarating, well paced, and all around fun. It's just amazing and I don't know how to describe it further.Though the show is amazing and all, there are minor things that irked me and annoyed me. I understand that the first 14 episodes already took place in the 2003 series but it just felt really rushed and half- assed at times. The balance between the chibi slapstick comedy and the serious moments was really off. It had no direction and I really thought it was going to continue. Moments that hit me hard in the first series was really rushed here, though really I understand.Nevertheless, the minor mistakes are completely overshadowed by the sheer awesomeness and heartfelt delivery of the anime and this will surely be one of the best of all time.(I actually watched both Japanese and English of this, though only my opinion, I preferred the English.)


                
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is a near perfect adaptation from the acclaimed manga series. The story follows two likable protagonists Edward and Alphonse Elric, who are both on a quest to restore their original bodies after a failed attempt of bringing their mother back, resulting in Edward having a metal arm and a leg and Alphonse being a soul bonded to a suit of armour. During their quest the two brothers run into a conspiracy that threatens the country and maybe even the planet. The voice acting is flawless and so is the animation, but since nothing is perfect here is the flaws of the series (this is basically nitpicking): 1. The beginning of the series feels rushed. 2. There are a couple things missed out from the manga here and there. Other from these the series is basically perfect and the worst thing about it is that finishing it is extremely upsetting, as it was amazing the whole way through. Overall I think Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is an absolute must watch for anyone, it has brilliant story, characters, animation and the soundtrack is already being replayed over and over on my phone, as every music track is amazing.


                
"One who does not sacrifice anything cannot achieve anything."Not only is this series really enjoyable to watch, there also a lot of complex and well though-out ideas woven into the storyline that add to the adventure and excitement of the series. Overall this series is fantastic, gripping and has many surprises and twists. The final sequence is particularly strong. If there is a weakness here, it would be that the pace becomes a little too slow towards the middle to explain character relationships and feelings as well as subplots that don't appear to contribute with any great substance to the main storyline. However, the animation is fantastic, the characters well portrayed and this is all fitted together with a great soundtrack. Overall a great series and well worth the watch.One of the best anime out there.


                
English is not my language and I'm not talented at it . sorry for my poor writing and thanks for considering .maybe that wasn't best thing happened in my life . maybe the base story about philosopher stone and alchemy is not something favorite for screenplay and maybe the 15 first episode was almost repeated from back and maybe changing a told story is not something good. but there was great things that I can't pass easily .first great thing is connection between characters like brothers and friends and their story and secrets is very good detailed . no character is defined for hate and anything even emotions have a purpose to define to us . everyone had desires , mistakes and weakness and it makes them suffer and think . simply ,story is very good to explain humanity like a mirror of life ! this anime may make you cry , laugh and think ! soundtrack is excellent and very memorable and even opening and ending songs were very good choices . spirit of the story is always moving to forward no matter what gonna happen and it cause very hard scenes that have great dialogs and that all make me wonder sometimes ! fights and battle scenes sometimes was beyond my imagine and with no ego astonishing but few times I was expect more! at the end just wanna say that beside it's enjoyable , it's like something a great experience for knowing our desires . and it was pleasure to see such a good anime !
OK so here we've got Brotherhood, the more manga-related Fullmetal series. I've watched the original series before which I really liked but then again forgot quickly as the plot (especially in the end) became confused and just not satisfying enough. After I've heard numerous people telling how good Brotherhood is, I gave it a try and omg! What a blast! You recognize events from the other series but not just do events make much more sense this time around, everything runs on greater scale and is way better executed (don't be confused: The original series isn't based on the manga during most of its events which means Brotherhood has an entirely different story!). During a series that has like 10 more episodes than "Fullmetal Alchemist", there is a story much deeper but also way more fast-paced - in a good way. Many more fights, a little better graphics and yea, as I said before: Really good story this time around. I consider this to be my all-time-favorite anime besides Death Note (season 1) which is all the way different meaning those two animes don't struggle for no. 1 but easily share this title. Glad I've watched this show after watching the original one.


                
I have to say, as a beginner entering Anime world is pretty daunting task.The huge collection of Anime's in internet makes one wonder, where do I begin? As I Google'd some 15 anime websites claiming they have the best must watch list, every one of them evenhandedly had Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood ranked the 1st or 2nd in their respective must watch list. The series is either ranked 1st or 2nd,rarely 3rd. So I decided, Fullmetal Alchemist:Brotherhood must be worth a shot. And thanks to all of the websites that recommended it, the series was pretty amazing! It had drama, violence, romance(slight), comedy, hardships and more importantly an ending! Its well written story line will keep you entrenched for more. A philosophical adventure of brothers Eric and Alphonse Edwards will not disappoint you, dare I say!


                
I haven't watched first version of Fullmetal Alchemist but I don't think I'll think it's bad after watching the old one. Sense of humor, scenario, drama parts and especially musics are marvelous. I don't remember how many time I laughed, how many time it gave me a creep and how many time I said "get'em". It's also addictive. I was so excited that I couldn't help thinking about the next episode the whole day.I was thinking of giving 10 stars but there is a problem about the boss scenes. Boss fights were complex and I was thinking how they was going to solve this mess. Alright bad guys are going to die but you should do it in a reasonable way. They shouldn't die because they have to die. You should affect the followers of the FMA with reasonable and tricky moves. For instance, Pride was getting weaker and weaker and it was obvious he was going to lose. They should design a fight plot like they did before. But Kimble came out and killed him. King Bradley proved his power and abilities. They shouldn't have killed Bradley like that at the final after the whole fight scenes he was included. But Armstrong's final fight was difficult as it was expected. I'd like to see the other scenes designed like that.I strongly recommend everybody and I wish I shouldn't have watched in order to feel it in the same way.
(A review targeted at someone who has NOT seen either "Fullmetal Alchemist" (2003) (FMA) OR "Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood" (2009) (FAB) recommending viewing order.)I think that it is debatable as to whether FAB is a better series than the original 2003 version. I will explain in depth later in this review about the unique strengths, and flaws, that both these series have- especially when compared to one another. For this review, I will take the position that the 2009 remake is the superior version to hopefully remove any thoughts of bias. To be honest, I don't feel that it is particularly THAT important to state which series is better or not. The two shows become so divergent in plot and lore that it is only fair to judge them in isolation for how they succeed as individual tv shows. However, it did seem a pretty baffling, and potentially disastrous, idea to remake the original series in the first place. The 2003 series was already a great show (I also gave it an 8/10) so there didn't seem any need to remake the series after only 6 years. It didn't seem like there was much to be improved upon. I watched FA for the first time earlier this year and immediately followed it up by watching FAB. This, I feel, has given me a strong ability to make a fair comment about both shows. After finishing FAB, I thought to myself; "how would I recommend Fullmetal Alchemist to someone who hasn't seen EITHER show?". The CLEAR answer in my mind is that anyone who HASN'T seen anything Fullmetal Alchemist should watch the original series FIRST before following it up with the 2009 remake. This is what I did, having had the ability to watch both completed shows in 2018 and it is what I heavily recommend to any prospective viewer.So why do I recommend that the reader of this review should watch FA before deciding to watch FAB? Namely, that the start of FA is its greatest strength whilst, comparatively, the start of FAB is its greatest weakness. My recommendation is a mix of not risking depriving your experience of the original series as well as ENHANCING your experience of the remake. A mere 14 episodes of FAB condenses some (roughly) 34 episodes of FA before the plots of the two shows truly diverge! It is important to understand that FA is only 51 episodes long, whereas FAB runs for 69. Watching FAB first puts a HUGE dent in your viewing experience of FA. It goes without saying that a lot of great content is lost in that conversion process. Some of the best episodes in FA; such as "Night of the Chimera's Cry" "Words of Farewell" and "Mother" are far superior to their remade equivalents "An Alchemist's Distress" "Separate Destination" and "The First Day". The cast of characters collectively suffer from this major decrease in screen time with some suffering more than others. Most notably characters like Shou Tucker, Barry the Chopper but especially Meas Hughes are not given the same amount of development as before and don't establish as strong a connection with the Elric brothers either. This impairs the audience's emotional investment in these characters and the events that they are involved in. I intend to review the episodes "An Alchemist's Distress" and "The First Day" later at some point which will go in more detail as to WHY they pale in comparison to FA's handling of the same material. When I was watching the first 14 episodes of FAB it felt as if it was expected that the audience had seen FA before and seems more of a summary of events rather than an intimate story of the events that unfold. I also felt that the way the episodes were presented was often cartoonish when compared to the original to give the episodes a different vibe. Some of the more dramatic elements are handled in a more over-the-top fashion; it lacks the subtle elements that the multiple episodes of FA were able to accumulate over several episodes regarding a conflict (or event) which FAB covers in one. It's an understandable (and by no means overly negative) limitation. There's also a fair amount of exposition that you need to get past for the same reason. You'll see comments from multiple rave reviews that share their initial disappointment to the start of the series before being bought over by the new story this series tells (as I eventually was to).On the other hand, when FAB finally breaks free to run its own path it really hit its stride in spectacular fashion. When I mentioned that the start of FA was its greatest strength, the flip side is that it fails to wrap up its storyline as strongly as it began (ending in the rather disappointing "Fullmetal Alchemist the movie: Conqueror of Shamballa"). However, FAB goes from strength to strength expanding deeply into the lore and the world that FA initially introduced (albeit in a new direction entirely). It introduces new characters which replace staples of FA who you would have thought would have been deeply missed. Namely, the addition of characters like General Armstrong, Father and Ling fit in very naturally to the show. Other characters are completely transformed or massively expanded on like Greed, Selim, Yoki and Hohenheim. This makes up for the shortcomings of certain characters who were handled better in FA mentioned earlier. I think that it was ultimately a wise and economical decision to invest more of the show's efforts to exploring what happens AFTER what we already know from FA considering that it was already handled perfectly there. With 55 episodes freed up to explore the shows new direction its hardly surprising! The show ends on a far grander scale than the original with many different characters coming into play chasing their own motivations which is quite well addressed across the board. I hope that you understand now about how well FA manages to complement FAB so well (this is not a relationship which works in the opposite direction though).In my opinion, the perfect Fullmetal Alchemist show has the beginning of FA but the ending of FAB. I think every Fullmetal Alchemist fan who has watched both shows will have their own unique idea about the stuff they would have liked to have kept, or lost, from each show and that is part of what makes the viewing experience so interesting! Whatever way you choose to watch Fullmetal Alchemist KNOW that you are watching a highly mature, exceptionally animated, show with fantastic characters, conflict and intrigue. Heavily recommended for any anime fan or someone new to the genre.


                
If 2003's Fullmetal Alchemist is all about balancing out the sad and disturbing elements with goofy and funny moments, than 2009's Brotherhood is all about comedic and action packed fun. Not as deep, complex or interesting as the 2003 animated classic. But as comedic and action packed fun go, this is one of the best examples of it. The characters are all likable, the story keep you rooked, the animation is just unbelievable! (How sad is the fact that a anime almost 10 years old looks better than Boruto, who is still running to this day!) And the soundtrack is just pitch perfect. I definitely recommend this one if you wanna have a good time!


                
One of my favorite animes!!! Love it!! Made me laugh and cry


                
After watching the original Fullmetal Alchemist I will admit that I am slightly disappointed with this show. From reading all about it, I was convinced that Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood would be the better one of the two, however I do not believe that this is the case. This show over uses the same joke, sometimes it's multiple times per episode. I find that the show would do better without humour, hence most of the jokes are the same or not quite funny. Unlike in the original anime, the first part is quite rushed. Everything happens at a quick pace, such as the introduction of new characters and the plot in general. The first part is very similar to the original anime, however after that plot wise, everything changes. New characters are in this series and new side plots are involved as well. The show has a lot of slow episodes ones after another. I found it hard to get through some of the episodes without becoming bored. A lot of negatives were said however, the she overall is good. The characterization for the majority of the characters is handled very well, the characters develop a lot throughout the series from the beginning to the end. The new side plots are interesting, not to mention the unexpected twists. The plot overall is great, and the fact that the show follows more than one storyline at a time and does it so successfully is amazing. Although it is not in my opinion as good as the original, it is still a show I'd recommend watching. 7.8/10


                
