It used to be a great show, very funny and interesting. But season 5 was unwatchable, boring and not funny, all over the place. Some characters got extremely annoying and stupid even for this silly show.
I am done with it for good. Hopefully there will be no more seasons.


                
I have only just watched the first season. Decided to watch the entire season 1 because I saw it has higher rating than my other favorite shows like Friends, Its Always Sunny, How I Met Your Mother, Big Bang Theory. I have to say that I am extremely disappointed. This show is just painfully unfunny, and not entertaining. I also found that the storyline is a little bit confusing, and boring. :((((. The only good thing about this series maybe are the actors, although I found most of the characters are extremely annoying and get on my nerves. The joke is very forced, and does not really makes sense. I do not feel like watching the entire series, and does not find myself addicted to it, as other shows normally did to me. I think that this is one of the most over-rated show ever. Very disappointed! :(


                
This show is probably the dumbest/worst show I've ever seen in my life. all he characters are painfully boring or disgusting. no one in the show seems to have a sense of humor and i continued watching to see if it got funnier. SPOILER it didn't at all. will arnet was only funny in semi pro and is so bad in this and they have this one guy that just is repulsive. how on earth is him planting pubic hair into his head and seeing him gush blood every time he's on camera at all funny. i will give it to them, one seen where that boy goes for class president i was like hey this 3 second clip could actually be funny, but it wasn't like the whole show. whenever someone tells you this show is good, they're lying. it absolutely sucks and you're just gonna waste your time watching it in hopes that it will get better, but selling bananas can only carry a show so far. and that length is approx. 1 sec after the show starts.


                
I don't care if nobody finds this review helpful, I figure that my thoughts need to be said. I don't know why so many people love this show. This show is dumb and overrated. When it got canceled, it got what it deserved. I don't know why they brought it back. It isn't funny. I don't know why it's on the top rated shows on this site when it should be on the bottom rated shows. There is absolutely no continuity between episodes and it is hard to understand anything that goes on in it. It is hard for me to like this show when I watch it. I doubt that I'd ever watch it again to change my mind. I just don't get it. This show is worthless and dumb. If someone can tell me how it is actually good, I wouldn't mind, but for now, I'll never understand this show and never see why people like it. This isn't the worst show I've ever seen, but it is definitely the most overrated. I give it an F.


                
I started watching the show online last month...After watching the first 3 seasons I thought wow this show is brilliant and hilarious and would easily rate it 9/10...until I started season 4 and seriously it is painfully boring...I couldn't get past the 5th episode. The 4th season is totally dry. Not one laugh. Everything goes on way too long. No heart. No comedy. No irony. overall I would give the show 1/10 because of 4th season. The story line in season 4 cannot be followed and hops around like a blind rabbit. finishing the 5th episode was like torture. it really ruined the show for me. Season 4 is the WORST. SHOW. EVER. I can't even bother to go into details -- what a waste of everyone's time.


                
I thought I would give Arrested Development a watch since it has been getting so many rave reviews. I acquired all three seasons, and after watching 2.5 episodes, I'm really disappointed.First, the humor is so predictable in this show. All of the characters act like complete idiots and you always know when something stupid is going to come out of their mouths. Michael is the only normal character, which makes one wonder why he puts up with the the other ones in the first place.Has the bar for quality television been lowered so far as to give a show like Arrested Development such a stellar rating? Apparently so. This show reminds of Family Guy but with real people doing the acting. Even the little 'off screen shots' are similar to that of The Family Guy. I've gotta say though, Family Guy is funnier! At least it's a cartoon and there's an excuse for the stupidity.


                
I've been told that maybe AD is just not my kind of comedy. That statement is, however, untrue. When I heard about this show coming out all those years ago, I was looking forward to it with such anticipation. On the night it premiered, I was practically bouncing up and down the whole night.Then it actually came on the air.[...]I had no idea what to do with it! I knew I didn't like it, but I kept thinking maybe it would get better. Of course, it didn't. Week after week, bomb after bomb, it just failed. It let me down. The jokes were staged very poorly. The performances are deplorable. Which brings me to one of the things I have always hated most in television history-- "I'm half machine! *I'm a monsteeeeeeeeeer!*" That line was terrible, and it summed up one side of the show for me: the massively overblown, painful side.Sadly, the only other "side" to "Arrested Development" is the massively underblown, also painful side. I hope this show stays buried. But, hey, AD fans-- enjoy! Clearly you enjoy it-- I don't want to stand in the way! Just don't try to convert me, as someone I know once did. That was another thing that turned me off of this show.


                
This is my first. With the rating this had, I wanted to see this. And for awhile, I was mystified how this received such a high rating. Then it hit me that this probably had something to do with Florida. The racial "humor" is just plain transparent. No comic timing. The voice-over is extremely irritating. And we're talking about real talent being wasted. Is it the the editing? Is it the big interfering hand of Rudy Murchant? Strange it is just how little comic relief can be wrung from environmental issues, gay rights, and a myriad of other quite serious issues that face us as a nation (USA). This is the last product I purchase that is presented in foxy wrapping paper. I get a feeling they just went above, beyond and down under. I certainly hope I am not accused of holding a kangaroo court, but when in Rome. Even the language bleeping had the hollow ring of protecting family values, when in essence, no such values were ever presented or even intended.


                
After hearing a couple of good things from a couple people I decided to finally watch this show... I was told by many people that this show is absolutely hilarious and this was a major lie. To be honest this show is a sad excuse for a TV show. I would never recommend this to anyone.. If you want a half decent show go and watch arrow or 24 and If you can stomach it, the always delightful Sons Of Anarchy. If you want to watch this for the comedy just stop don't waste your time and do something else. People who recommend this are probably boring nobody's. I would honestly rather watch the 24th season of the Simpsons for heavens sake. From a fellow actors standpoint watching Jason Bateman and Michael Cera trying to engage in some "non pathetic" dialog is like the handy of television... Its not what you really want and in the end you just end up resenting them. Overall horrible production and poor dialog, they might as well arrest the creators of the show, that would be some arrested development.


                
I found the first few episodes OK and kept watching because I generally love shows and movies about dysfunctional selfish people and their interactions. Intelligent perspectives on human behavior are comedy goldmines. Unfortunately this show gradually stops portraying the characters as unlikable dysfunctional people but rather wants us to find them hilarious and adorable. It doesn't succeed in making them hilarious and adorable either so after a while you are just watching a bunch of people talking to each other, repeating recycled jokes. You get bored. The story lines are excruciatingly slow and empty. There are themes that they insist on going on and on with that are just not funny, like the old lady dating Buster or the father going Jewish in prison were just cringe (S 1). Same themes have been really funny in other shows so it's just a matter of the writers and producers not being able to deliver. All in all, the actors really do a good enough job, and I might have given it a 5. But the racial humor cost them those extra stars in my review. Racial humor can be very entertaining. But again, they couldn't deliver on that either and the jokes are just vulgar and downright racist. I get the feeling this was made for a niche market and I am definitely not in the target group. Im guessing the good reviews come from people who are more or less in that niche, or they were written after having watched just a few episodes? If you like intelligent comedy about human interaction, a story line that moves forward and pauses with subplots that are funny and not repeated to death, if you don't enjoy racism creeping up on you, then you are not in the target group either.
This show Horrible ridiculously, its the most try hard show I ever seen, peoplesay its so funny, I watched it 20 minutes in and I feel like I wasted20 minutes, seriously annoyed off waste my time, this show is no whereclose to breaking bad..I wouldn't recommend watching this showNow breaking bad is a rock solid showOne of the worst shows everI am a sophisticated guy, and I like sophisticated humor, this show has all wana be humor, get rid of it already, people like this stuff just don't use their brain...


                
Arrested Development is probably my least favorite comedy series. It's boring, every episode is the exact same thing, the family making fun of each other. It's funny at first, but I can't stand it after the 10th episode.


                
Seriously, the ratings are shocking... 8.7/10! How? I hardly ever laughed, this is not even funny...


                
Watched the first season, trying to figure out what's so good about it. Ive got nothing. Its not good. Its not bad. Its not funny. Its not weird. Its just 20 minutes of blandness.


                
This is not a good show for anyone with any sort of memory of other comedic art forms or a sense of what should happen next comedically. Nevertheless, there are some ways to enjoy it. Here they are: 1. Watch it after a long day at work (preferably mental). This way you won't be able to think as fast and you'll find it much more hilarious, like its few fans.2. Repeatedly impact your face into your television set. With a bit of luck this will kill enough brain cells to let you appreciate the comedy in all its "glory".3. Try to stop thinking for the duration of the episode you happen to be watching. Let the jokes wash over you and laugh whenever you see something which made you laugh when you saw it in that other sitcom/movie/website/newspaper/magazine you saw it in.4. Watch it with a small child. Try to become the small child so that you'll like this show. If that fails, just laugh when they laugh. Your friends will think you're "cool".5. Watch it while affected by some nice opiates. These should have a double-barreled effect: slowed thinking and euphoria. You can't lose.Of course, if you think slowly as a matter of routine you won't have to follow these tips. You're one of the lucky ones. For the rest of you, the above should help somewhat, but if you still don't find it funny, there's nothing wrong with you; you're just too clever.This how-to was written while listening to "Lohengrin", composed by Richard Wagner.


                
