Season 1-3 is good and funny but Season 4 & 5 is atrocious.


                
It was really really great show, but then came the Netflix and ruined it.


                
This actually feels like a chunk of the problems with this shows last 2 seasons. Much of the original comedy of the show was based around George Michael. Now that character is supposed to be a Man, but doesnt look it, and isnt a comedy character now. It took 2 painful at times episodes full of over narration before we got the family together and we got some comedy. Then its instantly followed up by a long awkward dull conversation in a hallway with George Michael and his father which instantly killed the momentum.
Seasons 1 through 3 are great, in every sense. Season 4 has a few good running gags, but I'd say over all the new seasons by Netflix are not good. I used to rate it a 9, but considering these new seasons, I lower it to a 7.


                
About the time that I wrote my original review it was half-way through the 3rd season, which at the time I thought was premature seeing as I had another season and a half to go. But I wrote the good review because I thought that seeing as how I didn't like the show the first time that I watched it (not having laughed once in the first 3 episodes and then gave up) and now I'm laughing my ass off and liking it, that I would like it in it's entirety. Nope. Don't get me wrong, I thought the first 2 seasons were great, but by the 3rd season it just gradually started to go downhill for me. And then the 4th season! Good god! I stopped watching about midway point, having not laughed once the entire time. I may have smiled but even that was a task in itself. I understand they brought it back because of it's high demand but they shouldn't have. And thank god they didn't make it into a movie instead. I guess i'm in the minority here, but am I alone in seeing how uninspired the cast were? I mean even the best part of the show, Will Arnett, looked like he was struggling for inspiration. And how do you screw up using Jeffrey Tambor? I don't know what happened to Portia de Rossi but she looked sickly that I almost felt sorry for her. I don't know. All I know is that the show disappointed me again and it is all out of chances. I'm done. Had it been consistent throughout I may have given it a 10, which I would give to the first 2 seasons on their own, the 3rd season I would give maybe a 7, and then maybe a 1 or 2 for the 4th, which I say equals to a generous 6.
If I could only review seasons 1-3 I'd give them a solid 10, the writing is great and every actor does really well with the script. Unfortunately, seasons 4 and 5 exist. Season 4 is pretty bad, each episode centres around a character, so we never really see the whole family together. This was done because of scheduling issues, but it ruins the season.This isn't the only issue, however. Before the release of season 5, Netflix released a remixed version of season 4, which was much closer to the original 3 seasons. Instead of there being an episode for each character, scenes from the previous episodes are put in a different order. This does make the season better, but it doesn't save it from the bad writing and weird plot.Season 5 is a lot better, however. The writing is funnier and the characters act much closer to how they acted originally. It still isn't up to the same level of greatness that seasons 1-3 were, but it's a huge improvement over season 4.If you want to get into this show, watch seasons 1-3, and only watch after that if you absolutely must.


                
Arrested Development is not a bad TV-show. It's a funny and smartly written comedy. But it stops there.It'll be natural for me to compare Arrested Development to The Office, since those are the two most successful comedy shows over the past years. Both shows have their own hilarious moments and both shows are all around funny. But why did Arrested Development get canceled after their third season and The Office were going strong for 8? I'll tell you: it's all about the characters.While Mitchell Hurwitz mainly cares about funny slapstick-humor and intern jokes in AD, Greg Daniels also manage to write "side-storys" in The Office. Stories that goes on over a long time (Jim and Pam, Michael Scott's loneliness etc). Those stories on the side made us care for the characters in The Office. We can relate to many of them. Hurwitz tries to do the same in AD, but fails dramatically. Hurwitz tries to give Michael Bluth many of the same "qualities" as Michael Scott, really. We learn about his dead wife, and this alone is supposed to make us feel sorry for him. Hurwitz is also trying to tell us that this overprotective father has lady-problems, but Michael usually ends up in bed with every single woman he meets in the show. Mitchell Hurwitz tries to show the viewers Michael Bluth's loneliness, but it doesn't work. Another situation in this series which are very much alike is the George Michael/Maeby- situation and the Jim/Pam-situation. Impossible love. Jim and Pam are two characters that we all can relate to. Again; we care about them and want them to be happy. It might just be me, but I'm not even close to feel the same way with George Michael and Maeby. Michael Cera and Alia Shawkat are great actors, but their characters are pretty bad.As I've said; I do think Arrested Development is a very funny TV-show, but it stops there. I don't feel a connection with any of the characters as I did with many of the characters in The Office. But maybe that's not the point. Maybe Hurwitz just wants to write a funny comedy show, and nothing more. This show will not go in the history books a show that changed television, as I think The Office i capable of. Summed up: Arrested Development is something you want to watch if you want to see a car with stairs and a whole bunch of ostriches. Watch something else if you want to get more from your money.


                
I heard a lot about this sitcom. And now I know why actually people actually talking about it. It is actually very enjoyable to watch actually.What I like about the show is that it is very easy going making it free and presurable to see. The joke is very casual and easy to get; very laidback. The character is awesome with different of personality and the situation is never the same making it unpredictable, which is a very good. Anyway, Though this might not be the best of the sitcom, but Arrested Development is still extremely entertaining to watch and make one of the best pass time sitcom. Plus some of the humor are killer.Recommendation: I Watch It Again And Again, And I Want MoreRating: 7/10 (Grade: C+)


                
Throughout its original run, Arrested Development received overwhelming critical acclaim. It is widely regarded as one of the defining comedies of the 2000s and has been praised by many critics as one of the greatest comedies of all time. In 2007, the show was listed as one of Time magazine's "100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME". Mugshot arrested development.Randall Amiel of Entertainment Weekly praised the series, saying "Is it beating a dead horse to once again state that this under-appreciated gem is the best sitcom on TV? Too bad. Arrested Development is the best sitcom on TV!" David Bianculli from the New York Daily News stated "If you're not watching this series on Fox, the least you can do is buy it on DVD. You'll love it, and it's such a dense show (in the best sense of the word) that it rewards repeated viewing. Like Scrubs and the British version of The Office, it is the sort of show that truly deserves to be seen uninterrupted, several episodes at a time, for maximum enjoyment. The laughs-per-minute quotient here is insanely high, making it great value as a home library purchase." In 2004, the first season received seven Emmy Award nominations with five wins. It won for Outstanding Comedy Series, Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series, Outstanding Casting for a Comedy Series, Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series and Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series.


                
I don't really understand most of the previous reviews.AD is OK, but it ain't the best show ever, like everybody is constantly telling you. Smart jokes, but its getting the same so after a few episodes so you can predict where its getting at. Because of this some episodes are actually kinda boring. Therefore Id give the show a 7, but definitely no 9.6!The second season is just as good as the first one, maybe even better because its getting a little less predictable.Don't let this review demotivate you, watching AD wont be a waste of your time.


                
