The first 3 seasons were great. The 4th season had some good jokes but was just boring. The 5th season premiered a few weeks ago and was very funny but still not as good as the first seasons, it was better than the 4th season and had a better plot


                
I haven't seen a 30 minutes comedy this good since Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1990); although quite different in style, it is as effective for the laugh factor. Packed with sarcastic humour and held together by good acting and directing, this is a witty, twisted incarnation of today's family breakdown. The only flaw I see is that it can get a little over-the-top or try to make jokes that are too easy some times, but in general, the timing and delivery of everything hits the mark repeatedly. Watching it on DVD, I'm only half-way through the first season, but can already see the superior quality of this show and can't wait to see (and laugh) more.Try it. It won't hurt (well, maybe your stomach and throat a little...)


                
You can't deny that Arrested Development isn't funny I don't know why it had to end but the show was worth the watch. The person I always felt sorry for was Micheal Bluth a man who tries so hard to be good and always gets into problems. The family are the most dysfunctional, not Family Guy dysfunctional people you can think of. It's a shame it had been taken off. But if you want to watch syndicates of it G4 is showing them weekly.It deserved at least an extra three more episodes, I wonder what happens to Micheal and his son after he escaped. And what becomes of the family I don't know, but to be honest the only person who really needs a happy ending is Micheal


                
Only just started watching it 16 years after it first aired - Jason Bateman is so good at playing Jason Bateman in every role always the hard done by overlooked underachiever !Great supporting cast especially the bizarre character Tobias of and the incredibly sexy and unbelievable wife played by 1994 Sirens Portia di RossiThe writers must have watched SOAP in the 1980s as this is the funniest and wackiest sit com to come from across the pond since then .Brilliant 8/10


                
After an underwhelming fourth season, "Arrested Development" returns with a fifth season that seems cheaply made up of unused leftovers. All the problems that plagued the fourth season are here: The plot is too complicated, the actors barely share any scenes together, the humor is forced, and nobody seems to want to be there (with the lone exception of Portia De Rossi, who makes a valiant attempt to rise above the lukewarm material). It refuses to reveal any of the mysteries from the last season and leaves a number of plot threads hanging, which highlights just how creatively bankrupt this revival has been so far.


                
This was the final season of the brilliant, hilarious sitcom's original run, and the rather rushed production (as a result of a reduced episode order halfway through) is sometimes evident. Plot points are rushed through and the show's overall narrative arc endures a number of out-of-nowhere twists that start to add up a bit too fast. Nevertheless, the elements that made the first seasons so enchanting are still here, in particular the extraordinarily well-layered writing and the precise, irreproachable comedic acting by the wonderfully talented cast. Jessica Walter emerges as the season's most valuable player here, managing to humanize Lucille without sacrificing the character's defining aloofness.


                
It's a downright miracle that this second season to Fox's "Arrested Development" is just as extraordinarily written, acted and organized as the brilliant first season. Jason Bateman remains the show's primary comedy weapon, able to play the ultimate straight man to everybody's shenanigans, while the supporting cast provides some of the best comedic support imaginable. The writing is some of the best I've ever heard in a television show let alone a comedy, and the season is filled with excellent episodes like "Burning Love," "Out on a Limb" and the endlessly rewatchable "Motherboy XXX." Watch for some excellent guest turns by returning regulars Liza Minnelli and Judy Greer.


                
I absolutely loved seasons 1-3 but I'm not sure what happened after that. I laughed so much during the first three seasons and the characters were great! I was extremely bored with season four and now I'll see what season five brings...


                
This is an excellent series created by Fox. The first 3 seasons are really great filled with funny moments and dialogues. The casting is good, directing is good and the script, although a little bit out there, but is above average.I wished they wouldn't end this when watched the last episode of season 3. The series returned for a season 4 after 7 years, I watched the first episode of it and ... well, it didn't feel like Arrested Development. The actors had changed a lot, and I just couldn't buy it. Plus, the camera work was kind of odd, I mean it's Arrested Development, the camera should be moving constantly, but it wasn't like this in the first episode of season 4. For the first few episodes I was really disappointed, I kept telling my self: "Don't worry, it gets better" ... It didn't.Actors had changed a lot: The only thing left from Lindsay was her voice! Tobias had gotten fat, George Michael looked like he was recently in a car accident - kinda stupid, Michael had also changed a lot. Buster and GOB hadn't changed much but they were nowhere to be seen in this episode. The only one who hadn't changed a bit was Lucille - which is worse than not changing at all!!Each episode in season 4 portraits one of the characters as the main character and shows events from their point of view. So for example, you end up watching one scene from 7 different views (it happened). It's nice to notice new angles of what happened but it's kinda predictable at first and well you get tired of it after some time.The ending ... Don't even get me started on that! It was awful, so many loose ends. They're saying that there's going to be an Arrested Development movie or maybe season 5. I don't know about that, I just know that season 4 didn't start well, didn't go well and particularly didn't end well.All in all, watch the first three seasons and then kiss the series good bye. Why would you ruin your good memories of Arrested Development by watching the fourth season?! Take my word for it..


                
The show is pretty good, some of the comedy is really clever/subtle (may be 5 mins. per show), but then most of the other stuff is really silly, juvenile kind of comedy. I just watched the first two seasons on a rented DVD and I was disappointed for the most part, had really high expectations. Tobias, Michael, and George-Michael were the only characters who had really clever writing/delivery, most of the other characters have lame writing and any comedy from them is silly 90% of the time. Especially Will A.(Gob); he relied on outlandish delivery to be funny. I blame most of it on writing for his character. Also the Buster and Michael's parents are NOT FUNNY AT ALL! Especially the Buster guy, he was quite annoying. There is an amateurish feel to the show and the writing is inconsistent (some scenes are really funny and others are dull, boring, and totally predictable once you know the characters). It seems like the show has a cult following by now so this review will not sit well with those who rate it highly, but honestly there is no way this should be more than a 7/10.
Season 4 and 5 are proof that maybe some shows should remain cancelled. Because, for one, there's barely any story and the humor that distinguished the early season is totally gone. It's clear that Netflix is trying to milk the popularity of the show without putting in half an ounce of what made the show popular in the first place!Enjoy the first 3 seasons and be prepared to be baffled, if not downright upset, by the mediocrity of seasons 4 and 5.


                
Released ahead of the fifth season ostensibly as a sort of mea culpa following the tepid response to the highly anticipated fourth season on Netflix, this "remixed" version rearranges the events of the season to match the structure of the original three seasons. Unfortunately, it only serves to highlight how confusing and overstuffed the narrative is, including recaps up to six minutes long, and the majority of the jokes and set-ups feel strained and forced. A number of new characters (ranging from Maria Bamford to John Slattery to a sorely underused Mary Lynn Rajskub) distract from the already-overabundant proceedings, and it's rare to see the returning characters in the same scenes together, which makes the whole thing feel fractured and unnecessary. This season seems to be have been driven by audience demand and not organic inspiration, and the finished result is an interminable facsimile of the original show.


                
Few shows qualify as a beloved cult classic more than "Arrested Development." The Ron Howard-narrated sitcom is unlike anything that came before or since: All the characters are extraordinarily well-defined, not to mention perfectly cast and performed by a hyper-talented cast, while the writing is so multifaceted and packed that repeated viewings reveal new layers to a significant number of jokes. Among the many stand-out performers, Jason Bateman's deadpan delivery anchors the show's more over-the-top elements in a grounded reality while simultaneously highlighting the hilarious absurdities at the heart of nearly every interaction, and Liza Minnelli does outstanding recurring guest work throughout the season. It's one of those shows that's just as hilarious and biting as it's reputation suggests, and still stands up after many viewings.


                
Watching this in 2018 (including the new season produced together with Netflix) and Arrested Development still remains very much a brilliant comedy.The writing is very good, the group of characters very well put together and they have not straight formula for success - they are not dependent on single character, they are not dependent on a single bit, they have no obvious formula, other than being masterfully written.This will make you laugh a lot, without a single audience giggle (who wants those, seriously?) and it will keep suprising you throughout.Netflix's new go at the show is very good, although somewhat tiring to watch as it basically goes back and forth on the show's timeline quite a bit and oyu may get a lost if not watching everything in a row.Still, very refreshing to be able to get new stories about this lovely group of characters which to be honest differ from anything that's out there in the genre.


                
Funny show. Jason Bateman has come a long way since. Not sure why they needed to revive this series with the latest season. It's kind of fizzled out.


                
It's not every day you come across a show with the history that the popular sitcom "Arrested Development" has. This show was on for three seasons and it got cancelled after the third season due to low ratings. A good number of audiences were upset by its cancellation, while some new audiences took a look back at the past seasons. And I guess critics and audiences alike liked the past seasons enough to the point where this show is now officially back on the air only on Netflix. It should be noted that I've only seen the first season of this show so far. In other words, this review will be solely based on season one. Based on what I've seen from season one of "Arrested Development", I can understand why people like this show. Though I wouldn't go as far as to say that it's one of my favorite shows. "Arrested Development" centers around Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) who tries to keep his dysfunctional family together and try to prevent certain family members from doing something stupid. Amongst Michael's family members are his son (Michael Cera) who seems to try a little too hard to live up to his father's standards, his trouble-making father (Jeffrey Tambor), his alcoholic mother (Jessica Walter) who is judgmental of every family member. There's also his socially awkward younger brother (Tony Hale), his older brother (Will Arnett) who is an unsuccessful magician, his spoiled twin sister (Portia de Rossi), her husband (David Cross) who is also an actor, and their rebellious daughter (Alia Shawkat). The show follows these family members and whatever funny situations they experience. I can't say that I'm a fan of either Michael Cera or Will Arnett, but I find them tolerable in this show. I liked how in one episode I've seen, Will Arnett's character tries to break out of prison, gets beaten up in prison, is sent to the hospital, and in his hospital bed, he simply says "Ta-da". That was a good joke. If the actor came up with more comedic material like that, I'd be less mixed on him as a comedic actor. As for Michael Cera, he does do the same old routine he would continue on doing later in his career. His act works here though because it fits with the character he plays as opposed to just being awkward and tiresome. This is one of those shows in which I am able to identify with the characters and yet unable to identify with them both at the same time. Tony Hale's character, aka the socially awkward brother, is a great example. Like him, I seem to get along more with people older than me than I do with people younger than me. But at the same time, I wouldn't date anyone that was at least 10 years older than me because that would be too weird. Portia de Rossi's character, aka the spoiled twin sister, is another noteworthy example. While I'm willing to admit that I'm used to living the good life and not having to take care of everything, I'm also pretty careful when it comes to deciding how much money to spend on a weekly basis unlike Portia de Rossi's character. The other characters are interesting including Michael's father, played by Jeffrey Tambor. I like how in the first few episodes when he's in prison, he says to his son that he actually likes it there and claims that it's like being on vacation. That's one way of looking at time in prison. As a writer, I'm up for looking at things through different points of view. David Cross' character, aka the husband of Michael's sister, is also entertaining. His funniest moment is when he and his wife attend couples therapy in one episode and this therapy turns into an acting rehearsal of sorts for him as the therapist has taken interest in his profession. I don't want to reveal too much but that story in that episode is hilarious because of David Cross. While I don't think that I'd declare "Arrested Development" one of the greatest television sitcoms like everyone else seems to, I do understand why critics and audiences generally like it. I like most of the characters. A majority of the jokes hit their targets. The acting in general is well done. The storytelling is efficient and so is the narration by Ron Howard that accompanies it. Even if a couple episodes or jokes aren't quite up my alley, I'd still say that this show is worth a look.


                
