After watching the whole series, I must say this was a total disappointment, and the ultimate proof about how things are done in Hollywood: good contacts, speaking loud, and making the audience believe they are smarter than they really are because the series it's "intelligent".From the very beginning there were lots of things that didn't add up, but we let them pass, such as full-election process in a refugee fleet, including public debates and such, as if anyone of the 48.000 survivors could care about politicians after their worlds, friends and family had just been killed. Boomer's sabotages to the fleet didn't make much sense, but they were interesting. Cain's "reimagining" was just a one-dimensional creation, a square warmonger who -as always happens with writers who dislike the military- is ultimately proved wrong in almost everything she does. Things got gradually worse, starting with the one-year jump, and the introduction of the "final five", a concept that most likely was spurned by fans who were asking themselves who were the remaining "models", instead of writers who actually had anything planned for those characters.While the show garnered critical acclaim, viewers left in droves. Those who remained could be ultimately divided into two groups: the fanatics, for whom anything with the brand "Galactica" (excluding the old show) was God turned into television, and regular viewers who were giving the show the benefit of the doubt, hoping that things could be salvaged at the end with a plausible explanation.The show's decline, however, became even more pronounced in the last seasons. Instead of fixing the glaring problems of the previous seasons, they introduced new ones, contradicting a lot of stuff, and creating whole story lines -the aforementioned "final five", for example- that in the end turned out to be just a big red herring. Even worse, they committed the worse sin for a show supposedly grounded in reality, even being sci-fi: they resorted to "divine intervention" to explain the whole plot and most of the central story lines. Two characters, one barely seen, suddenly became "angels", while another was turned into a "divine creature", without even the most basic explanation. The whole epilogue for the characters was a disaster, pulling the "emotional strings" while throwing logic out of the window.To add insult to injury, the show's lack of appeal forced a number of obvious budget cuts, but at the same time, the number of episodes per season was increased from 13 to 20. As a result, we ended up with a sci-fi show with little sci-fi at all, with almost no action to speak of (space or otherwise), and tons of episodes to the top with filler. Of course, that filler was filmed as if it were "relevant" and "dramatic", with hand held cameras and dramatic lighting, no matter if it was just two guys speaking about nothing in a corridor.As always, a number of fanatics claimed, as they will always claim, that the show was about the characters, about "drama", and never about space battles and such. They are wrong. Battlestar Galactica was sold as a sci-fi drama, not just "drama", and that's the reason it was green lit in the first place. Those who claim that Galactica was always what it turned out to be in the last disastrous seasons should take a look at what it was in the beginning.In the end, the problem was one person -Ron Moore- with too much power and ego to make "just" a sci-fi series. He had the means, and ultimately proved his detractors right exactly about what they were trying to say from the beginning: that Moore, and Galactica, were all show and no substance, with soap-operish drama, weak actors -with a few exceptions in Olmos, McDonnell and a couple more-. Not only that, but by trying to write himself out of his corner, Moore's writing turned most of the events in the earlier seasons totally unnecessary, ruining the series as a whole.So farewell, BSG 2004. You went the way of the do-do at the end, and just like the X-Files, managed to survive as long as you could avoid giving answers. I doubt anyone would want to re-watch the series knowing how useless everything turns out to be.
The fans of this show, like to use the excuse that the negative reviews are only from un-reasoning fans of the original, who don't like the new version. So let's look at it objectively, regardless of the original.What are the positives about the new Galactica? 1 - It's gritty, and feels realistic (atmospherically) 2 - The production quality is top-notch 3 - Imperfect characters with personal conflictsAnd what are its failings? 1 - The gritty and realistic approach is so forced, as to negate its positive effects. Shaky camera work has its place, but this is one of those shows that tries so hard to use the technique, it makes NYPD look like it was shot with a tripod. Over compensation. It's as though the film makers are embarrassed to be making Science Fiction, and try their hardest to hide the fact. 2 - The production quality IS top-notch, but so were the new Star Wars films, and I think most people would agree, they weren't anywhere near what they could've been. 3 - The characters are SO imperfect, that they become unrealistic caricatures, and the viewer loses any sympathy whatsoever for the leads. Also, not ALL humans are selfish, self-absorbed nihilists. If this show wanted to be realistic, at least SOME of the characters WOULD be good people (Who can still make the odd mistake).Many of the fans claim this is superior television, because "it isn't scifi, it's drama". They show a complete lack of knowledge for the genre they are criticising. Their view of SF is probably dictated by a few old Star Trek:TNG episodes they saw as youngsters. "It's all about bug-eyed monsters, and men with pointy ears". The truth is, most television Science Fiction is easily accessible, because it has to appeal to the masses, but all good science fiction is dramatic, thought provoking, challenging stuff that goes beyond our pre-conceptions. It makes us THINK. Yet the new Galactica does its best never to challenge the viewer. You will never have a plot that couldn't be directly transplanted to a soap-opera, or political/military drama. In fact, it doesn't even try to disguise this, but simply lifts its plots from the latest headlines. (Why write something thought provoking and original, when you can appear daring and cutting edge, by just watching the news for your plots?)They are right when they say this isn't science fiction, but what they don't understand, is that it isn't a good thing.
From the channel that brought you MEGALADON 3, BOAS, PYTHONS and LARVA, comes another all-too-successful attempt at wringing the intellect out of Science Fiction. BSG: The New Series.This series is a stinky turd sitting in the bottom of the SciFi Channel commode and no matter how many people call it a rose, it STILL STINKS LIKE A TURD.That being said, I will now give my detailed reasons WHY this show stinks.Gender Changes: Change gender of characters to promote sexual tension. What OTHER reason could there possibly be to make Starbuck and Boomer female ? Moore is already taking advantage of the Apollo/Starbuck relationship and the Boomer/Chief one. So, what has Moore GAINED here...only an easy plot device. This is known in writing circles as being a HACK! What other reasons are there for changing the sexes? Someone PLEASE tell me how Starbuck's female side has manifested itself in anything OTHER than a sexual manner. You can't!Cylons look human. How convenient for him. Now you can cast people as villains without having to actually DO any of the hard work associated with alien/robotic races. The Original Star Trek did a fine job on it's budget...and in a time when a show like "Sliders" can feature a T-Rex, surely the creators of this incarnation of BSG could pony up the dough for non-human characters. Well apparently NOT! Of course, non-humans are MUCH harder to write for, so again we see the HACK being displayed.Blair Witch Camera Work. Well, well well. What can you hide with shoddy camera work? A WHOLE LOT. The cinema verite style has been done to death! If you're gonna use it, make sure there's a reason. There is no reason here that I can discern than to give this junk a pseudo-realistic feel. If you WRITE and ACT WELL, you don't NEED jerky camera movement to distract viewers. After all, that's what the hand held shots do, your brain is busy trying to make sense of what it is seeing and you are NOT concentrating on the story. Moore knows that if you were, you would be disappointed. Flashy camera work of SPX does NOT compensate for poor writing. Just ask George Lucas.Poor Writing. Tigh says "JESUS" in the miniseries. That little slip up pretty much RUINED the entire continuity for me. So Tigh's heard of Jesus, has he? Well then, he's probably heard most of the old testament too, Moses, Noah...etc. Funny that there's no further mention of such a shared religion, especially when the colonials' world is coming to an end, surely the time to invoke a higher being if ever there was one? In the miniseries, 6 kills an infant before the cylon attack. Now, this is not the SMARTEST thing to do. Sort of like if the sailors aboard the midget Japanese subs off Pearl Harbor on Dec 7th started shooting children on the beach. It just didn't make any sense, other than to show how evil the cylons are...they killed a baby!In "Water" Helo and Boomer LIGHT A FIRE when they are trying to avoid detection from the cylons. Call me silly, but this is just PLAIN DUMB! Why not shoot up a flare to let the cylons know where you are? And of course, there are no ramifications for their STUPIDITY!And in my opinion, the best example of the HORRIBLE writing on this show is how the Chief will protect and LIE for Boomer, even though she is the most likely candidate for sabotaging the water supply. Now call me silly, but if I suspected my girlfriend may be trying (even unconsciously) to doom me and my WHOLE RACE to death, I say or DO something about it. Even to protect HER. Covering up her possible involvement is just not an option when the WHOLE HUMAN RACE IS AT STAKE. This are just a few of the more GLARING examples of the LACK OF THOUGHT that went into this series.To those who say that I should just watch the old show and let them watch this one, I say, Where it NOT for people like me who watched and LIKED the old show, THIS show would NOT be here. It was TOS that kept interest alive in BSG. If you like this show, in my opinion you would like just about ANYTHING that has a SF stamp on it. Just look at the revenues for Phantom Menace...made millions and it was a lousy movie when compared to the earlier films. No remake has been better than the original. This show is no exception. I will no longer watch it. I'm tired of having my intelligence insulted. Maybe SciFi can redeem itself by doing a Space:Above and Beyond miniseries (much better written...much better acted, much better SPX and camera work) and pick up where the series left off. They had better think about it...cause I sure as hell aren't tuning into their stellar programming schedule as much as I used to. Oh, maybe that's why Moore SEXED up BSG...to get ratings.
I may be looked as harsh, but other than idea of invading alien race and similar named characters, Battle Star is terrible to watch.The acting is poor and story lines bland and looks something Canada chucked out.If you ever saw Airwolf and then the remakes with Canadian actors you will see what I mean.If you scrap the title, change the characters names, you still have a human race running away from Cylon aliens and even this can work, BSG fails badly.Crossing a soap with sci-fi can work but again its just terrible to watch.Some of you may like it and it is still being shown in the U.K. but I would love to see viewer ratings.Terrible Terrible. It's not if it is too on budget, maybe new script writers and directors.Remember how Deep Space Nice started with blandness but pulled in new teams to recover it, well maybe they should try but it could be too late already.If you think it's great please tell me why.
This new Galactica is a huge disappointment. The old one (1978) is a masterpiece in a comparison to this. They managed to ruin the complete concept. Everything is not how it should be. The director does a bad job. The fighting scenes are comical. Special effects were better in the old series. The characters are poorly written. Also, they managed to transform Sturbuck, the hero of my childhood, into a female character, although there were some interesting female pilot characters in the old series. If you want to waste your time, then watch this one. I am the great fan of the old Galactica so maybe this makes me too critical, but still I think that the new one deserves only 1 star ( I would give it 0 if I could).
That' right, a bloody soap opera, what the hell were they thinking? Let's do the check list of what they did right with this Galactica remake, I can count that on one hand. Better effects and cooler Cylons. That's it! What's with this Politically Correct B.S.? I'm all for having female pilots. But why make major changes on key characters, I mean Adama was Spanish, Starbuck wasn't a woman and Boomer was a African American Male, not a Asian American Female. That's one, two killing off Boomer for a Cylon replacement. Then she falls for a human and has a baby, how much of soap opera do you call that? Next, the Cylons were created by a race of alien reptiles which they turned on and made extinct. Like they want to do to us. Did want to be too sci-fi-ish? Did they watch the original show, it was a science fiction. It's suppose to be a science fiction! Now let's talk about the bullets. Lasers are sci-fi anymore, they actually exist! Plus, it's not sci-fi about laser battles in space, it's science fact that a bullet would not work in a area of non-gravity, like SPACE! So, having a space battle with bullets makes no sense what so ever. If you got hooked on this crapper then stop watching it. Go cold turkey and realize that the show is a turkey. I give it...THE NOOSE!
I started to watch BSG from the beginning with no assumptions or expectations, vaguely remembering the lame Lorne Greene original. I'd been told that it was great drama, asking deep questions about humanity and existence, and that it was absorbing and involving entertainment.Well excuse me, it's not any of those things. It's not even 'so bad it's good'. To gain my interest, a drama has to have characters that intrigue, or that I quickly love or hate, or to consistently subvert my expectations of the story or of the genre, and preferably all of these. It has to possess something I feel strongly about. All BSG has is third-rate actors with dreadful hairdos interacting with meta-cut-price sets while reciting pretentious, predictable blather, and my strongest reaction is to notice the flaws in it. An example: Commander Adama, or the actor playing him, does not know how to use his glasses. You're either long-sighted or short-sighted: Adama is both or neither, depending on whether the actor needs a prop or not. Why does this jar? you might ask - because I don't care whether Adama lives or dies: the character is so shallow and the script so turgid, that my disbelief is never suspended. His crew love him, obviously, but why? He just continues to come across as a miserable cuss with bad skin, and that's down to actor, director and script being awful. Maybe they love him because he's less miserable than the ugly miserable deputy from Central Baldy Casting for Stargate Villain Rejects. Later Adama doesn't shave for days, but his Tony Curtis hairdo remains pristine. (Is super-hold hair gel part of the Galactica retro-regime?). Nobody thought about this in production. Obviously they didn't care, any more than the producers did that they were doing anything but taking the money for the minimum effort. Apparently they thought it was a bold move to make Starbuck female. If it was, that's the only bold thing they did.I would even root for the Cylons if they appeared the least bit menacing, or interesting, but they are a formulaic assembly of clichés, the CGI being totally overwrought; and as for the 'conflicted' master scientist character - 'wuss' isn't contemptuous enough to describe this pathetic attempt to reinvent the ultra-camp Dr. Smith off 'Lost In Space'. John Malkovich might have done something with the part, I surmise, but all these 'Days of Our Lives' jobbing actors play it so earnestly. I cannot find the words to describe how badly written and portrayed his MILF Cylon sidekick is. Do not waste your time or money with this tedious, humourless (sic), atrocious tripe.


                
That, my friends, is the question all of TVdom is asking itself. Because really, why keep throwing good money after bad? The writing on the show is awful: nothing more than an unending attempt by Ron Moore at being seen as a "profound and relevant" writer, when in reality, most of the juice he once had when working on Star Trek TNG is long gone and the man needs a very long vacation to recharge his writing batteries.Of course, the writing is not the worst thing about Battlestar Galactica. The directing, or lack thereof, is when Ron Moore really shows what a completely incompetent filmmaker he is. Why, indeed, shake the camera constantly? It doesn't give the show a "realistic" feel. It only induces nausea and an urge to turn to a different channel from most of the audience.when you add to that a cast made up mostly of talent-deprived model-types, you have the recipe for a show that does not deserve to be on the air any more and that will only be remembered for how bad it was in the future.


                
And I mean it. The new "Battlestar Galactica" lacks all the charming, cheesy, enjoyable fun of the criminally underrated original. Wait-- I shouldn't be calling it the original. It was the only "Galactica" we need! Sorry, gentlemen, but Cylons are hideous, polished robots-- not Playboy centerfolds. And Starbuck is a man, not a woman. Nothing good gets translated from the original into this heap of rubbish that remains one of the luckiest televised serials of all time. On another level, let's talk about those performances.... Do these people even care? Are they trying to get home, or are they trying to get to wherever their next paycheck-- which they by no means deserve for this giant trash pile-- is waiting cozily for them? I call upon all people who have respect for television classics to boycott one of man's worst ideas in recent history.


                
"Dallas", "Dynasty" and "As the Stomach Turns" all rolled into one. This is quite probably the worst television series ever produced. Despite dynamite efforts of the cast and better than average efforts from the writers, production is a FLOP. Producers should have stuck with the "shoot-em-up" philosophy of the original. It would have made for much more watchable TV. The plot is disjointed at best and lines are difficult to follow. While understood that the intent was to induce an intelligent audience to watch, we aren't that. Viewers want heroes that stand out, not ones we have to analyze. All this being said, I am at a complete loss as to being able to explain this show's popularity. It defies all the rules....but maybe that's not a bad thing.


                
I don't know of any other sci-fi series that polarized its viewer's opinion the way this show did, and when I looked at the bonus material on the DVD, I could now see why Ron Moore was so stressing its virtues, because comments in the bonus material was a direct rebuttal to the criticisms that was going around on the internet.First of all, let me tell you that I had nothing against this series or Ron Moore when the series started. I've actually paid $45 and bought the entire season 1 DVD set not knowing what to expect, and Ron Moore is the one who wrote one of my favorite Star Trek TNG's episode "Tapestry", so I had no bias in that regards either, but....This series sends negative message to the audiences who may still be at their young and impressionable age. The negative messages are the following: If you are angry, and troubled, then somehow you are a serious (and important) person ( take the characters of Adama, Tigh, and Roslyn, they are all harboring a dormant hostility 100% of the time. Other characters are also on and off hostile overtly or covertly ). If the plot is about "unexpected danger" somehow it's more realistic (not only the battle situation is almost 100% constructed out of this one theme, the interaction between people are almost 100% constructed out of this plot ploy also). People who may turn against you on a dime are depicted as the "norm" in this series. I don't want to live in a society where people would have an idea that such society is a normal society. This BSG series is filled with these unhealthy paradigms. The visual tone is rehash of all the "darker" Sci-Fi fantasies of the '90s, but what Ron Moore has missed was that in the 2000s, the mood is lightening up much more, and this reliance on "darkness" (as he was proudly saying in the DVD bonus material "It is darker. It is more story driven.") is starting to be a passé. Take "Batman Returns" for instance. The visuals of the Gotham City is dark and gloomy, but the people in the story have more optimistic outlook, and are genuinely trying to make matters better, which gives hope that even in a dump there's hope if there are few good people like this.I don't want our youth (and adults) to think that if they acted "angry" and "troubled" people around them will see them as serious, and important person, but this program is filled with this kind of innuendos. In the real society, such people are just "unhappy" people who also makes other people unhappy, and I hope television shows which are viewed by its audience almost uncensored would stop depicting such characters as "heros". My opinion is ditto for the plot. If it's filled with people in trouble, then somehow it's a "story driven" plot line. Hogwash.Other unspeakable inconsistencies of just making things look like they're from antique auction have been mentioned by number of reviewers here, so I won't go into them, but I am against the philosophy of just making things look "ugly (or old)" and equating that as being more realistic.The original BSG at least had quality that didn't just make things more ugly and call it realism. It might have been cheesy by today's standard, but they did take a poke at the best vision of the future that they could have at the time and presented it to the TV audience. I know that people who saw it the first time was awed by its visual effects. For its effort at depicting the best future technologies, I think the original BSG series deserves an A+. I can't say the same for this BSG series. Everything is a borrowed idea from somewhere, and it tries to say that it's more realistic by making things uglier. It gets a C- for originality.I think many of the people who had negative opinions about this show have also sensed the unhealthy undercurrent of this show. I hope that Sci-Fi channel and all future sci-fi series producers will take a serious look at this and try to produce a genuinely original product that is of their own idea and effort which really does convey original message to its audience.Finally for one interesting comment another reviewer have made: Why are negative comments for this show here at IMDb all have near perfect 50/50 approval and disapproval ratio ? It makes you wonder doesn't it ?p.s. It's now 2011, 5 years since I've wrote the original comment, and I could say that I was right about my original assessment that these guys had no originality, from the course that the series seems have taken after season 2 - it just fizzled and fell apart as far as I can tell. My conclusion that I wrote 5 years ago still stands:I hope that Sci-Fi channel and all future sci-fi series producers will take a serious look at this and try to produce a genuinely original product that is of their own idea and effort which really does convey original message to its audience. - with good quality.


                
I tried. I've tried.I'm trying not to bash my head against the wall through every scene of BSG. But I've failed. So far, it's not looking like it will get any better, either. I've been educated, though, on how not to make a TV-show. Here are some of the most important aspects I've been taught:1) Camera control. I acknowledge that you can use the camera to create certain atmospheres or effects and I approve of such use, too. What I don't approve of is the overuse of such. No one can argue against the fact that the camera is frequently used to create a setting in BSG. However, when it's used so frequently as it is, it's only to cover poor acting and directing and trying to obscure what happens as much as possible. 2) Dialogue. Every scene I see in BSG consists of at least 2 characters. These 2 characters always seem to have a problem of some sort. Now, this might seem fine on paper, but it's just horrible when carried out. What you get is a bunch of angry characters who CONSTANTLY yell at each other even though they were friends just 2 minutes ago. And what's the idea behind this? To create cheap, ill-constructed drama. It's one of the easiest way to create action but also one of the worst.3) Characters. I read in another comment that this show shows that being constantly angry and generally unlikeable is totally OK. Why oh why does every character HAVE to be so angry all the time? I absolutely hate every character (except maybe Baltar because he's the only slightly interesting one). They are all the same. Besides the obvious drama this creates (see above), they serve no purpose whatsoever and is really a waste of space in this show. 4) Innovation. This show absolutely fails in this point. One of the saying I'm really hating is when they say "frak". COME ON! Instead of making this people totally look and sound like us, designing and creating a different people is something very desirable. Somehow, we are to believe that these people came from another place in space, yet their security officers in the hallways carry the exact same outfit as modern soldiers? And they say "frak" (duh, if you don't get the reference)? AND THEY GO TO BARS AND PLAY BAR GAMES?! THEY'RE US! No, really, they shouldn't be. Well, besides that, they are being pursued by Cylons... which looks exactly like humans and I even saw one of them act like a human! Cylons are nothing more than a side-story that happens to be a target for the director's meaningless drama.Absolutely horrid show. 1/10


                
I have a few problems with this series. First, there is very, very little science in it. Second, the storyline is almost preposterous. Third, it is full of irritating characters. Fourth, it is shot with hand-held, shaky cameras, only adding to the irritation. Fifth, it lacks a minimum of internal consistency, particularly on the technological side - they can do FTL jumps, but some of the equipment that they use (e.g. those clunky phones) was already obsolete twenty years ago. Sixth, the religious subplot is ridiculous, at best. Seventh, the main sexy character looks more like a cheap drag queen than a sexy woman (There is no accounting for tastes, although I am still unsure if she really is a woman?) Eighth, the story happens to take place in space, but for the most part it could happen just about anywhere - the space setup is very seldom used with any effectiveness or relevance. Ninth, too many of the characters are seriously mentally unstable. Tenth, the fighter pilots are depicted as a bunch of opinionated, immature cretins; I for one hope that real fighter pilots have more maturity than that. Eleventh, the story is very little more than a cheap soap opera, rather than a serious sci-fi show. Twelfth, the civilians in the flotilla seem to be, by and large, a collection of morons and/or crooks; it did not take me long to start rooting for the Cylons - at least until they started displaying some idiocy of their own. Thirteenth, the series is terribly pretentious; in fact it is just a soap opera.I am very sorry about Edward James Olmos and Mary MacDonnell, two actors whose work I have enjoyed in the past. Mr. Olmos at least gets away with playing a character compelling at times, but Ms. MacDonnell's character is an utterly pathetic figure.All in all, the only other recent series that to my recollection can compare to this, as far as how bad they are, is Star Trek Enterprise. They are both insults to what sci-fi is all about. In a nutshell: If you are into soap operas you'll enjoy this series. If you are into science-fiction, especially with an emphasis on the science side, you will probably hate it. If you are into both you will of course enjoy the former aspect, but you will probably not think much of the latter, of which there is very little.


                
I've used IMDb for years but never felt the need to create an account. After watching the entire Battlestar Galactica series I felt compelled to do so out of an acute need to express my revulsion. It's probably too late for anyone to ever read this review, but if you are out there - Save yourself! Read on and put the remote control down. This series is not ruined by plot holes so much as it is nothing but a super-massive plot hole riddled with fractal plot holes seamlessly descending on ever-smaller scales down to the smallest observable level. Whereas many good stories are ruined by glaring plot holes, Battlestar Galactica is more plot hole bonanza made all the more irritating by occasional glimpses of interesting plot concept. But fear not, Dear Viewer. All morsels of quality are wrung out of the show by the time later seasons arrive.Early on in this reboot we encounter some big plot holes, but they are the sort of thing we can overlook if they lead on to good story-telling. For example, the Cylon "skin jobs" are said to be indistinguishable from humans even under medical examination such as X-rays, CAT scans, DNA tests etc. Yet the "skin jobs" can communicate with one another and their base ships with some sort of radio transmissions. (Which, by the way, travel over interstellar distances immediately.) This is just to name one super-power which they do w/o any detectable special organs or mechanism to accomplish such feats.OK, fine. We can overlook that sort of stuff if it leads to a gripping drama of what it really means to be human vs robot or some other interesting slice of life. But we are not allowed to do so, because this series commits the fatal sin of having plot holes shoot dead other existing plot holes. If a scene in an episode needs a "skin job" to overpower a human, the Cylon does so. Pow! Of course the Cylon has super-strength ... they're machines! But if the next scene needs a drag- out fight suddenly human and "skin job" strengths are evenly matched. Because ... well ... you weren't supposed to ask that question.The refugee humans have only five nuclear warheads left in one episode. in another the humans rain them down on the Cylons. In one episode ships are "built to withstand nuclear blasts" and do so several times. In another a single nuke blows up its target as well as 2-3 nearby ships for good measure. Well, you get the idea. Now apply the same flaws to character motivations. Never agree to play a drinking game where you must chug every time a character pulls a gun on a fellow crew-member or friend. If you watch an episode where a character stubbornly insists a certain thing must be done, be assured at at the 38 minute mark that character will abruptly decide to do the opposite thing. Keep an eye on the DVD clock and amaze your friends.Most every single character the writers needs the viewer to like, isn't likable. It's not the fault of bad acting - usually. There's enough of that to go around, but mostly it's the fault of cheesy writing and the aforementioned plot lurches. Put simply, these characters are idiots. How they avoid piloting their ships into a star is a mystery. Actually by the time it's all wrapped up they manage that too.But the worst part of all is this sci-fi story has no sci-fi in it at all. It does not even qualify as science fantasy. As the series goes on the finite number of monkeys hammering randomly upon their finite number of typewriters rely more and more upon visions and divine will. It's hard to stay mad at the monkeys. There was really no other way to extract the series from the preposterous mess it had become.One of many odd, perplexing, gratuitously violent and annoying vanity cards runs after the end credits in every episode. These provide the perfect wormy cherry to top off every excruciating viewing experience. Which allows me an opening to praise the production team. They miss no opportunity to be bad. What's that? Praise from me for some aspect of Battlestar Galactica? We must be at the 38 minute mark in this review. Were your friends impressed with your predictions?
The "new" and much less interesting Battlestar Galactica is an exercise in bad film-making in so many levels it's hard to catalog them.You see, you can't really have an "intelligent" show, when you "film" (on badly lit videotape) the show in a way that interferes with its story-telling.You can say in the press that you're doing it for "grittiness" but all you're really doing is making a show that would shame most first-year film students in its assiduous disregard for the basics of Film 101.And it's not like the original was a masterpiece overall. It had really good episodes and some that were really campy. But it had great film-making chops behind it and it was full of life and enthusiasm. The new BG is completely devoid of both.So it bought itself a handful of awards and kudos... This is just an embarrassment for the entities that caved in to the PR campaigns.


                
I just watched most of an episode of this show. People in suits and ties aboard a spaceship? People mumbling (especially Olmos) and mostly just standing around, not doing much of anything? What does this show have to do with the original series, and what kind of sci-fi is this? On top of everything else, the series employs a shaky cam. Youy can get away with that on LAW & ORDER. You cannot get away with it on a sci-fi show. The original show was horrible, a dimwitted take on STAR WARS, but watchable with one's mind switched off. This remake is simply unwatchable. And whose brilliant idea was it to turn Starbuck into a woman?


                
A mystery that is worth probing: Why did SciFi Channel decide that Battlestar Galactica was "quality" worth spending its promo budget on? Did no one at SciFi wonder about the horrendous camera work? I mean, if something is "quality" shouldn't it look like a real film, not like a home video? And shooting on video was only part of the problem...I guess people at the studios must be thinking that shaking the camera is great film-making. I know I've read here many comments that the camera is shaking so we can know it's "real". Let me tell you: shaking the camera lets you know that the director doesn't know how to direct.Shaking the camera lets you know it's a crappy TV show.And then there's the pretension of the scripts. I guess when you can't produce something worth watching, your next option is to pretend you're "relevant" (and we know it's "relevant" because the camera's shaking...) Rom Moore got himself on the cover of a magazine recently claiming he had "saved Sci-Fi". How exactly did he "save Sci-Fi"? By making a pretentious, badly made show that nobody watches? It's a very sad comment on Hollywood that bad shows like these are what makes executives think of as "quality".Maybe SciFi Channel (among other networks) needs new executives if that's what passes as quality for the current crop.


                
First of all, let me state outright that I found the new BG to be totally unwatchable.The colors they're using are ugly and the camera movements draw attention to themselves and away from the characters.But reading the reviews, it seems to me that the positive reviews all have some "talking points" to them.Older reviews tell fans of the old show to "have an open mind" even though the new BG is pretty much a slap in the face to the fans of the Classic BG. (note to SciFi - re-making an old show is only a good idea if you DON'T slap the fans in the face).Newer reviews almost all mention something like "I don't like Science Fiction but BG is not Science Fiction). If it's not Science-Fiction, what does it do on the SciFi Channel (oh wait, wrestling is on Skiffy now!) I just found it striking.It does look like it's all a hype job, doesn't it?


                
The first season was mostly solid, but the wobbly tower had already started being built. From the word go there were problems, inconsistencies, and things that did not make sense (for example, characters surviving a head-on blast from a nuclear weapon). That got me worried. I also didn't buy the premise that the Cylons could look and be indistinguishable from real humans- That really, really didn't work (with better writing, it may have).But these problems could be ignored as they didn't, at that point, impact too greatly on the story. By the second season, warning bells had started ringing in my head. I could see that the writers had not planned the story from the beginning and were making a lot of stuff up on the fly (unlike Babylon 5, which still remains the greatest series put to television). I hoped BSG could be salvaged into something that was at least satisfying.Even though it was clear to me by the end of season 2 that there were serious issues in the writing department, it was still entertaining- but worse was to come... By season 3 the game was up for Ron Moore and co. The writing had disintegrated and I just knew that they were now running on fumes. Nothing was making sense. Everything was being written with "DRAMA!" in mind, no matter how forced or phony. And, my god, worse was to follow.I finally abandoned the show in the middle of Season 4. I could no longer stomach the insulting writing, inconsistencies and plot holes. I have never seen a show fall to pieces as badly as this one did (I haven't seen Lost, though). Not even DS9's final season is as bad as this. It absolutely disintegrated, and all because the writers had no plan for the show and no idea how to wrap up all the nonsense they had been churning.Instead of developing the characters properly and making a clever, cohesive story, the writers resorted to this ridiculously childish "Who could be a Cylon?" thread. And who liked that? Only the most brain-dead of viewers. The writers had clearly just decided to appeal to fanboys and the easily titillated as a last resort to make a few more bucks. It wasn't as if this childish plot idea was executed well... it wasn't. Predictably, the useless writers decided to go for the totally obvious and totally ridiculous conclusion, namely that certain main characters were Cylons all along (urgh).The tower went from wobbly to a pile of rubble. The only way you can possibly defend this show and the basic writing is if you have very low standards or simply do not have much intelligence. It's that simple.And it's a crying shame because, like with a lot of stories-gone-bad, there is great potential here. I really liked some of the characters (NOT Starbuck, largely because of the irritating actress) and wanted to see them done justice. Gaius Baltar is still one of my favourite characters (although he was also ruined) but, in the end, not even characters like him are saving this ship.2/5
I remember the original Galactica--I was a college freshman, and we all got together in the basement TV room to watch it every Sunday night. I loved the original, I loved the characters, I loved the fact that they were good guys. This new Galactica is a train wreck. In the pilot, we spent the first hour learning all about the problems these people had, and I mean PROBLEMS!!! Their lives were in shambles, they were a disaster. No wonder the Cylons overran the Colonies with these pathetic creatures as their defense. I think the Cylon attack actually improved the situation for every one of them. Over the last three years, it hasn't gotten any better. It is my considered opinion that this race deserves to be annihilated. From now on, I root for the Cylons--imbecilic tin pots though they be!
When a friend of mine handed over the DVD collection of this show, I was pretty excited. I enjoyed the original show quite a bit and was curious to see an updated version.I'm not going to comment on Starbuck and Boomer being female in the new series, because honestly it doesn't matter to me. I wouldn't want the show to simply be a re-write and re-showing of the original series. That'd make things pretty boring, I think. As long as the general framework is there, it's pretty much all good for me.I admit that I enjoyed the miniseries and the first season of this show. And I got through the second season okay. By the third and fourth seasons though, I had to look for a reason to keep watching (I even watched the web-exclusive episodes), and that was mainly me just wanting to finish it off. See what happens.Deus Ex Machina. A term that is derided in most serious writing circles, one that they teach you to stay away from at all costs if you can help it. This series and its end relies on Deus Ex Machina, and is a prime example of how terrible the writing is after that second season. Much like LOST, the writers clearly had no idea what was going on from the start. The concept of the Final Five felt forced and contrived. Starbuck being an "angel" of the so-called all-powerful nameless being that set it all in motion, and the hilarious revelation that the same scenario plays itself over and over and over and over again, over the course of millions of years, is insulting. The writers tried to sell it as an "epic" story, but for me it's just the opposite. If it all is going to happen again, and there's no changing it -- no matter what -- then what is the point? Why should we care what happens to these lost and scared people? Why should I care of Starbuck is a drunk if she's an angel and cannot die or form any sort of lasting relationship? Why should I care of Adama is shot by Boomer if he is going to lead them to Earth anyway? And in all seriousness, there's no way Baltar survives that nuclear blast without being a Cylon. Yet another insult from the writer(s).In closing: I regret using my time to watch this series as a whole. While the first season and the mini-series are pretty darn good, the last couple of seasons just make it all not matter. There are very few personal moments in this show, moments that remind you that the characters are human, not people acting like animals. This series could have been so much more than it was.I am glad that I did not waste my money to watch this drivel, and I told my friend to return those DVD's if he could, maybe exchange them for something less insulting to its viewers.
The new (and downgraded) Galactica fails miserably on its own terms.You don't have to have seen the original to see how badly made it is.The decision to shoot on video (presumably to save money) made the show look awful (apparently Ron Moore and David Eick didn't realize it takes MORE time to light video well, not less!) and the directors and producers made that decision even worse by hopping on the nonsensical bad-camera-work-as-a-style bandwagon.The "it's documentary-style" excuse for bad direction may fly with network executives at NBC-Universal. It may also fly with critics (who are always more interested in gimmicks than actual quality) but it doesn't fly with the audience as evidenced by the paltry ratings of Galactica.Bad film-making just doesn't work.It doesn't matter how much ink is poured to explain it makes it more "real".Bad film-making is bad film-making. And that's all the new Galactica is.


                
Some people since the dawn of history have been interested in space, science, and technology, I am one of them. Yet some other have been interested in religion. The people who are responsible from this TV-series are no doubt of the second kind, that is, religious ones. They market space-sci-tech concepts to the people who are interested in them but in stark contrast what they deliver is religious concepts. I hated this TV-series with my every fibre. It is all about how evil is science and tech and how good is religion, seeing visions, talking to gods or angels. You call this Science-Fiction? I have no objection to religion, rather I object the marketing of the series as Sci-Fi. Sci-Fi is the Trojan Horse used to poison young minds, and they inject their religious ideas as the ultimate truth. They speak of polytheism of humans but both the cylons and humans seemed to me like Mormons. I hated Adama and Roslin because they were all-corrupt, and I hated Katee Sackhoff (not Starbuck) because she seemed like always on drugs, always over-joyed than can be felt in such tragic circumstances.I read a book called "The Science of Battlestar Galactica" written by science advisers of the series. I did not find it useful, they talk but explain nothing, it is like a science book written by religious people not scientists. I do not know how things are going on in Hollywood but either producers did not listen well their advisers or advisers were inadequate.We are in an age that we can use energy weapons but far from traveling near the speed of light. Colonies on the contrary can travel even faster than the speed of light but using bullets! Don't make me laugh, this is stupid and for an even pseudo sci-fi TV-series utterly bad choice. I once feared Battlestars and Basehips will battle each other with catapults when I happened to watch that BSG rammed into The Colony base ship, I imagine Starbuck killing a cyclon with a sling shot, how cool is that? I wonder if there was any cylon passing out seeing a comrade cylon jerking oil when shot with a bullet.In an episode we see Starbuck using a raider, which she killed and opened a hole in the raider's hull, to take-off from the ground and making a space travel by plugging the hole with her coat. Are you kidding me? In another one we see a raptor enter into a planet with a broken front window! Perhaps, you have not heard of The Space Shuttle Columbia disaster.Quote from the book I mentioned:"The First Law of The Science of Battlestar Galactica takes care of the lack of scientific explanation, the unresolved plot issues, and the Fleet's endless supply of whiskey: "If you're wondering how they eat and breathe, and other science facts, just repeat to yourself, 'It's just a show, I should really just relax."If you make such stupid mistakes I can't relax! The whole series is fulled with them. We see that some hand grenades can blow out the armoured hull of BSG but a nuclear bomb can't create a crater, yet the FTL jumping of a raptor can hurt more then a nuclear bomb when done near the BSG but when BSG is rammed into The Colony and make an FTL jump while still partly inside nothing happens to The Colony! Do you want more examples? They run out of fuel, food, but never not only whiskey also medicines, ammunition. It looks cool when a cylon uses a Gatling type of weapon which pop out of its arm, but where do you store all the ammunition? It seems they have an infinite supply of them in that tiny arm. Cylon raiders are yet another problem, their design is impossible to work. The missiles they carry cannot hold nuclear war heads, they are too small for that.Guys, religious people might not even notice all such problems if they are your intended audience but a normal guy would, and if he is a geek he would find things even your science adviser would not have the answer perhaps. So, is this a Sci-Fi intended for geeks or not? Do not tell me, this is about human tragedy and drama, BSG has to be about Cylons not humans, and about space and science. If you want to make human drama do make a TV-series about how Moses took his tribe to their promised land and died before entering those lands; do you think this is Science-Fiction? this is religious human drama; You take this thousands year old story add to it space and robots and tell me that it is sci-fi; this is absurd! How many minutes do we watch Cylons? Almost none. Besides, new Cylons, Raiders, and Basestars are inferior to old ones, this is a shame. Terminator is about robots not about humans so is and must be BSG too, I wanna see Cylons not some tribal people fleeing for a home.If we don't count the fact that this is not a sci-fi series, I think it's better than most of all, it's quite realistic indeed. Yes, you've some plus. I read you are making another TV-series of the concept, please make it like Caprica but eliminate the Adama family history which is about nothing but terrorism, mafia that's all sort of illegal stuff, up to that point however I liked it very much, it's my favourite off all, but I wish there was more science talk.Guys, there are tons of things to tell however my time is not infinite like your whiskey, this is your job so please spend some more time to make it more realistic in terms of not only human side but also scientifically.


                
Hmmmm, interesting. I'll keep this short on detail, as so many have done such a good job of pointing out the myriad problems with this series both of itself and as a laughably awful remake of a good original series. Ludicrously similar to the (usually) teen-aged modern "role playing game" fans who constantly talked of the lack of "darkness" in some game they were involved in a decade past, but themselves had so little experience of "DAHKNESSSSSSS" that they'd have shrieked and run not only from anything remotely like one of the creepy crawlies (usually human appearing, but horrific in some psychological or spiritual way) they wanted featured and emphasized into the ground but also shielded and run or simply self-destructed from any realistic darkness that had presented itself into their unthinking little lives. Or perhaps the equally silly conviction of the teen-aged "goths"; kids asserting the world had already gone to hell in its very own handbasket and wearing black and being morose was utterly original and beautifully "realistic" and anyone who did not agree just didn't understand (and was really dumb besides). Come to think of it, they had the the same rabid reaction to anyone pointing out the fact that the last few generations have also had a cadre of black-wearing "originalists" in high school...LOL!!!The single detailed comment I;d like to make for those seeking enough info to decide on watching or not watching the "new" series involves a couple of subtle concepts called family and wisdom (or alternatively, wise leadership). The original series included truly adult themes such as family and friendship; it is mystifying to those actually "adult" as to why explicit sexual intercourse, drug use, and foul language is supposed to depict adulthood. The original series contained such scenes as an not-seriously-but-still-ill Adama in bed receiving a visit from his small grandson-by-marriage Boxey, who, tucked up beside his grandfather and soundly kissed, proceeds to tell Adama a small-boy version of his own favorite bedtime story."There once was a shining planet, called..." "Earth," says Adama, recognizing the beginning line of the story he's often told the child. "No, Mushieland (a type of sweet in the series)," replies Boxey. "Mushieland?" asks Adama, voice and expression exactly what you'd expect from an affectionate grandparent both a little surprised and offering encouragement to go on. "It was full of daggets (essentially an extraterrestial dog)," continues Boxey, "but the best of them all was Sire Muffie (the name of his own pet)." "Sire Muffie," Adama repeats, clearly understanding where this is going, and as clearly content, happy with the boy's company. Again, very much real world, real grandparent.A moment later the camera shows the medical technician who's been keeping visitors away so Adama can rest...standing just out of sight listening, smiling. She's pretended to be asleep so the boy could sneak in and give the old man some of the medicine he needs most right then.This is the stuff of reality. This is adulthood. All the "F & S" (reproductive activity and drug sucking) ever shown cannot trump such things on those two counts. It shows when Adama and Apollo --his son-- embrace after Apollo has been out on a dangerous mission. It shows when Starbuck, all choked up and having trouble speaking, sincerely tells the heavily advanced civilization of the Ship of Lights who just revived his dead best friend Apollo "Whatever you want from me, you can have". It shows in the not-too-often, not-too-little use of the term "buddy" between Starbuck and Apollo and Boomer and the trio handclasp colonial warriors use now and then at a difficult or dangerous moment. It shows in the trust evidenced across rank lines, generation lines, and gender lines by people who have worked together, understand each other's strengths and weaknesses, and are committed to each other and to a goal worth reaching out for.Adama led so well precisely because he showed emotion, valued his family, worried sometimes intensely but let others live their lives, cared and managed situations with flexibility but brooked no nonsense, and was fundamentally an older human being saddened by pain but capable of happiness, flawed (without being a mess) but striving to be the best he could. This, too, is reality. There are bad people in this world, but the sort of disintegration into whoring, in-fighting, and drugs touted as "real" by such shows as this ridiculous new rip off are unreal because they show only the worst case most extreme scenario. (Come on, how many disasters have we read about, seen, or been in ourselves in which EVERYONE turned into a sick-minded nit?)My advice? Go for the real thing; ignore the fake stuff.
While not a rabid fan of the original "Battlestar Galactica" I nonetheless enjoyed the original series. It had some good stories and the f/x were great; and of course Lorne Greene is always an actor you want to watch. If it would have been allowed to get beyond only 1 season I think the original BSG would have been a successful sci-fi series.Not having cable at my house, having largely given up watching broadcast TV some years ago, I missed the premier of this "new" series. Finally, after so many of my friends said I just HAD to see the new series, I started renting it on Netflix.Sure enough: just as I expected they took what was a light-hearted, enjoyable, and rather daring TV show and really "updated/ruined" it for the 21st century.Ponderous, slow, pretentious, and downright boring.In the original series, Apollo and Cmdr. Adama have a great father-son relationship. The officers on the ship all respect and work with each other. This was one of the best and most attractive aspects of the original show. Human beings are depicted as trusting and courageous in the face of the terrible catastrophe inflicted by the Cylons. Of course the way Hollywood "re-imagines" things now, all that is gone. The first order of business is to make it "dark". So now we get Apollo and Adama having issues, Starbuck and Col Tigh have issues, Boomer and Apollo have issues, etc. etc.Make Starbuck a woman, and a barely disguised lesbian.Edward James Olmos is a good enough actor, but in this show he mumbles so much as to be incomprehensible. I actually turned on the CC so that I could know what he was saying.And they lay on the "shaky cam" and ultra-closeups with a trowel. By the time of the third episode, you get intimately familiar with every hair follicle and facial pore on the actors faces.Oh yeah they make the Cylons human. Not really much explanation for this, as the reason is as muddy as so many other things in the story. I suppose it was done to cut down on f/x costs.Baltar is supposed to be one of the smartest of the colonists. But why is the guy depicted as a sex-obsessed idiot? The point I actually gave up on the series? When Starbuck launches and flies a crashed Cylon ship. Turns out the Cylon ships are actually "organic" (if the Cylons are machine creatures and denigrate anything organic as inefficient, then why do they make their ships organic?). At the point where Starbuck uses a piece of shirt to plug a hole in the Cylon hull, and begins manipulating various ganglia in the "organic" ship to make it fly---that's where I exited and instead popped in my new DVD copy of the "old" (and much better) BSG.


                
