BSG is a wonderful sci-fi series! In the midst of the battles between the human kind and the robots, the dark sides of the people are exposed whereas the robots display in themselves what humanity should be. The desire to survive, the yearning for the Earth, and the hope for the future drive both the humans and the robots as the distinctions between them gradually disappear.The casting was exceptional and the performances were more than convincing. The actors did excellent jobs in expressing the emotional struggles within and without. The dynamic and unpredictable story lines demanded feats of acting skills and they all performed to high standards. There were a lot of breath-halting cliffhangers, palm-sweating suspense, and eye-widening surprises.At times, some of the narrations seemed to be a bit preachy. There were times when the decisions of the people on the ship were too predictable and childish. I had an impression that the ending was rather rushed.BSG kept asking us the same question "What makes us human?" In this regards, this TV series reminded me of a book called 'Somewhere carnal over 40 winks'.I hope for more of realistic sci-fi series like BSG in the future.
When George Lucas announced that he was to make the Star Wars prequels I had this preconception of a darker, better acted, and more more grown up version of the movies that were made in the late seventies - early eighties. Instead we got a bunch of kids movies, littered with some of the most terrible cinematic decisions ever put on celluloid.And then the re-imagined Battlestar Galactica came along, which I must add, I watched from start to finish only after the show had made it's debut on mainstream television.I was initially sceptical of whether this would be any good, but after having reached the finale I can honestly say that this is quite simply the best sci-fi show ever made. The scripts are top notch, the acting superb with a real heart and soul, and characters that, even with their faults, will be remembered with great affection by the viewers for many years to come.This is the template for all future TV shows. I't does not overstay it's welcome, knows when to stop, and constantly delivers fresh, new ideas as the seasons progress.Series 1 was a great introduction; series 2 built on the initial success and delivered some of the shows highlights; season 3 was awesome for the first half (until the writers strike kicked in just after half way - but still highly entertaining); and season 4 put the icing on the cake with what I consider to be a tremendous and satisfying end to this great series.The only downside was that I wished it could have continued, but I guess it is better to exit on a high and leave the crowd wanting more.For me this has stripped Star Wars of it's crown and raised the bar where although it may one day be equalled, will never be bettered.Awesome


                
1. If you want mindless techno-babble, then this show isn't for you. 2. If you don't manage to appreciate what good... no, let me rephrase that for you: exquisite acting is, then you definitely shouldn't watch it. 3. If you expect to have a crew of four, including a science doctor, an alien, a military and some random Indiana Jones guy, all of them solving new let's-save-the-Earth-before-lunch problems, then skip BSG, is not for you. 4. If you're afraid of seeing real human stories put into a SF shell, perhaps you should go back to Star Trek (and I'm a trekkie too, but...) 5. If you crave to hear 'shields up' or 'engage' or other classic one- liners, then you should rather settle for "frak". Or is it "frakk"? 6. If you're unable to follow a 4 season-long story arc with every episode adding something precious to it without having withdrawal symptoms, then you should really don't give it a try. 7. If all that you want is see people in tight suits flashing laser pistols and teleporting from harms' way, then change the channel. 8. If your interest for spiritual quests, tough sexy girls and people really dying and not returning is something like zero. Oh well, you might skip that 'dying and not returning part' :P 9. If you don't like space battles rendered so real (and with as most care for real physics as a TV SF show can take) that you feel you ARE there. 10. Finally, if you have a mind so closed that you cannot appreciate what the best SF show ever made is all about. In my opinion, any problem that somebody would have with this show would be his/her problem, not the shows. For the rest of us, BSG raised the bar so high, we almost cannot enjoy other SF shows anymore.But then... we can always re-watch it, and hope others will learn from it, too.


                
As a child of the 70's I can say that I loved the original BSG and always wanted a proper return to the story, not that lame attempt called "Gallactica" with the guy from "Adam 12". However, I was skeptical about this new show because of the core changes, like making Starbuck and Boomer female, for example. It didn't matter. This is one of the best TV shows ever made. It's dramatic, funny, sad, extremely dark and immensely engrossing. By changing the character of Baltar from a ruthless power hungry madman in the original to the witless and sympathetic patsy that he is at the beginning of this show creates a whole new dynamic to this character and his development. Adding the president to be a counter balance to Adama instead of the commander automatically ruling over everyone was far more believable than the council full of wusses that were supposed to be in charge in the '78 version. Bottom line, the stories are more intense, the characters are stronger, the suspense can drive you mad. This show is addictive to say the least. The creators have brought a realism to this idea that just wasn't there in the original. In '78, the show was a campy attempt to capitalize on the Star Wars phenomenon that was definitely entertaining, but was also a little too convenient in its "everything works out by the end of the episode" theme. Life isn't like that. This new version completely escapes from the happy family sweetness of a '70's TV series. Battlestar Gallactica(2004) is a more believable life and death struggle because people actually die in this series. The only noteworthy death in the original was that of Serena, and that was in the first 3 to 5 hours of the series. These people are fighting for their lives. They're not all going to make it. The last scene of season 1 had me and all my friends jumping out of our seats yelling "NOOOOO! They didn't just do that!!! They can't leave it like that!! When does the next season start?!?!?!?!" Not many shows have had that kind of effect on me in my life, and I watch way too much TV.In closing, BSG(04) is a fantastic show. If you were a fan of the original, savor it for what it was, but give this reincarnation a chance, I think you'll love it.


                
I always can not forget Sharon,or boomer,she is so beautiful ,and tragic
When I heard that the Science Fiction Channel (I refuse to acknowledge their new name), I was less than thrilled. The original series was, to put it bluntly, crap. They took a great idea, the near genocide of a species and let it rot. Rather than keeping it within the boundaries they set, Glen Larson and company made it basically, the fugitive in space. I won't go into how there was no science in this at all, no jump engines, no warp, no FTL of any kind. Of how they knew nothing about any astronomy, or the stupid measurements that meant nothing. The writing was horrible, many episodes were just rip offs of movies, the acting barely tolerable. So I was less than thrilled. However, when I heard that Ron Moore, one of the geniuses behind Deep Space Nine, the best of all the Star Trek spin-offs, was doing it. I was interested. Then, when I saw the miniseries, I was hooked. Galactica is a brilliant show that brought humanity back to Science Fiction. As the show went on and more and more plot threads were revealed, the show was shown to be complex, the kind of TV that's been lacking and can only be held up with excellent shows like Dexter and Breaking Bad. Brilliant in every aspect, Galactica is the kind of show that cannot be understood in one viewing, it has to be watched again and again. Galactica led the way for a resurgence of intelligent Science Fiction, with shows like Fringe and Flash Forward following it's example. Four seasons was for some, too short, but for me a perfect length. I eagerly await THE PLAN.


                
I am a die hard devoted Trekker. No other show can come close to the series I hold so dear to my heart.... or can it? I watched the mini series on sci-fi expecting to be disappointed. What happened in reality was a show I will honestly say is second to none, the best science fiction out there. The story lines are top notch, the struggles make you feel for the characters, you really get into this show. (that and I have never found a robot so hot before. Did I just say that out loud?) The way the camera moves makes you feel like you are looking out a port hole at the action outside. Its not like other shows, this is hard hitting, nitty-gritty sci-fi. Unlike what we have been led to think the future is not all bright and promising , the future is bleak, hard and depressing. The technology we thought would make our lives easier will in fact be the end of our lives (FEAR THE MACHINE!!) Bad toaster. It is 4 seasons (and final sadly) in and still as entertaining as ever. It will be a sad day for geeks everywhere when the series finale airs. But at least we can live in the knowledge that we were here to see the series to end all series. So Say We All.


                
I was a fan of the original and a fan of science fiction, but more so I am a fan of great cinematic television. This show went beyond my wildest dreams. Some people have a hard time with certain dramatic and artistic choices made by the producers, but to me those choices only make the show stronger and gutsier. The new Battlestar Galactica concentrates on characters, drama, and the human condition and shies away from the fantasy, serial elements of the original and others of the genre. A first rate cast with real acting chops help ground the story and characters in a universe where the audience cares what happens to them. This is the antithesis of the original that relied on caricature villains and cartoon story lines. The new show tackles real life issues about human rights, religion, and the moral ambiguity of war. It's no wonder Battlestar Galactica has garnered glowing reviews from Time Magazine, Rolling Stone, TV Guide, and the American Film Institute.


                
Battlestar Galactica is more a war/survival series set in a futuresque environment, rather than hardcore science-fiction in a war environment - the latter being what we tend to find in star trek and the likes.---Very solid storyline---The story is very solid. It is more a story of survival and war, that happens to take place in a futuristic environment, rather than than the hardcore science-fiction we find in Star Trek or Stargate. It's incorporation of supernatural aspects is unusual, but works very well in the entirety of the series. Now and then I had an episode that I found a little predictable, but this was rare, and even when it did occur, it was not really that deal-breaking, since it was always in the details.---Amazing depth of character---Being the only series I watched twice, still enjoying it the second time, this is one of my favorites. The cast does an amazing job, giving the characters incredible depth, without overdoing them to create typical television exaggerations. My favorite is Balthar - played amazingly well by James Callis4 - as he struggles with what he does and has done.---Visually excellent---When I say visually excellent, I am not just talking about CGI. The color and grain in the series is perfect, giving this aura of darkness and sadness. Watching the series the second time, I noticed how (almost) none of the shots were very stable, there is always a little movement on the camera. Even if you do not consciously notice this, it makes you feel much more part of the series, much closer to whats happening, as well as closer to the cast.---Amazing Music---The music was mainly composed by Bear McCreary, and he really delivered. The music fits beautifully with the color and feel of the series, feeling very primal, yet soft when needed. The soundtrack for the series is one of my favorites, and is part of what makes this series so good.This is what all TV should be like. It is not one of the components - sound, image, character, story - that stands out in excellence, but it's the way they work together so well. The lack of very hard science-fiction allows people that don't even like science-fiction to really enjoy this piece of art. A must see. Joren


                
This series took the basic premise of the original 1-2 season show and expanded it. And what a job they DID! This is the best show by far that came out that year. Capt. Adama is played by Edward James Olmos differently than the late, great Lorne Green. He does an EXCELLENT job. As does James Callis as Baltar, and it was bold to cast Starbuck as a woman. She was great in the role. The whole cast was, in fact, very good.
The story got a little confusing as the Cylons' motives were revealed and it seemed like the ending (of the show) was rushed. It was unconvincing but otherwise the acting was top notch. The thing was that despite the sci-fi nature of the show, it was really a very good drama.


                
I can understand the initial backlash against Starbuck, it seemed like an unneeded change in a reboot that might be full of unneeded changes that could take away from the original in the same way that "V" would.Only the reboot turned out to be legendary and though I feel appropriately dirty saying it--for love of the 1978--but 2004 Starbuck turned out to be so much better than the clean ladies man. She was tough and grungy and awesome in the vein of the top shelf sci-fi heroes.And now there is a new political backlash, years later, that seems to hate for the reasons of destroying anything that has a nerd following and I don't understand the need for that.Anyway, leave that political junk at the door, sit down, and bing a series that is as beautiful as it is emotional and adventurous. It marks a high point for everything epically great that science fiction can be.


                
Stunning update of Glen A. Larson's cheap and cheerful sci-fi classic. Many of the character names are the same, though some of the sexes have been changed (Boomer and Starbuck are now female for example). The Cylons have also been altered too. Yep, they are still present in their robotic form and, yes, they still have the red beam flashing from side to side across their faces, but there are another breed of Cylon that look like humans. Multiple copies of the same DNA are used to house their essence, and as one dies, a new one takes their place.The special effects are just staggering, and the acting too is about as good as you can see anywhere outside of a movie.The plot is complex and intriguing, taking in religion, politics, and an epic scope to the overall story arc.Sci-fi fans everywhere should watch this show as it could yet end up being just about the best space set series yet conceived.Brilliant.
Thank goodness for Netflix! Because of my work schedule I had never been able to watch this series. For the past 2 months or so, I have been able to watch at least one episode per day - sorry to all of those who had to wait 4 years to finish this series. Without a doubt, the most intriguing, heart pounding and simply mind numbing TV series I have seen, to say the least. It's no wonder these actors received awards for this show.I won't bother discussing this series as to understand it, you simply have to watch it. Everyone remembers Edward James Olmos in Miami Vise (1980's for those of you born in the 90's). He was great then and even more entertaining to watch in this series. I was a bit shocked at first when I saw Starbuck was played by Katee Sackhoff, when the original was played by Dirk Benedict . I couldn't see how this would work. But Wow - did they ever pull this off! Hat's off to those writers!!! The pressure to come up with these episodes must have been simply put - exhaustive.The more interesting fact was when my wife noticed Richard Hatch who played Apollo in the 70's series was back playing Tom Zarek - basically the bad guy and bad influence and the opposition of the president of the 12 colonies Laura Roslin, played by Mary McDonnell (oddly enough playing president here and the president's wife in Independence Day).Although all these actors out performed most any actor I can recall, the one that hooked you was this Dr. Gaius Baltar character. Nothing at all like the 70's series which made it very fresh and will still be relevant for decades if not centuries to come. Unlike the 70's where Baltar was seen actively working with the Cylons, the new Baltar was quite an interesting character. Was he a bad guy? Was he a traitor? Was he simply schizoid? Was he a profit? You were bound by this character to continue watching to see what he would do next.Okay - enough. Think what you will but for those who have not seen this series yet, get Netflix or buy the series on DVD. Sit back and get a mini fridge by your side. I guarantee once you start, you'll be reluctant to leave your easy chair for the duration of this series.


                
Yes it's SCI-FI so it must be nerdy and no good, right? ABSOLUTELY NOT! Battlestar Galactica is first off 1000x Better then the original series and it truly fine literature on TV. The story is beyond amazing mixing military, mysticism, religion, and politics in an unbelievable mix. I can easily say this is the best TV I have ever watched. It does not matter that it takes place in space; It could easily take place on tall-sail ships in the 1500's so let the whole "I don't like Sci-Fi" idea go. The series just draws you in in ways I can not explain, I would get chills just watching this, and still do even just talking about it. Watch the Mini-series, it's one of the weaker points of the show, then watch the first episode "33" remember this is the very first episode (It will have you on the edge of your seat) and it is already better then most shows on TV, I can not say how good this i you just have to experience this. Even Michael Hogan who plays one of the main character has said that this is his best work in his 40 years of acting history, including not only TV but also live performance. Watch it and be amazed!
I've been a sci fi fan since I was a kid, and I've watched pretty much every major television science fiction television show in the last forty years. This is the FIRST one that I felt truly lived up to the promise of sci fi.I've seen a considerable amount of whining from people who are upset that this isn't like the old show. That's entirely ture; the original show was the lowest form of infantile dreck masquerading as science fiction, transparently designed to sell toys to five year olds. I should know, I was one of those five year olds and I bought those toys. I loved the original BSG when it was out, because I was in its target audience. What I can't fathom is how an adult can look back at that show with anything other than a rueful shake of the head at the kind of garbage that you can get kids to watch.The new BSG, on the other hand, is what science fiction SHOULD be; it's a very carefully plotted adult drama about human beings put into an extraordinary situation. That's the true value of science fiction - it allows human beings to be put into stories that can't be told any other way. Complaining about the rarity of dogfights and flashy gizmos in the newer version is like going to the symphony and complaining that there was no guitar solo; it makes it patently obvious that you JUST DON'T GET IT. If the silly little trappings of sci fi are the only thing you understand about it, that's fine. Just go watch The Last Starfighter or something and stop complaining while the grownups are watching TV.


                
I read a few of the reviews from other user, and I'm stunned that a lot of people find this show terrible.first off, I would like to have a word with the guys that do not understand the plot: this is not supposed to be a sci fi with a lot of bad, ugly, overgrown, 12 headed aliens. The mare fact that the aliens look like humans, makes the show more realistic. Have you ever heard of natural selection? If so, you would understand that ridiculous creatures, with strange sounds and other things like that can not survive. You would argue now that not every planet may support life like Earth, and those which do, may have different life forms. But why so different? if they sustain life, they have to be of similar size with Earth(else gravity would crush beings into insect-like size), with oxygen, a lot of water, maybe more than 50% of the surface, with a solar system similar to ours. In other words, all the events that happened on Earth and shaped life forms could happen there, thus humanoid aliens are much more plausible than ugly creatures.second: the similarity to current earth society and religion. That's perfectly normal, since the guys who were thousands of light years away came to our planet, and brought with them the influences of their civilization. third: this show has a well developed drama, it explores the human mind very well. Humans, regardless of their location, always believed in something higher than them. In early ages, the concept of God or gods helped them "understand" phenomena around them In order to make this a complete exploration of the human mind, the concept of God had to exist. As human society progressed, God offered a meaning of life. eternal life, life after death, the answer to many fundamental questions.now, my own observations on this show: in few words...it is perfect. It covers almost every aspect of the human condition. Characters evolve, sometimes in unexpected ways. You can actually see from one episode to another that at least one of them has changed something in their personality, which is great, and not many other shows manage to capture this on camera. Play-acting is great, almost flawless. Representative is the 10th episode of the second season "Pegasus" where you can actually see the determination of Commander Adama, when, knowing that Pegasus would prevail over Galactica, and that this insubordination would cost his life, he still acted to save his men.All in all, this is a perfect series, and anyone who thinks other-wise has no experience when it comes to cinematography.
Those are fighting words in that headline, Yes I've watched The Wire, Sopranos, Breaking Bad and many others, and while excellent, in my opinion they have all been living in the shadow of this.It takes a bit of your soul after you finish BSG, you never feel it leaves you as it gives you something greater, something beautiful. When we get down to brass tacks,. It's why storytelling came about in the first place around campfires in prehistoric times, to pass on what is and always will be important, those things that make us more complete if we contemplate them.It's probably the most powerful story I've ever watched and I include film in that. It starts off like a rocket and morphs quickly from a rather thrilling, gritty science fiction saga to an honest to god life changing (if you let it) study on what it means to be alive and human nature and how best to respond to the trials life throws at us and how we all are striving to get/stake out a small measure of peace. The show starts white knuckle and then gets wider/deeper than you could think of and soon realize this is one of the greats and how little known it really is. You'll feel like you're found hidden pirate's treasure and want to share it with someone else.The less you know the better. I began bingewatching the series in late 2008 because I was standing in a store with a friend in 1st year of college and he said try this. I had never seen a trailer, a review, how many episodes, NOTHING. To say I was pleasantly surprised is an understatement that is equal to saying what they dropped on Hiroshima was a grenade. It's now my favorite show of all time and I'm not really a science fiction fan. To put it mildly:It had everything I liked from various other great fiction mixed together but in perfect concoction. I never had a felt a series so made for me, but here it was: Politics, scenic planets, resource depletion, mental exhaustion and desperation, PTSD, life after the military, a navy style military, but transplanted to a believable future society, characters of great warmth and duty but also questioning and self aware enough to learn from their mistakes and others. I loved how old and young characters interacted with each other across age gaps. The feeling of living in a tin can, after losing everyone you know and THEN being hunted across the universe after a total genocide is palpable. Strong and weak male characters that are allowed to be men and strong and weak women characters that are not trying to be men, but women, just humans keeping themselves from the brink all set in an atmosphere of cabin fever and paranoia.Its one of the truly great stories, ordinary people being forced to cope with a situation inflicted upon them as they get put through the most harrowing odyssey to find some small contentment (surrogate families become a subtle underlying theme of the series). The characters and dialogue are so well drawn and so flawlessly and naturally acted that even by the end of the first season, you will feel like you understand, empathize them all even when not fully agreeing with their decisions, No show will make you feel more conflicted than BSG or put you in another shoes, and despite all this it never becomes a story of anti heroes, they really are trying to figure a way out of the mire and be decent people. They will remind you of people you in real life know and inspire you to be better; I know this sounds cringey but this series was one of the reasons behind my choice of career I'm currently pursuing and changed my beliefs in some aspects of democracy and even religion. This is the kind of TV that makes you wish you had the chance to have some of the characters as a part of your own life. It does all this while by being incredibly compelling, introspective, adventurous, immersive and having one of the finest thrilling and beautiful soundtracks you will ever hear in all of cinema/TV. It is godlike and I find myself listening to it whether its speeding dangerously down a motorway, typing out an Excel sheet or loading the dishwasher. Bear McCreary take a bow.It is a series both under seen and under heard, both intelligent, probing and life affirming, revealing itself to have huge dramatic heart to match its vast brains. People and what's left of civilization are left holding on to each other and their sanity/identity, living in close proximity, in a facade of democracy, at the end of everything. What is there to live for?It has been seven years since it ended and to this day I have never seen characters (dozens of secondary and primary) and an overarching storyline feel so real, so true and despite the darkness, inspirational. It combines the intimate,cosy and the epic and does so with equal skill. J.R.R Tolkien would be proud. It is a treatise on the human experience that feels and looks like a 60 hour, 6 year cinematic film series. It is a universal fable which compels us to reflect on our own world, our own lives, our own choices, "since all of this has happened before, and will happen again". Nothing is left untouched, and you'll feel that journey, oh lord you'll feel it. You'll live it.So enough of the hyperbole, I just felt that a lot of these reviews undersell it, and I do think that years from now it will be regarded in the same way Blade Runner, Lawrence of Arabia or Alien are now, I believe it will age fantastically for it has a timeless setting.Well done Ron Moore, David Eick and company, you magnificent supersonic bastards.


                
If you think you know this show from watching the original series, you are wrong. The two share a basic plot outline and a few concepts, but nothing beyond that. As a kid, I enjoyed watching the original Battlestar Galactica, sure, but in retrospect it wasn't very believable.The bad guys were weak, the good guys were too darned good, and the daggit was, well, unfortunately present. There was no drama in what was essentially a tragedy of apocalyptic proportions. For frak's sake, they went to a party planet right after their home worlds blew up!In stark contrast to the original, the "re-visioned" Galactica is an epic story of human drama and tragedy. The characters are well-developed, well-acted, and believable.The cinematography is incredible. Very little use of static cameras can be detected. Rather, the makers of this show take an apparent page from Joss Whedon's excellent series Firefly, using hand-held shots and liberal application of the zoom lens to heighten the effect. Close-up shots of all the actors' facial expressions during tense moments really grabs the viewer's attention and provides greater insight into the emotions they were intended to portray.Viewers may also enjoy the omniscient perspective they are provided by the writers of the series, enabling them to see interactions between the bad guys and good guys alike. Indeed, the mystery really isn't who the bad guys are or what they want, but rather what their long term goals are, how they implement them, and how the good guys respond. Every character, even the minor ones, have depth.Anyone who is a fan of good drama, good action, good writing, good characters, good cinematography, or good sci-fi should check this out. Afterwards, seriously consider adding it to your DVD collection.


                
You won't see stupid visual effects or just exploding stuff. You will see a proper storyline with a lot of in depth characters.


                
I remember when the Original BSG came out; I watched some of the shows. I found myself not really into the show. Maybe it was all the Sci-Fi shows and movies that were out there or may it was that the original was not as good. It had its moments, but it also had moments that were way off the mark.When I heard the show was being redone, I was interested and watched the mini-series. The difference between the old show and this one is like having Filet after eating Hamburger Helper for several years. The writing is crisp, well thought out and timely. The acting is very strong. I have always been a James Olmos fan and it seems he elevates everyone else's game to another level. The characters are well defined even the secondary characters. Most shows use secondary characters as fillers, not Battlestar, the secondary characters add even more to the show. Point in case, Richard Hatch's portrayal of Tom Zarek is one of the most intriguing characters since Garek of Deep Space nine. Richard's character keeps you guessing as to what his intentions are what he really wants, and is he good or evil? Richard's character is far and above better than his previous role as Apollo. This is just one example of how the secondary characters breathe life into this show.This is just one of the examples of the writing of BSG and how it is one of the best shows on television. I remember how certain shows would get discuss if something major happened, like "Who shot JR" in Dallas. But with BSG you get the discussion on many different levels on many different things. Questions like: Who is a Cylon? Will they find Earth? What is the Cylon plan? And many other questions including "Do these people deserve to live?" If you look at most message boards on current shows on television you do not see the interest or traffic as Battlestar generates. Even at my work, you can find one or two people having conversations about this show on a daily bases.Some people have accused this show of being a Soap Opera. BSG has long story lines across many episodes. This makes a newcomer to the show have a difficult time following the show and the plots. However, it is because of this that BSG has many loyal viewers who tune in every week to see what happens next. For a new person to appreciate this show I strongly suggest that you run to your video store and watch the previous shows and then prepare to watch the new season September 24th, you will not be disappointed.


                
I can not begin ti explain how good this show is but i'll give it a try! being a fan of the original series i started the new series with caution but let me tell you it surpassed not only the original series but any other series i've ever watched, the action is great but its the effort that been put into making the characters that impressed me the most, you feel for every character and want to find out more about them. From the first to last episode i was just immersed in the world of galactica, i think this show is underrated and its a shame as everyone should get to experience the epicness of this series , also the mini films made after the series are also incredibly well made and i would highly recommend that you should watch this series so say we all


                
OK, so let me share with you my experiences while watching BSG.Season 1: I started watching it with little interest but i didn't give it up, for I trusted the people who recommended this outrageously terrific show. But in the middle of the season I couldn't tear my eyes of the television screen anymore. Season 2: During this season came the time I started dragging (literally)my sister by her hair down the stairs just to watch another Bsg episode with me (I watched BSG with my older sister who wouldn't watch more than two episodes a night). Season 3: this season really jeopardized my mental health. I became a psycho who wouldn't communicate to anyone but the TV screen. Season 4: During this season I started spending more and more money for I needed more and more handkerchiefs.I always wanted to watch more than two episodes a night but my dad and sister warned me. They said I will regret it at the end. And I sure did. After watching the whole series my only wish was to forget everything related with BSG, so I could watch it again and enjoy it as much I did the first time.


                
This is, beyond a doubt, THE BEST show that I have ever seen. From the writing, acting, directing to storyline and development, I can honestly say that I have seen none better! Far from the very hokey 70's show, this modern adaptation is true to life in it's approach. People fight, people die. It's gritty and plays on your emotions from start to finish.If you decide to watch this series, and I highly recommend you do so if you have a love/hate relationship with religion, politics, war and social issues, be sure to ALSO watch the webisodes.For the correct viewing order (with NO spoilers), including the TV movies, go to Alphabetti Spaghetti at http://tiny.cc/xhbfuwBRAVO!!!


                
This is the best version of TV remake in television today, it takes us into the future when all of the characters battles into the war like no other imagined, this is a masterpiece of all proportions, the cast is universally excellent, especially Edward James Olmos who has never stop making good movies and TV shows over the year and the rest of the performances are great as well, I Saw the series finale of this classic remake and it was one of the best finales I've seen since the mash ending back in 1983 when I Saw it in syndication, Great special effects, gritty realism and a terrific soundtrack, this is definitely one of the best shows of all time, next to other great shows of this otherwise god awful decade of television, great show.


                
I've seen a lot of shows and this one is still my favorite. I definitely enjoyed the politics/religion aspects of this show and the characters were incredible. This is the type of show that will make you root for the "bad and good guy." This will always be a classic. The best thing about this show is the characters. If you like this show as much as I did you'll be drawn into the lives of each one. I was on the edge of my seat many times wondering what to expect. I sometimes wondered who was good or bad and regardless I still hoped for the best. This show will always hold a special place in my heart. I didn't start watching until 2012 and I literally watched a marathon of it because I was wrapped up in the lives and story of every character. You'll not be disappointed in this instant classic. Give it a try and enjoy as many of us have.


                
