The show started out as one of the greatest, best written shows I have seen. Some where along the way they either ran out of ideas or had a fear of success or something. The original concept, that the Cylons were fighting a genocidal war against humans was thrown out when it was revealed that several key humans were actually cylon sleeper agents. If they had been activated the war would have been over the first week. It was one of the changes that completely negated the earlier, excellent episodes. It was similar to when the movie Aliens 3 starts starts off with meaningless deaths of key characters from Aliens2 or when Brad Ratner had Xmen start killing each other off in Xmen3. These things are bad by themselves but also taint all the earlier episodes. How can you go back and enjoy the first seasons of the show knowing that most of the actions by key characters are lies and completely illogical since you now know they are cylons. A bitter, bitter, disappointment.
When they aren't fighting killer robots they fight themselves, but at least the writers showed nicely how people crack in a confined space after a disaster. As long as you try to not yell at the shaky camera you can still watch this.I just finished watching the last episode and I was incredibly shocked: "That's it?!" Yes, a horrible drama with fantasies instead of science. Oh it started swell as Lost, but at the end of season 2 it got lamer and lamer. They should have had an idea how they would end it all from the start. The writers deserved none of the pay for what they scribbled for a script after the writers strike.It rocketed awesomely of into deep space. A handful of ships with the last humans trying to find Earth while escaping killer robots. It was nice, it was intriguing, but then it went too far. Suddenly people started having visions how to find Earth and stuff. By the end fantasy magic overwhelmed science.How do you find a killer android? Do you put a metal detector to its head and hear it go BING? No. You need blood samples that only one man can decode. So the androids aren't really androids, just humans with a wireless Internet connection who think they are robots.In the end they took some lame stuff out of Star Trek. Lots of class M planets around. ENDLESS amount of fighters and bombers and like in Voyager they only build one from scratch. Same goes for troopers and pilots. I understand where you get volunteers, but where do you get the gear, guns, BULLETS and missiles?! Killer robots ALWAYS know where to find them. Stuff like this tends to come up often. I still can't believe they managed to cram 48000 people, a cat and a dog into that tiny fleet.The drama mostly rotated around the elite of the fleet: admiral, president, friends and family. Neglecting saving the human race they were selfish to order suicide missions. They are so ignorant, selfish and dumb that I started hating them all so much I laughed when they found Earth to be a post-apocalyptic wasteland. What to do next? How about go looking for a neighboring habitable planet and settle down? No. We wait till a little girl gets stolen, and we send the last strike force to rescue her. More died in the process.The end was baby sh**. Oh they eventually found the real Earth by randomly pushing buttons in a musical pattern. Ironically the planet was ONE jump away from a black hole and the main killer robot base. And Earth was inhabited by tribal humans who are our ancestors. And it turns out that all the pixies in Baltars and 6's heads were angels (or maybe demons). Starbuck was actually a ghost for an entire season. Boomer kept sabotaging stuff for 3 seasons but was redeemed in the end. And they sent all their ships into the sun for no sane reason. And the friendly killer robots who couldn't reproduce or think by themselves flew away to explore space. Yes, and I'm a toddler who likes these sort of stories.Buy a tripod you maniacs! And never show this fantasy for a science again! I feel like I wasted several month of my life on this show. I never saw the original and I don't want to now.
What were they thinking?! The mini-series looked terrible and I was expecting at least some semblance of effort to make the series at least look acceptable. But of course not! Why spoil the SciFi Channel reputation for cheap and cheesy entertainment.I keep hearing about the SciFi Channel wanting to attract talent and produce great shows and movies... If they're serious about it, they should cancel this sad excuse for a show.What's with the herky-jerky stuff and the hideous "photography"? The whole thing looks like it was shot with a camcorder at the local amateur theater.It makes you really sad for Eddie Olmos and Mary McDonnell that they can't find a job in a decent show and have to be surrounded with amateur cameramen and dead-eyed models pretending they're acting.By the way, anyone else notice the number of people claiming to like the show who use the made-up expression "re-imagineering"? Makes you wonder where they all got the press kit.
I am the Sci-Fi channel's dream viewer in that I will watch pretty much anything that they can chum the waters with - and we ARE talking about some programming with more in common with fermented fish guts than with anything that could reasonably be called drama. But I still watch. During the week, throughout the day, it's the same 10-11 episodes of the same 5-8 canceled TV series, over and over again - FOR YEARS! (I believe that I have seen enough "Tru Calling" to recite the dialog along with the actors, the same way we used to at midnight showings of "Rocky Horror.) During the week, prime time, we get maybe one new episode of a current show, ramped up to by old episodes of the same show. Then comes the weekend. Cobras, boas, anacondas, copperheads, (Apparently snakes are easy to do CGI.) giant rapacious sharks, carnivorous locusts, dragons, cursed angels...all paraded past us in indifferently written, cheaply produced fashion. But I still watch, and for the most part, enjoy. I enjoy because I think that most of us who started watching televised science fiction (When there were really only three channels, when the creatures were usually enlarged garden denizens, large bug-like sculptures, or just some guy wearing something that looked like one of your auntie's failed quilting projects, and when any sci-fi tended to be broadcast long after our parents had been safely tucked into bed and Johnny Carson had signed off.) learned early on that a little artistic honesty and a sense of humor are far more important than overly dramatic posturing to any show's success as entertainment. Most of Skiffy's creature-feature programs are undeniably bad science fiction, and not worth a second look or thought, but succeed nonetheless as entertainment, which is something that they share with undeniably good science fiction like "Babylon 5". What they also share with "Babylon 5" is that they are all better than "Battlestar Galactica".When I heard that they were "re-imagining" "Battlestar Galactica", I was giddy with the anticipation. The original show had been one of my favorites, but I have always felt that it never achieved its full potential. The premise was an excellent combination of the Biblical Exodus with a holocaust allegory and there was access to some good post "Star Wars" special effects, along with the potential for some good story lines as the rag tag fleet made its way to Earth, kicking some Cylon butt along the way. In the end, while the premise remained solid, the story lines faltered and became a bit campy (space angels?), and a limited effects budget gave us the same shot of the Cylon fighters doing their trademarked twist and dive maneuver over and over again. The show was canceled, which was bad enough for its scifi-starved fans, but to add insult to injury, was followed up with the abysmal "Galactica 1980" which retained none of the original vision, but the worst of the campiness.I watched the obligatory "making of" promo for the new series and was very impressed. I didn't really see the need for trans-gendering the Boomer and Starbuck characters, but what the frack? After all, we're "re-imagining" here, aren't we? Then came the miniseries and I took heart. Same great premise as the original with better special effects. So the characters are unnecessarily dark, most of the dialog is delivered at a mumble, and the camera work looks like it's being done by the guy who DIDN"T get the "Blair Witch Project" job. "Re-imagining", right? Then came the series. What a hulking, pretentious, brooding load of festering felgercarb! I went through all of the stages of dying before the third season ended, lingering a little longer at "anger" and "denial" than I think I will when the time actually does come. "Re-imagining", my ass! The only thing that has been re-imagined here is what might go into making a decent science fiction show.1. If you are only going to produce a limited number of episodes per season, with wide time gaps between those seasons, you might "re-imagine" something actually happening during the course of those episodes. The main story line moves way too slowly, and there are only just so many times that Starbuck can get drunk and beat up Col. Tigh in order to distract from the fact that nothing much has changed in the story line.2. "Re-imagine" that at least one of your characters is likable. Yes, it's true that characters with flaws tend to be more interesting, but that does not mean that your characters should consist only of their flaws. There should be at least one character that the average viewer might want to invite over to dinner or share a beer with. As it stands, the only one of these people I would even allow in my house would be #6, and then only because I am intrigued by that glowy thing she does with her spine during intercourse.3. "Re-imagine" that it's OK for your villains to be just that. Indeed, it would be refreshing to see ANY show do that for a change. The "Oh Gosh, they're really just like us, after all!" approach to villain building is today just as trite as were the baby-eating Nazis of the 40's and 50's. Make them as complicated as you want, but keep the venom, and by the Lords of Kobol, make sure that they are just a little less likable than your protagonists!4. "Re-imagine" that your audience wants to give a frack. As it stands now, I hate these drunken, whiny, morose sons of bitches. I don't even want them escape the Cylon menace. In fact it's obvious that Earth would be far better off if we never meet our dysfunctional space cousins.Edward James Olmos has said that the series' finale will be "brutal" (Duh!). I can only hope that it is also truly final.
This show is so awful, it defies description.Is it because it takes itself so seriously that it has been the recipient of so much hype? Is it because the SciFi Channel confuses pretentiousness with quality that we have been treated to years of this bad, bad show? Regardless, Battlestar Galactica remains a monument to bad cinema. With is poor cast, stilted dialogue and awful direction, it offers examples of what not to do on every level.It has sent the cause of Science-Fiction TV back quite a few years, which is sad because we live in an age where dozens of SF projects are on the air, but most of them are so so awful that they're not worth even looking at them.Battlestar Galactica is one of them.
The first thing that pops to mind when you start watching a Battlestar Galactica episode is "Why?" Why would anyone put such a bad show on the air? Why would anyone keep on paying to make such a bad show? Why would anyone want to make more after seeing the pilot? Why would anyone pay to make the pilot knowing that it would be awful and unwatchable.? Why keep the same producers on salary when they clearly don't know how to make a TV show? Why would SciFi keep hawking this dreadful show when it's clear it'll never have a big audience? Why would critics not be embarrassed to support a show that looks like it was shot with a camcorder? The questions keep popping up but they'll never be answered.Battlestar Galactica is all about its marketing campaign, not about making a good show.Just imagine if all that money had been spent trying to make a good show that all could be proud of....
SciFi Channel claims they're spending oodles of money on the new BG.My question is "where is it going?" Because it certainly is not on screen.Ronald D. Moore uses every contrivance to make the show as cheap as it possibly can be, something that would be entirely forgivable if not for the promotion claiming that SciFi is spending a lot of money and that it's a "flagship" show.Also annoying are the comments from Moore and his Shill Squad that you have to have an "open mind" to appreciate the new BG.But really... what is there to appreciate? Bad video imagery. A camera that shakes constantly for no purpose other than try and hide how cheap everything looks? A young cast made up of "actors" who can't act and have nothing in their eyes? The real question is "what is wrong with SciFi that it feels it must keep this loser on the air?" It's not the ratings. They're deplorable given the advertising given to the show.Whose fat and cushy job is being spared by pretending this is a beloved show (it's obviously not) that captivates big audiences (that don't show up on the ratings)?


                
Battlestar Galactica offers everything you'd want to copy if you wanted to make a really, really bad show.First of all the directors don't seem to know what they're doing. They seem to think that shaking the camera and panning to and fro is some sort of genius directorial touch.It's not.It's nonsense elevated to an art form, which is not surprising since the show is produced by Ronald D. Moore, the King of Self-Aggrandizement.The acting is also horrific, in great part because of the direction.For instance, Richard Hatch who was terrific in the original looks hideous in the new show, chewing the scenery and completely over-the-top. Then again all the actors are over-the-top, perhaps to compensate for the camera zooming in and out of their faces for no particular purpose.Add to that scripts that are laughably full of themselves and you have a show that will send audiences packing, which they have.In spite of the huge publicity heaped on Galactica year after year, it has failed again and again to gain an audience and remains the biggest piece of film-flam this side of The Shield.For shame SciFi Channel!


                
This series started great, I'd put it into my TOP 10 or 15. The problem is that it quicky loses all of its realism during season 2 (mostly in the second half). Thus the atmosphere and drama evaporates. The rest of the series is composed of incredible coincidences and divine intervention. There is plenty of nonsense even if you take out the supernatural elements: like how the hell can't the Cylons control 50 000 starving people on New Caprica when they've shot (and cremated) billions of bodies in a few days? (during the destruction of the Colonies) Obviously, any average viewer sees that the occupation should have been blamed on a tiiny religious sect within the Cylons. The fact that the writers didn't get that proves that they've spent 5 minutes, at maximum, during the planning phase on each episode. That is too little. Bringing people back from the dead (Kara Thrace, Elen) doesn't help either. The same goes for the cliché dream sequences involving Roslin/Tigh shooting Adama.. and so on. The final episode is extremely bad.The CGI takes a huge hit in season 3 and overall cinematography collapses in season 4. No wonder the series ended with 1/3 of the viewership it had at the start (it came down to 50 % in between seasons 2 and 3). Best episodes: "33" and the Pegasus trilogy.
This show is like an advertised educational seminar, with promise of free pizza lunch. You attend joyously, you enjoy the great free food, and best still, you are hooked immediately as the lecturer starts talking about a really exciting topic, and you can't stop listening. The lecture challenges you to think, and question, and you happily go along as it all sounds so profound. You listen for hours, addicted, ignoring all the questions and seemingly massive gaps presented so far, so sure that with everything else being presented so expertly, eventually all the questions are answered in due time. There is a carrot in front of your face, and you chase it willingly.Then right near the conclusion of this whole thing, you are in for a very rude awakening. So far there have been are references to God, Divine Purpose, and inexplicable Destinies. The way they are presented, you are so certain that they are metaphoric and rhetoric tools just to make things sound interesting. But rather, you discover to your own dismay that of all the hours you spent listening, the narrator has meant everything quite literally. Actually, about as literally as the most orthodox Christian Sunday service.And this is what this show boils down to folks. A very heavy handed religious sermon. By the end of the show, the writer has used every tool at this disposal to dispel any doubt you have about his religious message. At the end, "God did everything, because in all his wisdom, he saw it best that way". The first two seasons of this show were fantastic. Unfortunately, the heavy handed religious over-tones ruin everything.You watch the most decrepit character that had a hand in demise of quite literally the entire human race forgiven time and time again by the survivors and escape death by miracles, and eventually raised to Messiah status. The character Baltar, driven by his sexual lust for a Cylon, gives her access to codes that she uses to nuke 20 billion people. But by season 4 he is fashioning a beard, long hair, and wearing a robe looking exactly like a Jesus Christ clone preaching that there is only one true God, and the multiple gods that the previous generations worshiped were false. So the human survivors have become allies with the Cyclons that butchered their entire race. Oh by the way, Baltar gets the one true God idea from these Cylons themselves. Everyone is just so eager to forgive and forget everything, and just go along this path that God has set before them.How did Starbuck come back from the dead? Well, God just resurrected her.How did Starbuck lead all survivors back to earth? Well, God put the coordinates into her head.How is genocide of the entire human race by the Cylons justified? Well, God brought judgment day down upon them for worshiping false Gods and their rotten corrupt ways. The sooner they realize this the sooner their suffering will end.How can the last surviving 40,000 humans possibly forgive the Cylons and actually ally with any of them? Well, the Cylons were just instruments of God's divine will. Have faith, and everything is possible.How are there human beings exactly like the Colonials millions of light years away on Earth? Well, it was the way God made it.How did the Cylons and Roslin have visions that predicted the future? - God put it in their heads.Why did everything always go so right for the Cylons and the humans repeatedly got their ass kicked and got butchered? - Humans believed in false multiple Gods, but the Cylons saw the righteous path and worshiped the one true God. Humans eventually succeeded and God helped them once they began on the right monotheistic path.And so on. Going back, I would watch the show with different initial assumptions. You see, at the beginning it may seem to you that the innocent humans are the ones to be sympathized with as you see unfathomable hell being unleashed on them by the Cylons. But that's the wrong assumption, and certainly not what the writer seems to have had in mind. But rather, the Cylons are the perfect immortal beings, instruments of the true God, punishing the humans. You don't realize it is fruitless to root for humanity as they are, until the end, when they come to their senses that they should just stop opposing the one true God. And that's why this show become absolutely infuriating and entirely pathetic in the final season. The incredible intrigue of the first two seasons is that we are shown a courageous and uncompromising group of human survivors from a holocaust of unimaginable devastation, protected only by the outdated Battlestar, traveling in deep space grasping at little hope of finding a long lost colony called Earth. Time and time again, they try to survive against insurmountable odds, and you cheer for them. You think they probably won't make it, and you hope at least they go out fighting with dignity. But all of this heart wrenching and awesome potential for a Homeric tragedy gives way instead to a religious magic wand. The human race survives not by righteously fighting their murderers till their last number or by being saved when finding Earth,but rather they survive by eventually accepting "God's plan" which was reproducing with the Cylons (in some perverted Adam and Eve analogy)and eventually giving up their "evil" technology and false gods to live as primitive human beings along side guidance from the Cylons on Earth. Oh yeah, there are a band of human beings that don't forgive the Cylons and won't ally with them. Quite conveniently, these mutineers are put in front of a firing squad and pumped with bullets by other humans. This is just in case you had any doubts about what happens if you oppose God's plan.
Battlestar Galactica, as is well-documented is not a very good show at all. Its camera-work and direction are way below average and should have made its network take notice.After all, when your director shakes the camera at everything that moves under the pretense that it's "realistic", you know something is very, very wrong.When your show is shot on video and looks therefore like a home video, you should take notice and demand changes, or at least yank the embarrassment off the air.But in the world of SciFi Channel where wrestling shows and bad creature features rule, the embarrassment that is Battlestar Galactica is what is hyped as "quality". Apparently the fact that most of the cast is made up of dead-eyed models hasn't been noticed, nor has the obvious pretension of the writing (and its attendant lack of quality).It all doesn't matter as long as the PR money flows apparently.What is sad, is to think of all the good shows that could have been made with the resources wasted on this embarrassing commercial (low ratings galore) and artistic failure.


                
If you like Science-Fiction these days, the last place you'd look for a good show or a good movie is the SciFi Channel.The new and much derided Battlestar Galactica is a perfect example of everything that has been wrong with SciFi ever Since Bonnie Hammer took the helm.First, there is a complete and total disregard of the audience. The only reason to do a remake of Galactica is that it had an established fan base which would make it easier to launch. SciFi proceeded immediately to produce a show that was a slap in the face to anyone who liked the original.Then there is the quality issue.Under the guidance of Ronald D. Moore and David Eick, Galactica is shot like a home-video. It looks terrible, some would say unwatchable.The casting was also done with a nose thumbed directly at the audience. Moore and Eick cast a bunch of models incapable of acting. Apparently SciFi Channel thinks Science-Fiction fans couldn't car less about acting and only want to gawk at pretty people.The list goes on and on and the result is that SciFi has been wasting oodles of money on Galactica and numerous other bad shows and has no audience left.Yet, Bonnie Hammer and her staff congratulate themselves on a job well done because they assume Science-Fiction is aimed at a super-small audience.In reality they have antagonized most Science-Fiction fans with awful shows like Battlestar Galactica.


                
The new Battlestar Galactica is the kind of show that gives fodder to those who want to dismiss the genre wholesale.It doesn't have the slightest shred of originality or creativity. Instead, we are "treated" to a parade of empty-eyes model-types reciting bad lines that try oh so hard to be profound but are only PC and clichéd.And of course, there is the directing of the show, or what passes for it. For some reason, bad TV producers have taken to the idea that shaking the camera at anything and everything somehow makes their show "real".In reality, this makes their show look as fake as a three-dollar bill.It's sad to see a couple of veteran actors wasting their talent in this abysmal and pretentious production, but what is really awful is how SciFi Channel has spent so much money hyping this dud instead of using the money to make a good show.For shame!


                
Battlestar Galactica, throughout its run, was a really bad show. It still is as Ronald D. Moore and David Eick continue to run along the same line of badly structured stories, bad acting and horrid photography.Shot on video, for some weird and obscure reason, it featured ridiculous camera movements, best described as "shaky cam", complete with absurd use of zoom lenses that combined to give the overall impression of a home video shot by an incompetent cameraman.How this is supposed to get "acclaim" for a TV show just shows how such 'acclaim" is essentially store-bought by advertising money these days.The audience, of course, quickly learned to steer clear of this film making disaster in progress and the result was a complete commercial disaster that has tarnished the name of SciFi Channel to the point where it is now the punchline of a joke amongst people.Add to that scripting that was mostly distinguished by its pretentiousness and horrifically bad casting of the likes of Tricia Helfer and an assorted band of untalented models selected for their supposedly hip look and you see why this show will be remembered (outside of SciFi Channel of course) as the model of what to avoid if you want to make a good TV show.


                
It's a tribute to Ron Moore's abilities as a PR man that this show is still on the air.It's also a tribute to the compete lack of taste of the SciFi Channel, after all, until the arrival of eureka, SciFi didn't have anything really worth remembering to watch (at least for a year until SciFi wrung all the creativity out of Eureka too).Shakystar Crapotica was the worst of the bunch.Unfortunately, all that energy that Ron Moore puts into hype, he doesn't put into making a great show, not even a watchable show.The insanely bad camera work (how is shaking the camera constantly anything but pure creative laziness?) coupled with the bizarre decision to shoot on video (and boy is BG a poster boy for how video is not up to snuff!) combine to make an unwatchable show.This is as well, as the pretentiousness of the story lines with their rip-offs of moments in history (surely to show how "deep" and "relevant" the show is) and the mostly horrifying lack of acting talent on the part of the younger cast would be enough to make you lose your appetite for a whole week.In other words, keep on avoiding (yes indeed, Shakystar Crapotica is not the rating behemoth that Scifi keeps on advertising!)


                
This show is so incredibly badly made, it's actually painful to watch. I'm not sure why. Maybe it's the waste of money and energy. Maybe it's the two good actors (hint - not the empty-eyed pretty models) wasting their time, but this show brings about shudders whenever I have the bad luck to see some of it.Adding to the injury is the relentless ad campaign waged by SciFi (they apparently can't recognize losers when they see them again and again!) and the strange tack they take in insulting the original, which for all its faults, way was better and at least very watchable unlike the new version.I don't know why the creators don't stop shooting on video, buy a tripod, hire a couple of good writers and actors and do a good show instead of spending their time finding new and ever more obnoxious ways of hyping their badly made show.


                
I've always hated remakes, but I hate remakes that don't hold true to a story the most. This has a hint of the basic outline of the original series, then threw in some modern cheap plot lines and trashed one of the more original stories to be brought to television. Sometimes I feel I am tuned to ABC and am watching, forgive the pun, "Lost" in Space. I don't like the changes, the cheap thrills, and it seems like the only people who know how to act in the series are those over the age of 40. It saddens me to know that this is what was made instead of Richard Hatch's other vision, which would have advanced the old storyline, dumped '80, and kept the quirky colonials that I came to care a great deal for as a young sci-fi watcher. This show will appeal to the teens who aren't afraid to watch spaceships, but it has all the polish of Wing Commander the movie without the plot depth.


                
To read the press, we're supposed to think Battlestar Galactica is "great" because it makes "deep" references to "current events".Sadly, this is just one of the many annoying features of this badly made show.First, whomever told SciFi Channel that video looks just like film should be fired immediately.A lot of SciFi's shows look terrible because they're not filmed, they're shot on video and don't have the budget to make the lighting look even halfway decent (examples are Flash Gordon and Painkiller Jane) Then there' the shaky-cam of course.Again, a lot of hype is written about the "MTV Generation" and how they have no attention span and how they love "documentary style" film-making.Of course, no good documentarian would be happy to make a film that looked as pathetically bad as Battlestar Galactica.It's also insulting to younger audiences to think that they have no taste just because they're younger.All you're left is producers that seem to spend more time trying to think up the next PR release, rather than think about ways to make their show better looking, hire better actor or write better scripts a show that looks terrible and does nobody any favors by remaining on the air.


                
I just purchased and watched all of Season 1. Still not sure I want to watch season 2 and if so it'll definitely be rented instead of bought.This is the type of show that reminds me what sucks about TV. They just drag on the same annoying story lines FOREVER. Star Trek wasn't very linear so each show was usually a unique story. I thought maybe I'd enjoy the more linear story but was truly annoyed how long this show drags on the same old and tired story lines. Some episodes accomplish absolutely NOTHING and take a long time to do that. I'm so sick of the storyline with the Baltar and the hot blonde (number six) constantly appearing. There is no logic to it. Baltar knows who the Cylon on the ship is yet he doesn't turn her in. At the same time he's warned something is going to happen on the ship and is all afraid and wants to stop it.. HOW ABOUT TURNING IN THE Cylon YOU KNOW IS ON THE SHIP??? I'm guessing this show is so hyped up and overrated because there isn't really any good sci fi out there.The holes in the first season really annoyed me too. The humans can easily detect nukes on other ships by the Cylons can't? The captain was ready to close his doors and jump without Apollo and starbuck in the 2nd episode but a few episodes later he's going to risk the entire fleet, use 45% of his fuel to try to find starbuck? How about when starbuck is in the Cylon space ship.. If they're so advanced how can the ship be flown by pushing a few levers. Secondly how would you repair a huge hole in an aircraft and by able to fly it under pressure by putting a bag in the hole. Lastly and most silly is when the captain says he isn't able to jump because the enemy craft is too close. This after we see the ship jump over and over again with craft closing all around it.All that being said I LOVED the mini series. And one or two episodes were actually interesting and weren't all that annoying. But the majority of season 1 so far is truly annoying. Please tell me season 2 gets better?
Shakystar Crapotica is a better title for this show as it describes its nature in a much better way than the original title.The original title makes you think that there is some link between this bad new show and the original, which, while imperfect, has endured the test of time.The new show clearly won't, except as an object lesson on what not to do with a TV show.The new show is appallingly unwatchable, as it is shot on video and with camera work that would make a week-end maker of family films blush in shame.Apparently, we are supposed to understand that incompetent camera work is making you feel that what we're looking is real. What pretentious nonsense! To make things feel real, the producers should have tried to cast real actors instead of that sad parade of pretty boys and girls. They may also have tried to put some thought into the scripts, instead of trying to be hip.It's no wonder this bad show has no ratings, as it's truly horrible.It IS a wonder that it stayed on the air for so long, as it only tarnishes the reputation of the channels that broadcast it.


                
If anyone needs an example as to why remakes are not always a good idea, the new and much downgraded Battlestar Galactica provides a great example.Isn't it sad that 30 years later, the art of photography has taken such a nose dive? While the original was brilliantly photographed, in painstakingly shaded colors, the new BSG is shot on video (???!!!) The acting is also not all that good in the sequel and of course, the fun is completely gone.Apparently, current in-vogue TV producers think that the audience having fun watching a show interferes with their "art".In any case, the new BSG, is a compendium of pretentious PC stories, poorly filmed and poorly acted.Wish they had tried to make something original instead.


                
I could have enjoyed this series a lot more had it not been for one character who is REALLY in your face and rammed down your throat from the very beginning to the very end. Captain Kara 'Starbuck' Thrace a highly irritating name to start with (am I 5 years old) but not as irritating as her character. Imagine a mentally unstable teen with the worst teen angst of any teen who has ever roamed the planet. Then multiply that by at least 1000 and you get Starbuck. This character is utterly selfish, me me me, its all about me! She is constantly angry, drunk, Psychotic, seriously loud, obnoxious foolish, etc. To add to that the actresses overacting really didn't help although this is nothing personal against her, she's only doing her job. I kid you not when it was obvious an episode was to be centred around her (of which there are many I'm sorry to say) I eventually began skipping those episodes completely. Don't worry, your wont miss a thing. I don't know what the producers were thinking. Did they really think this horrible one dimensional character who has not a single redeeming quality about her was something mature people wanted. This character was clearly aimed at 12 year old girls as an attempt to portray what a strong female character should be like. I very much hope 12 year old girls don't watch this and think Starbuck is what they need to be when they get older for that would be a disaster for them. There are much better stronger female characters in the show who should have been given more airtime than they received. Boomer for example.After the middle of season 2 it rapidly went down hill. Its very difficult to put in to words what is wrong with this show because there is so much wrong with it. The continuity of the story lines for example is just pure amateur. In one episode the Chief takes up the cause for workers rights. At the end of the episode you just know this will be a new sub line for the Chiefs character. But no, its never mentioned or seen of again. There are so many examples of this nonsense it became insulting after a while. Many reviews claim it is intelligent sci fi. No its not because none of it makes you wonder about the possibilities and you could be watching anything, more specifically it could be any soap opera because this is what this series rapidly turned in to. Good sci fi makes you ponder big questions about our universe, they don't do the soap opera routine.The religious sub-line all the way through the show was just plain weird and as the series progressed it became another turn off. A number of characters have visions all the way through the series but they are so cryptic it became obvious they were nothing more than space fillers. Boring doesn't even begin to describe those long drawn out scenes. Then there's the cutbacks to previous lives. Pile on the tedium why don't you.Then there's the Cylons. A much more advanced and powerful race than the humans. But of course they become totally incompetent and can be beaten off by throwing a few sticks and stones. When you begin praying the Cylons would simply wipe out the humans and just go off on an adventure of their own you know there is something seriously wrong with all of the human characters and the storyline. There are a few episodes which centre around the Cylons (although not enough) and its a relief to be free from the human soap opera and of course some welcome respite from Starbuck lashing out at every direction possible.Clearly many reviewing this show became fanatical and could see no wrong in it. My guess is they don't know what good sci fi is supposed to be about. They probably adore those daily soap operas and if that's your ticket then you may like this.Viewers left the series in their droves. This is obvious to me why and I'm just surprised the makers managed to con the money people out of their cash for so long If you like sci fi and intelligent programming then do avoid this at all costs.


                
The new Battlestar Galactica (or Boringstar Crapotica as it's often known as!) has been a huge disappointment not only for its creative failings (and they are many!) but also for its amazingly low ratings.Yet, instead of working hard to make the show better, the people behind the scenes act as if they decided that the only way to go was to keep on the PR campaign.We're supposed to believe, through repeated statements, that the show is well-made, when in reality, it's shot on video! And it looks like it - how's that well-made?! We're supposed to believe that it is profound, and when all else fails, fans of the original show are attacked as being blind to the "greatness". Apparently, "greatness" is defined as "shaking the camera mindlessly"...Of course, it's akin to saying that you don't like the "new and improved" new Star Wars because you were a fan of the old one...It's funny how they chose to call this show Battlestar Galactica and then immediately turned around and tried hard to slap in the face what should have been their base audience.Having done that, it's little wonder that the only place the new BG is a ratings success is in SciFi's and Ron Moore's PR releases and their echoing chamber in the press.The reality is that SciFi is wasting a lot of money on a show that hasn't delivered artistically or commercially, and given the public attitude of its backers is unlikely to ever deliver.Here's to hoping someone with a little bit of taste puts an end to BG and the other low-quality shows on SciFi that give a bad name to Science Fiction.


                
Battlestar Galactica is the epitome of what is wrong with television Science-fiction these days.It is so badly made, so devoid of life and so cheap that it makes older shows that were suffering from insufficient special effects look brilliant in comparison.What is most striking about the new and not improved Galactica is how lifeless it is. This is in great part due to a bunch of young models that were cast in spite of their complete lack of acting talent and experience.But the scripts are also shallow and pretentious: they pretend to be deep instead of actually being interesting.Last but not least is the well-documented crappiness of the camera work and the directing. Apparently, even after several years of lack of audience response, the makers of the new Galactica still think that video is an appropriate medium for a professional TV show and that shaking the camera is somehow creative.They should know better.Meanwhile, Science-Fiction fans are left with a meager diet of quality shows.


                
It's as simple as it gets.Battlestar Galactica is just a bad show.It fails in what it is trying to do. And it fails on its own terms.The fact that it's a remake makes it all the more annoying because they had a model to emulate and, possibly, do better. But Ron Moore and his team decided to re-invent the wheel.It turns out they're not that good at re-inventing.I think a lot of the trouble that befell Galactica came from the fateful decision to shoot on video.Once that decision was made, the shaking of the camera and the dreadful, dull look of the show were corollaries as you have to spend a lot more time to light video if you want it to look half as good as film.That still doesn't excuse the pretentious scripts and the bad young models cast where actors were necessary.In short, the new Battlestar Galactica has been a dreadfully bad show that has been an albatross around the neck of SciFi Channel.
