I can't compare this to the original BSG series until I see the original.All-in-all, I found this series to be highly over-hyped and not very well-written or engaging. It was like several other science fictions series/films sliced into bits and crudely patched into a new one. It seemed very clichéd. The poorer elements of the show might have been less glaring if it didn't take itself so seriously.The "colonies" are basically a single culture that is heavily American-ised and the characters are, mostly, the typical array of formulaic, PC-slotted people. The attempts to make the show realistic are uneven and disjointed. Why would the Cylons only make 12 human-like series? If they are so advanced, they could have made 1200 different humans. Why all the secrecy if they are so powerful? Unfortunately, this show is about hooks, not a logical story or originality.I really disliked the idea of the robots looking like humans. The CGI robots looked very CGI and this made me think that they just weren't good enough to place in more than a few shots. What ever happened to cool-looking robots in sci-fi? Are there no good robots? It also made me think the writers were lazy. This show ends up being another soap-opera-in-space series with the tiresome hook that "anyone could be a replicant/terminator" - even you. Boring! I really couldn't care less who turns out to be a Cylon.Where do I cash in my originality chips? I don't think this series has any left.Edit: I'll also add that I didn't care for the "shaky cam" style.


                
BSG seriously lacks imagination. Star trek, for example, is our society in a few hundred years. Star Trek is believably advanced and evolved. BSG on the other hand is supposed to be far, far removed from our society, a completely different thread of humanity, and yet 90% of it could have been shot on a US military base today. They wear suits, ties, fire our guns, have our exact command structure, they even call the president's craft Something-One, like Airforce-One. This seams to just be a shallow platform for American patriotism promoting torture, anti-terrorism measures and religion in politics.I gave this series a real go, but almost half of it is just preaching and endless boring combat. It's boring and unimaginative. You could have about as much fun sitting in a church.


                
This is a johnny-come-lately review, I know. However, they just had a 15- year reunion for the show playing on Amazon Prime and I just binged on the entire series which I do not believe was available online until recently. I generally agree with those reviewers who have determined that the miniseries along with Seasons 1 and 2 are close to making the reimagined BSG a science fiction masterpiece. I loved the opening title sequences and especially the quick shot of Starbuch piloting a Viper out of the launch tube. The visuals in the title sequence are brilliant and get you excited for the upcoming episode. This is true for both the miniseries and Season 1 as well, as they both left me on the edge of my seat wanting more. Season 2 got a little weird with the Martial Law storyline, but I enjoyed the quest for the Arrow of Apollo. But that leads me to my first question:1) On Kobol, Boomer says that Cylons know more about the humans' religion than humans themselves, therefore, why wasn't the Arrow of Apollo more protected by the Cylons? They obviously knew the significance of the Arrow as proven by the ensuing fight between Starbuch and Six, however it was just left inside the display case at a bombed out museum. And the Cylons knew there was a human resistance on Caprica, so it doesn't seem feasible that they left it there because they thought it was safe to do so.2.) And while we're still on Caprica... one of the the most terrifying things that happened to Starbuch was her experience of being held as a breeder on a Cylon breeding farm. Apparently, there were farms all over the planet, not just the one that was destroyed by the resistance. I also assumed there were breeding farms on all 12 colonies. (Or was there?) So, what happened to thie Cylon plan to interbreed with humans? Why was the Boomer/Agathon experiment so important? If interbreeding wasn't working with human females, why not use human males, or at least their sperm? If you are doing this because you are concerned with the survival of the race, love doesn't seem necessary. 3) But...wait...if the Cylon master plan was to interbreed with humans, why did they nuke all 12 colonies? 4) But...wait...again...if they wanted the human population to be decimated by nukes, but then breed with them, exactly how was the new half human species supposed to live on the nuked planets?5.) Oh, but we also learn that Cylon "skin jobs" are not impervious to radiation, so nuking all 12 colonies seems senseless if the plan was to populate them with "skin jobs" and eventually a hybrid race. 6.) And staying on Caprica, was the Anders resistance the only sign of any humans left on the planet? Were any humans left on the 12 colonies? It would seem that if a moral decision had been made to rescue the survivors of the Cylon genocide, there should have been a plan to search for and rescue as many humans as possible.( And to find out more about the Cylon breeding farms!)BSG clearly "jumped the shark" in the Season 3 (and with a few episodes in the Season 2 if I'm being completely honest) and Season 4 was just damn near unwatchable. I managed to drudge through Season 4 in order to find out if some of the questions I had about the story were answered but I could not maintain my waning interest past Episode 13. I did watch the last episode of Season 4 in order to find out what happened. (But really, they discovered Earth through an emergency jump and found the new habitable planet by accident?) (And again, the Chief escapes any penalty for murder!!!)I would say that the exact point at which BSG became ill-fated was Episode 8: "Hero" of Season 3 where we learn that Adama believes that a special operation where he ordered a pilot to be killed, was in fact, the catalyst to to the Cylon War. So, that means we have Laura Rosslyn, the President of the Colonies, trying to fix an election, and Admiral Adama, not only plotting to kill an Admiral who was upholding the Code of Justice (Admiral Cain of the Pegasus), but he was also involved in a serious violation of International Law which may have been responsible for the genocide of 5 billion people and he ordered a murder to cover it up. That brings us to:7) Why weren't the Chief and Agathon punished...at all...for the homicide of the Pegasus crewman? Certainly, Admiral Adama had no problem killing mutineers and calling them all animals. Well, it seems that Gaeta and the rest of the mutineers had a point (Cylon collusion) but they were summarily executed for their rebellion. But in absolving Agathon and the Chief of any responsibility for the killing of the crewman makes it seem like Admiral Adama's justice is selective. Are we supposed to like Adama so much that we overlook this? Are we supposed to be so enamored of the difficult decisions to be made by people in power while in difficult situations that we accept this arbitrariness? I didn't and I see why Adama chose to live alone on the new not-Earth. So, "Why," I asked myself after Season 2, "do I care about these people?" Why am I expected to root for them, especially Adama and Rosslyn? In fact, I found myself rooting for Baltar and his ill-fated plan to settle the fleet on New Caprica. (I Later rooted for Gaeta and Tom Zarek because, at least, they appeared to have clean hands...oh that is until Zerak orders the entire Council of Twelve shot in cold blood for absolutely no reason during he and Gaeta's short-lived coup d'etat. It was primarily a military coup. Zerak should have taken his chances with the Council.)And then I stuck around for the ending of Season 3 in order to see Baltar's trial. Now, those of us who found the settlement of New Caprica an interesting development and a welcome relief from the confinement of a space-faring fleet, should remember that Baltar resisted signing any kind of death list. He only did so with tears streaming down his face while the Cylons held a gun to his head. And of course, we should also remember that Gaeta, who was Baltar's assistant, was the secret agent feeding information to the resistance suggesting that Baltar might have known about Gaeta's activities.This may have all come out very dramatically and emotionally during Baltar's trial,confirming him as one of the most complex, complicated, and interesting villains of all freakin' time! (Great acting by Callis throughout, by the way, except when they allowed him to improvise comedically with a Centurion in Season 4! Yuck.)But the trial fell flat mostly because the writers decided to showcase Lee Adama's transition from soldier to politician where he improbably gets the opportunity to plea Baltar's case for him. (Would never happen except in a Kangaroo Court.) So, Lee Adama becomes the star of the trial which is quite a pivotal event in the life of our desperate fleet, even though we had the introduction of a new character, Romo Lampkin, who was supposed to be a genius, outsider attorney, who was going to call out the powers that be for their soft tyranny which they are projecting onto Baltar. Instead we got Lee Adama defending Baltar who Lampkin himself had already identified as part of the nepotistic system he allegedly despised.8.) Admiral Adama clearly had a conflict of interest in this case. Why was he allowed to sit in judgment of Baltar? Oh, but we find out he voted for Baltar's innocence...was he just helping his son along on his new chosen path?9.) Romo Lampkin, even after he decries the nepotism of the Colonial civilization, is the most responsible person for anointing Lee Adama the new president. Why did they set this character up the way they did? He is essentially superfluous and a lackey for the system he allegedly hates. Boo!But Season 4 was just bad. Monumentally bad. I didn't care about the Cylon rebellion, about the the return to a scorched Earth, I lost interest in Starbuch after she seemingly lost all of her pathos and making most of the season about the relationship between the final five Cylons was boring, predictable, convoluted and immensely try-hard. I thought it was ludicrous that Colonel Tigh and his wife Ellen, went from being maladroit, co-dependent alcoholics and clearly in over their heads, to being the Adam and Eve of the Cylons and the people who had the destiny of two races in their hands. I could go on. But in general, I think that BSG failed because it decided to become a commentary on the times when it was being produced and that was the War on Terror and the after effects of 9/11. BSG suffered a dubious morality and faulty character development after Season 2 because it was reluctant to take a stand against the Military/Industrial Complex and the overall oligarchical power structure that controls the West. It also did not know where to stand on the developing technocracy and did not know what it thought of the transhumanist agenda. It's a shame, because it was obvious that a serious consideration of these things, along with a lot more philosophical issues, were in the hopper for BSG but they just did not materialize.
So far I have watched all of season 1 and have watched season 2 up to episode 4. Therefore it would be unfair for me to judge the series as a whole. I began watching Battlestar Galactica just recently due to many sites putting it in their top 20 lists for this decade. However, so far I have only been disappointed.The Plot appears to be odd from the very beginning. After I began watching the first episode, I thought I had missed an episode. As it turns out, every episode starts out by telling information that wasn't presented in the previous episodes. Plus, the viewer lacks information, such as how the ships escaped and why those specific ships escaped. All the viewer knows is that they are traveling through space with what is left of mankind after being forced off their home planet.Then the plot gets even more strange. They immediately identify people who are possible Cylon,their enemy, pretending to be their allies. They show the Cylon, Boomer, struggling with her humanity. She often tries to do things to harm the fleet, but eventually does the right thing. However, the actions of the Cylon in question make no sense whatsoever once you find out that she doesn't know she is a Cylon. Then they later add in that each Cylon has a specific mission which means her initial confusion makes even less sense.Then later on you discover that there is a ship which contains prisoners. First of all, why would there be a prisoner ship. Second of all, why didn't they remove the prisoners before hand and put civilians on board. Then for whatever reason, they decide these prisoners are the only people who can mine Trylium, a type of fuel. They stage a coupe and Lee, a character with a hormone imbalance, decides to keep him alive and everyone is OK with it. Not only that, but he decides there will be an election. An election?? I mean seriously? They are being chased by cyborgs as they try to find an inhabitable planet and these people are concerned about a president? The Commander of the military is still in command of his troops, which means a president has no power. This is proved when the president is later put in jail.Also, despite the few action scenes, the ability and strength of the enemies is not consistent at all. One minute, the top pilot Starbuck can't take on 7 Cyclon warships by herself and then a few rookie pilots with little to no flying experience take on 50 Cylon warships by themselves.The characters are well written excluding the character Lee. His emotions are constantly changing. He blows little things out of proportion and restates things that have already been pointed out. Also, he is able to do whatever he wants and doesn't seem to be reprimanded for his actions. I feel the character Lee is what ruined the show for me. He is often the one leading the plot, but the transitions are crude due to his extreme actions. They could have made it flow so much better if he was slightly altered or more consistent. There is one gleaming light of hope though. The character named Baltar was extremely well done. The actor fit the part perfectly. He is the only reason I may continue watching this series. His emotions are often right where they should be considering his state of mind and his position.
I can't believe this has gotten (at this time) a 9.1 rating. I mean you give a rating based on the quality of a show and not only how much you like it i my opinion. To qualify for a high rating things like acting, script, camera-work, character development, visuals effects, originality and off course also whether you just like it or not has to be taken into consideration. But you can't disregard everything except your feelings when passing judgment on the quality. Personally i love Sci-fi and have a very large acceptance when it comes to certain flaws in this genre due to low budget TV-shows and films. I can live with some lacking special effects if the story holds up. I can live with mediocre acting if the characters hold up and i can live a lot if just the originality holds up.Im sorry but this show simply has to many flaws for me to accept. I'll try to break it down:Acting: 4/10 The acting ranges from mediocre to awful. It's pretentious and lacks substance.Characters: 3/10 Two dimensional and i manage not to be moved whether someone died, feel in love or had to make any painful decisions.Script: 2/10 No originality and so gray that i actually feel sorry for the actors. They had little to nothing to work on.Camera-work: 4/10 Ameteuristic and the attempt to create tension and action by constantly shaking fails most of the time.Visualeffects: 7/10 This is the best part of the show. Even though it doesn't outshine anything possible, even for a modern TV-show, it's works OK and the battle scenes and designs are above average.Originality: 2/10 Everything is just a mix of things done millions times before in classic sci-fi such as Star Trek, V etc.Feel of watching: 3/10 I liked the battle scenes and some of the visual design, That's about it...If you just added these numbers it would give a score of 3,57. Since i wan't to be fair i give this piece of junk a final score of 4/10... If you want some good sci-fi shows almost everyone outshines this except on the visuals. I personally favor Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and TNG.


                
The title sums it up really.The original was "of it's time" and, because of that, it felt great and fresh and original.This 2004 effort is just woeful. Terribly wooden and some awful acting, poor sets, bedroom developed CG, I just can't believe people watched it. How it managed 4 seasons I'll never know.Yes, make a Starbuck a girl, and give her some supposedly edgy attitude. No problem with changing the gender of a character but her acting is just laughable in it. The edgy attitude is actually just whiney. The mini-series fools you into thinking it's going to be good, but once it got commissioned it appears to have been thrown together.And the story, it's confusing, it's stupid and the "god" angle is just awful and draining to watch and follow.Could have been great but sadly terrible. Only decent thing is the doctor and that's because of his "man on the verge of a breakdown" role he performs quite well. Everyone else just appears to be phoning it in.


                
I saw my first few episodes of BG back when it first aired and my initial impression was 'skip it'. I recently decided to watch it on Netflix and I have to say, my feelings haven't changed.Virtually none of the moral issues tackled by the series related to technology or space exploration. BG's main focus was human religion, which feels completely out of place given the setting. After several episodes, I started feeling like I was being preached to.I might have enjoyed the series more if it had been shorter and less dramatic. There were too many unlikable characters and many of the scenarios were poorly thought out. Overall, the story was far too relatable and didn't really give me a new perspective on anything.


                
The mini-series was great, 10/10 in my opinion. My expectations were sky high. The first half of season one was really good 8/10, but then it just went downhill. I was greatly disappointed because I really wanted to like it since there are few good sci-fi series around. Second half of S01 7/10, first half of S02 5/10 and second half 3/10. It was soo bad that I couldn't bring myself to watch the last episodes of S02, even though I had a whole box of BSG blu-ray complete series ahead of me. My co-watcher (boyfriend) stopped watching after series one. I think the big problem with the series is that the script, which was great in the mini-series with snappy dialouge, just went all bad and soapy. And there were too many characters to follow and many that I didn't care much about. My favourites, that still were good after the mini-series, were Starbuck and Dr. Baltar. I sold the box and hope that the person who bought it has a thing for space soap opera. I guess I just have to watch Firefly again which is, in my opinion, a spectacular series.


                
After the 2004 mini series i wanted to see how it all went further. Quickly it became obvious that i'd have to travel several light years with the crew of Battlestar Galactica before anything happened.The show reminded me of a video game, whose name i unfortunately forgot, in which the player had the possibility to fly a huge spaceship across galaxies in real time. It could be that i'd been too young to remember the original TV-show, which in turn has raised my expectations, but the pace of Battlestar Galactica was excruciatingly slow.The characters have been well developed and the actors delivered mostly solid performance.My suggestion would be to watch the last three episodes of the series(Season 4, Episodes: Daybreak 1,2 & 3) in which the connection of Battlestar Galactica with Earth has been revealed. It also contains a lot of flashbacks, so you would catch up with the most important events of the series.


                
Overall I really enjoyed the whole series but it was let down by some bad acting, especially Michael Hogan, take him out of the series, along with a couple of others, and it would have been a definite 10 stars. In the end though the bad acting let it down drastically.


                
