Only Fools and Horses is undoubtedly one of the best situation comedies of its era, but unfortunately, it's era spanned too long. With the success of Minder starring George Cole, it was obvious that the British public would take a lovable rogue to its heart, and with the brilliant David Jason cast in the lead role of Derek Trotter, the show had every chance. Although the television audiences didn't take to the show immediately in huge numbers, retrospectively the first few series' were far superior to the latter years. The early half hour episodes were tight and clever. Usually Del had a hare brained idea to make a million, roped in his dubious brother Rodney and either Grand dad (series 1- 3) or Uncle Albert (series 4- onwards), and then the whole thing went belly up. As the years progressed however the situation evolved to include partners for Del and Rodney and the episodes became longer or turned into 3 part specials. Whilst there remain some classic moments within these later shows, a lot of the early charm and wit has gone.
Despite a dearth of new US comedies resulting in American Networks heading across the Atlantic to buy "Britcom" shows ("Coupling", "The Office"...) it seems to me more than unlikely that Only Fools will ever find a market in the USA. The reason is simple: it's a show ABOUT America. That may seem strange, since the show is set in SE London, (and filmed lately in Bristol and Weston-super-Mare) and none of the characters have American accents. But... just think about it. Delboy Trotter has swallowed "The American Dream" horse, foot and artillery - to the extent that he personifies it. The show's main purpose is to poke fun at "The American Dream". DelBoy and Rodney are perpetual losers. But they're losers with an unshakable belief that "This time next year, we're going to be Millionaires!" They also embody the concept of "relative deprivation". (The sociological idea that you're familiar with your immediate social inferiors and immediate social inferiors, but those who are more than one rung above and below you on the social ladder might as well be Martians) Del's idea of "a life of luxury" is to stop buying dodgy suits from market stalls... and to start buying them from "Man at C&A" (American readers... think K-Mart) This simply isn't Mass-market American humour. For a majority of Americans, it's about as funny as watching someone burning the stars and stripes. It takes a deep-rooted American belief... and makes fun of it. Episode after episode. Series after series. When Tony Blair declaimed "American values are OUR values", I wondered what planet he'd been living on. This, after all, is one of the most popular shows on UK TV.


                
This is one of the best British sitcoms. It's about two brothers who live on a council estate tower block in Peckham, South London. It's very well-written and well-acted, with lots of funny situations as they get into all sorts of scrapes in their attempts to become millionaires. The supporting characters are very good as well.


                
I suppose we all saw this show many times as it runs and reruns on various TV stations for decades, at least where I come from. Still, I never had a chance to follow it from the beginning to the end in order. So I decided that it's time to finally do it. I wouldn't say it's one of the best shows of all time, but it definitely deserves its cult status and never grows old. I swallowed the first season in one breath. British humor in one of its best appearances. Nice way for me to celebrate my 600th movie/series since I'm a member of IMDb.8/10


                
With so many episodes, you can't go wrong. Since I was a kid, Only Fools and Horses has been my go-to sitcom. The characters are original and the show has brought out the best that they have to offer.I highly recommend this for people who like a good ol' belly laugh!


                
I wrestle with a love and hatred for this show, the first few times I saw the show I loved it then after you have seen it too many time's you read into it too much and the fact that its not really about a man trying too make his family Millionaires. When it's actually about one man willing to do anything for his own personal gain at the expense of everyone including his friends and family (i.e. trying to con two foreigners out of a thousand pounds, Conning his best mate Trigger by undervaluing his grandmothers items, Using Rodney's band for one gig while promising the world, Using Rodney's new film grant as an excuse just to con businesses and the residents of Peckham, Making Rodney pretend to be 14 just so he could have a holiday, Trying to take a bribe to split up Rodney and Vicky, Trying too sell a baby, Purposely lying to Rodney so he could get a holiday to Miami at Rodney's expense,) but he also did show a loving side (i.e. Making Sure his father was okay for money even after all he put him through, Conning the press to save the hospice, Getting beaten up by the Driscoll brother so Rodney could get money to put a deposit on his flat, hiring some boys to beat up the skinheads he though had mugged Uncle Albert, catching the group of muggers, Locking himself in a lift with Rodney to help him over his bereavement) but overall I love it so long as I forget all that.
