Thank goodness for the wonderful folks at Granada Television. In the mid 1980s, they created the absolute best Sherlock Holmes ever to make it to the big or small screen. Unlike all the previous versions, which LIBERALLY deviated from the Conan Doyle stories, the Granada films tried to be perfect in every detail.Unlike the caricature of Holmes that you see in previous films where he wears a deerstalker hat, smokes a curved pipe and spouts "elementary, my dear Watson", this Holmes is true to the original character. Additionally, Dr. Watson is not the bumbling idiot as portrayed by Nigel Bruce (Bruce should burn in Hell for how he ruined this character).The first mini-series by Granada was exceptional and Jeremy Brett was the greatest Holmes ever. Oddly, they did switch actors who played Watson, but the series went on otherwise as before--exceptional and wonderful in every way. One person commented on the bland dialog, but it was very true to the stories--I am GLAD they didn't "spice it up" but chose to remain true to Conan Doyle's vision.Intelligently written and wonderful throughout.


                
The Return of Sherlock Holmes is an absolutely superb series; I would say flawless. Everything is so good, I really can't bring myself to criticise it in any way. As for the episodes, they are all superbly adapted, and all of them are of exceptional quality. Can't really decide on a firm favourite, but a definitive standout is The Devil's Foot.The production values in this series are wonderful. The remarkably fine camera work, perfectly captures the always splendid scenery and lovingly designed(if not too fancy) costumes. The music is brilliant, the theme tune is both beautiful and haunting, and the accompanying incidental music never fails to be richly scored. The scripts never fail to bring sophistication and class to the series.What is really worth of note is the quality of the acting. Jeremy Brett, no matter how good Basil Rathbone, Peter Cushing and Ian Richardson were, is by far the definitive interpretation of Sherlock Holmes, whom along with Morse and Poirot is one of the greatest fictional detectives ever, and it is all to Arthur Conan Doyle's credit. Brett had a gritty baritone to his voice, towering presence in front of the camera work and a certain generosity about him, that made him unsurpassed as the best Holmes. Edward Hardwicke gives an intelligent performance as Dr Watson, and there are memorable supporting turns by other great actors.The Return of Sherlock Holmes does benefit in general by the faithfulness to the source materials. Yes, I know they toned down Holmes's cocaine addiction, but with everything else as good as they are, I am always obliged to overlook. A truly superb series, with one of the easiest 10/10s I have made recently. Bethany Cox


                
There is no other word to describe Holmes - Watson Duo other than BRILLIANT!!! Jeremy Brett---The best Holmes ever! Just Scintillating as the greatest, most loved and congenial detective of all time. David Burke---Great Watson! Brilliant acting , brilliant picturisation. I just love watching the Sherlock Holmes series The Way Brett plays Holmes is amazing! That spark in his eyes, that sheer Drama in his presentation! He plays Holmes to the T! His way of delivering those Sherlockian Punch lines is just out of the world! Burke ably supports Brett as the beloved Sidekick Watson. Entertaining and gripping to the Core. No one matches the Great Holmes Watson Duo!


                
This second season of Granada's Holmes adaptations is my favourite of the entire series. David Burke is replaced by Edward Hardwicke and I think this casting change helps the series. There is a real affection between Holmes and Watson, helped no doubt by the fact that Brett and Hardwicke were friends in real life. Hardwicke's Watson doesn't come across as dull or as nothing more than comic relief.The Return of Sherlock Holmes begins several years after the events in the Final Problem. Watson has his own medical practice and is living a life quite different from the one he had when Holmes was around. It is revealed that Holmes never died at the falls, Holmes apologises for keeping Watson in the dark and the two pick up where they left off. Jeremy Brett to me will always be the best screen Holmes. His portrayal of Holmes is stunning. He perfectly captures the external coldness and razor sharp intellect of the man so well. Edward Hardwicke as Dr John Watson is excellent also, he for once plays Watson seriously and is believable as a doctor. I liked David Burke's portrayal but yet again in his portrayal Watson was played as a comic character instead of a serious character.You get the feeling watching this that Holmes really needs this Watson without realising it, Watson's the one who reminds him to eat,sleep and is a constant presence in Holmes life. You also get the feeling that Watson would lead a very boring life were it not for this friendship with Holmes.Tragically the stress associated with playing Holmes and the death of his wife became too much and he died of heart problems in 1995.The series is great and I love the stories they are exciting, scary, funny and moving.Also many scenes convey Holmes and Watson's deep affection for each other.My favourite episodes are The Devil's Foot (where Holmes gives up his cocaine habit), The Priory School, The Empty House, The Six Napoleons, Silver Blaze, The Man With the Twisted Lip and The Hound Of The Baskervilles.
Jeremy Brett returns in more ways than one, in these equally outstanding adaptations of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's stories featuring the brilliant Sherlock Holmes, whom Doyle was compelled to bring back from the waterfall where we thought all was lost...David Burke did not return as Watson, but instead Edward Hardwicke stepped in, and did an exemplary job on how to take over a role without any fuss or controversy, so seamless was his transition.Again, all stories are as masterfully put together as "Adventures", and there is nothing to nitpick or complain about; this is as good as it gets!


                
This show is wonderful. The actors are great in there parts! They stay close to the books,they do change a few things(it is almost impossible not to). Jeremy Brett is an amazing actor and so is David Burke is really good too.Out of all the movies and shows(trust me I have seen a lot)this is the closest. Poor Jeremy Brett died while making this show in September of 1995. He had a heart problem. The sets of the show are excellent. Jeremy worked really hard to master Sherlock Holmes mannerisms,he would carry a folder around the set with info on Sherlock Holmes. If you would like something else to watch on Sherlock Holmes,you might want to try the old Basil Rathbone movies. They aren't that close to the books but Basil makes a good Holmes.


                
