After delivering a wonderfully crafted show with Agent Carter, Marvel is back with another one, Daredevil. I love Netflix. They are enjoying good business. I think Marvel is one step ahead according to DC in TV series. My favorite was superhero series Daredevil. He is lawyer in the morning but he fights with criminals at nights. The fight scenes are quite impressive and realistic. Hallway scene in first season, stairs scene in second season. Enormous scenes! The show has a great atmosphere and is extremely dark, but it has a couple of jokes fitted around. The characters are greatly acted and the story is one of the greatest stories that has been on TV recently. The supporting cast is very good and characters get a lot of shared screen time, exploring street level hero stuff in ways we haven't seen and providing some real grit and action like never before in this genre. Punisher and Elektra were above my expectations. I can't believe this surpassed my expectations. The show is perfect, by far the best superhero show to have ever played on screen. This is by far my favorite thing the MCU has produced thus far. Daredevil is a must watch for Superhero fans, DC, Marvel or both. And I'm sure, you'll enjoy it! 10/10


                
Save daredevil. Don't let one of the best super hero shows of all time (if not the best) die so soon.
Daredevil doesn't deserve this fate. He is the one who keeps the city safe so the Avengers can save the earth.
Can't believe such masterpiece ends so soon.


                
Those familiar with comics will know Frank Miller's run on Daredevil is up there with the highest points of his career. Other writers, such as Bendis and Brubaker, hit similar highs in their writing of the character. It's something about Daredevil that brings out incredible storytelling, whether it be the downtrodden and persevering Matt Murdock or the gritty realism of the setting in contrast to the colorful heroes that populate comic books, Daredevil has had a history of fantastic luck with having its potential tapped on paper.Now, that potential has been tapped on the screen. From the first episode you can tell the property has been adapted with love and a lot of hard work. The cinematography is beautiful in every frame. The characters could not have been cast better. If this weren't actually a better deal for fans, getting 13 hours of (excellent) content, I would hope Charlie Cox could front a Daredevil movie franchise. Because he could carry it.Daredevil has been the star of some of the best comics ever written, so the adaptation was always going to come under scrutiny. But how it holds up against them? This might actually be better.


                
As a long term comic book nerd, and a huge fan of the Marvel cinematic universe and television properties - I wasn't sure what to make of the proposed Street Heroes development deal with Netflix, especially in light of the history with those characters in film (Affleck's disappointing Daredevil in particular). I was however pleasantly optimistic from the teaser releases.I am breath taken with the end result. Vincent D'Onofrio is to my mind the standout star and an act of sheer casting genius as Kingpin. The menace and complexity in his voice even when he's not on screen, and the cold, calculating and distant aspect of his body language, and the delivery of his dialogue, shows both the depth of his talent as an actor and the brilliance of his casting. As a long term fan of D'Onofrio - and a huge fan of the king pin in the comic book universe - I'm thrilled at the prospect of his continued involvement with the Marvel cinematic universe.The sound editing for the series in general, from D'Onofrio's voice overs to the audible representations of the protagonist's enhanced senses is a triumph. It begs to be recognized and awarded. It is perhaps as integral to success of the series as the performance of any of the characters.Also, Deborah Ann Woll who played Jessica Hamby in True Blood remains equally gifted as an actress, stunning as an aesthetic work of art, and for a moment, just a little bit more naked than she was in her prior works. Which after 71 episodes of true blood with a celebrity crush on her - has to be a acknowledged as part of the reason for my immediate fondness for the series. But as talented as she is, the show would stand as remarkable even without her.In the interest of fairness, there are some rough moments in the dialogue. The visual effects have moments of awkwardness in the earlier episodes. There is a sense in a few corners of the production group finding its feet. But it does seem to level out (and up) as the story progresses.


                
Two episodes in so far, as a Daredevil fan it's exactly what I hoped for. I am a huge fan of the Daredevil comics, my favourite run being by Bendis and Maleev, and this show is how you would imagine a Daredevil TV show being. It's a dark, gritty sombre affair with some great action, there is a fight scene in episode two which is truly amazing.Talking about action the best part for me is the action feels very realistic and brutal unlike the Daredevil film with its over the top wire work. Also very good in this show is the way his powers aren't shown in any fancy way, no sonar view or anything like that, it just emphasise his listening. The actors are all great too and the plots are compelling, just now I have nothing bad to say about this show.When marvel got back the rights to Daredevil I was a little apprehensive of how they would portray his character, no worries there now I've seen it, or if they would use the character at all. I was worried if he did get his own show/film it'd be like the rest of the Marvel films/shows, light hearted action with great fan service and a good helping of comedic moments, which wouldn't of suited the dark world of Daredevil. But I can safely say to all you fellow hornhead fans that they have nailed everything about Daredevil perfectly.I would highly recommend this show to Daredevil fans and fans of darker heroes like Batman, fans of the current MCU films/shows might not like the tonal change from those films/shows but it's exactly what the character needed. Now excuse me while I go watch some more! 10/10


                
Daredevil is an absolutely phenomenal series. It focuses on a blind man, with his other senses superhumanly enhanced; who plays lawyer by day, and vigilante by night. There are many reasons as to why this show works, and why it's largely considered the best of the superhero shows, and one of TV's best in general. This review will delve into the series that started off Netflix Marvel.Firstly, this show has incredible action scenes. Some of the best that I've ever seen. This is a pretty big reason as to why the series is so popular. Secondly, the acting. The acting in Daredevil is just insanely good, from the whole cast. Charlie Cox is the Daredevil that fans deserve. He does great justice to the character and has made Matt Murdock his own. Another standout being the main antagonist, Wilson Fisk, who is a great villain. Vincent D'Onofrio plays him to perfection. The entire cast deserves recognition though, as there are strong performances all around. Then, you've got the characters, that are all so great. The relationship between the main trio of Matt, Karen and Foggy is possibly my favorite part of the series; right next to the parallel of Daredevil and Punishers philosophies. And there's much, much more to it. It's hard to find a flaw in all of this because the show just does everything so well. Between writing, directing, acting, character development, etc. It's all great, and this show is rightly praised because of it.Overall, Daredevil earns its achievement, the best superhero show, completely and utterly. Of course, it all comes down to personal opinions though, but this is just my take on it. The show is strong throughout all 3 of its seasons. Personally, my favorite season is season 2, as the introduction of Punisher and Elektra shook the show up and gave us some great material, but seasons 1 and 3 are both right up there as well. I was sad to see this show be cancelled by Netflix since I believe it still had so much potential, but luckily the season 3 finale still served as a great bookend to the series, aside from one small part.Hopefully Daredevil will be saved by Disney and continue on its streaming platform, but if not, it was a wonderful ride, and well worth it. Fans of the superhero genre should definitely watch Daredevil. Forget Stranger Things, this is one of Netflix's best!My Rating: 9.5/10


                
Spent my whole night, which I previously planned to go out with some folks, to watch some episodes of this. I have never really seen Daredevil as cool as how he is being portrayed in this series. I know that the comic book has always been dark and gritty, but with the effects they added to each scene, I feel just like trapped and cannot stop watching. The acting is well, I don't know how to put it, but I feel like I was watching real people doing real stuffs. The action scenes are awesome (I am not gonna say that it is as real as the lawyer acting). I have never even batted an eye to Daredevil before today (moreover after that previous movie), but I assure you, I will have his poster on my wall tomorrow.


                
Didn't really have any expectations for Daredevil. After watching the movie as a kid and not overly enjoying it, I think Marvel has done an amazing job now that they have Daredevil back in their control. I love how mature it is compared to the other movies/shows Marvel have been doing in the MCU. The dark tone and violence they have incorporated will please a lot of people that have been wanting to see that from Marvel (me included). The cast and the writing are excellent and I look forward to possible appearances by other characters that Daredevil has either worked with or fought against in the comics. Very excited to see what else Marvel can produce with their characters that have yet to hit the screen.


                
Well, here is a show that really surprised me. I was expecting the usual Marvel show, but what did I watch, a show with Gotham quality. The main players are at the moment still evolving, the acting is on par with the script and I hope they can keep it up to this standard and not fall into that "lazyness" that sometimes appears after a few shows. It would seem once again choosing a non-American as lead has paid-off. It's like the fresh blood into a dying species. So, for fans of the not so run of the mill comic adaption I can thoroughly recommend this, and for all those out there that need everything to be bright, colourful and loud you should watch this just to see how good something can be without all that. That makes it sound boring but I can assure you, you may just be as surprised as I was.Update: Finished season 1 and I have nothing but praise for this show and can't wait for season 2. I wish I could give it a 10 but that would not leave me any room to raise my rating, which if season 2 is as good, I definitely will.


                
Wow. If you are fan of the superhero or action or drama genre, then give this show a shot. This is genuinely the best superhero adaptation since the Dark Knight. Everything about this show is great, the writing is fantastic and the stunt work and acting are of the highest level. And some standout performances from Charlie Cox as Matt Murdock and Vincent D'Onofrio as Wilson Fisk who kill it in their roles. Truly a phenomenal show.


                
I don't know what to say other than if you haven't seen this show yet, you need to stop what you are doing and check it out now.


                
Okay, I rarely do reviews on here, and when I say rarely, I mean I've done two others before.Can I just say, that it is 1. CRIMINAL that this show has been cancelled by Netflix and 2. LIKELY that it's due to the Disney+ Streaming Service (regardless of rumours) and will hopefully be continued on there (or at least the character).This is genuinely such an AMAZING series. From the acting, to the story-lines, to the character development to the fight choreography.Trying to keep it as brief as possible, it pays extremely respectable homeage to the comicbook source material (DD, Kingpin & S3 Bullseye are all far better than i could have hoped for) whilst also featuring some of the greatest martial arts fight choreography in Western Film/TV. It really is hands down the best superhero series out there, and in my top 3 TV series of all time (Game of Thrones first & Stranger Things third).It is that grounded in realism yet respectfully invested in the Marvel/Daredevil Universe that i recommend it to friends who love Superheroes/Sci-fi and those who don't. This really is the "Dark Knight" of Marvel productions, yet with better action.I really can't praise this season anymore than I can, and I can only hope that the MCU continues with the adventures of Charlie Cox specifically (and the actors of kingpin, Bullseye, heck even Foggy and Karen) as they really make the characters who they are.9.5/10 (I rounded to 10 for my vote)


                
This is the Marvel show we have all been waiting for. It takes place in post Avengers New York and criminals are taking advantage of the city. What I like about this show is how naturally it fits in the world already created. The question has come up recently that there are several heroes in the universe that cant hold up their own movie but that people want to see. One of the ways was to include them the bigger hero's movies but it never feels like they are doing the characters justice. Then someone got the idea to do TV shows for them, and while Marvel Agents of Shield is one of the worst shows on television, Daredevil works great and I hope the Jessica Jones and Luke Cage are just as awesome.


                
The Marvel Netflix Universe was the best thing in Netflix along with ''Jessica Jones'', ''Luke Cage'', ''Iron Fist'', ''The Punisher'' and ''Daredevil'' is my favorite of them. I was always looking forward to see the episodes when I have time after work.I don't want to tell anything on this trilogy Master-Piece but I'm really sad they cancelled this show but at least it ended with a perfect trilogy of seasons so I suggest you to watch this because Its what I think it is the greatest Marvel adaptation of all time.


                
Daredevil is simply one of the best comic translations ever. Season one was a binge almost at once. Season two's introduction of the Punisher made it even better. I can't image (and I'm counting its spin off of the Punisher) being cast any better. Charlie Cox is what I think of when I think of Daredevil now. I've been a fan of Vincent D'Onofrio since I was young. The whole thing shines. The way the fight scenes are choreographed is new, inventive, and a nice mix of different martial arts. D'Onofrio is also great as Kingpin. Do yourself a favor, should you not have seen this, and watch it and its spin off. Personally, I haven't cared for Jessica Jones and Luke Cage's first season was good but fell short of my Spartan Locke expectations. Only Daredevil and its spin off have consistently delivered each episode of each season.
It is a crime that this show was cancelled so early. Of course nothing lasts forever but 2 more seasons and I think it would've had a very solid conclusion and would probably be in talks for one of the best shows of all time. On that note let me explain why this show is a masterpiece. From beginning to end this series is brutal, dark, and mesmerizing. From the story, characters (especially Vincent D'onofrio as the main villain Wilson Fisk), chemistry amongst the actors, action scenes (some of the best I've ever seen), cinematography and even the score, everything about this show is a triumph. I can not say enough good things about it. Daredevil himself is also a very complex, broken, and fleshed out character. He does so much without him feeling invincible, he's a master fighter and it shows but he also gets his ass kicked several times. He's vulnerable because he has his allies and his city which he cares deeply about. I've never been disappointed for a second with this show it keeps you on the edge of your seat and will keep you interested and makes you care about the characters. I would highly recommend watching if you enjoy some damn good entertainment.


                
What can i say about this masterpiece. The better the art is, the less the words you get to describe it. Same is with the Daredevil. If you havent watched it, then i am sure its your time to watch it. The thrill starts from the very beginning when Matthew Murdock loses his eye sight.The writes have given equal time to portray all the characters. There storyline is developed in a perfect manner. You wont feel a character wasted in this show. Talking about Plot, the story pace is slow but rather exciting. It neither to fast nor too slow, Perfectly balanced(as all things should be). You wont feel bore for even a second. Even its not a mysterious show, i think i have ever clicked on next episode so fast like i have done in the case of Daredevil.Actions scenes are decent and the choreography is well timed. The people fighting dont look overpowered and the fighting scenes are never above the reality level. Charlie Coxx acting is great, i think he is really blind. Same credit goes to the other casts.


                
Awesome show. Great story line. Great characters. Great actors. Down to earth. No politics. Just good old entertainment.


                
This is one of the best seasons of any tv show ever.Period.
Where do I even start? Everything worked this time, from acting, action, screenplay, music ,...
It is like a 13-hour movie which should be remembered as a masterpiece.
There are no filler episodes, from the beginning to the end the pace just goes up, you learn new secrets and other mysteries are resolved while you dive deep into the Hell's Kitchen.
New characters and fascinating , with Bullseye being the standout. His backstory is really well done and made even better by phenomenal acting.
Best action scenes in any medium, with highlights being the prison escape, Bulletin fight and church fight.
The end is just enough happy and if this season is really the end of the series, I cant imagine a better way to go!
Daredevil did so much right. The action, the story, the relationships between characters and the characters development.A prime example of this is Agent Ray Nadeem. I went into season 3 not giving much thought about him, but by the end, his arc developed so much to a point where I genuinely cared about his story and really felt his loss.The fights across every season were impeccable. We're talking movie-level fight scenes in a superhero TV show. By comparison, fight scenes from comparative DC shows look like child's play. The three-way fight between Daredevil, Bullseye and Kingpin was just amazing. Not only was a great fight in and of itself, but it conveyed the seasons story in the sense that, this is the culmination of all three prime characters' arcs. It was amazing.Each season of Daredevil has the iconic hallway fight scene and while season 1 set the foundation for amazing one-takes and season 3 upped the ante of that hallway sequence. Season 2's hallway fight scene was my favourite. Matt is armoured, he's dangerous, he's tired. It's just so good.It's such a shame Daredevil was cancelled, Disney and Netflix have no idea what they're losing.
I hope the show continues and if not, it would be a disgrace


                
Somebody needs to fire some of the idiots making decisions at Netflix. Why cancel shows that have great ratings.


                
Daredevil is some of the best I have ever seen from MCU...particularly Netflix MCU! Season 1 and 2 are good and worth your time, but season 3...omg This season is a MASTERPIECE!!!! It does everything right and even better than the first 2 seasons. This new season really fleshes out every character so much more, Matt himself, Karen, Foggy, KINGPIN, Dex, holy cow! For villainous performances, D'Onofrio was BORN to play Wilson!!! He is even a better Kingpin than in the Spiderman Ps4 game! All Netflix Kingpin has to do is sit with a straight face and still look like he will choke a person out or put a head through a table at any moment. You do not see Vincent on Kingpin at all... This is the best role of his career! Before season 3 showed up, I knew NOTHING about Ben Poindexter in the world of Marvel as far as comics or whatever.. This show gives you Pointexter's entire backstory all at once, but so cleverly well done, omg! How it does it is a long process, but NEVER drags or takes you out of the show! How Dex is portrayed in this show, when he is in the spotlight, you somewhat give a crap about him. This season gives the audience who has never picked up a comic, like myself...all the help needed to learn way more about Matt, Karen, Foggy, etc in through the best performances I have ever seen in this show.. The character development is beautiful, the tone, everything. This season is just a beautiful flawless masterpiece! Almost puts the first two seasons to shame! BETTER BE A FOURTH SEASON!!!


                
Daredevil was the best of all the marvel shows. Why would they cut it? I can understand Luke cage and Iron fist.


                
So it's been months since I initially watched season 3 & ages since the news of the shows cancellation came out. All i can say is I am actually praying Disney/Marvel continue with this cast when/if they can. This show really was the best show to ever come out of the superhero genre, and Season 3 was a perfect season.Matt, Fisk, Dexter... heck even Foggy, Karen & Nadeem were great characters. Plus in retrospect, I think many of us never truely appreciated how great casting Elektra & Stick were.We really did get spoilt with this show, it's The Dark Knight equivalent for Marvel & TV in general.#savedaredevil...P.S i got that cool soundtrack whenever Dex came on the screen stuck in my head. Love it when they give bad characters a menacing theme (The Winter Soldier, General Zod in MoS)


                
