I have rarely watched a show where I wished so much for the demise of the protagonist, sadly Murdock couldn't lose a fight if he tried. It gets old and predictable way too fast. The boy scout cliché in particular makes me detest this character, he is as one-dimensional as they come. I get it, he's catholic, snore. I am not often one who struggles with the suspension of disbelief but I did with this show. Each episode has a plot point that is seemingly random and never seems to go to anywhere, they only serve themselves. The basic story structure is fantastically simplistic and I mean if you're looking for just really typical archetypes it has it all. I'm convinced the writers just filled a bowl with tropes and just grabbed ideas out; the plucky journalist who just wants the truth, oh look some yakuza, some Russian mobster in a gulag, that's a good one, rich guy obsessed with minimalism, yep got that one, blind samurai, oh hey that's original. The writing is just lazy, this show is completely over-hyped and leaves you with a sense of "hey, haven't I seen this before?" because if you've watched any of the other marvel shows or really any show featuring lots of hand to hand combat (Alia, Dollhouse) it's basically go out, fight a guy, win, rinse and repeat, but don't get too close just yet, oh look another pointless tangent and now we're back.
FYI, I'm not a comic book fans at all, hence this review is based on quality of the TV show itself with no bias at all.. I found that DD review in this page is so biased. My expectation was set so high, esp after saw all these review from IMDb, only to be disappointed after watching it, and my GOD last few episodes are not good at all.DD is like ripped off version of batman and the raid combined into 1 show no plot. It's like watching green banana turn yellow, so predictable and boring. The only good thing in this show the fighting scene, however good fighting scene alone is not enough for me. this show is super overrated, thanks DD fans who obviously never watched a good, dark & gritty show in this world.I want to rate this show for 6/10, however since so many biased review here i hv to lower it down to 3/10


                
What have you done with the show? It is not even interesting anymore and it is soooo predictable. So Fisk is the bad guy and he just buys everyone,an does whatever he wants and kills everyone, and no one bats an eye.
But also i have to listen to Karen on lecturing Matt, that God forgive, he doesn't kill Fisk? Oh and yes, now daredevil is evil, because Fisk said so, of course.c'mon. I know it is fiction but at least try and make a good show story...
Daredevil, 2015. *Spoiler/plot- Explores the early beginnings and life of the blind superhero, Daredevil and his life in New York City's 'Hells Kitchen'.*Special Stars- Charlie Cox, Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson, Vincent D'Onofrio, Roce Johnson, Jon Bernthal.*Theme- Justice can be served by anyone with a good heart.*Trivia/location/goofs- Takes place in New York City.*Emotion- Better than Ben Affleck, Jennifer Garner, Colin Farrell film. An overly 'gritty' and dark story of Daredevil's origins and his crime fighting work. Too much gratuitous violence and crime that make this series very hard to enjoy and watch, even for comic book fans. *Based On- Marvel's Daredevil comics.
I was so excited for this, started first thing on 4/10 but really the story and scenes are so slow, like Agents of Shield slow. I don't understand why everyone is freaking out over it. Almost all of the action scenes are in the dark(are they great, are they lame, who knows????) and they are over before you know it. The few jokes are eye-rollers and there is a scene with Fisk and a date at dinner that goes on forever, I got distracted and forgot I was even watching the show until the explosion. To be fair I am only half way through episode 7, it is possible it will get better but I will probably not waste my time finishing, there are so many other shows on my list. D'Onofrio and Woll were excellent.
What a load of long winded rubbish.You can fit all the action scenes in to a half time Superbowl show and STILL have time left over to watch... the half time Superbowl show!This bloated, wordy drama should have been edited down to a 'made for TV' movie... but that still wouldn't be enough editing to keep anyone awake.I'm guessing the writers are teenage girls as this is the cheesiest bilge-water I've seen from a Marvel franchise.Every camera angle is a close up head shot so there's NO sense of atmosphere or space.I watched the whole 13 crapisodes (with the fast forward button as my friend) and I still don't know why the bad guys were so bad. It's never clear why they are bad or what bad things they do. But they are enemies of the Daredevil and his puerile, panty-wetting chums... so they are the bad guys.Oh... you only get to see the Daredevil in his Daredevil costume at the very end of the very last episode... well... let's hope it's the last episode. A second series of this melodramatic tripe would make my eyes bleed.There's way to much blubbering in every episode. What is it with Americans and crying on the telly. They just can't stop themselves, can they! There's also way too much talking and all the talking is in stupid riddles.The limited action scenes are filmed in pitch black so you have to guess what's going on. The fight sequencers are tedious, long and difficult to make out.If you thought that Brian fighting the chicken was long and tedious then you're in for a major shock... this is longer and more tedious with the added distraction of being impossible to see!If you're a Daredevil fan, stick with the comics. This garbage will just bore you to death.


                
It was hard to keep watching the first season. Im not the kind of person who watch one episode, I keep going to the season ends. This time, almost quit.The plot is good, the somber scenario is good, but this guy Matthew Murdock is he really blind or not?Please watch the episode two (Season 2) You see a guy in his apartment with battle hangover and seems is not blind at all. Is this a misdirecting goof? Or it because his senses are upgraded. I stick in season two because I wanted to see The Punisher. Jon Bernthal is AWESOME. In comparison, Daredevil looks ridiculous with his costume. The Punisher looks more real and bad ass.Elektra is good, the casting acting is excellent. I think this show is for kids. Im so glad the nightmare is over. I don't think I'm going to watch The Defenders. I will skip it.
Lazy writing and poor production ruined what could have been a worthwhile addition to the DD story


                
Maybe the show should be Canceled. I noticed the reviews on this page calls him a Super Hero but, every fight he has he gets his Ass beat and Hurt! Lol! Some Super Hero!


                
The setting has a lot of potential, unfortunately after having seen season 1 and 2, IMHO it shows very bad scripting, as the main character is incoherent... Hence, it essentially felt down to "another one" of those much too many newest breed of TV series or movies which seem to exist only for showing pornographic violence. Maybe they thought that it would compensate for a poor script along quite empty characters ? It actually turns down to a detective storyline, and a very, very poor one for that matter.


                
Season one and two are great...season three was a complete joke. It's like it was a completely difference show.


                
I have been a huge fan of this show and really impressed with the acting and writing. Loved the "gritty crime drama" feel it evokes.I am now no longer a fan. I will no longer watch this show and no longer will I endorse this show on any social media site!I know that every American is allowed to voice their opinions, as I am exercising that right by writing this review. But, the cast, as well as the producers need to keep in mind that we are in the midst of a very contentious political race right now. Not just opposition parties, but with in the parties themselves. People, like myself, see this as a very pivotal time for the country. A make or break, live or die, election. That being said, the fact that Rosario Dawson steps out and not endorses, that I would have understood, but criticizes a candidate or a moral issue like abortion is a game changer. Audiences are diverse and can run the gamut of the spectrum, politically and morally. She picked a very bad time to make this type of political move. I would say that I would convince all my friends to not watch the show, but none of them do, so not an issue. I will no longer endorse the show on any social media site and will make sure to include that fact in any of the many posts I make a day on a very wide range of political sites.


                
