First episode pulls you in instantly and makes you want to know more. I only watched Jessica Jones (tried to watch defenders but too boring) of the Netflix hero shows and it seems this comes close to it. But I have to mention, even in the first episode, Netflix lays it on thick "cracka" this, "white Christian" that and all that good stuff... I hope they let off on it in future episode or this one is going in the bin with the defenders.


                
..... which was a comprehensive story and good action. Season 2 is just a bland talkfest and little actions not really deserving the original Punisher. The lead actors seem to be as bored as the viewer.Seriously, I am unable to continue watching this stuff!


                
So the first couple of episodes start off with some action, but it isn't long before the storyline gets sucked up with telling a story and completely neglecting any action. So far with the Marvelflix superhero's (and I use the word "superhero's" very very loosely) only season 1 of Daredevil delivered in both story and action. I could forgive the casting of Joe Bernthal as the Punisher if the storyline was pumped full of action and exciting, but it isn't! The Punisher is a strategic thinking, gun-toting, unstoppable one man war-machine. who's tall, strong, and athletic.. nothing like Bernthal or the character we're getting! This is so frustrating that they can never get the simple things right.. why choose an actor who doesn't resemble the character.. and then worst of all blow the budget on a non-action melodrama, masquerading as a super-hero series. It's not as if it requires any SFX, he doesn't fly, shoot laser-beams or throw cars. Sorry Marvelflix but you've let me down again, BIG time!


                
This series was actually an fairly exciting, and at times surprisingly poignant story about the people who get a raw deal from the operations of clandestine national security operations and the military industrial complex at large. It does clearly carry a somewhat glorified agenda of both military service, and of the politics surrounding things like gun control, which may irk viewers who find themselves on a different part of the political spectrum.The actors aren't really anything special but they get the job done, apart from Bernthal who does a great job overall. The story is definitely the most lacking, both in terms of being a bit convoluted, and because it's kind of run-of-the-mill as far as these things go. The action is brutal and well-choreographed, and obviously both the centerpiece and the best part of the show. All in all, the show is still generally alright, and so you may be wondering why it only gets 4 stars. That is because it isn't about The Punisher. It's about a mentally unhinged veteran who happens to be called Frank Castle. The titular character is more or less incidental to the show, and you could easily switch him out with, say, Rambo or something and have the exact same show. That may seen like a small distinction, but if you watched the show, you know what I mean.Nowhere to be seen are any of the iconic Punisher antagonists, and there is no resemblance to the Frank Castle of the comic books or even the movies. There is no anthology of crime bosses, underlings and other low- lives getting their just desserts. The story isn't actually about the Punisher dealing out punishment at all, it is about Frank getting revenge on people who personally wronged him, and as such reeks of being an overextended origin story. I think at times it even tried to be a story of redemption, but it was a bit hard to tell with all the hypocrisy of the characters involved.All in all, I probably would have enjoyed this show a lot more if it had a different title, and I wasn't expecting one of my favorite comic book characters.
I don't get the raving about the acting. Jon Bernthal doesn't do much for me in this role. I could not stand seeing the stupid and completely annoying flashbacks of his lame wife in almost every episode. This is really violent, very unrealistic (I get this is based on a comic but seriously no one can sustain the levels of beatings/abuse) and tedious. There is a lot of bashing the NRA, making soldiers look unbalanced and the military corrupt. And overall they did in 13 episodes what could have been done in half the episodes just repeating the same match ups on a new day. People get shot in the head and wake up fine, everyone gets beaten senseless several times with minimal down time. Relationships really aren't developed or sensical. You know how it is going to end up so it is really just a matter of putting in the time to get there. Sad what people think is great TV today.


                
I slogged my way through season 1, painfully watching the Madani scenes in the hopes that she would catch a bullet by the end of each episode. Season 2's characters are even worse. The 4 stars this show earns are solely on the back of Jon Bernthal's performance, but unfortunately the majority of the show's playback isn't even comprised of the title character. The action and backstory of Frank Castle is riveting, but we're forced to watch hours of monotonous and predictable scenes with Madani and Russo.
Some parts were good, but the whole plot with the girl detective was horrible, same with the geek. Frank Castle had some moments but the whole story revolved around having a moral dilemma with what he's doing because of the annoying blonde girl from Daredevil... "You don't have to do this Frank" "Frank, you need help" What is this? This is the Punisher!!!! He has no moral dilemmas, he dishes out punishment without a second thought! The whole PTSD they were going for with the young ex Marine didn't belong. The whole plot with the Marine who goes to therapy then just goes crazy after he can't be Mercenary, Although not horrible. Would have been better to include in another show. When I saw Frank Castle in Daredevil. I was super stoked for this show because Frank in the Daredevil was ruthless. Now in the series it's like they gave him a very sensitive side. Very disappointed with the direction they took with this show. Netflix does it again.


                
Just
Too
Damn
Slow.....
I watched 4 episodes and kept wondering 'when is it gonna start'?


                
His brief guest role on "Daredevil" had given me hope. Even though I thought Bernthal wasn't phisically imposing enough to be an accurate Punisher, I thought the tone was right. Unfortunately, it didn't carry over to this stand-alone series. The plot is interesting enough, albeit a bit convoluted, but the main character simply doesn't match the one in any of the comic books that I've read. He's too jumpy, too emotional to be the real Frank Castle. Only when he plans and executes a confrontation with a large number of foes does the classical Punisher come through, but the series would have needed more of the rest. The Punisher is a loner, for sure, but he's also a calculating killing machine: he's not a slightly psychotic weirdo who's ready to snap at any moment. Also, too many lifeless side stories.


                
This show is so freaking long and its only 13 episodes. They need to to step it up. It is boring AF to watch random characters you seriously don't care about for entire episodes. You can disagree all you want but you're lying to yourself if you say your attention never wanders during this show. I literally started fast-forwarding through every scene without action or Frank and guess what. I can completely follow the storyline. 
One of my favorite shows is Better Call Saul. It has more to do with American law and the action scenes are scarce, but they still somehow make it interesting and keep my attention. Punisher is just like that but it never holds your attention unless some kind of fight is happening.
This is a comic book adaption. It should be all action. Yes I actually read the comics. I KNOW Frank's past and everyone else's backstory is integrated into the series but there is always a ton of hardcore fights. 
Not saying it's a bad show but it's far from perfect. If you literally have no other show to watch then give this a shot.


                
If the series contained more action I would easily rate it 8/10 But it's more drama than any of the other genres which makes it kinda boring, sure it's good to know his background etc but every character don't need this. This should be a show about The Punisher punishing people and it just 40 % off the series the rest it useless drama.Think it was made with the agenda to please all audiences, so they lose the depth of making a real good show. This is a problem with most series today, no niche behind it.The acting is mostly good and the action ( when it happens) is good.
OK a few spoilers are coming. I liked the Punisher comics as a child. Liked the movie versions made but this?? Way over the top crap. I know it is a piece of fiction but so many things are depicted which just irritate me. I am a vet, former spec ops and contractor. On that alone I grit my teeth trying to watch this. Vets are evil, twisted psychos. Spec ops personnel are evil, greedy criminals. And contractors?? Is there any form of life lower?? All this is represented in the series.Add in a 20 something Muslim, female SAC with homeland security in the biggest jurisdiction in the U.S.. Reality is taking a back seat big-time! Like anyone in their early 20s is going to be a SAC! But this is Hollywood's America. Add in her gay partner. Yep very true to life depiction.Now the disturbed vet that goes violent. Somehow he has access to all kinds of military hardware. Semtex, C-4, MP4 auto, claymore, detonators, etc. Really?? And then in one scene he plants four foot long far breaching strips on a wooden door. Enough to destroy half a block but all it does is blow the door off. Doesn't even damage the door frame. Unbelievable!Then there is the lead. He is a decent actor but then I made the mistake of reading an interview he did claiming how positively vets felt about his role and the series. BS! Yes, some of the dialogue I can relate to. America and especially the government (politicians and bureaucrats) treat vets terribly. I agree. Hollywood treats us just as badly with a few exceptions. I have this a four just for plain action sequences but nothing in this is anywhere close to believable not does it in anyway feel like the Punisher comics of old. I read some of the gushing positive reviews. Sad. Not kidding. Really sad.
Slow, bad acting, over acting, hardly any action instead just talking. Greatful for when I've finished the series


                
With all the hype created, the Punisher will test your patients. Its slow and very very slow in parts, there are so many scenes which can be deleted. Nothing much happens in a single episode, i mean the staory of one season is only good enough for 2-3 episodes.
Its like Skyfall of bond movies, no goosebumps, no character development.
Don't believe good reviews stating it as action series, there is nothing new in the show which you haven't watched before.
Watch at your own risk


                
First of all let me say that I am a huge Punisher fan and his appearance on daredevil showed a lot of promise. It showed his back story and motive and just how violent and tragic his character is. My only gripe was that daredevil would often stop him before we got to see him do some really brutal stuff. So when I heard we were getting a solo series I was very much looking forward to seeing a fully unchained Punisher. It had an advantage introducing us to the new Punisher and getting his back story out of the way so we can get straight to the good stuff in his very own series. The Trailers teased frank in full Punisher mode kicking ass and the first few moments of episode 1 where delivering this. And then he burns his skull this pretty much signifies that he is done with his persona and is moving on. We don't see the skull again until episode 10 and we pretty much don't see the Punisher that we know until late on in the series. In the mean time we get a brooding frank that gets caught in between a soap opera mixed with a Tom Clancy novel. They also seemed to have reset his back story making it way to over complicated and stretching it out of way too many episodes. The bulk of the show we are following agents Dinak Madani & Sam Stein and other side charters that seem that have more screen time that Frank. Most scenes that don't involve frank they are quite frankly are dull, and that's the shows biggest problem for me it's just dull. There is only one action scene that really stands out what shows just how formidable frank can be when he is full Punisher mode, so why is there so little of this? John Berntahl does the best he can with the scraps writers have given him to gnaw on. You can tell he is very committed to the role so it's such a shame they didn't give him enough opportunities to show how deep the character can get. The show is trying to juggle too many plots and losses focus on the shows lead. The action itself is decent but is too few and far between. By the time Frank has fully embraced the Punisher again the viewer has had to trudge through tons of board room meetings, soap opera drama and toilet sex scenes. It makes me wonder if the writers have actually read a Punisher comic. I want to see the Punisher battle Psychotic maniacs and get into the dark and depraved side of the marvel we don't see. 4/10So what do I want to see in season 2? Trim the fat. Make it 8 episodes fully focused on the Punisher. Make it violent, make it tragic, and make it look like a Tim Bradstreet comic cover.
Really bad writing,they didn't take advantage of some characters like John & Amy.


                
** May contain Spoilers **Too slow pace for The Punisher and, in Daredevil 2, Frank Castle was a step ahead of his "enemies". In this season he has help from a hacker and he appears to be more handicapped than ever in most situations and he takes too many risks that don't make sense, like telling a Homeland security agent that he's alive and telling her to stay out of his way, etc.This could have been great but it is a huge disappointment. Watch The Punisher - Daredevil Season 2 Prison Fight Scene - this is what the fans wanted in my opinion and the writers/producers did not deliver this.3~4/10.I can now convinced that the most of the 10/10 ratings with exclamation marks are fake reviews.
I'm not actually sure why it didn't keep my interest, I think mainly I just never really cared about the characters. The plot wasn't any worse than some shows I've enjoyed, and I don't think the acting was all that bad. But I pushed through most of the first season on pure willpower. I watched each episode because I felt like I should keep giving it a chance, not because I really wanted to.Then one day I realized I hadn't watched an episode in weeks, and I didn't care. I'm sure mister angry man goes on with his quest for revenge and kills lots of bad guys, probably in clever and dramatic ways. But I think I would have preferred if he had just died after a couple of episodes, then I would have felt some relief that it was over and I could move on to something else. Instead I forced myself to keep watching for a while, then moved on to something else anyway. Meh.


                
I like this show but I don't love it. My main complaint is how The Punisher is portrayed in this version. He acts like an angry Neanderthal with PTSD. Now before people spit out their drinks and $&@# their pants over what I just said let me be clear; The way he acts makes sense given what's happen to him. I just don't like Jon Bernthal's rendition of it. My favorite portrayal of The Punisher was played by Thomas Jane. He was cold, calculating, and vengeful but he kept a cool head. He didn't fly off the handle in an insane rage like Jon Bernthal does. (Which, by the way, Jon Bernthal always seems to do in every movie he's in.) He just doesn't seem as smart as Thomas Jane's Punisher. He comes off more as a angry dumb grunt then a methodical, lethal, intelligent, special forces killer. Like I said, Jon's portrail is fine. It makes sense. I understand why people like it. It's just not my cup of tea.


                
It was good up and until the ending where EVERYONE but good guys die---that was what killed the story and really made the show go from awesome to Just Another Show...where the formula is just too sappy and unbelievable in a dark universe where the good always win in the end and no one EVER dies. It's lazy writing and totally ruins the entire show. Can't think of any other MCU show that Netflix has that goes to this length of disbelief where the gore and violence just don't match-up with the realism of the character or show; it's a universe where you already get a sense of disbelief where absolutely no good guys die but all the evil ones do---pretty much every season afterwards will be a waste because no one dies but bad guys.Madani should have died and the realism would be preserved--especially in light of the casualty of war crap that the Punisher has in his background.
Kill someone FFS. I can't watch this again, I'm done.
The bad guys are all white and/or Christian; the good guys and law enforcement are all either female, persons-of-color, or Muslim. I don't need to be morally lectured-to by my entertainment provider. Won't watch any more of this schlock.


                
This was so slow and boring, I had loved the Punisher's outing in Dare Devil(DD), he was all explosive there, gory and fun were his trademark. Well, we do have gory here but it's not very often. It's the pacing and script that I have a problem with. The show had good materials for about for 4-6 episodes but they dragged the series up to 13 episodes with tedious pacing and unwanted fillers. The stupid script kind of destroyed the cool image of Punisher, DD had built up. This was supposed to be the most realistic of Marvel's series, with no superpowers and the action sequences being believable, well DD & Jessica Jones were more convincing. Jon Bernthal shines as the Punisher, he is perfect, he is the only saving grace of the show but by himself not enough. The rest of the casting was mediocre at best, some of them were outright terrible.


                
I just don't care for this show its so boring thers hardly any action the characters are boring the story is ok but noting great 8.6 ratings is so fake no film or series deserves such a stupid rating the 2004 version with thomas jane is still the best version
