After his brilliant role in daredevil season 2 it was clear that the punisher was set for great things and now his show has aired and it is fantastic really delivering on the character. The premise of the the season sees a former marine on the hunt for the people responsible for the death of his family. Jon bernthal reprises his role of Frank Castle and he totally owns the character, he nails the depth and complexity of the punisher and how it really takes a tole emotionally on him. He doesn't hold back whether it is the dramatic scenes or the action scenes you just know he loves this character and how he can delve right into it. Ben Barnes plays Billy Russo on the show and ex army ally of Castle and he was a really interesting character on the show. He clearly has his own agenda but you can see he cares about Frank and how there relationship progresses is a major highlight of the show. Another major highlight of the show is the chemistry between Castle and micro played by ebon moss bachrach, they bounce off of each other really well and add some good humour between the two of them. Amber rose revah plays a member of homeland security and she is good in the role, at first I wasn't particularly invested in her character but as time goes on she becomes more and more interesting. The story is a simple revenge tale that no matter how dark Frank gets you always are on his side which is done really well by the show. The show also deals with PTSD very well and shows that it is a real issue in everyday society not just in this universe. However, I found as the episodes went on the story becomes a little bit predictable and it does hurt the suspense sometimes as it isn't there. The script is really good with the dramatic dialogue all really working especially with the serious subject matters that are treated well. As mentioned before the humour is surprisingly really well done to add humanity too the majority of the cast which really helps. Onto the style which may be the star of this show, the action scenes are sometimes breathtaking with the action feeling real but keeping in contact with its comic book origins. Also this film is the most bloody that marvel has ever done and it is completely ideal for this character. Overall I love this first season of this show and if you love this universe and the character of the punisher this is a must watch.


                
I will try to be brief but I needed to write this because I feel really let down. I LOVED season 1. I have been telling everybody who might like this kind of show to watch it because it is incredible (that is coming from a person who is usually very judgmental about movies/shows).Then season 2 happens.First - Jon Bernthal is great as The Punisher!
Next - my feelings are inline with TRinzler's review. The writing really lacked and no brutality can make up for it.
My biggest problem - Dinah's character is dumbed down to ridiculous levels. She is a decorated soldier and a freaking chief special agent in Homeland Security but apparently that does not stop her to spill sensitive information left and right, to completely lack any judgement of character and to be utterly useless in anything she does. How are we supposed to believe this can actually happen? Then there is the BIG problem of Dinah watching Billy and Krista (aka the hot doctor, because everybody needs to be hot, even the freaking Jigsaw) for months. She says she never believed Billy and can clearly see that the doctor is highly attached to him. Billy disappears - no one even thinks of putting a surveillance on the ONE PERSON HE FEELS MOST CONNECTED TO? COME ON! Then on top of everything Dinah goes into Krista's house where Billy lives, WHILE HE IS IN THE OTHER ROOM and she cannot tell anything is wrong? What kind of chief special agent that should be?The next thing is the utterly incompetent NYPD with the man in charge - Mahoney. I already mentioned how NO ONE thinks of keeping an eye on the doctor? Okay! But lets go back in time a bit. Apparently the city of New York does not mind spending literally hundreds of thousands if not million/s on a dangerous criminal, who is by all evidence guilty for FACIAL RECONSTRUCTION???? The best HOT DOCTOR??? What? Then the exemplary NYPD lets this dangerous criminal literally walk out of the hospital with his PJ on? Mahoney succeeds in blaming everybody else for the death and destruction but not once he blames himself for his utter incompetence? I don't even want to get into how every 4th grader, looking at the scene, where Frank shot the 3 women, can tell that the bullets have come from outside/down and there would be no line of sight inside the room.I am sorry to say this but the writing is ridiculous and is irritating me that they did that to this show.Conclusion: I would stick with season 1 and hopefully they do something better in the future! Jon Bernthal is great - this role is made for him! I am not sure why people liked Daredevil 3 - but I see the same problems here that I saw there - just poor writing. Netflix needs to take its time, instead of juicing subscriber growth!
Thank you for reading and have a nice watch!
Season 1 is awesome! suspense, action, gritty, cool plot.. and great casting and acting by Jon Bernthal as punisher!Season 2 disappointing and really boring - like a sitcom for girls: 90% of the time talking heads and pseudo-sociologist conversations.. YAWN! come ooooon!! It's the punisher, not oprah!
Plus: after having his face shredded in glass billy looks like he got scratched by a cat?... and what's with the annoying policewoman and psychologist lady- can someone in the plot please shoot them?? :))
Hopefully for season 3 they get back to a good suspenseful and coherent story and not just milking viewing-time minutes..
I started watching this and liked the way it got straight to it. A little mystery around who the characters were. All the actors were good. I like the lead actor. But as it went on you could feel the story stretching. It started to slow down. Then all the cliche story plots started to come to the surface. The double crosses. The surprises. All highly predictable. But then the cardinal sin. The lead actor went from stealth warrior to serious sidekick. Then the action turned from Ninja attacks to sitting around, talking, a lot. Then as it gets near the end everyone gets stupid and logic is replaced with a lot of luck and coincidence.This started well but then drags on with a flakey storyline. I didn't hate it but I did feel a little let down. Less episodes for more quality.I do recommend it but disconnect from reality as it goes along...


                
The title says it all. What a fall from grace.Season 1 brought The Punisher to life with a great cast of characters, superb performances and an engagingly complicated plot. The drama, the tension, the excitement and the brutality of the fights all felt real. The stakes were slowly but gradually raised with each episode and, because we came to care about the characters, the consequences of their choices mattered. The writers hit the ball out of the park. It ranks as one of Marvel's best adaptations on Netflix.
Season 1: 9/10Season 2 starts promisingly, seemingly dealing with the fallout from Season 1, but the writing is awful and the tediously slow moving plot is boringly predictable. To add insult to injury, characters we previously admired as competent professionals suddenly act unreasonably stupid, taking you out of the story. The writers really came up short this time and no amount of brutally violent action can make up for their failings. Without a well constructed story involving characters whom you care about, the endless succession of fight scenes become meaningless, devoid of drama they should convey. This whole season is a giant misstep which the series may not recover from. Daredevil managed to redeem itself with Season 3 but whether The Punisher can do the same remains to be seen. Regardless, Season 2 is a huge wasted opportunity, especially after the exemplary Season 1.
What a crushing disappointment.
Season 2: 5/10Average:7/10


                
Don't get me wrong, it's a good show with a good plat and story. It's just not....Punisher. in the comics he is a one-man army with a plan. Strategic mastermind and ruthless...here it's about feelings, the past and "the why" of everything. It starts amazing, some very good fightscenes and brutal action but it turns into a slow, dialog driven story. All about war-veterans and his (rewritten) backstory. I think that's a shame for a more one dimentional killing machine type of story would have been more in character.


                
Overall, it's a great show. But there are two sides:
When the story focus on Frank, his troubles and friends, it's really good. And, of course, the relentless action and brutality. It feels real and he doesn't hold back, which is refreshing for Marvel heroes with their PG13 fights.However, Madani and the cops comes close to ruining the show. She has way too much screen time and it's ultimately boring, with nonsense drama that doesn't fit a story about The Punisher. On Season 2, she is useless to the plot and comes closer to being pure filler.
Marvel and Netflix, give us The Punisher. Everybody else is just second class characters.


                
Good story and execution with awesome performance by both the protagonist but again marvel show lacks a good villian in this show also and some things are stretched too long like the family drama


                
I find Franc Castle.character very complex and well played.
We need a 'skip button' for all Madani and Billy Russo scenes, just bad writing and boring characters. I find myself skipping all their appearances at some point.


                
The PunisherAfter appearing in the second season of Daredevil, Frank Castle (Jon Bernthal) returns as the avenger Punisher. After learning that the murderers of his family was not the mafia, if not that the government, the Punisher will have to prepare their revenge next to Micro (Ebon Mosh-Bachrach).Let's start with the actors. What gives strength to this great series, are their great performances and characters. Since i saw Jon Bernthal in Daredevil, I fell in love with permanently. And this is no exception. Big, huge, extraordinary, Jon Bernthal as The Punisher. Ebon Mosh-Bachrach (I promise not to write that name in my life) is very good in his role as "helper" of the Punisher. And your story is very good. Ben Barnes (Billy Russo) is one of the best part of the series. If you don't like Jon Bernthal as The Punisher, you will like it as Billy Russo.The series begins and ends dynamically. I have no words to express this beauty that Netflix has done, again.I liked the detail that at no time begin to bind to, for example, The Defenders with the Punisher. In addition they are of different style. I loved that this series is The Punisher, and continues to be the Punisher.Nothing more to say, the best series I have ever seen of Marvel-Netflix. Greatly exceeded Daredevil.Unsurpassed 10/10


                
I just didn't like season 2. Elements of it were good but the pacing was awful just like most of these MCU titles. They stretch a single story arc over 13 episodes and that just doesn't work. This season reminded me exactly of DD3 in that there was endless time spent on characters discussing whether they should kill someone that's a killer and evil. Feels so Disney. But more importantly it. Just. Drags. On. And. On. Btw daredevil and punisher were my 2 favorite comics as a kid. I look back and feel not much really happened. Very disappointing


                
Remembering this is the Marvel universe, you should expect cartoonish plots and caricatures, comic book philosophy, and action over character development, but Frank is a moral, likeable, and sensitive tough hombre-a true hero and lone knight-and the fight scenes in episode two and three were killer. (Pun intended.) But with the incessant culture manipulation and social justice propaganda being pumped into almost every Netflix and network program these days, it was still surprising and disappointing to run into the silly anti-Christian plot line that developed.The obese slob of a pastor expressing dumbed-down prosperity gospel cliches and appearing almost intoxicated by the promise of riches from a wealthy female donor who implausibly is allowed to take the podium, the creepy rich benefactor assigning a kill squad to get locked and loaded, and of course a neo-nazi or ex-nazi (?) quoting passages from the Book of John while he chokes people to death should be offensive or embarrassing to some of the viewers-even those who have never been to mainstream churches and don't have some experience to balance out this blatant ant-Chrisitan theme.(Are there pastors who befoul their profits with this false prosperity gospel, chase money like the world does, and even look at pornography? Yes. Does every existing religion on the planet have a history of violence? Yes-even Buddhists. But are the dumbed down and frankly evil, shallow portrayals of Christian churches as portrayed by Marvel frequently on shows like The Punisher and, say, episodes of Lucky Man, consistent with most actual church communities? Of course not. Marvel has issues.)The fight scenes were awesome. Despite other reviewers opinions here, Frank had no problem punching out female aggressors when it was necessary and he met the hit team's escalating aggression with increasing body counts that made John Wick look tame.I gave this series a 7 though I am still making my way through the episodes. It is a slick, well-produced series, with cool music, well choreographed fight scenes, and a moral hero worth rooting for. The culture war nonsense has slipped in, but who knows, maybe the producers will have the guts to pick on the American Muslim community is season 3.
Firts of all i need to say ( as others) that Jon Bernthal was the perfect choice for the punisher. Has the looks, the precense and he is imposing, great actor. Now, to the point: this series looks more than a military postwar drama than a punisher. Feels more like the bastard son of Homeland and Tom Jane's pubisher. He only uses his suit on episode one and final episode of S1, and 3 or 4 times in season 2. Thats not superhero stuff. Madani and Micro had more weight in the series than Frank in season 1 and in Season 2 Madani can be the punisher with her hate for Russo. Also i dont undertstand the "is so brutal", "action packed" reviews, maybe for someone who only saw the MCU and expecting laughts an light tone, but this is punisher, he can cut your throat with a spoon without hesitation for being a bad guy. Sometimes it feel more like Tom Jane's Punisher ( i think it got more action too).TL;DR : too much trauma talking, to much nonsense talking, to little Punishment, too litle punisher in full costume shooting bad guys. To far away from comics, to slow to be consider action packed.I dont know whats going to happend now in full disney control ( maybe a punisher not using guns).


                
As a comics fan
I watched season 1 and it was fantastic.
But season two was a little bit disappointing and boring and predictable.I was expecting to see The punisher to be more orginal, more guns fight (just like the credit scene, it was so orginal from the character preparation, to the camera angle)
I was expecting to see Jiqsaw with more scratch and more domination, not to be killed by a boring character named Madani!! (See how he choke her with a soft hands about 5 seconds!!!)
Madani a bad add-on for the punisher.Although josh was a brilliant actor (Marvel TV good at villain casting)Remember Daredevil 1 how good it was? They need to repeat the experiment.
Spoiler Alert.
I would say I love second half of S1 pretty much. Despite having a slow starting (I really feel S1 microchip part kinda boring), the second half of S1 was veryexciting, which almost got me heart attack every second.I would say when it comes to Season 2, the pace of S1 2nd half continues. We have brilliant gunfights, Frank Castle kills out of his way. It was entertaining and exciting, however, after going back to New York, there were some disappointing problems.1) The two story-lines of the two villains, John and Billy, did not really interrelate. They did not co-op each other though having the same enemy - Frank Castle. Making one of them like unnecessary.2) They kept telling how powerful the enemy was, how big the issue was, like Anderson Schultz was trying to control the whole United States, but turned out all he did was sending John and his team to kill everyone. It does not show how Anderson was a powerful or strategic man they claimed who was even going to own America. Not to mention this Anderson guy even exposed himself in a easy trap and suicide like a coward. Look at Wilson Fisk, he owns almost all the Police, even FBI, you do not no who to trust fighting against this kind of guy, and that was what a powerful man should be.3) Billy Russo is too weak comparing to Season 1. Remember? He was one of the man behind in S1, and see what he did this season. He claimed he and his buddies were going to be king and rule the city, but what I see them accomplished, was to rob an exchange shop, and to kill some thugs for reasons I do not know? Comon'. In addition the cops did nothing, at least not bring shown in the show, to track this pity cop killer. These made me feel bad.4) Castle being framed by that silly trick? That was bad, but still okay. But I have a question, why don't just let Castle kill those girls because Russo used them as shields and make Castle lives with this. He was never a saint, he maybe a hero, but making the punisher like Jesus Christ was never a good idea for me.Despite all these, the starrings, actings, fight scenes, the pace of the plot were really something, I like them, making this still a enjoyable show.
Season 1 was entertaining enough that I looked forward to Season 2. But boy was that a fustercluck. I found myself looking at my phone for Pinterest ideas on Postage Stamp Art -- in the middle of fight scenes!


                
Unfortunatley The Punisher has been cancelled by Netflix and I have just finished the second and probably last season of the show and I enjoyed it but I thought it was a big step down from the first season. The premise of the season sees Frank Castle drawn back to New York City in order to protect a girl and stop an old enemy. Jon Bernthal plays Frank Castle/The Punisher and I cannot imagine another person playing this role now, he encapsulates it absolutley perfectly. The agression and violence is there but also mixed with the moral compass of the character that makes him such a compelling person and character. The supporting cast though was a mixed bag this season Ben Barnes is back as Billy Russo and I thought he was fantastic this season, he provides a really emotional dynamic performance. His journey is very interesting and seeing the dynamic between between him and Frank is easily the best part of the season. Jason R Moore plays Curtis and gets a much larger role this season, he is a good foil for Castle and is a good replacement for Micro who isn't in this season. Amber Rose Revah is back as Madani but I found her character pretty boring this season, her story isn't particularly interesting and she came across as quite whiny at times. There were a few new characters added this season but none of them were particularly interesting and I thought it took away from the quality of the show. The story is at its peak when it deals with the relationship between Frank and Billy, it continues from the first season in an appropriate and logical way. However, this season focuses too much on the conspiracy storyline involving the new characters which didn't have the same depth or intrigue that the Russo arc does. The script is great when dealing with the drama which is key on this show as it is very dark and deep. But I felt that the use of humour was much worse then the previosu season and when used it didn't feel funny at all. The style of the show is fantastic, the action is as brutal as always, providing some excellent shootouts and violent action scenes. Overall this is a good second season and if you are a fan of the first season it is still worth a watch.


                
Several episodes into the 1st season yet and nothing interesting has happened. It's not too bad but not as good as expected either. Probably will get better with time or not. Anyway it's alright for time pass.


                
The Punisher is quite an entertaining show. The story is very simple and easy to follow , however the script tries to make it sound more complicated than it really is. This gets annoying at times.The cast does a fairly decent job. Yes, all of them have the propensity to either under or overact, but all this can be forgiven since the show does not try to dabble in subtlety and all said and done is really an action thriller.Most action sequences in both the seasons are pretty intense and there rarely is any superfluous situational buildup. On that count the show is pretty impressive.However, the director would do well to recognize that the show is principally a no holds barred action thriller with an extremely simple and straightforward story line. Hence, there is absolutely no need to interject half baked sentimentality in the scheme of things.The characters are not deeply carved out so as to warrant emotional scenes rife with philosophical reflections.In trying to emulate other action movies , the director doles out several scenes where characters engage in extremely superficial sentimental discussions that are incoherent and irritating.All in all, though, it is a good show to follow and can become really good if extraneous thematic elements are promptly dropped or at least reduced. It is an action series. Let it be so, plain and simple.


                
I'm a big fan of daredevil. I was told Punisher was way better and I had to see it. While I do not agree for a second, it becomes really interesting when the punisher we know actually appears (it takes about 9 episodes though...).
My biggest problems: some of the cinematography is bland and annoying. Although, I just came off the back of daredevil which has some of the best stuff ever.Second, I do not care about his wife. I spent all of season 2 of daredevil caring, so caring just became annoying.Awkward sex scenes in poor places ruining scenes for the sake of sex and an 18 age ratingLastly, the first few episodes are a mess. I had no idea what was happening a lot of the timeThings I liked: when he becomes punisher. It takes a long time, but it's worth the wait.Lieberman is surprisingly great!!There's a LOT of tension and it works well near the endThe action makes me wince for the bad guys


                
The Punisher is similar to Iron Man in some ways - you have to go with the fantasy a lot. Iron Man has tons of tech that is fun to watch, while The Punisher has brutal violence that is equally fun. The Pun is a guy that knows how to kill, without much of the b.s. Others will mess around and beat someone up, but Frank knows where to stick the knife to end it immediately, take that guy's gun and kill the next guy in a split second.The logistics are very unrealistic, but that's part of the fantasy. And yet The Punisher is very simplistic and down to earth at times too - he's not fighting alien wars like the rest of the superhero crowd, he's focused on killing one bad dude (Billy) and a bunch of other mercs that get in his way. Plus the religious nutjob for some reason.There are times where I almost zone out because they try to create some dialogue for the other characters and it is just boring noise - the wine party where the ladies dish about Billy and Frank. Good grief. I'm not saying it's not necessary to add to the drama because the show couldn't be Frank killing people for 50 minutes straight (could it?), but they missed the boat on making it captivating.Billy was interesting early on but got pretty boring and predictable. Really, they're going to kill 3 girls and pretend to have Frank believe he killed them accidentally? With the amount of violence Frank has seen, he should have been able to pretty quickly assess that setup.Maybe it's tough to bring to life some credible great bad guys for Punisher. In here we get an overzealous FBI agent, a flighty DHS agent (again), and a therapist with millions of her own issues.I think I'd give it a 6.5, rounding up to 7. I'll watch it, but I won't love it.
I found that the series was on Track with the Punusher and his goal was continuous and doesn't meld into any other story but the same reasons the original movie had. Vigilante deluxe. I found the story line to be continuously apologetic. Delving over and over in psychosomatics. Though the theme was dramatic and the stars heroics were above board, I think the story could've taken a turn to a different story line. I'm still lost with the girls part in the whole theme of the show. It was a good series but it could've been better.


                
Often Castle sounds like he's a member of the Wakandan Gorilla tribe.The villain is literally a modern day nazi.Can we return to the way comics used to be
It's a basic scenario ok ... but is the acting good ? Meh... average...
The best part is the interaction between the punisher and micro.
It's not bad but it could be so much better


                
The Punisher is an overall good show from Marvel, but overall, probably not what most fans expected. It does not have the usual feel of a Punisher story and misses some of the traditional elements.Pros:Musical scoreActing performances (especially Bernthal)ViolenceAction sequencesCharacter developmentCons:Lack of actionPacingShort screen time for the full-fledged PunisherVillain plotOveruse of flashbacks
