The first season is nearly flawless. It had its lulls in action but they served a purpose and it all flowed very well, pacing was spot-on. Motivations were clear, stuff actually made sense, and it was easily one of the best shows I've ever seen. What happened with the second season, I can hardly begin to explain. All the motivation, the plot, the actors--everything is off, to the point where I was convinced someone else must have made the second season. It feels like events are dragging the Punisher along to bring him to where the writer wants him to be. None of it feels natural, none of it feels grounded like the first season, and almost all the new actors are borderline terrible.The shift is night & day, the difference between Game of Thrones season one and seven(when the writers ran out of books to copy from and people suddenly begin to teleport around a continent), the difference between Ghostbusters and the pitiful woke 2016 cashgrab. Do yourself a favor and watch the first season but only that.


                
The first season was great although extremely violent. There was a good plot and a compelling drive to each character's motivations and actions. Despite the graphic violence the characters were really appealing. There was great choreography to the action scenes with stuff I haven't seen before. However in the second season everything falls apart despite a decent setup in the first few episodes. The character's drives in the second season are kinda dumb to be honest. The side characters are silly. The action scenes are just messy slogs of who can take the most punches. Frank and Medani just seem bored. It is a real shame given how well season one worked. So, I highly recommend watching regardless of season two falling short. I would love to see a 3rd season to find out if they can get it back online. Need some time to actually develop a strong story. So much promise regardless of the sophomore slump.


                
Not for the faint of heart. From the start you're sucked into the story with great action scenes. The last episodes were really intense: sweaty hands and red cheeks are guaranteed.


                
I was rather cautious of watching the series in question as the keyword MARVEL does usually not represesent the things I like; its different comics with superheroes - often unvaried - have congested cinemas and TV channels throughout the world, but I tend to like beating evil using mind and tools, not supernatural qualities.
Luckily, The Punisher is a real action thriller, with multi-level conspiracies, seeking revenge, betrayals, love and hate, and many other strong feelings usually present and enabling to create a versatile work if played and directed well. The plot was not always smooth and included some unnecessary scenes (could have apparently been 1-2 episodes less), but good performances, inclusion of certain bombing, and low number of predictable scenes maintained the level of thrill and realistic atmosphere often fading away in many similar creations. 
And regarding the origin (comic) and the country of production (USA), I can easily rate The Punisher with 8 points and recommend it to all fond of similar works.


                
Just saw the trailer of season 2. After that, I watched the trailer of season 1 again. Well, changed my rating from 9 to 10. Yeah, things can be better of course but if you look at the complete package, ambiance and look&feel of the series...I just love it! Beats all other Marvel series easily!!


                
The Punisher is a great action series with an adequate plot, you know after the first episode what your going to get, so dont go looking for Shakespeare.....season 2 features a young actress who is believable and raw talented, and i think this show will be a stepping stone to kickstart what may be a promising future..


                
I feel that this series was just getting started and Netflix just pulled the plug!Season 1 was excellent - lots of suspense and plot twists, combined with some terrific action. Season 2 was a bit uneven but still packed a punch. Jon Bernthal breathes life into what could have easily been a one-dimensional character. His peformance is outstanding throughout both seasons.While he's not mentioned much in other reviews, Ben Barnes' performance was equally outstanding and his character transition from season one's deceptive and manipulating Billy Russo to season two's tortured and confused "Jigsaw" is amazing to watch! He manages to make the viewer feel sympathetic, even towards this murderous/treacherous character.The rest of the supporting cast and writing is equally terrific. With only two seasons, this is a great weekend-binge viewing!
This is probably the most gore-fest TV series I have seen from Marvel and I am so happy that they didn't try to PG-rate anything. This is how violent I expected the Punisher to be and that is what I love about this series. Punisher has never been the hero, he is always been a character that justifies killing the bad guys instead of bringing them to incompetent justice. You also bound to agree with him because of how brutally his family was taken away from him. Jon Bernthal is the best guy to portray the anger, violence and turbulence that runs inside Frank Castle. He gives such an incredible and convincing performance that it never feels like him killing the bad guys is not justified (his version of justice). David Lieberman also felt someone who was grounding Frank the whole series and his arc also played well in keeping Frank reminded of what it feels to have a friend and family. The villains are not as fleshed out as what I expected after Daredevil (Wilson Fisk) and Jessica Jones (Killgrave) and that felt a little on the nose and predictable. There were no surprises as to who would be the bad guys. All-in-all, I think after the miss that Iron Fist was, The Punisher is a solid entry and I am happy that it has all the violence and doesn't shy away from the bloodshed that Punisher is always surrounded by and I mean it when I say that there is a lot of blood. Watch this if you are aware of the anti-hero and also if you love Jon Bernthal as he completely shines in this series.


                
Adapting The Punisher to the screen has always been problematic across,For all of the brilliant comic book takes on Frank Castle over the years, from Garth Ennis to Greg Rucka, he remains a character who has chosen to bring his brand of justice down the pointy end of a gun. So it's mostly a relief to see that Marvel's Netflix series isn't all guns and glory.It's rather slow in the setup and while that all pays off eventually it definitely could have used some better pacing. There's certainly not enough Punishing and for someone that's all about violence it's used sparingly.They went for more of a thriller type scenario where Frank is attempting to work with others to take down a haunting memory. This brings in some new perspectives and separate story lines that are explored. This is where the whole pay-off aspect comes as every little thing comes together in an intense way. The Punisher begins with Frank Castle believing he has completed his mission for revenge against the mobsters who killed his family and hanging up his skull-adorned costume. Six months later everybody thinks Frank Castle is dead and, having grown a hipster beard, he's taken a new name and landed a job on a construction crew where even though more modern equipment is available, he's able to take a sledgehammer to concrete walls. It's a metaphor, just like all of the time he spends standing in front of his bathroom mirror staring into his reflection and his soul, something that happens so frequently here that the fastest way to trim an hour from the show might be cutting mirror scenes in half. The mirror stuff is actually hilarious, stretching into the dialogue as well.Anyway, Frank is about to discover that he did a lot of punishing for nothing, or at least that his punishing was only partial, because it turns out that the death of his family relates to his black ops military service in Afghanistan and he's going to have to start punishing again. This time, he has an ally in a former NSA analyst Micro, whose family thinks that he's dead, too. Frank, who works better alone, finds himself in an unlikely partnership and almost a friendship. Castle has to reconnect with former brothers-in-arms Curtis (Jason R. Moore), now working to support soldiers suffering from PTSD, and Billy Russo (Ben Barnes), now the slick head of a private security concern. Meanwhile, the bad stuff that happened in Kandahar has attracted the attention of Homeland Security agent Dinah Madani, a child of Iranian refugees. Also involved, and providing links to the larger Marvel Cinematic Universe, is Daredevil regular Karen Page.The Punisher was a gritty, great start for the character. It helped build the character's past while presenting a self-contained and intriguing story. There are some definite current modern themes explored and it feels very different from anything on the Marvel Netflix side of things in the past. It was nice to see a character in this series once again take pain and have many potentially fatal situations. This sort of business is dangerous and that sense of loss just wasn't there in the last couple Marvel Netflix shows. I enjoyed watching the season, fans of the character will find this captured the anti-hero very well though some may feel it's rather slow to get going. Once it does all move quickly and things are all well developed it doesn't hold back on the action or tension. The Punisher is a solid character so it's nice to see a full season actually deliver on what potential there is for this badass within the universe.I see many people are complaining about all the violence shown in the show well it's just how the punisher is.If he doesn't stay true to his character the show would change completely.It's just his form of justice.If it wouldn't be for a great actor like Jon and Steve Lightfoot I wouldn't be watching it right now.It's just a fictional story and a great one not some superhero supervillain bull***t so just enjoy the show..
For those of us who watched and liked POI and then wondered what POI would have looked like if they didn't have a "no-killing" policy, the Punisher would be a close fit.That being said, there's more than enough originality in this series so don't worry. The opening premise is similar, but that's where the similarities end.The series does a good job of bringing "humanity" to a character that is usually portrayed to be cold and ruthless. The action scenes are visceral and gory enough to keep most of us entertained, and the twists do keep you on your toes. All in all, a good watch.


                
I feel that there coulda been less of a drama show tone, but most of this show still manages to be savage, dark, and super gritty! This is the Punisher that we need! Bernthal is the PERFECT Punisher in every possible way. His battle cries are amazing, his fighting is brutal and graphic, among several other things The acting from the cast is FANTASTIC! I have not seen any other version of Punisher in live action, but as far as I am concerned, Jon is my Frank Castle!


                
Season 1 = 10. Season 2 = 5. I'm about 8 eps into season 2 and it's pretty bad. Maybe it will end good, who knows?


                
First i saw a couple of headlines saying critics finding the series was the worst on Netflix , so i was a bit hesitant to watch it .. but then i did ,, my conclusion is never read critics reviews before you actually watch at least the first episode.It started really strong ,, chasing and fighting scenes ,, and that sniper moment was just thrilling,, but then it went a bit slow and steady, which was reasonable to present the backstory through some flashbacks .. but as a "classic" Punisher watcher you must've already known the punisher rise on the tragedy of losing his whole family.Then right at the end .. my my .. that fight was sensational ,, and that raid he made on the gang in little Italy :D As for the cast ,,Jon Bernthal is just one of the most underrated actors on TV,, he was amazing in "Daredevil" which i think made this project come to life ,, but also still remember his unforgettable role in "The Walking Dead" as Shane , my goodness it was full of suspense on both of those previously mentioned roles and here as extension to his story on Daredevil he still preserved that tense present which made the show more suspenseful. so as i said first it show a lot of great promises and so much potentials, i'm still on the first episode ,so 12 more to go , but from the look of it .. it looks like the show is going places.


                
Punishesr promo in Daredevil was amazing! Season 1 of Punisher was really good...I loved it. But Season 2 isnt really that great: Billy and Pilgrim were good nemesis for Frank, and I liked the dynamic between them all. Seeing how Jigsaw started and was formed was cool too. But the character Amy was SO ANNOYING! I couldnt stand her...Already 5 eps in and not really sold on this season.


                
This show is extremely successful in presenting The Punisher as portrayed in the comics. The character is very relatable, but in his most violent moments, he becomes an unrelatable monster. This is extremely accurate for the character, and I give this show lots of praise for being able to capture that.My only true complaint is that the story line for Revah's character seemed drawn out to a point where it nearly broke my involvement in the show. I believe that if this show was only approved for 8-10 episodes instead of the full 13, then it would probably be my favorite Marvel Netflix series.


                
I was never a big Punisher guy. He came along in the middle 70's, which is about the time I lost interest in comics. All I was reading by then were Iron Fist, Shang-chi, Ghost Rider, and Tomb of Dracula. Martial arts and horror, those were my things. I knew about the Punisher because he popped up here and there but didn't really pay attention until he showed up in some Spiderman cartoons in the 80s and 90s. I always regarded him as a Spiderman enemy along the lines of early Kraven: somewhat misguided but, overall, not evil. Yeah, saw the Dolph Lundgren movie, which was silly, and the dreadful Thomas Jane one but those didn't move the needle.What did was the Punisher in Season 2 of Netflix's Daredevil series. He was cool, and crazy. Punisher killed everybody, quite justified, IMHO. Jon Bernthal was an excellent cast choice, all broody and unpredictable and dangerous, just the way you think the Punisher should be, although Bernthal comes off as a bit denser and more uncouth than the comic book version. So when Netflix announced a stand-alone series, I was in. I finished it last week. Verdict?It's good. Damn good. Better than I thought it would be, given the way Netflix has screwed up the other Marvel shows.The Punisher is Frank Castle, a man on a mission to kill the rotten bastards who staged the murder of his family in a botched attempt to kill him (BTW, you never see the actual murders of his family, just enough to know what happened. Which is an odd bit of restraint). The rotten bastards want to kill him because Frank is a former Marine Recon member of an assassination unit illegally set up by the CIA to take out terrorists in Afghanistan. Cleaning up the loose ends, doncha know. The CIA effs it up, leaving Frank Castle alive and berserk. Hoo boy, is he berserk.Helped by an equally-savaged innocent bystander named Micro, Frank goes out to balance ledgers. And balance them he does. And it's not pretty. Really, if you like your killings frequent and forensically correct, you'll love this because it's murder porn and over-the-top violence with Frank taking and taking severe damage (which he recovers from in astonishing time, like he's Wolverine or something). Add torture, great sex scenes, and various other forms of mayhem, and you're in for an evening.A lot of fun, but I don't think murder and mayhem is what the series is about. No, it's this: there's no more justice. Not anymore. Not since the various government agencies discarded public accountability and became rogue departments with agendas and intents unto themselves, at the same time the courts became a way for lawyers to amuse and impress each other rather than the means of ensuring a just recompense for we Little People. Don't you peasants know there are bigger Deep State and Elitist concerns than mere nuisances like your family's murder? Yes, yes, regrettable, those murders, but you can't make an omelet without breaking a few eggs. You peasants.If your family is murdered in a regrettable but necessary covert action to cover up a government screw-up, you're gonna have to get your own justice. You must become Frank Castle because it's not that the police and the courts and the government don't care as much as have other interests, like getting and retaining power and control, and your petty little bourgeois problems distract from that. Only DHS Agent Madani, played by the gorgeous Amber Rose Revah, wants to right the numerous wrongs, and she's treated like she's some kind of naïve idiot by bosses and other supervisors for so wanting. She eventually has to ally with Frank to get anything like justice done.An aside: Shoreh Agdashloo of Expanse fame, plays Madani's mother. I declare my undying love.Is this what we've come to?Pish posh, no, it's not, you say, this is mere over-the-top TV show exploitation of current events and besides, what Frank is doing is revenge, not justice.What, exactly, is the difference?Because the courts and the police and trials and jails were all developed to ensure passionate revenge was taken out of our individual hands to become dispassionate justice meted out appropriate to the crime and, more importantly, on the right person. Whenever someone does us wrong, from scraping the side of our car to murdering our entire family, our frustrated sense of outrage and lust for vengeance is mollified because these agencies resolve the situation, maybe not to our complete satisfaction, but as long as the result is reasonable, we're usually okay with it. Until it is no longer reasonable. Until our concerns are given increasingly short shrift.Consider, we now have agencies that spy on us without warrants or justification, that ruin us with innuendo, that apply the law to one class of people but not to another, and courts that let murderers go because of political ideology. We do not believe what the government or the press says about anything anymore. And the law abiding are increasingly blamed for the non-law abiding. I can see why people would go all Frank Castle on your ass.And that ain't good.
I don't think Netflix has really delivered a Marvel series this well-defined and consistent since the first season of Daredevil. Jessica Jones and Luke Cage had their moments, but Iron Fist and The Defenders were terrible and slogs to get through. So it makes complete sense that the best thing about Daredevil season 2 delivers in its own 13 episode series, but it definitely wasn't a guarantee. There are rabbit-holes that this show could have fallen into that it deftly avoids for the most part. This could have been as over the top as Punisher: War Zone, it could have been as boring as the Thomas Jane Punisher, and it could have been as forgettable as the Lundgren Punisher, and fortunately it's not any of those things. Berenthal is the perfect actor of the current era to have pulled off this character. Most comic characters could have a revolving door of actors bringing their own personalities to the character, but with his rock-solid performance Berenthal joins the ranks of Hugh Jackman and Robert Downey Jr. as irreplaceable. As I mentioned earlier, for the most part the story rises to his level. There's a plot that in this show that is meant to be a conversation starter, and add depth the show that without it would be a straight revenge/thriller plot, and while this plot does provide the series it's most interesting episode, it does go nowhere,and ends with a bang when it should've ended with a whimper. There will be no escaping the larger conversations of gun-violence, PTSD, and mental health, and at times it seems like the show addresses these topics to show us it is aware of the conversation, but does nothing to further the conversation. All the cool, badass characters use and love guns, and the one voice for gun-control is a cowardly, opportunistic politician. Not very even. All the actors play their parts well. Amber Rose Revah and Ebon Moss-Bachrach are the standouts outside Berenthal and Ben Barnes gives a performance that leaves the audience wanting more in the next season. Paul Schulze and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are great in their roles as well. My only other quibble is very minor and didn't affect my opinion of the show itself, but I wish the opening titles were a little more engaging. This was the first time on a new show that I had to use the Skip Intro option. (In contrast I liked the Iron Fist title sequence more than anything else in that show, so maybe intro isn't the end-all be-all). This is a solid show, with minor flaws that doesn't require any background information to enjoy it. I would recommend watching Berenthal's scenes from Daredevil season 2 because it helps navigate the motivations of everyone a little bit more and, hey, Berenthal is fantastic there too. 8/10, look forward to more from this team.
First of all, great series. I've been a big fan of the Marvel Netflix series, but I guess that's not a surprise to many. However I'm not here to praise how great the show is---that's up for you to decide, plus I'll bet most of you are fed up with the unending positive reviews anyways---but rather to give a short critique on the quite misleading review here on IMDb regarding the dialogue and social norms represented in this show.To the current top review who claims that this show is tainted with a "SJW" language, let me put this out for you: There is NOTHING---and I repeat NOTHING---SJW about this show!!!!! The term "SJW" has been used so extensively in these past couple of years that people simply use it as a substitute for another term without fully understanding what a "SJW" really stands for.Do you really think---and I mean THINK ABOUT IT---that a show aestheticizing brutal violence, and portraying male dominance + excessive masculinity and heterosexual relationships, is trying to enforce SJW values?? Remember, SJWs are trying to subvert the dominant norms and values of ordinary life, and it's quite clear that this show only reinforces those dominant views of life. So to those afraid that they'll be treated with specific scenes or dialogue that will conflict with conventional values, don't be, as they are pretty much nonexistent in this show. Sure you might think that the female character Madani is annoying because she's impudent, but this is merely a typical trope (cliche) used in TV shows and movies since classical Hollywood. So no, I don't think that this show is trying to "brainwash" new generations. I also don't believe that this show is trying to politically correct in any way. If anything, I will commend this show for having a very accurate depiction on reality and not twisting it. The Punisher is overall a very gritty show that emphasizes on brutal realistic violence more than in Daredevil. I'm not here to criticize that, I'm 19 and I honestly love to watch some intense gory fight scenes every now and then, but this is just a warning to younger audiences that might be watching this (most reviews never point this out, so I felt the need to point this out).P.S. This review reflects on my experience with ALL the episodes. I don't believe it's fair when people rate the entire show based on the first one or two episodes. There's a separate IMDb page for each episode for that.


                
This is by far the best Marvel show on TV right now. Puts the Matt dumbdumb Murdoch (Daredevil) to shame as well Jessica my-life-sucks Jones. Its violent and gory though these are not the focus of the show. Most of the time, the story is a mystery drama about a chain of events that took place early in Punishers life. As he unravel the events, he discovers a even deeper rabbit hole (like in most movies) which leads him to killing all the bad guys. Unlike the other shows however, the plot was believable and antagonists were not brain-dead twits. Sure there are plot holes here and there but overall I would say it was well done.All that said, there were times when episodes seem to be going nowhere. Just back and forth banter without any real development to plot or characters. This was especially true early in the series.


                
Not usually a fan of comic book adaptations so I started to watch this show just because I didn't have anything else to watch. And..wow..what a nice surprise!! Its just awesome!! Cant stop watching! Very well scripted, great character development..I just love how realistic it is!! Not like most of comic book shows when you clearly see its for children..just effects and no story and character! But not this one..Great work guys!! And Jon Bernthal is just awesome as the punisher. Hope to see more seasons. If you like drama,action, well scripted stuff great acting watch it you wont regret it!


                
To be perfectly honest, I didn't expect it to be as good as it turned out to be. I watched all of Marvel's tv series' and was pretty disappointed by most of them, partially because Daredevil's season 1 was fucking amazing and set the bar really high. The Punisher suprisingly broke the streak of shittiness (Iron Fist, Defenders, Luke Cage, even..) and joined DD at the very top. The writing was much better than I expected and most of the characters were done justice by their actors, especially Jon Bernthal. The Punisher is probably as realistic as it possibly could've been, considering the universe it's in. There's no superpowers, just pure, raw, brutally violent action. But it's much more than just a bunch of well coordinated action sequences; the writing is on point, the plot revolves around more than just Frank Castle and his anger-driven "kill everyone involved with his family's death" path of vengeance. And it's even somewhat unpredictable, which is super rare these days. All in all The Punisher is really well done and is definitely worth watching. It's vastly different than Iron Fist and Luke Cage for example, which is a good thing. Keeping in mind I rated Daredevil S1 with a 9/10, I'd rate The Punisher with 8.5/10. Very good.
After seeing Jon Bernthal's gripping performance as the Punisher in Daredevil Season 2, I was really looking forward to this series and seeing more of Frank Castle. While this show is still part of the Marvel Netflix Universe, it isn't dependent on the tie-in references and tries to do its own thing. (With the exception of Karen Page cropping up from time to time)Castle has taken out the gangs he was hunting in Daredevil Season 2, seemingly putting an end to his personal vendetta, or so he thinks... The ghosts of his past have come back to haunt him when the circumstances of a past military mission in Kandahar become an issue, with former adversaries wanting Castle dead. Assisted with a former NSA analyst turned hacker laying low from the authorities, Castle tries to lay waste to those trying to wrong him. The supporting cast includes Dinah Madani, played by Amber Rose Revah, a high-ranking Homeland Security agent hoping to uncover the ambiguity of the Kandahar case and Ben Barnes as Billy Russo, a former marine and friend of Castle's, running his own independent military outfit. As well as that, there's a subplot involving a young war veteran riddled with PTSD, conflicted with his inner battle after being reacquainted with society. The narratives interleave in their own respective ways, giving the show extra layers.With the subject matter of this show being slightly controversial in relation to its display of excessive violence and gun use, resulting in a promotional panel being cancelled because of the Las Vegas shootings, there's no doubt that this show may trigger some people. Aside from that, this show paints a gritty portrait of a trauma-stricken war vet, stigmatized by his actions as a vigilante.Jon Bernthal is fantastic as the Punisher, showing us numerous layers to the character, en par with his performance in Daredevil. Ultimately I'm not sure how they're going to expand on Frank Castle's journey in future series but from what we're shown here, the Punisher is a worthy addition to the Marvel Netflix collection.With the overtones of political unrest and gun control, the Punisher adds a level of realism to it, as opposed to the other Marvel Netflix shows. As an Irishman, I don't exactly have a deep knowledge of military history but I'm interested to see the reaction of actual war veterans; whether they find this show accurate or insulting.The one drawback is the length of the series. Much like some of the other Marvel shows, it has a tendency to drag. For me personally, the PTSD soldier subplot felt a lot like the Sgt. Simpson subplot in Jessica Jones: unnecessary filler. Apart from that, the Punisher is a great character study of Frank Castle. If only we didn't have to see the same flashbacks over and over again...
Season 1:Season 1 was a fun take of Punisher. Not the Punisher I'm use to but he was really good. Overall the show was good. Could have been better in area's like providing a more Punisher like portrayal from the comics.Season 2:Was a massive step up. Punisher actually gets to Punish in the style that drew me towards Punisher.The story is very intriguing. Its more of a Punisher and Billy Show.Jigsaw is nothing like the comics or like the movie he is a guy with memory loss, truama and he basically wanders around trying to figure things out. His face only has a scratch on it and he is not intimidating to look at. If anything he is much better wearing a mask.Punisher actor does very well in his role.If you like blood, cat and mouse, gore, guns, killing and anti hero who doesn't give a damn. Punisher season 2 is the show for you.


                
This was one hell of a show. Although the first few episodes were a little slow, it picked up later and made it totally worth my time. The thrill element was quite high and it keeps you hooked till the end with its twists and turns. Jon Bernthal is just brilliant in his role as The Punisher. He was able to bring the dark and violent feel that The Punisher is supposed to bring. Others actors such as the ones who play Micro and Billy Russo respectively also did great.The only one who was horrible from every angle was the woman that plays Dinah Madani. I honestly feel the show would have been perfect had she not been a part of it. She seemed completely out of place with her horrible acting and her fake American accent made it even more difficult for me to tolerate her. Watching her on screen was a complete torture. Another thing I didn't like was how her father popped up in the last episode without any introduction or any explanation.The show was very well done and the action sequences were great as expected. I love how the level of violence was extremely high which did perfect justice to the dark and gritty theme this show has. Paul Schulze as Rawlins was a treat to watch. Fantastic acting done by him.The only thing that might not go down well with some people is how they showed an ex-military man turning into a notorious terrorist due to his PTSD. Now this might become a problem since America suffers from gun violence and there are several war veterans suffering from PTSD over there.Overall this is a fantastic show which lives up to its expectations mainly because they did complete justice to the character of The Punisher. I'm pretty sure next season will be more fast paced.
So going into The Punisher it was going to be the first of the Marvel characters where you knew he didn't have any supernatural powers that any of the Defenders posses. Castle shares Daredevil's need for the need to carry the weight of the world on their shoulders and as in the last appearance of Daredevil where he had resigned himself to taking on small legal cases that would keep him out of the Hand's cross-hairs, Castle assumed the Peter identity and kept his inner Punisher in check. In the end, Murdock and Castle have to accept that their alter-egos were ingrained and hardwired into them. And as the Punisher keeps other's at bay because he becomes tunnel visioned and has problems with communication with those who clearly are allies (reluctant or otherwise) and Daredevil is weighed down by his catholic ingrained guilt and cannot allow those who he cares about to be dragged down by his fate to be caught in grip of the Hand's tight grip. Loved the action throughout and the fight scenes were choreographed in that style we have become accustomed to the Daredevil, Jessica Jones, and Iron Fist installments. I can just tell you that lack of development of the Karen Page and Castle characters bond left me wanting more. You know that Page and Murdock should be together because every time they are together you can feel that undeniable attraction and hope that in the next season of Daredevil that gets resolved but at the same time you can't deny how Karen's connection with Frank is deep and unconditional. I was really disappointed that Karen's character was not more developed into the story arc of the Punisher's season. At the very least, there should have been some sort of reunion with Karen and Frank in the last episode after Frank received his freedom papers from Rafi and Marion. We deserved that at the very least. All in all, I will happily watch and re watch the Punisher and be counting the days to the next season of the Punisher.
