The Punisher is an awesome superhero show, that isn't really a superhero show. Frank Castle doesn't have any special abilities, he's just a former marine, seeking justice for what happened to his family. Because of this, The Punisher ends up being one of the most relatable heroes in that regard, right next to Daredevil. They're two sides of the same coin.When The Punisher was first announced to be appearing in Daredevil season 2, I was beyond excited. Not only because, Punisher himself is one of my favorite characters, but because of the casting choice too. I initially knew Jon Bernthal as Shane Walsh on The Walking Dead, and he was phenomenal in it. I just knew that he would kill it as Frank Castle too, and he sure did. Thanks to the popularity of the character in Daredevil, a series featuring Punisher was announced, and I was ecstatic. After releasing its first season, the show didn't disappoint. We got a better look into the character and intricacies of Frank Castle, and the show introduced us to a slew of supporting characters that are also compelling. In my opinion, The Punisher has the strongest supporting cast of the Marvel Netflix shows, right next to Daredevil itself.The action in this show is just off the charts. Along with Daredevil, the two easily have the best action scenes of any superhero shows out there. If I had to pick one, I'd say the Punisher's scenes are slightly better though. The brutality of the Punisher makes for slightly more intense fighting sequences.Overall, The Punisher is a completely intense, brutal and well written show. The cast is amazing, with Jon Bernthal doing a phenomenal job as Frank Castle. Season 2 is also looking up, and continues the great quality of the series.I just wanted to end the review on this note; it's unfortunate that all of the Marvel Netflix shows have been canceled as of late. It seems equally likely that The Punisher will be canceled coming off of its second season in the month ahead sadly. I wanted to thank all of the cast and crew, not just of The Punisher, but from all of Netflix Marvel. The shows were really great, and it was enjoyable to experience another corner of the Marvel Universe through these series'. Hopefully these shows are somehow saved, because they still have tons of potential. Even still, after these shows being canceled, I still think that they are worthwhile. Check them out if you're a Marvel fan, you won't be disappointed!My Rating: 9.0/10


                
Finally Punisher done right! After so many fails from other film companies Netflix decides to go all out and almost perfect it. They almost pull him right out of the comic which could not have been easy, from the deep yells as he unloads his guns on the bad guys to the twitch of a man who is now disturbed but slightly keeping it together to the tie in of the Punishers mane nemesis. This show is the best Netflix Marvel show hands down. All of the main characters are great!


                
Jon Bernthal is THE punisher; what else can I say? He is a great actor that portrays the character's psyche terrifically.It is a well written show that includes amazing fight scenes. From the Marvel TV shows, this is my second favorite. I love the dark tone and the brutality, as this show isn't afraid to go all-in with the Punisher character.It continues to maintain the quality a show like Daredevil is known for (maybe not AS good but still), and it greatly illustrates a serious plot with a good cast and pacing.My rating: 8.9/10


                
I was glued to the screen, John Bernthal Performance was was amazing, the story line was great.... Simply The Best Marvel Series on Netflix


                
From casting to action to soundtrack, these series just worked for me. I loved the plot of season 2 even more than the first season. The fight scenes were not repetitive, they got better and better as the season progressed. I would say, don't trust anyone's reviews, which were based on the first few episodes only. Watch the whole season, because the end is totally worth it!


                
Whilst I really loved the new Netflix series MANIAC the punnisher starts off slow 
Then builds to become a powerhouse of glorious revenge 
The acting is superb 
Gore is great.
Better than both movies that were released previously Waiting for HELLBOY series if it ever arrives


                
I'm a huge fan of The Punisher comic books so I was a little wary of a live action version given previous disappointments. I was impressed with how the introduction of the character in Daredevil contained scenes straight out of the comic. The Punisher tv series also didn't disappoint. I think the casting of Jon Bernthal was perfect and he plays the role brilliantly. Although not completely true to the written version, the tv version of Frank Castle and his story is enjoyable (and brutal) and I look forward to watching season 2. Ben Barnes is also great as Billy 'the beaut' Russo aka Jigsaw.


                
With Frank Castle back in action, season 2 delivers top entertaining action scenes, a interesting storyline with badass characters. This season is fulled with many intense and violent scenes that make Frank castle the one and only Punisher. Let us beg for season 3 despite it sitting at 58% rotten Tomatoes ( at the time of writing ) .


                
It took me a couple months to finally watch this because of some bad reviews I read. I was also pretty disappointing with the Iron Fist and Defenders series, so I was pretty much ready to check out of the Netflix Marvel franchise altogether. Turns out, this was a great series. They did a good job of telling a story, while also repeatedly reminding you why Castle becomes who he does. Easily the most violence in a Netflix Marvel series so far, but a level of storytelling more on par with Season 1 of Daredevil or Jessica Jones.Minor spoiler.....I was thrilled that they didn't shoehorn Rosario Dawson into this series.
With this potentially being the final season of The Punisher, it ends on a very high note. While the ending is bleak, that won't matter as much if the show is going to be cancelled anyway. It wouldn't exactly be the ending anybody would probably want for the show, but at least it doesn't tease a load of cool stuff and get cancelled so we never get to see it (Daredevil...). If the show isn't cancelled, then it has no real place to pick up from except for Frank's new position as a person that he ends up in.Season 2 of The Punisher is in many ways an improvement of the first. We get a lot more action, character progression, new characters, and different approaches to story-telling. While some aspects of these things don't always work, they are compelling enough to improve the show and it's what makes the season different from the first (a good difference).The action really shows the true colours of Frank Castle. It's incredibly violent and there's a lot of it so you can really sink your teeth into it. It gives the character an opportunity to show who he really is and what he does. This season also does a great job telling us of why Frank does what he does so it's not like the action is mindless, just to keep the viewers entertained.One of the best things about this season is the character development. Season 1 left each character in their own place of mind which is where this season picked up on. Russo is left with a scarred face and fractured mind, in which he tries to piece together in order to make sense of his life again. Madani is drinking as a way of therapy to heal herself over Russo's actions, most notably him murdering Sam Stein. Finally, Frank is doing his best to "be what he's meant to be". He starts with him trying to get by his past with him leaving it all behind, but he ultimately realises exactly who he is. From here each character had a new story arc and since we already knew the characters, we got to see different sides of them - especially Russo (which in my opinion is one of the best characters this season).Season 2 does things a little differently, by having two main plots going on parallel to each other. On the one hand we have Russo's take on Jigsaw, in which Madani is eager to end her personal case on him by putting him behind bars. Billy is undergoing treatment and seeking revenge on Frank. The other story line involves John Pilgrim, a Christian criminal searching for a girl named Amy who got caught in between his business and has Frank stepping in. It's not a bad approach and works better than I thought it would, however at times it felt like one plot was put on pause for the other one to have room to progress.Another incredible aspect of this season is Amy Bendix and the relationship that Frank and her develop. At first, I felt she was lacking in character to make her interesting - even with her backstory and the situation she was in. However, when she began to understand who Frank was, she opened up more and together they formed a bond that was special to both of them.Season 2 of The Punisher delivers a story (or two) that develops characters in complex and interesting ways that make it such an amazing watch. From the tension of the Jigsaw to the heart-warming relationship between Amy and Frank, the show changed in ways that I really enjoyed. This season is better than the first in almost every way, and I'll be devastated if this is the last of this show.


                
Wonderful action, brilliant story and it's totally worth of time. The suspense and and the character 'punisher' is just awesome.
But Billy Russo was totally unexpected...


                
This is the best show I've seen. Jon Berthonal gives an outstanding performance and fills the role of The Punisher perfect. Him as well as most of the cast were great. You can't ask for better performances than this. The writing and story is surprisingly good and kept me engaged from start to finish across both seasons, an impressive feat. This coming from someone who thinks 99% of everything that comes out of Hollywood is complete garbage in the writing department.I've not read any of the comics, so it's kinda new to me even though I caught the 2004 movie.I really liked how he and several characters had a military background and that was tied deeply into the story. It made everything more realistic and you know he's a badass ex-marine and can take out anyone.It's not just an action flick, it has plenty of that for sure but what makes the action scenes come alive is everything in-between. You get a real sense of motivation and purpose why they do what they do from both sides. Nothing is left to the imagination, no major plot holes. There are some moments where you could go ..hmm what's his problem.., but for the most part the story tries to rationalize hostility as much as possible, so the bad guys aren't just bad guys for the hell of it. Nothing is more annoying than a bad guy that makes no sense.At first I kind of glazed over the first seasons episodes but the later part really caught my attention and I realized how good this show was. I ended up rewatching the first season and then I truly appreciated how good it was.. or at least how bad it wasn't..I have a hard time watching anything on Netflix these days. I just finished S2 and it was on par with S1 in most regards except a lot of it revolves around some annoying stupid girl that you just wish she'd go away. Is that mean? I really hate this choice of characters to play in the main story across all episodes and find myself trying to ignore the show when she is on screen. I don't care what she has to say, she's stupid, we've already established that.. why would I want to continue to listen to her? She not likeable in any way and has an attitude from start to finish. Hope to god we never see her again.


                
I can't believe the amount of negative reviews on here. The same people moaning that this is slow and boring are the same people that would moan if there was no character building or if there was a lack of storyline or decent plot.Shows can't just go in all guns-blazing with no context. It wouldn't make sense! even if the show is about a vigilante hell bent on taking down everyone that has ever done him wrong or crossed him in any way. I actually have read reviews from others saying it is boring and they gave up after a couple of episodes! how can you judge a show on a couple of episodes? not even giving it a chance to develop and I feel sorry these people. If they don't give shows more of a chance and judge that early in then they're going to miss out on a lot of epic scenes and lots of fantastic finales (trust me when I say that The Punisher provides one epic finale). even if you are in agreement with others and feel The Punisher is a little slow to start I would urge you to carry on as the rewards are huge! But I digress. The main reason I wanted to write this review was to say that I feel they got the casting of the Frank Castle spot on, Jon Bernthal plays the role extremely well. You can see the pain in his eyes, he brings out all the emotions associated with the Castle/the punisher. He is a man that will stop at nothing to take down the men that have done him wrong, he has nothing to lose and doesn't care if his actions result in his demise. I loved him when he appeared in Daredevil which meant i couldn't wait for this series to hit Netflix. There is one scene in particular in Daredevil where Bernthal's acting blew me away, he really did make you understand what he felt, which isn't easy considering he is portraying a man who has lost everything he has and lives only for revenge. Going back to this and Bernthal's own screen chemistry with ally David Leiberman (Ebon Moss-Bachrach) is really great. They share some great scenes together and even provide some comedic moments. Ultimately though it is a raw, brutal series. There is some brilliant bits of gore as well, especially in the last 2 episodes of the season, with some incredibly intense scenes. overall it doesn't hold back, I would say it is very much in the same mould Marvel's other Netflix series. For me Daredevil and The Punisher are far superior to the other Marvel options available with Jessica Jones coming in 3rd.


                
The Punisher is an awesome superhero show, that isn't really a superhero show. Frank Castle is a former marine, seeking justice for what happened to his family. Jon Bernthal done a phenomenal job as Frank Castle and nobody else will ever be able to replace him!!


                
I would've given this show a 10 out of 10, however the SJW lines kinda cut me off in 2 or 3 places, luckily not to many. It seems that the SJW language is pushed lately by Hollywood and associates to brainwash the new generations.Regarding the character Jon Bernthal nails it, I cannot imagine anyone playing it better then him. He shapes the character in the smallest details, every emotion is real.


                
The first episode is amazing and set the tone. The bathroom scene was epic. I always loved The Punisher for being raw and not PG-13. It is hard for shows to reach full potential if it is restricted to PG-13. I think that is why Daredevil did not live up to potential because of the "no killing" mentality. Some bad people just have to die unforunately. The Punisher is excellent, the cast is amazing. Respect to Jon Bernthal the best and only Frank Castle I will acknowledge.


                
I am a big Marvel production fan they have such a great stock of writers production crew and top class actors with good plots! DC could learn alot from them!
Punisher season 1 was gripping and season 2 is equally if not better great plots slick script and great acting keeps you gripped plenty of action John Benthall is superb and I couldn't imagine anyone else playing the role.
I was a little concerned when I saw that Luke Cage and the Iron fist got cancelled so was so happy that the punisher was renewed,let's hope it continues with a season 3!


                
Netflix is on a roll. I finally bought stock in the company, lots of it. I expect to double my money.


                
I had reservations when I heard that they were going to do a series of The Punisher. In my opinion, he can be a pretty one-note character:- Find the bad guys, kill them in a variety of gruesome ways, and repeat. Not only that, but I find he works best when he guest-stars in another characters comic or TV show, either to have is askew morality and brutal methods go against those of heroes like Spider-man, Captain America or, as was the case with the Netflix series in which this incarnation of Frank Castle debuted, Daredevil. Otherwise, just for the effect of "OMG, The Punisher's turned up! It's just got real!" Not only that, but after recent events, how well would I warm to a series that could potentially glorify gun violence.However, I was pleasantly surprised by Netflix's The Punisher. This incarnation gave us a version of the character that was nuanced, without feeling the character had been (too) diluted.The story also deals with the political questions that may be raised by such a character and doesn't shy away from the issue, but at the same time doesn't offer simple moral solutions or preaching.Some fans may be unhappy that every episode isn't just Frank killing bad guys in inventive ways. I'm of the opinion that less is more and when the violence does come into play it's all the more effective because of it.


                
This is the 3rd marvel series i watched , i dont know what is their obsession with 13 episodes. Reducing few episodes can make it much more interesting. Its not much of the problem in The Punisher Season 1 but Daredevil Season 1 was too stretched that it could have ended well in 8 -9 episodes at max.Moving on to Punisher, It starts with a bang. Punisher has killed all the cartel and goons and then living all on his own as a construction worker living in same ghost of past. He gets followed by David Lieberman who tells him that his family was killed because of what happened in Kandahar and then starts his mission along with David Lieberman to find the real culprit and avenge the death of his family. The series moves on as mission from one link to other and than to the real man or the head .What differentiate this from Daredevil season 1 is that Punisher maintains its pace except at few places. There are twists and surprises that keeps one on their toes. Last 4 episodes are the best episodes . They are fast , things happen at great speed and makes one remain on the edge of the seat. I wasnt happy with one side track of Lewis Walcott but the way it ends was fab and made all my complains go away.Everyone has acted very well. I loved the Background music and the loud music during the starting credits. Screenplay is good except that they would have made it shorter by an episode but its a minor glitch.Jon Bernthall's act and the screenplay is so good that in the end when he beat and kill the villains i felt a big rush of adrenaline . All the blood and gory shown looks justified , such is the level of empathy that it feels like we got our revenge.Some of my favourite scenes
Scenes Between Frank and David's Kids
David's reaction when He finds Frank almost dead
Madani and Karen conversation
Madani and James Marion conversation
Frank- Punisher, killing the Last 2 culprits
Lewis attack on Karen and senator Stan OriMost of these are in last 4 episodes and it will be really criminal if i exclude anything from those episodes as best moments.Its dark and probably little slow but the screenplay and the acts of Jon Bernth, Ebon and Ben Barnes makes it a thrilling and an exciting ride with good twists and turns which give a good adrenaline rush. Would rate it 9/10 Waiting for season 2 :)


                
So glad this score had picked up - it's likely the ones disliking this show had other expectations for it that it did not meet. See it as a standalone show! It's amazing, especially the combat sequences and I love the gritty noir vibe. Can't wait for the 2nd season


                
I get that for some Punisher fans, the show was disappointing to them. I understand that, but just because it's not close to the comic or the 2004 adaptation doesn't mean the show is automatically bad. There's a lot to appreciate here. The acting, action scenes, violence, and character relationships. The show is so emotional and very exciting. The story is well written, this is a really good show. If you even watch it all the way through that is. If you haven't seen it all, your missing out.


                
What can i say, the show is good, great story, great action, good effects.
Best Marvel show out there at this point, after this DareDevil, then Luka Kage. Be sure to look DareDevil first, i hope Marvel will keep this show running for a while. It has a great fan base, great rating on many sites. John is the perfect chosen Frank Castle char. out there!


                
Ever since Frank Castle appeared in Daredevil, I and a lot of other fans were waiting for a solo outing of The Punisher. Good news is it doesn't disappoint at all.Background: We all have been following the Marvel TV universe Daredevil made a smashing debut. I have mentioned in my 'The Defenders' review that the quality was deteriorating as the shows progressed. Daredevil and Jessica Jones were great. In fact, Daredevil season 2 is still the best of the lot. But then Luke Cage was very average. Iron fist and The Defenders were disastrous.Now onto The Punisher.Acting: Jon Bernthal was born to play this role. He is great in the emotional scenes, action and in the lighter moments with a hacker Micro played by Ebon Moss-Bachrach. A great performance by him too. The scenes where he is watching his family through cameras are heartbreaking. But Ben Barnes playing Billy Russo was the standout. He added layers to his performance episode after episode. Amber Rose Revah is not good as the Homeland Security agent. She was the weakest link here. The role had potential, but the actress was just not good enough.Direction and Editing: The direction was also good, there are not a lot of different directors used so the continuity is maintained throughout. Editing could have been better in the initial episodes. It's a bit of a slow burn. But if you are binge watching then it doesn't matter. After the 4th episode it is a roller coaster.Story and screenplay: We know that this is all about revenge. And revenge needs a good build up. The story here builds up Frank's frustration and anger really well. It also touches upon the PTSD, not just for Frank but also all war veterans through a masterly handled side story of a 26 year old ex marine who is not able to cope with the normal life in the city. It also touches upon the gun control issue and I must say it was quite neutral which is good. There is healthy debate and some good points from both sides. In my opinion it was handled very well.Cinematography and Action: The camera-work, especially in the action scenes is amazing. It revels in the gore. The action itself is pretty brutal and realistic. That's how it should be, because Frank is not a superhero like the Defenders. There are plenty of gun fights, snipers and hand-to-hand fights, all handled very well.All in all, it is a return to form for Marvel TV universe. You can definitely binge watch this over the weekend. Take my word, you will not regret it.Just a word of caution: If you cannot handle gore, it will be difficult for you to watch this.


                
I managed to watch 8 episodes back-to-back I'm leaving the rest till tomorrow but so far totally enjoyed it really full of action the best so far Marvel has finally come up with one that is worth while watching


                
