I checked IMDb for a TV series to watch and to my joy one of my favourite film series of all time had been serialised and received a mega 8.6!I was willing this to be a great TV series. The truth is its not. If you have a brain, you will begin to notice that Hannibal is one of the most ridiculous TV programmes you have ever seen. It is a thriller designed for people who are so stupid they don't actually care how a man cuts open his own chest and then pins his own lungs to his back and then proceeds to crucify himself 30 feet in the air on the rafters of a barn, alone and without the aid of a ladder and for the brightest murder investigators in the FBI to accept this as a plausible suicide.The people this was written for stopped thinking after being told a guy kills people and pins their lungs in a 45 degree angle from their shoulders so they look like angel wings, because somehow this is cool so we don't really care if the writers then proceed to make the rest of the story impossible and verging on being supernatural. The Hannibal Lecter series has nothing to do with the supernatural.Hannibal Lecter is a hard act to follow, so I forgive the casting of some emotionless European guy who can't act, however the Anthony Hopkins version got inside not only the FBI investigators and serial killers he conversed with heads, but he got inside ours, the viewers head. This guy couldn't get into a prostitutes underwear with $100, such is his screen presence and charisma in this show.Think about Lecters iconic scenes in the films, how he escapes from that cage through sheer genius, guts, insanity and a fountain pen. However implausible it seems it was explained and every detail this mastermind escape was delivered to the audience. You could see how the FBI were fooled by a genius psychopath. Even you were fooled, as if you had seen a magic trick! It makes sense once you knew how he did it, sheer magic. The writers in this serialisation make no attempt to be even a tenth as intelligent. They don't explain anything. Like why is a psychologist cannibal almost immediately invited to every crime scene after one meeting where he does nothing? How does said psychologist manage to slip off, murder and then impale teenage girl at the crime scene they are travelling to before they get there? Why is a stupid online journalist considered to be as powerful as the FBI? Why does said journalist not get arrested even though she has literally broken 10 laws per episode (that they know about) and impedes the course of justice constantly. Why do the FBI seem powerless to stop her? Why do apparently worldly and intelligent people not know the difference in taste between human insides and pork? WHY ALL THE IMAGERY OF STAGS AND ANTLERS!!!I could literally go on forever, this TV series is so bad. If anyone else performed this badly in their jobs they would be fired and a note put on their permanent record advising that they never work in their business again, yet the writers of Hannibal got a second series.... I have heard of dumbing down but surely no one would watch this and actually think it's remotely thrilling, psychological or intelligent in anyway. The reviews that call this a 'Psychological thriller at its finest' or 'The thriller you've been waiting for on T.V', are written by people who wouldn't know a thriller if it called them on their mobile and said 'Hello Agent Starling'.It stinks so bad I am literally amazed by the reviews written here, this is half the reason I have decided to offer an alternative critique such is the level of unintelligence I see amongst the user reviews for this TV series.The writing is so bad there are parts I am sure are completely improvised. Like the writers didn't write enough content to fill an entire 50 minutes so they pay Laurence Fishburne extra to improvise scenes with different members of the cast for the last 15-20 minutes. Seriously, there is an episode where they spend 20 minutes of different people reacting to news a completely unimportant unseen to this point character has cancer, and then jump to the killer of the episode having killed himself in the stupidest way possible. Out of no where.I have not even gone over the terrible acting, the awful attempts to build character relationships overusing the phrase 'are you OK?', bad casting, lazy thoughtless writing, total lack of research in every possible area and sheer stupidity at every level. From police, to FBI, to doctors, to forensic scientists, to serial killers.. Everyone in this show is stupid. This show is so unrealistic it is possible that in a future series finale it turns out that the whole show is Jack Shephard from Lost's dream.I am worn out from thinking about this shows flaws so I am gonna stop and I will summarise like this. If you like Lost, or you're being paid five dorrah by the producers of Hannibal to vote this as 10, then this is the TV thriller for you. If you have a brain then I would suggest you re watch the films as this TV show is as stupid as Paris Hilton. In fact Paris Hiltons 'My new BFF' is more realistic and her most recent work 'The world according to Paris' is both more intelligent and more thrilling then Hannibal the TV show.The only reason I haven't given this a 1 is because Laurence Fishburne is in it.
This might have worked for a mini-series. But this is a dance between everybody and basically god, it is just stupid. Hannibal is omni sentient and omni potent. He can go everywhere, do everything and knows everything as well. And the FBI makes sure it seems normal. This makes for very boring stuff. No intelligence was put into making Lector a man. No intelligence was put into trying to track him down. Add a prophet that has some divine vision. Aaaaaarghhh forget it, it's just a polished 5 year old cod liver. All visuals, no story. Don't hope for release, this will go on till it's canceled. Don't hope for release, this will go on till it's canceled. Don't hope for release, this will go on till it's canceled. (Hey if they can do it and get a 8 plus rating why shouldn't I?)
Highly stylized sensationalistic crap.If you want to watch a show on how NOT to make a show, this is a 10/10.I think they were definitely testing out actual psilocybin mushrooms in the production trailer throughout this series.This thing is just rank. Bad scripts. Bad acting. Bad directing. To quote the principal in Ferris Bueller's Day Off: "I weep for the future" if there are actually real people out there giving this mess a 10/10.At least with Dexter there was SOME humor, earlier on anyway, when it didn't take itself so seriously.But THIS? Are you SERIOUS? Do yourself a favor. If you want to experience culinary debauchery, go scarf down a couple Wendy's double bacon cheese burgers. It's actually more lethal than this, but not totally unfun.This...VERY unfun.
The combination Fishburne/Mikkelsen together with a pre-RedDragon-story sounds really convincing, complex, explanatory. Cast, making and overall picture and effects (if one may say so) seems to put the scores somewhere around the tops of the tops. But in my opinion, it's not. The plot so far (S01-Episode 2) does not only lack on tension, deepness and the thrill of "the human flesh and the story on canibalism", it mererly seems as a strange copy of the CSI wherever story. There is simply no story other than: how strange the killings are and how twisted the protagonist feels. The usual suspects are found so fast, that it's killing the whole credibility. It's therefore not the center of the story. But there is no other content, than some strange killings and occasional meetings with Lecter... Fishburne and Mikkelsen are two too big-shots, Hugh Dancy plays the twisted protagonist Special Agnet solving the cases - but falls short in between the other characters. I already feel bored, and my question already is: is that all, folks?So, after S01, fourth Episode of epic history repeating (the same in other colors over and over and over again) i dropped out. Hardly seen something horribly more boring, than this. May you waste your time.


                
I stuck with it as the premise seemed interesting and enjoyed the films.Too much dreaming (lazy) terrible sound quality, awful video with dull uninteresting backgrounds, once again was it saving money or tying to be moody?So much symbolism - maybe it was me but I thought once again that it was lazy, confusing and trying to be too clever and failing miserably.I could never tell what Mads was saying and cared even less. His pretentious mumbling irritated me all through the series - shame David Tennant didn't get the part.Stupid time lapse graphics? Once again maybe it was me who didn't understand what it meant. Maybe I'm too thick but to me it was a lack of imagination.An opportunity missed - by a mile!


                
The good things about this are:1. Mads Mikkelsen's face 2. Hugh Dancy's face + body(so actually, there is something to see). Otherwise, this is a pretty lazy and cynical attempt to squeeze even more lucra from Lecter. Most things are bad: pace, dialogue, acting, casting, general plot, character development, soundtrack, depiction of violence, etc etc. Don't know why I watched all the way to the end of S1 really. Worst things:1. The ridiculous suspension of disbelief required to accept the police + medical bloopers that abound in every scene. 2. The kid from 'My Girl' at acting. 3. That effing stag. At least we didn't have to hear Clarice's lambs crying in pretty much every other scene. 4. LOOK, WILL IS CRAAAZY EVERYONE!Don't expect to be challenged, intrigued, horrified or entertained. It's just another 'serial killer by numbers' drama, which, if you enjoy, makes this just about watchable.
I'm still trying to watch it but has to say that they failed already. The important main character Hannibal is failure. I know that many think of Anthony Hopkins and how good he is - even I - but even without thinking him this Hannibal is the worst. Of course we all already knew that Hannibal is a bad guy but why they have to like throw it out from the screen like we are stupid? Important point of the Hannibal was - and is - that people trusted him and I would not dare to trust him. The character is some what dirty and not charming at all. I can't find anything what make me trust him. If I had to be his patient - even without knowing his human eating side - I would get traumatized just being his patient.


                
I am an avid movie watcher, and I don't discriminate. I'll watch anything. In the last decade, a new genre of films has arisen, films called torture porn. On youtube, they sometimes call this type of imagery things you cannot unsee. In addition, TV shows have become unbelievably, and thankfully, more graphic. I figured it wasn't a big deal, so I watched it all. And I regret some of it. The level of violence it takes to disturb me isn't healthy. It's like a high water mark was set and is impossible to erase. I noticed this when I saw the Human Caterpillar and thought it was tame and goofy. So I was surprised when I found something unbearable. There was a moment near the end of the film Hannibal with Ray Liotta that crossed a line and made me very upset. And it seems as though the Hannibal TV show has made that moment its theme. And strangely, in every episode, the emotional damage this causes is discussed at length with regard to the character of Will Graham, but not to the viewer. As I hear and see his emotional damaging, I wonder what damage is being inflicted on me. After 3 episodes, I had nightmares. This show is well made for sure, but it goes too far. I don't believe this is healthy, and I worry about the damage this has on society. It's irresponsible and it has become commonplace. There's a saying "if it's too loud then you're too old." I can't believe I'm saying this, but Hannibal is too loud. I wish I'd never seen it. I hope they stop making programming like this. It isn't like a Judas Priest song, this is unbelievably graphic and realistic. It has permanently damaged me. I feel like the victim of emotional abuse who stays with their abuser. The creators of this surely recognize what they're doing, but continue to do it in order to make money. And I willingly participated in watching it. It proves that well made doesn't equal good. This show is well written, well cast, well directed, well edited. The music is excellent, so is the lighting, and the set design. It's only flaw is in its content. The content is bad. Truly bad.
Dr Lecter was not Graham's psychiatrist!! I don't know where this story is supposed to come from,but someone pulled it out of the air!! Thomas Harris took his one famed character and wrote other books about him to build the character, movies were made afterward. Hannibal (the book) does not end like the movie,that is why Jodie Foster wouldn't act in that one! The character that plays Hannibal is the worst choice for an actor I have ever seen!! Hannibal is supposed to be slight, where is slight in this man? He is supposed to be refined. All I hear is an accent. Whoever decided to make this show is delusional. You cannot make what does not exist. I caught the third episode and there is no way Hannibal would trust a stricken girl to hold his secrets. STUPID!!! He is a genius!! Thats' why he got away with all he did,Graham caught him by chance. Please do not waste your time on this show, unless of course you have time to waste with nothing better to do. Then have at it. But read the books before you decide a show is so awesome.


                
I am fine with a show that is dumb and knows its dumb (The Following). And intelligent shows where they know it is intelligent (Person Of Interest, True Detective) but when the show has misconceptions about itself, the result is not pretty. The cast looks stellar and is good enough but is treated badly. I cannot relate to any character nor can I empathize. I hope it gets better for the fans but I may not continue further. I can see why people like this show and have no complains for them but based on my opinion, this show loses its pace early on and gets really boring. I can call Hannibal "poor man's True Detective". P.S. big fan of Mads Mikkelson who is stunning at the psychopath.


                
The two points I award are solely for some good cinematography in episode one of season 3.Besides that, this is a dreadful vomit-inducing parade of senseless and meaningless interactions between inept, incompetent cops and an omnipresent, omnipotent, all-knowing, debonair, modern day murdering cannibal; who also just happens to be a top notch medical surgeon and a psychiatrist.Its a wonder that a Psychiatry Association has not lodged a complaint for sheer smearing of their profession. The series has shrinks as cops, shrinks as shrinks of shrinks and shrinks as villains. What they all have in common,is that they're all mentally deranged.The shock factor of humans being consumed as five star dinner meals, or rendered as meat-art in every possible shape and form loses its appeal after a few episodes. The fall back position of the producers seems to be dark melodrama between the various characters. The problem with this attempt is the unlikely plot, poor story line and poor writing, and it all ends up pushing the viewer to complete indifference.I'm an admirer of American television productions, but sustaining this drivel beyond even one season is a sure way to kill the industry.


                
How thoroughly disappointing Hannibal has been throughout all three series.The only shining light has been Mads Mikklesen , although still a watered down Anthony Hopkins, and perhaps Raul Esparza , but only after his session with Mr Mikklesen at Hugh Dancy's farm. I feel, as an avid Thomas Harris reader , that this 'retelling' has been akin to a poorly cooked meal , the courses served out of order and 'complimented' by a rather ordinary house wine . I'm sure we have all heard the old adage 'if it isn't broken don't fix it' and it applies here . Manhunter was remade and was far better for it , but i fear this offering has been a waste of celluloid or whatever they use now. Please please please spare this tremendous story the indignity of a fourth series.


                
I have only seen the first episode so far. The story is intriguing and well done. Most of the characters are played well enough.I do have a major gripe about Hannibal Lecter tho... Hannibal is supposed to speak loudly,distinctly and hypnotically. He loves the sound of his own voice. The fella they have playing him mumbles and apparently doesn't speak English well at all. Bad Bad Choice for Hannibal. Sure he looks odd enough but it's the voice that makes you want to listen to Hannibal... I get that shows are running on low budgets these days. This was just a bad casting decision all around. The Graham character is pretty interesting at least. I doubt it will be enough to carry a show about Hannibal.These reviews that are half a page long are so obviously paid people as well... shame on you.


                
Everyone in this series claims to be a mind reader and profilers but fails to identify Hannibal. And looks like Hannibal can defy all the logic and can fool anyone and do anything on will. He can go in and out of FBI and place a dead arm and phone in morgue and no one knows and look like there are no cameras in FBIs offices. And how is that possible that whole of FBI eats at his home and no one notices that he is feeding them human meat. They discuss every case in front of him and tell him every little secret although he is not part of investigation. Everyone suspects Abigail Hobbs to be killer but no one uses lie detector test to see if she is lying. looks like they don't use any modern investigating techniques. May be this is their design!!!.
I don't get the positive reviews. They must be by the same mindless droves of people that keep the cringeworthy CSI franchises alive and expanding.Fishborne frustratingly plays a completely clueless investigator who apparently can't see his own hands in front of his face.Dancy's flashbacks are filler, gimmicky and an attempt at mystery - but really is just a reminder that you are indeed watching a bad CSI drama.Mikkelson is great, but it's unbelievable that with everything he does in an episode, short of murdering someone in front of Fishbornes face, he flies under the radar.This show is an attempt at CSI doing Dexter, complete with terribly wooden CSI jokes and an endless supply of serial killers that skirt security, traceability and plausible plot lines.The killer of the week is able to display dead bodies all over busy public places and never be seen. They seem to all be able to take out cops single handedly and every single one of them has the same dry sense of humour. They are all cookie cutter tv murderers that speak monotonously and quip here and there to show that they are "insane".Is there an army of Hannibal's? Is that the point of this show?But seriously, every 2nd person is a murderer on this show. How is anyone alive when 85% of the population is a serial killer?This show is total garbage. Watch the first 3 seasons of Dexter instead.


                
I hope Mr. Harris is spitting nails angry to have his name mentioned in this sad bit of tripe. I read the reviews, good, bad and downright silly. I agree with the bad. One reviewer wrote they were scared for life...please. Yet more wrote that this series was beautifully filmed again, please. I must admit I attempted to watch the whole series, fortunately I fell asleep for many episodes never feeling the need to hit rewind to see what I had missed. The only thing beautifully filmed was the presentation of the meals and the only thing frightening was the acting. I read Silence of the Lambs Years before it became a movie. I was thrilled and so happy how the movie followed the book. Now this bit of tripe! Ugh! I wish some other reviewers would have done their homework here. John Douglas, which the "guru " WAS based on did in fact help catch the serial killer Wayne Williams for the Atlanta child murders. Reviewers please get your facts straight. I wish I could un see this piece of crap.


                
