...not to mention incredibly bad casting. Maybe no one else is old enough to remember the original "Red Dragon" or "Silence of the Lambs" works- or the original "Silence of the Lambs" film with Hopkins, but it seems like the writers came to a unanimous decision to recycle as much of the dialogue as possible to avoid wear and tear on their cerebral matter. And casting- hello? Lecter is almost universally considered to be a small, slight wiry man- not physically imposing in the least. His physical strength is entirely hidden, like a Zen Aikido master's. He looks non-threatening, reassuring. The actor, while quite competent in his own right, looks more like he would be at home playing a Viking berserker or a senior NCO in the cold-war era Soviet Army. You wouldn't feel at ease giving him your name, rank and serial number, let alone your life story. Leave this turkey alone, and rent a few early eps of Dexter. Or CSI, NCIS, or perhaps "Cold Case".
This "Prequel" to Silence of The Lambs got off to an okay start, but quickly revealed itself to be nothing but bad, formulaic dialog and excessive gore.The series steals line after line after line of comments made in the movies that supposedly follow years after the series took place.And the show has the police acting like the most horrendous crimes of murder and dismemberment happen every week.If there was a real life Chesapeake Ripper like in the series, on the loose and killing for so long, the entire region would be living in terror just like Atlanta when Wayne Williams was killing all those kids. Yet this is not depicted in the show.Hannibal has deeply disappointed me.


                
I can't even see a story line now! The series has just turned to crap. Taken off my watch list. Won't be watching crap anymore. Can't believe some of my favorite series get canceled and they get to make this nonsense! I am certain this will be last series of Hannibal. I really enjoyed the first 2 seasons but i can't even follow this season. I think they are just relying on the name that Anthony Hopkins built for them now as there is no story. The big name characters do not even appear anymore. I keep playing games on my phone to pass time as it is boring to watch. There has only been two episodes and I am not going to watch the rest.


                
I genuinely was looking forward to watching this series and after watching two seasons worth, I am giving up. I really wanted this to be good. I love Laurence Fishburne and Mads Mikkelsen... but in this, they are terrible.When I heard that Mads was going to play Hannibal I was really excited and thought it would be a brilliant piece of casting.... however, his performance comes off as so wooden you could make Swedish furniture out of it. I don't blame him though, I blame the script and the direction. The dialog tries desperately to come off as some genius level, poetic jousting between characters, where every line is a verbal riposte with deep philosophical implications - but it just sounds banal and pseudo-intellectual. And boring. Oh, so very, very boring.The characterizations are boring too. I can't think of a single character that I actually, really 'like' in this. I almost have no emotional response to them because of the way this has been produced. Or should I say, over-cooked...The whole show is SO stylized that it's distracting. It takes me out of what I am watching constantly. Scenes are beautifully lit, beautifully styled and beautifully filmed. So much so that nothing seems real. Many scenes just keep making me think of Twin Peaks because nothing in it seems real.The scripting is very poor. We are asked to accept things which are far beyond the believable. Example - in series one we are expected to believe that one person managed to construct a totem pole made of human body parts on a beach. It looks impressive - very artistic and well planned out. But a logical load of rubbish. So nobody saw him unloading a truckload of body parts on a beach? Nobody saw him constructing the pole and painstakingly attaching every arm, leg and head in place? The logistics of this would be staggering. And beaches are generally places where people go. A lot. Even if it's just to walk their dog. Imagine getting half way through the project, and someone comes along while you are nailing a torso half way up a wooden pole... The risk is staggering.And the eventual effect is not at all scary. It's fascinating to look at, yes. But scary? Not a bit. None of the killings are. They are interesting, artistic and completely implausible. Imagine entering a Damien Hirst chamber of horrors - not scary, just interesting. You look on with a squinting concentration etched on your face, but feel no tension, no fear, no revulsion, no 'anything' really...And the music. My god, that fake Japanese drum thing they have going whenever Will is looking at a crime scene just does my head in. It literally makes me want to turn the volume down to 0 just so I can get through the scene without switching it off.Overall Hannibal does not do, for me at least, what it promises. It doesn't engage me, it constantly takes me out of what is happening by having me question their production choices, it constantly bores me with inane, never ending dialog and the biggest crime of all, it DOESN'T provide any scares or thrills.The only sense of foreboding comes from the knowledge that the episode or season is not over yet, and you still have so much more to endure. Now THAT is a truly chilling prospect...
This could be very very good, but it's horribly directed, and the dialogue takes itself way too seriously for what is essentially freshman level psychobabble and some 70's psychoanalytical terms thrown about recklessly. Laurence Fishburne appears to have been heavily sedated on the set, and refuses to emote in the slightest (even when told his wife has cancer). Hannibal, as others mention, exudes a dripping creepiness that any normal person would find off-putting (if someone talked to you that way, you'd find it abrasive and weird, surely), yet all the characters apparently find it "fine." But what I find perhaps most halting is that the FBI praises the work of someone (Will Graham) who has the gift of being essentially a psychic who shows up after the fact; so like a reverse psychic or a sort of medium. Forget ballistics and forensic evidence, Graham will stand there, zen out, and take a wild @ss guess, going with what could only be massive speculations that are later revealed to be surprisingly, magically quite accurate. And this gets pitched to us with the psychobabble surrounding it, asking us to believe this is some sort of intellectual show. Enjoy it for gore and a bit of light drama, sure, but this could have been much, much more.
After a couple of episodes into the first season, it is possible to talk about general impressions only. However, if you're a fan of the Silence of the Lambs (1991) and Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lecter, you might already be a tad disappointed.The "new" Hannibal is modernized and faces some challenges. The main is how to attract the viewers with Dexter and several incarnations of CSI and similar shows behind them. Secondly, we all know who the real bad guy is, so the authors will have to offer something of the extraordinary. This is what they've tried, yet the main challenge remains.Although i'm no fan of such shows, i must admit that the cast is well chosen and the plot fulfilled my expectations. Mad Mikkelsen with his menacing appearance and a foreign accent is a good choice for Hannibal, but there is a trifle in his craft that put me off. He should work on his pronunciation, since some of his lines are impossible to understand without the subtitles... This was not the case in Casino Royale (2006) where he was a worthy adversary to James Bond.


                
This is a review of NBC policy which is preventing my appreciation of this and other shows.I missed several episodes last season and was hoping that, as on many cable networks, NBC would re-show the first season before this season started. This series needs to be seen in sequential order. So I won't try to see any more episodes unless you provide multiple chances to catch up on past episodes. In fact, I may stop trying any NBC series since you don't provide chances to catch missed episodes. I try to record all episodes, but sometimes the power goes out or the cable goes out or I mess up the channel the TV is on. How about helping us follow your show?


                
I will preface my review by stating the positive aspects of this show: - decent plot - Mads MikkelsenOh, were you expecting more? Sadly, the above-average story-line and Mikkelsen's acting are really just about the only redeeming qualities of this show. So why is Hannibal so widely revered as an example of pure television gold? Simple; the show runs under the false pretense of being deep and substantial. How could it not, when the namesake of the series is a charismatic and brilliant character that has been immortalized in cinematic history due to the sheer depth of his character? Yet, upon closer inspection of this show, you will sadly find that it just doesn't make up for the tropes, clichés, and many flaws that exist in Hannibal (the show, not the character). Let's start with the script... it's not good. There are two, and only two, distinct "types" of lines in this show: horribly cheesy '80s-action-film- esque lines that will make you groan, and pretentious dialogues of lightning-fast banter that aim to impress you, but are merely cover- ups for the fact that the characters lack any sort of personality. I get that these are the bright, learned minds of seasoned FBI agents, but it truly breaks the immersion when you're very much made aware that you're watching a TV show through the dialogue alone. When you aren't forced to endure the disgustingly cliché close-up-camera-shot-followed-by-dramatic-one- liner, you find yourself wondering why the characters feel the need to dress up their conversations by incessantly speaking in riddles and metaphors in an embarrassingly desperate attempt to flaunt their "higher knowledge." The same criticism can be applied to the acting in this show as well. Unfortunately, the acting in Hannibal (Mikkelsen excluded) might be the only thing worse than the script. Why? The actors/actresses in Hannibal make the same mistake that beginner high school theater students make: they mistake intensity for good acting. No, yelling all your lines, constantly donning the same cold, unwavering facial expression, and behaving like an angry bad-ass in every scene does not make you a good (or even mediocre) actor. Mikkelsen shines in comparison because he possesses the one quality as an actor that literally every other cast member in this show seems to lack: subtlety. Daniel Day-Lewis, Marlon Brando, Tom Hanks, etc. (a list of stellar actors, just to clarify) did not rise to stardom by ranting and raving through all their lines and shouting louder than the other guy. They did so with tact; they behaved on-screen like human beings ACTUALLY behave in real life. Simply put, their acting made you forget you were watching a movie/TV show. I'm not sure whether Mikkelsen is benefiting from this by being on the better end of a polarizing comparison, or if his career is being harmed by this show wasting his talent on an ensemble of B-list actors at best. However, despite my harsh criticisms, I will say this: this show's plot is VERY interesting. The fascinating concept of the show, coupled with appropriately-placed cliffhangers, proves to result in a flawed mess of a half-decent crime drama. Sadly, with all the glaring problems this show contains, it leaves little to enjoy on episodes where the plot may fall short.


                
