If you're wondering, this drama does not follow the story line of the previous Hannibal film franchise. However, it does not mean that the series doesn't pack its own punch in terms of tension and suspense. (I'm in such awe, I feel inadequate trying to leave a review for this show. I won't reveal any more than what is available on the wikipedia page.)Following protagonist Agent Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) into his mind and peering into the distorted lives and actions of serial killers, he comes across as a highly intelligent but often conflicted man, tormented by his own imagination and yet has to live it each day for the greater good. This sense of vulnerability and instability caused by his personality (largely introverted and antisocial) is preyed upon by his psychiatrist, famed Hannibal Lecter, excellently portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen, and as all this is played out, the audience, privy to this knowledge will be gripped by suspense, and the never ending tension, even on scenes where nothing appears to be happening, the mood takes on a somber and tense tone. For those who are concerned with the relative 'low level of gore', be patient. It takes its time to build and slowly escalate, bringing Graham deeper into the shadows and mental torment.I can't emphasize how good the acting is, how vivid and artistic the abstract dream and killing sequences are. the fact that the soundtracks are well selected and not obnoxious all plays a part in creating one of the best viewing experiences ever. As a fan of psychological horror, I feel privileged to be able to take a small peek at this show ahead of broadcast.


                
If you are a bit skeptical about this show like me, do not worry. With all the sequels and prequels we've seen regarding Hannibal Lecter, it's an understatement to say there are lots of areas where the creators, directors and actors to over play the gore and story arcs. However, they've managed to balance all these superbly. The title may be Hannibal, right from the start this show is very much a vehicle for Hugh Dancy. Who as Will Graham gives an excellent perspective on his character and i dare say he does a better job than Edward Norton. Mads Mikkelsen with his subtle approach on Dr.Hannibal Lecter is a revelation. His sophisticated and stylish portrayal is captivating and very unpredictable. The show delivers on every front- the writing, editing etc is as good as it gets. Can't wait to see the next episode. Highly recommended it you're looking for a clever and engaging physiological thriller.


                
I wasn't sure what to expect of this, and the preview/promo that I had seen didn't make me much excited about it. But honestly, I kinda loved the pilot and see a lot of potential here. Hugh Dancy is superb as Special Agent Will Graham and Mads Mikkelsen does justice to the role of Dr. Hannibal Lecter. Exceptional acting all around...I've read a few people complaining of the series moving a bit too fast, but I found that not to be the case. The pace so far has been perfect and I certainly hope that it doesn't slow it down much.For a moment, the first dream/killing sequence reminded me of another series (unforgettable) but Hannibal does these scenes in an extremely vivid and artistic manner that you just can't not love. The score is well selected and goes well with all the scenes.Looking forward to seeing how the story pans out with time. And judging by the preview that they gave at the end of the first episode, I'm expecting I'll love it a lot more!A must-watch for anyone who likes psychological thrillers.


                
I don't normally review TV shows, but after seeing the pilot of Hannibal, I am compelled. As the (arguably) foremost monster of all time, Hannibal Lechter still fascinates and appalls us at the same time. His suave, debonair demeanor and taste, combined with his overwhelming brilliance makes him the most attractive monster since Dexter (or Gary Oldman in Dracula). So it was with great expectations and serious doubts that I approached NBC's Hannibal. After all, besides praising the Obama administration, what does NBC do well? I was very pleasantly surprised.Hugh Dancy (Will Graham) and Mads Mikkelson (Hannibal) are great. As they work together on the current case, they are probing each other's psyche and working to establish control, command, dominance over the other (naturally more on Dr. Lechter's part that Will's). In a take off on Dexter, Dr. Lechter is part of the team the FBI has brought in to help solve the latest serial killer problem. What is always compelling about Hannibal is that he always is in control. He has thought out how he will proceed, how he will step in the water closely with those who would naturally want to stop him in his curious habits, yet while always being able to protect himself. (Another good example of this is Anthony Hopkins in Fracture - if you haven't seen it, you should).MIssing the humor in Dexter, this is mind twisting exercise in control and power. This is so good, AMC could have done it.Not for the squeamish, (there is a lot of blood and grisly images) if you like psychological horror, this one's for you. (and Barry Manilow did not do the soundtrack).Best regards DonB


                
Well, what a show this was. As a little side note it's best to treat this show as an individual piece of media given the modern setting and the vague links and references to the Hopkins trilogy of films that came before, mostly due to licensing rights with MGM. Anyway back to the show. The first season was spectacular TV quite frankly and there's no other way of putting it, artful cinematography, a huge chunk of style and a fantastic cast, particularly the triangle of Fishburne, Dancy and Mikkelsen who are outstanding all way through. The constant symbolism of the black stag representing Will Graham's mental decline which leads to the second series is a constant technique used to make the viewer doubt the character of our protagonist Will as he's accused of various murders and related events. The relationship between Hannibal (Mikkelsen) and Will (Dancy) is immensely strong and interesting too as we know from the first few minutes of episode one who the killer is (though if you've even a layman's knowledge of fiction it's no real surprise). Linking back to that point there's a constant sense of irony, be that the reveal of The Chesapeake Ripper's true identity in the first episode or the beautiful detail of the meticulous cooking scenes which likely consist of Human meat the audience is instantly placed in a certain mindset towards the characters and plot. The action sequences through the second season were truly like nothing else with the major set pieces looking fantastically cinematic and a beautiful chaos on screen with every punch or movement having an effect later on. My issue with the series however arises with season 3, the final outing (to date at least). The opening 6 episodes roughly are still great to be honest yet seem to have swayed too far on the pendulum losing some quality as it seems the influence of David Lynch essentially took full effect with episodes largely consisting of isolated sequences of snails just existing or somewhat pretentious metaphors to show progression. Not only does it become a slight bit full of itself there's little substance, the timeline is a mush and at times parts predictable with and ironically so the pace of a snail finding it hard to keep interest in the early stage I slugged through wanting for an end, longing for it even. And boy did it come, the return to America and the perish of Verger who was a solid villain the quality returns with every episode personally being around 9 or above and the end seeming massively ambiguous, though concluding the Red Dragon storyline the resolution between Hannibal and Will is a bit oxymoronic, heartbreaking yet undecided as the track off the cliff with them personally showed no finale. Sadly the abrupt end and slow start to season 3 was a bit of a sour taste, however it's worth noting that there's a few episodes which were genuinely a perfect 10 given the context of the wider storyline I was left utterly amazed. So to round off the show is amazing, one of the best I've seen and you could easily argue the best material available when concerning the ultimate villain of Hannibal Lecter, a fantastic show well worth your time.
What happens when the doctor you trust becomes your nightmare. A psychiatrist with a dark secret manages to enter into mind of a detective and makes the life of the detective and police deptt. miserable when the series of murders take place. You are definitely goingto love the character of Mad Mikkelsen.
This tv series will surely put an long lasting impact on you


                
The one word that can describe "Hannibal" is "Art".The actors did a great job. Mads Mikkelsen delivered a stunning performance as Dr.Hannibal Lecter. Hugh Dancy, Laurence Fishburne and Gillian Anderson delivered brilliant performances too.Photography is a piece of art. The clothes are so amazing and elegant. The colors are beautiful. All of this made "Hannibal" a feast for the eyes.Music is wonderful and well-chosen.Writing, above all, is the milestone here. The show is very well- written. The conversations between Dr.Lecter and Will Graham and those between Dr.Lecter and his patients are brilliant. For me, it is not about horror, cannibalism or bloodshed, it is about how deep this show gets into the human soul with all its complications."Hannibal" is a show that satisfies your eyes, your ears and your mind.


                
Every so often you get a TV series that makes you sit up and take notice. It stands out for it's innovation, style, edge, plot and design. You go through series after series disappointed that potential was wasted. Why didn't it meet my expectations or hopes? But then, out of the blue, you get a real gem. Hannibal is just that.From the style, with the eerie music, to the acting and characters, this show really hits the very depth of the mind and soul, making you question what's right and wrong, distinguishing between good and bad. The way the show is designed and portrayed. It's all very surreal and unique, which intrigues you into a psychological dream, exploring the state of mind and how it operates during the very darkest of scenarios.The main character, Will Graham, who is expertly portrayed by Hugh Dancy, really hits the spot. His very subtle mannerisms, which many shows would deem immaterial, perfectly summing up his emotions and persona, and he's excellently backed up by Mads Mikkelsen, as Hannibal Lector himself. The addiction grows as you're so desperate to see where this relationship goes and how it develops. The rest of the supporting cast are very strong, Laurence Fishburne in particular, and keep the flow of the story going as well as adding foundation to the series. But the two main leads are at the very top of their games.The entire atmosphere that is generated is what makes this so gripping. As excellent as the acting is, it's this chillingly sinister environment which is created, whereby you feel you are entering and living in a dream. Even the opening credits, which remain very efficient, set you up nicely for the tone of the episodes. Psychological dramas always tap those emotional vibes, feelings that are rarely explored.And it's that very darkness which makes this so good. There's a ruthless efficiency about the whole series. Nothing drags on, everything does what it needs to and moves onto the next chapter. There was always going to be an evil lurking in this show, as all dramas involving killers have, and a lot of the cases are very distressing, but the uniqueness allows the show to flourish over others in this genre. Even the way Graham's character empathises with the killers, and how this is presented, is genius.This series is destined for greatness. Whether they decide to extend it's life with a second or third season isn't clear. But, one thing's for sure, this is a superb psychological drama, that makes you think, worry, question and believe. Things that are few and far between in the entertainment industry in this day and age.Exploring the mind requires a delicate touch. The balance needs to be struck, the attention to detail maintained and the emotions need to run deep. Everything is done to a refreshing level of quality, which allows Hannibal to show it's true unorthodox colours, and maintain that standard to a scarily high level.This is a design, and it's a masterpiece.


                
I can honestly say that I've never seen another show that displays brutality and violence so visually stylish as Hannibal and thankfully, most aspects of the show is presented with an equal surgical precision.The violence is as been said, stunning while at once, not at all gratuitous. It's not violence for the sake of violence; there is good reason for it, and poetry in a fantastical manner. While shows like Dexter turns murder into science, Hannibal turns murder into art and it is fascinating to watch. Much of this is due to Mads Mikkelson excellent interpretation of Hannibal. He has a great screen presence and his portrayal of Hannibal is seductive, self-assured, composed and chilling. And an equal credit must be given to Hugh Dancy's Will Graham. While 2 others have played this character including Edward Norton, Dancy's version is much more interesting, much more nuanced, and even more endearing. Dancy plays Will Graham as teetering on being broken, and his chemistry with Mikkelson is thrilling to watch. Which couldn't have happened if it wasn't for the excellent writing on the show. Hannibal is a cat and mouse thriller similar to Death Note. But while Kira and L's battles of wit was quite fast-paced, Hannibal is a slow game, the long game. The build up in each season is slow in the first half and then accelerates in the latter half. This doesn't mean that the show is badly paced, it merely means that it is of a different pace; there isn't an episode that I felt bored or thought it wasn't necessary. Indeed, the build-up is entirely necessary to establish mystery and motivation that are believable and enticing, as well as to display the subtle nuances of our main characters.My only complaint is that Mikkelson's accent is rather difficult to decipher at times, as he is Scandinavian. But that's just nitpicking. Hannibal the series is definitely the Hannibal Lecter that you would want to watch.


                
Hannibal is a faithful adaptation of the works by Thomas Harris, with, of course, a few artistic liberties included. Hannibal presents itself as a neo-noir crime drama as perceived by a surrealist.The use of color and tone is evocative and intoxicating. Each season follows a particular story line from Harris' books. Season one delves into the titular character of Will Graham and his connection with both Hannibal and the FBI. This season has its own artistic liberties as it lays a foundation of the character of Will Graham from source material in Red Dragon. Season two continues to follow the story of Hannibal pre-capture and his connection to Mason Verger, a story previously alluded to in the book and movie entitled Hannibal. The second season leads into the third, further cementing the stories of both Red Dragon and Hannibal, including Hannibal's escape into Italy, though replacing the character of Clarice Starling with those of both Will Graham and Bedellia du Maurier. It is a series that was cut too short, in my opinion as an avid reader of Harris' works. I feel the show was too smart for television, and the in depth characterization of serial killers in the show were presented as an artists rendering of mental illness, including vivid hallucinations and exaggerated sense of self. Overall, it is a well acted, well oiled machine that few could follow, as it is often more metaphorical and requires the viewer to place themselves in the shoes of psychopaths; a feat that few seem to handle.
This show is not going to be for everyone, if you liked the Hannibal movies (Manhunter, The Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal, Red Dragon, Hannibal Rising) this series is going to have familiar character names, but that's about it. This isn't a bad thing in my opinion, I like the fresh look and feel of this show, how they made some tweaks to characters and story arcs from the movies, it gives the writers more flexibility to engage the viewer. If you're a fan of the shows Dexter or The Killing you will like this show. Hannibal has some... thought provoking, bordering on extremely violent images that make you wonder about these writers sometimes but overall it helps the viewer understand the demons of the iconic character Hannibal Lecter. The psychological chess game that gets played throughout the first two seasons can be tedious for some but I enjoyed it, adds depth to the story.Bottom line... There isn't another series quite like this one out there, very good plot twists. I hope it lasts.


                
The character of Hannibal Lecter has always intrigued me. I remember seeing the adverts for 'Silence of the Lambs' as a child of 9 and being scared of Anthony Hopkins in the role. 'Hannibal' is another animal entirely. I hadn't heard much about the show and only stumbled across it while channel surfing, luckily catching it from the beginning. I was amazed at what I saw.The first thing that caught my attention were the production values and directing. Aesthetically, 'Hannibal' is in a league of it's own. It's a gorgeous looking show. But, beauty being skin deep, there must be more to it than the way it looks.The show itself is fascinating. I'm not much for shows like 'CSI' or other "killer of the week" programs, but 'Hannibal' is much more than that. The show focuses on gifted Special Agent Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) working with the FBI in the field catching Serial Killers and, of course, the titular Character Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen), whom Will is seeing due to psychological issues he has with his gift and job.Those familiar with the previous "Lecter" movies know the not-so- good Doctor is, eventually, caught by Graham and it is during this imprisonment he meets Agent Starling. Part of what makes this show intriguing is wondering when Will Graham will "catch on" to Lecter's "game". Here is a special agent, out trying to find serial murderers, and he works with one of the most dangerous and cunning of them all. I have not been let down by this show. It mixes stark imagery, danger, intrigue, and even humor into a piece of television art that I can't tear my eyes from.
Stow the skepticism, this show is brilliant. The best in the series since the iconic Silence of the Lambs, this a prequel based on Thomas Harris first novel of the series Red Dragon, a re-telling of the Red Dragon movie which glossed over Graham catching Lecter leading to the events of Silence of the Lambs.The problem with doing prequels and sequels to this iconic movie has always been, who can play Lecter other than Hopkins, who can forget his brilliantly improved hiss after describing a meal of brains? Mads Mikkelsen instead of impersonating Hopkins like other Lecters, totally owns the role. He is both charming, eccentric, posh and endearing, whilst secretly being insane, conniving manipulative and twisted.I can't think of a better horror TV show past or present, this show gives off a vibe akin to the old X-files in terms of suspense.Let's break it down:Acting: Phenomenal all round, Fishburne and Mikkelsen are master strokes of casting, Hugh Dancy is brilliant also, but I feel these two make for a stunning mentor relationship akin to the Angel and Devil on Dancy's shoulders pushing and prodding him along.Hugh Darcy deserves massive credit, he is damaged by his ability to empathize with serial killers, and obsessed by catching them, unlike everyone else though he seems to sense off moments in Lecter's character unlike anyone else in the show.Cinematography: Above and beyond what we expect from a network television show, setting the bar very, very high. Scenes are masterfully constructed, the dream sequences eerie and the gore is sickening. True horror at its best.Sound: A good soundtrack, but special mention of the atmospherics, subtle uses of sound to build tension all point to a class A horror film.Writing: The dialogue is great, and in character, for many scenes are just interplay between characters the strength in the writing really shines through. I for one will remain glued to the screen as we watch the go-between Graham and Lecter, wondering when he will finally catch on.To sum up, this is the best horror/thriller TV show, perhaps ever, deeper than the gore porn most series have regurgitated up, and if it continues on such a strong vein, will unseat Dexter (which let us be honest, is losing it) as the best thriller/horror on TV.Far from a procedural cop show, as one might first assume this is a masterclass in television production. Get hooked.


                
I am going to say something heretical, so hold on to your seats. I thought that the Hannibal Lecter character in the movie "Silence of the Lambs" was extremely overrated. Subtle, he was NOT, that's for sure. Because of this, I really, really like the new incarnation of the doctor in this Bryan Fuller series. He is sophisticated, clever and, most importantly, a credible villain--not some bizarro dude going on about chianti and fava beans! In fact, the sophistication and style of this show is why I think it's a winner.I must point out, however, that "Hannibal" is NOT a show for everyone. Children should NEVER watch it nor should people who are sensitive and would be upset or offended by the carnage in the shows. Some of them are REALLY tough to watch--such as the mushroom people or the angels. Now I am NOT saying don't watch it--but maybe you should use common sense and not watch. Or, do like my daughter does, just avert your eyes when the gore hits a particularly high level...and it often does! Very well written, acted and directed--this is almost too good for network TV.FYI--My daughter has the Blu-Ray for season one. According to her, some of the shows are MUCH more graphic on DVD--such as the one with the musical instrument killer.


                
Hannibal was truly the biggest TV surprise of the last TV season. I didn't even start it until a few weeks ago, simply because of all of the praise I'd heard people give it. The praise was warranted and more. This feels totally out of place in a network like NBC and I truly hope it's able to go on for many seasons. It's a completely atmospheric show with perhaps TV's most disturbing and memorable imagery right now, and the writing of the characters and relationships is something this network hasn't seen in quite a long time. The two leads are both fantastic and I cannot wait to see what happens with this story. Now, waiting one year is going to be quite the task indeed.


                
What's it all about? Mads Mikkelsen is on record describing Hannibal Lecter as Satan. The struggle between God/ Everyman/ Satan has its origins deep in the Old Testament in Western culture. Lecter seems lonely: he wants to seduce Will. He has already succeeded in pulling the wool over Jack Crawford's eyes. The only people who recognise Lecter for what he is are those who share the same instincts. There are moments where one feels that Will could bring Lecter back to the human fold but that is just Lecter flirting with him. Violence: The violence has many commentators anxious and there is a lot of violence (or its end product) to contemplate. It is presented in such a stylised manner that it seems very like the violence in religious and historic art from the Middle Ages to now, for example, works by Caravaggio. As for the cannibalism, well, anyone who takes the bread and wine at Mass is technically undergoing a cannibalistic experience. And legalised cannibalism I think includes accepted activities like warfare and the NRA's policy on gun ownership, to name two. And as for the horns – any Scot would sneer - take a look at Blair Athol Castle and check out their trophies. Quibbles: Mads Mikkelsen is a contained and subtle actor but English,spoken with enthusiasm and fluency, is not his first language so He needs the sound recordist to be on top of his game. Mikkelsen does capture the essentially urbane cadences and rhythms of Lecter perfectly. Praises: Hannibal's suits are beautifully cut and the colours (which look too bright in stills – totally inappropriate for stalking prey) do work on screen given the colour desaturation. The music is also particularly pleasing – unobtrusive but instrumentally curious in an unsettling way. Where is this going? We all know where this is going, we've read the books, so it's the journey not the destination that counts, right? We are entitled to speculate that if Lecter is the Devil, Will Graham is Everyman and Jack Crawford is God. Consequently this show might move far beyond "atrocity of the week" into an on-going dialogue between God, Man and the Devil. We haven't had that before. The series is turning into a cult hit.Perhaps eventually unshackling the series from the books if the fans allow it may enable HANNIBAL to go to interesting new regions? If Mikkelsen is playing Lecter as the Devil he has enormous emotional scope to play with. Lucifer was after all an angel before he fell, so equipped to seduce, charm and confuse mere mortals. His past angelic background may explain his remarkable sensory and physical attributes (the ability to kill and remove evidence undetected is surely not natural).How does this series compare with the great mad epics like THE SOPRANOS, BREAKING BAD or DEADWOOD? Well, pretty well. My instincts say - add more humour, more idiosyncrasies in Lecter and his oddball opponents. It's there visually, it just has to find that note of inner insanity that lets the plots and dialogue free to soar.
Who knew it... After the disastrous prequel that was the last movie, who knew the best Hannibal story since Silence of the Lambs was gonna be this TV show... I was seriously doubtful about this, as many reviewers seem to be... You've got to overcome your own doubts.First of all they don't mess about : right away you know Lecter is a killer, you know how Will Graham work. And unlike the rubbish (and highly overestimated) "The Following", each episode gets a different investigation, it's not a stretched boring arc where it takes 10 episodes to catch one killer (hello Dexter...).The directing and photography are also brilliant. I was skeptical after the first episode and the big show they put when Will enters the crime scene and "sees" it, but it was done better in the second episode. Characters have depth, and Mads Mikkelsen is a great actor, I've seen him in Valhalla Rising (forget Casino Royale), and he may be the next Viggo Mortensen.Now I'm a bit worried that they seem to find so easily prolific serial killers in Minnesota, which is more or less a quiet place, but at least they're creative about it (Bryan Fuller seems to be having fun) and they don't overdo it with scenes of torture, violence (again, unlike The Following, whose writers should really take notes...) or last minute calls. The scariest thing in the show is actually that giant elk, you'll know what I mean when you see it. It's graphic without being gore.I don't know how many seasons they're gonna do, or how the Lecter/Graham arc will evolve, but if the quality is the same as the first 2 episodes, we may have the best serial killer show since the first season of Dexter... Good writers, good casting, good directing, it doesn't take much...
Hannibal that stars Hugh Dancy, Mads Mikkelsen and Laurence Fishburne in the lead acting roles - is a intense dark thriller that keeps the viewer nailed to the seat, puzzled and bedazzled by the beautiful and gory scenes. The British actor Hugh Dancy does a wonderful job playing the FBI criminal profiler in this new series, that you could call a mixture of a intellectual thriller and gore. His (Hugh Dancy) darker side makes him stand more out, than the typical lead actor, that is as thick as creme and poses every 2 second front of the camera - usually leads to horrible acting! Laurence Fishburne also plays the FBI case leader in the series and it is good to see him in quality show since the Matrix movies.if Hannibal the series continues in the same dark intense passage it will have plenty of fans amongst the persons who likes a dark intellectual crime story/Kevin Dasman - Freelance reviewer


                
Just watched Season 2 opener and looks like it's going to get very interesting.Watched the last episode of Season 1 the other day just to prepare for the opener of Season 2.Watching the last episode of Season 1 reminded me how good this show it. I recall one episode was banned in the US for it's violent and nasty content. But every episode it pretty near the mark.Don't like giving spoilers way in my reviews and this is no different.I understand this a network show in the US so free to all to watch without subscription, so jump on board and start watching it.We all know the story of Hannibal Lector, but this show has no bearing on the movies other than he's an intelligent, charming person who so happens to commit the most brutal of murders. And in this show they are brutal.Don't be put off by the actors who some may already dislike. I wasn't a big fan of Gillian Anderson, but since watching her in Bleak House, Hannibal & The Fall love her dearly.As said at the start Season 2 is going to heat up, and a preview of episode 2 shows no sign of that changing.Miss this show at your peril, it's a million miles ahead of the dross True Detective that everyone is raving about.


                
I was worried about the casting particularly regarding the choice for Dr. Lecter. I was skeptical on whether the character dynamics would lean to heavily on Graham. But i was wrong. Dr. Lecter was never a main character. He is a supporter ever as always. Another of my concern was Laurence Fisburne. He was one of the main character in CSI and to see him play another similar role in this series which closely mirrors his character in CSI was actually unnerving for me. I hope that this series will go on from strength to strength because it has so many potential. If it gets canceled i'll probably hunt those TV execs 1 by 1.Which sets me to question myself after watching it. 1. Was i entertained? Yes. 2. Do i love this episode? Yes. 3. Will i watch the next episode? Yes. Suddenly i have a massive craving for haggis.


                
A surprising series. It is always difficult to produce a prequel – The prequel of Dune written by Brian Herbert, with the help of Kevin J. Anderson, is for example far from what his father Frank Herbert produced – since we know Doctor Hannibal Lecter is in prison at the beginning of The Silence of the Lambs. In the prequel we have the story of a criminal who is going to be caught. We can see his style, how he manipulates people in order for them to appear as being the criminals while he is nicely going on with his crimes and cleaning up around him all those who may have a suspicion. He is a perverse cook and he cooks for anyone, friends and fiends, police and civilians, patients and strangers, fancy dishes and even banquets. The only thing they do not know is that all the dishes served to them are based on human organs and flesh. He kills to get the organs or parts he wants, or is needs? All the guests to his table are thus turned into cannibals though they don't know it. He even turns some bodies into the growing soil of some of his mushrooms or vegetables. The series is clear about his great power to manipulate people and make them commit the crimes he wants them to commit, or assume the crimes he has committed and he wants to cover up with a fake culprit. He only kills those menacing his activities himself if he can't do otherwise. In this season he aims at getting the FBI special agent who has psychic powers because his psychic powers could easily reveal his true identity, not as a helpful psychiatrist but as a resourceful murderer, and because he is easily manipulated since he can easily be brought to the point when he does not know where the divide between reality and psychic vision or nightmarish dream is. Apart from that the only other interest is that some of these crimes are highly creative and committed by other criminals that in a way or another he uses to create an ambiance, an atmosphere of fear and suspicion. The culinary expertise is really nothing but a prop in this plot. The cruelty of this man is just what we expect but the cruelest crimes are not committed by him. Then the series becomes a vision into what perversions our society can create or rather give free rein to in order for them to find an outlet, Hannibal Lecter being only one of these criminals who can stand over this mess to pull the strings and produce the smoke screen he needs, a smoke screen that has a nice aroma, a nice fumet, a nice edible fragrance that titillates our appetite if not gluttony. And we forget glittony is a deadly sin so that we can accept the guilt of anyone around us, even our best friends, provided the food goes on running down the table to our china plates and silver platters. The end of the season is a perfect suspenseful situation in which special Agent Will Graham has found refuge in Hannibal Lecter's office after he escaped from prison by killing a few people who were supposed to transfer him to some high security prison for a whole series of crime he did not commit but Hannibal Lecter has manipulated the FBI and Will Graham himself into believing they have been committed by Bill Graham, by himself as for Bill Graham. Gruesome, bleak and probably over-realistic, but crime has no limits and the divide between sanity and derangement is so invisible that we could all be main suspects in the hard fate of our neighbors.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
The reason I am so impressed by this show is that it gives its due to one of the most iconic characters in Hannibal Lecter's life - Will Graham. I saw Season 1 and I was petrified of all the serial killers shown in each episode. Maks Middelsen does an excellent job here as Dr. Hannibal Lecter. Even though he plays the central character ; Hugh Dancy playing Will Graham takes the cake. He acts brilliantly as the slightly demented FBI Profiler and his shift from little insane to completely maniac is shown perfectly. The direction is brilliant. I love the way it has been shot and the way the story has been twisted and tweaked in every episode to generate thrill..Will Graham impresses me. I wish there was more shown of that character in mainstream cinema apart from just one movie where he is portrayed by Edward Norton. Hugh Dancy is very very impressive in this role.


                
This series is remarkable, perhaps even unique, (There is much in the way of TV I have never seen) in four ways:1. the adrenalin level never lets up. You are perpetually on the edge of your seat, dragged from terror, to horror, to anger, to disgust, ...2. The crimes are the most imaginative and over the top I have ever seen in a TV series.3. Hugh Dancy, who plays Will Graham, is so vulnerable, so on the edge, and completely convincing. Watching him is like watching a baby who has crawled out onto a high-rise balcony and the railing is broken. At first I thought Will was Jim True-Frost who played Det. Roland 'Prez' Pryzbylewski on The Wire, but they are two different actors. Mads Mikkelsen, who plays Dr. Hannibal Lecter, is like a perfect Bond villain, so smooth, cold, polite, calm. He is like a cobra stalking. His light Danish accent gives him a hint of Nazi menace, without making him sound too much like Victor Borge. The casting is spot on for the other characters too.4. The gore special effects are very hard to remind yourself you are not seeing something real. They did not skimp.However the show has one highly annoying flaw. Will Graham, just KNOWS the details of how any crime happened, without almost no detective work. All he has to do is walk backwards at the crime scene, and magically he can see back in time and watch the events, and know the thoughts, motives and emotions of the killer. Further, He has so problem convincing others of his Ouija board infallible evidence. There was a similar TV Series called Medium. This gimmick is a lazy-man's way of avoiding having to compose logical and intriguing ways to deduce the killer from subtle clues. An episode is like the mirror image of a Sherlock Holmes mystery. Psychic cop is shooting fish in a barrel. Oddly, the dodge is closely related to those Christian entertainments about angels, Jesus and god, using bizarre divine intervention as the primary plot engine.


                
I'd like to first remark on the fabulous acting that is to be found in this series. It is wonderfully casted with great performances from Fishburne and Dhavernas. But the outstanding acting here is found in the performances of Dancy and Mikkelsen. Revolutionary. I am beyond impressed with the depth and feeling conveyed by these men. The genre is not typically my cup of tea. But the way in which this series is presented and the phenomenal acting had me hooked from the very start. The premise is fascinating and a refreshing change from the murder mysteries we find on TV these days. And I will be honest, I am not a fan of the original Hannibal movies. But this series brings a new take to a cult classic that I find incredibly interesting. It keeps me coming back for more and I can't wait for the new season!


                
FBI agent Jack Crawford (Laurence Fishburne) recruits profiler Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) to return to work on a serial killer case. Will gets counseling from renown psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen). Dr. Alana Bloom (Caroline Dhavernas) is concerned about the effects of the case on her friend Will's psyche. Bryan Fuller brings the characters created by Thomas Harris onto the TV screen.I love this show from the very beginning. The first season is part police procedural and part disturbing psycho drama. Mads is fearfully intense. Hugh Dancy is compelling damaged goods. It's visually stunning. Dead bodies have never looked so beautiful. That's not to say that everything ran smoothly. The slow moody scenes take some getting used to. I still think the psychotherapy scenes with Hannibal are too static. The dialogue couldn't make up for its slow flat tone. By the second season, the show settles into the beauty of the violence and the darkness of the psychological warfare. The show breaks new ground especially for network TV.


                
