There are several reasons why this film is painful to watch. The first reason is the childish cinematography. While this may have something to do with conditions in postwar Japan, the cinematography is far exceeded by many films of the early twentieth century, so it has nothing to do with the film's age. As for the story, it is almost nonexistent<U+0097>thin gruel for a film that presents so many different perspectives. The lack of a story probably accounts for the painfully slow pacing. It takes a Herculean effort of will not to shout at the screen, "Get on with it!" Still, good acting can often salvage the weakest story. Sadly, the acting in Rashômon mostly consists of odd poses and staring. For the first five minutes, the lingering shots of overwrought facial expressions and contorted bodies can induce an occasional chuckle. After about twenty minutes, you'll wish you had access to a dagger, too. This tedium is punctuated by comically staged sword fights. I mean, how long can two expert swordsmen wrestle and parry without a decent thrust? Again, get on with it! Of the film's many annoyances, the worst are the idiotic laughing of the bandit and the screeching of the woman. With his constant ha-ha-has, you have to ask, is the bandit insane? Is he reckless? Is he a really, really bad actor? As for the woman<U+0097>well, if she's the vision of a goddess, thank god I'm an atheist! Once you hear the dulcet tones that come from this angel<U+0097>a scream slightly more annoying than the amplified sound of fingernails running down a chalkboard<U+0097>you wonder why a sword or a dagger wasn't immediately used on her.Sorry folks, the Chrysanthemum Emperor has no clothes.


                
After watching movies for several decades, i still get puzzled which of them have been considered masterpieces. In this sense, Rashomon epitomizes everything i don't understand about cinema.Judging by the literature, Kurosawa drew part of his inspiration from classical Russian writers. In order to be on par with their Russian role-models, artists often feel the urge to make their work slow-paced and lengthy. For the average viewer this usually means boring. And we see that in Rashomon's long shots during which there is absolutely nothing going on.As far as acting is concerned, let's just say that Toshiro Mifune's delivery is too theatrical even for the time of movie's creation.There might be a discussion on various levels about Rashomon, but the bottom line is that it's an overrated piece of cinema.


                
i have no idea how you people have given this rotten movie such a great rating this movie is s***!!!!!!!!!!! absolute s***!!!!!! there is nothing in this movie that can be appreciated i am sorry guys , i am a big time movie buff but this flick is a total waste of time.there is no story here. I have no idea what the director is trying to tell us. and the biggest question i have is, who is the child? where are his parents?? totally absurd. and you people call it a classic!! my gawd!!!can anybody explain to me why he/her liked in this absurd movie???? please enlighten me...a total waste of my time
It is, according to me, a very bad movie.  I was quite surprised to see that Rashomon was a horrible film, since everyone says that it is a great one. I was especially hit hearing the worst sound track.  I really think that Kurosawa was not interested in music at all.  And Rashomon is too much long. I have read the short story by Akutagawa(which is great), which is about 20 pages.  Consequently, I do not understand why the film lasts so long. So I do not say that it is an awful movie, but I don't think that it is worth calling "the best movie in the world".  I do not want to forbid to see the movie, since it is still interesting, but think by yourself before saying that it is super, as almost everybody say.


                
I agree wholeheartedly with the other 2 or 3 people here who were unpretentious enough to be honest and not a lemming. Horrible, and I do mean horrible, acting. The Bandit was so annoying - what's with the unbelievable maniacal laughing and hopping about? Boring. Boring. Boring. Yes, yes. I GET the point of the movie. The premise is interesting but this film is just plain bad. So bad it's laughable. Honestly, if the acting was wasn't so over the top reminiscent of silent film overacting, it would've been at least palatable for me. I do not get the appeal.


                
