This fabulous work was years and years ahead of its time when it was made in 1950, being a work of art that engages the eyes and the ears, but most essentially, the brain. The film is both aesthetically beautiful, using amazing camera techniques, extensive periods of silence and a very limited cast to deliver the action, and the story is typically Japanese...ostensibly amazingly simple, but complex to the point of sending you cross-eyed!The basic tale is this: a woman and her husband, a Samurai, are travelling through a forest when they meet a bandit. The bandit has sex with the woman and the Samurai ends up dead. That's it. This tale is related to us through the woodcutter and a monk who saw the protagonists give their evidence to the police (the dead Samurai through a medium), but unfortunately the three tales conflict with one another. Each confessor says that they killed the Samurai, and then we hear from the woodcutter who in fact witnessed the event, who gives us a version of events that borrows from each individual account, and is still less credible!The conclusion presented by Kurosawa seems to be firstly that individuals see things from different perspectives, but secondly, and most importantly, that there is no objective truth. There is no answer as to what took place in the forest, and Kurosawa offers us no way of knowing what went on. Each story is as credible as the other, and so no conclusion about guilt can be reached. We even have to think at the end that as the whole thing is reported to us by the woodcutter and priest, was there any truth in anything we heard at all?This film leads to an especially tricky conclusion for a movie-goer! Your eyes are supposed to show you objective truth, but they don't. The camera is supposed not to lie, but it does. I feel that the simple message is that subjectivity lies at the heart of life, and this subjectivity needs to be recognised before any attempt is made to understand events.
"Rashomon" tells a very simple tale in a very complicated manner, presenting four 'versions' of the truth, each from a party either witness to or involved in the incident depicted. It is not the film's intent to have you piece together a puzzle since that would be impossible based on how drastically the four tales differ. We know that lies don't enter the equation since the participating persons all claim to be guilty. "Rashomon" is not about choosing a version of the incident you believe is true; it is about human perspective and how it shapes what we see. Even if we truly believe what we have seen is true, is it really? The film opens when a priest and woodcutter are encountered by a man who engages in a conversation about crime with them and subsequently learns that a samurai has been killed in the woods and his wife raped by a bandit. These two details are the basic, practically undisputed facts which make up the foundation of the four versions of the story we hear: the bandit's, the woman's, her husband's (through a medium), and the woodcutter's (the only presumably objective account, which still does not make sense in relation to the others). In many ways the best thing about "Rashomon" is that it never reveals what actually happens (or if any of the four accounts is in fact true), and although we are not meant to solve the mystery (the idea here is that there is no objective truth since humans are too selfish and dishonest to view anything without bias) the story structure is still brilliant and adds a lot of ambiance to the film. The narrative flow is strong and the method seems fresh and inventive today despite countless imitations (including one inexplicably popular one- "The Usual Suspects")."Rashomon" is very much a visual film. It would be reduced to unimportant and insignificant fare without the cinematography, which captures the mood and feel of the jungle perfectly, as does the score. The film achieves an epic feel very rare for films filmed in fullscreen, especially during the battle between the bandit and the samurai during the last telling of the story. Kurosawa was also wise enough to choose a location for the film that would accurately capture the eerie, slightly disturbing mood of the story. Just picture the events taking place anywhere other than a jungle."Rashomon" is not without its (minor) flaws, however. While theatrical acting (Kurosawa was fascinated with silent film) worked perfectly with films like "Seven Samurai" and "Throne of Blood", it does nothing but take away from the realism of this oft claustrophobic human drama. Yes, Mifune (Tajomaru, the bandit) does provide an interesting spin on his character for each telling, and Takashi Shumura (the woodcutter) seems as honest and real as any character could possibly be, but nearly all of that effect is lost every time Machiko Kyo appears on screen. It is hard to take her seriously and during moments when I should have been close to tears I was much closer to laughter. I'm not sure how much blame I would place on her as Kurosawa probably asked her to act exactly as she does. While discussing actors I have to (unconventionally) note Fumiko Honma as the medium, who brings a wonderfully eerie air to the film during its greatest scenes.I don't think "Rashomon" is Kurosawa's best or most important film, but it is still a masterful piece of cinema which is absolutely essential for any film lover. It's extraordinary how much Kurosawa accomplished at such an early stage in his career and without the benefit of the lavish budgets he was allotted for later projects. The film's main question is also still relevant and confusing today: is what we think we see really the truth, and to what extent does subjectivity affect perception? 4.5/5


                
The more I watch and re-watch Kurosawa's films, the more I am sure that he will be remembered as the greatest director of the 20th century. Although I prefer "Ran" and "The Seven Samurai" for reasons of personal taste, I don't think I would argue very much with anyone who proposed that "Rashomon" was his best film. Made in 1950, it is so unusual and so far ahead of it's time that it takes your breath away.The story itself deserves a mention: A husband & wife travelling through woods are attacked by a thief, who ties up the husband and rapes the wife. This is as much of the story as we can be sure of. The husband ends up dead of a stab wound. How did he die? Who was responsible? Each of the three give their accounts before a court (the dead husband through a medium!), and each account is entirely different. A woodcutter who witnessed the events gives a fourth, entirely different, account.Each flashback is an absolute gem in itself, and lives long in the mind. Toshiro Mifune as the thief exudes more raw masculinity and charisma that I think I have ever seen in ANY movie, and creates a totally believeable character. Machiko Kyo as the wife is superb in what are essentially four different roles, her own version being the highlight. The husband's character is the least well developed, but since he spends a lot of the time either tied up or dead, that's not really surprising.Because the viewer knows that each flashback is highly personal to the teller, a vast amount of brainpower and concentration are required if you are going to try to work out what actually DID happen. Alternatively, watch the film twice back-to-back, once for the visuals and acting, and once for the detective work and philosophical implications.My favourite shot in the movie is one which starts with the husband and wife kneeling, facing each other, a view of the wife over the shoulder of the husband; the camera then moves round to the side and simultaneously zooms in on the wife's profile; then pulls back behind the wife, ending with a view of the husband's face over the shoulder of the wife - a mirror image of the initial shot in the sequence. Absolutely awesome! And dating from 1950! Unbelievable!I normally try to keep my reviews a LOT shorter than this, but I make no apologies in this case. Indeed, there are lots of other points I would like to make (I haven't even mentioned the central importance of the dagger, or the relevance of the Rashomon gate itself). I could go on and on and on... however, a better use of your time would be to seek out and watch this film...NOW!
This was Kurosawa's first big international hit, from then on his films would be avidly watched and (usually) feted as Art. His style was always so breathtakingly simple that you can't help but get sucked into the rainy and sunny bestial world depicted in here, with a beautiful use of the black and white nitrate film stock contrasting against a sordid storyline. I've probably seen it 10 times now over the decades and it seems to get better every time I settle down to it - it's been a continual treat.A horror story from a few days previous is recounted on a ferociously wet day: beautiful woman is (apparently) raped by animalistic bandit in front of her husband who is then (apparently) murdered. But who really did what to who and why? It's told from four viewpoints: the bandit's, the honourable woman's, the heroic dead husband's via a rather startling medium and lastly a breathless version from a timid eye-witness. The event becomes a crime scene with the beauty of forest surrounding us and splintered sunlight beaming down on us through the trees bearing mute witness to the savage few moments. It's a salutary lesson in Human Beings vs Objectivity; the psychologies of the main protagonists are laid bare, as well as the story-tellers, even to Kurosawa and the viewers themselves. Who's telling the truth/ was it a mixture of all versions/ was there another truth untold? Only you can decide!I urge all innocent bystanders who have a problem with b&w non-HD 4:3 subtitled Japanese films from 1950 to try to get over it! Because it's a riveting journey, expertly handled by probably the best film director who's ever lived, all subjective of course.


                
Kurosawa tells a story four times through different characters. The characters tell the story different four times. In flash-backs, all as the characters tell them, we see the stories. Are they lying, are they all telling their own truth or is there someone who tells THE truth? The way this is handled by Kurosawa is absolutely masterful.Of course, his direction is great. Together with cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa they do a tremendous job with the atmosphere in the woods. With perfect light angles it looks beautiful.A real Japanese classic.


                
Rashômon is about a court proceeding, recalled in flashback, relating to a mysterious crime. A bandit, Tajômaru (Toshirô Mifune) is on trial for murdering a samurai (Mayasuki Mori) and raping his wife (Machiko Kyô) in the remote forest. Each of these three figures addresses the court, the dead man via a medium – an amazingly, electrifying strange conceit, carried off with absolute conviction. A fourth witness (Takashi Shimura) offers his own version, again different. But it is not just a matter of the witnesses being slippery: crucially, the bandit, the samurai and the samurai's wife each claim to have committed the murderous act themselves, the samurai by suicide. Truth, history, memory and the past <U+0085> are these just fictions?One character is told that lying is natural for all of us, and it is in the discrepancies that the essence of our humanity resides. Kurosawa invests the unknowability of the event with horror, suggesting that the three of them somehow chanced upon, or created, a black hole in human thought and communication, whose confusion and violence can never be clearly explained or remembered.The movie that put Japanese cinema on the map. Unlike a traditional whodunit, events get murkier and more tangled with Kurosawa cranking up the intrigue and uncertainty as contrasting viewpoints clash. The stunning look of the movie - from the torrents of rain in the opening shots to the dappled sunlight in the forest - plays its part in making every little thing difficult to discern, backed up by forceful performances, especially from Toshiro Mifune.The genius of "Rashomon" is that all of the flashbacks are both true and false. True, in that they present an accurate portrait of what each witness thinks happened. False, because as Kurosawa observes in his autobiography, "Human beings are unable to be honest with themselves about themselves. They cannot talk about themselves without embellishing."The wonder of "Rashomon" is that while the shadow-play of truth and memory is going on, we are absorbed by what we trust is an unfolding story. The film's engine is our faith that we'll get to the bottom of things--even though the woodcutter tells us at the outset he doesn't understand, and if an eyewitness who has heard the testimony of the other three participants doesn't understand, why should we expect to?Kurosawa's screenplay is only the ground which the film travels, however. The real gift of "Rashomon" is in its emotions and visuals. The first time I saw the film, I knew hardly a thing about Japanese cinema, and what struck me was the elevated emotional level of the actors. The message of "Rashomon" is that we should suspect even what we think we have seen. This insight is central to Kurosawa's philosophy.
Kurosawa's magic film is a composite of 2 Japanese short stories by Ryunosuke Akutagawa: One, "Rashomon," the title tells of a confrontation of a young man at Rashomon, the large, fortified gate at one entrance to Kyoto where people would abandon children and corpses; the other, yabu no naka ni, "In a Grove," tells of the confrontation between the bandit, the samurai and his wife, told from the point of view of the woodcutter. In 1950, Kurosawa weaves this tale of human vanity and duplicity with the young Toshiro Mifune, as the bandit, Machiko Kyo as the lady and Masayuki Mori as the samurai. The tale unfolds through the flashbacks in the narration of the great Takashi Shimura as the woodcutter, supported by character actors Minoru Chiaki as the monk and Kichijiro Ueda as the bum. Basically, with a cast of six and the stark settings of a woods and a dilapidated castle gate in pouring rain, Kurosawa the magician gives us four views of human vanity, excessive pride and cultural conflict. The foibles of human needs are exposed but redeemed in the final scene where the basic act of kindness brings closure to the bizarre display of greed, lust and mendacity that has gone before. For a Kurosawa film, this one is short, to the point with an economy of emoting-- for which Mifune was never accused of under doing and the viewer is left somewhat exhausted by all the twists and turns, confused by the mix of contradictions and seeming paradox, but satisfied with a feeling of hope.


                
The movie which introduced Japanese cinema to the world. The movie which introduced Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune to the west - Rashomon. Based on ancient Japan where Samurai's dwelled and women had no rights, Rashomon is actually a series of flashbacks. The movie starts with a woodcutter, a priest and a commoner discussing about something unusual that happened in the court that day. The Woodcutter was summoned to the court as a witness to the dead body of a Samurai. As, the movie progresses, it is clear that an infamous bandit killed the Samurai because of the lust of his beautiful wife. This particular crime though is recalled from four different point's of view. The bandit, the Samurai's wife, the dead Samurai himself (With the help of black magic, entering the body of another human) and the woodcutter who was an eyewitness to the entire murder scene. All four of them present completely different perspectives of the same murder and it is left to the audience to decide whose version may be true. But this movie does not stop at being a murder and crime mystery. It also takes a closer look at the human psychology and behavior in different situations and conditions.The plot itself is very unique and engaging . Kurosawa has made this already interesting plot into an exceptional movie with his accurate and detailed direction. The Cinematography is also of the highest order which enhances the feel of the movie. Special credit goes to all the actors who had to shoot the same scenario four times but with different mindsets, expressions and dialogues. Among the actors, a special mention should go to Toshiro Mifune (Kurosawa'a favorite actor) who ruled the screen with his animalistic rage and passion. A very enriching movie experience which left me wanting for more of the great director. In my all-time favorite movie's list straightaway .Rating : 9/10
This was the first film by Akira Kurosawa to be seen in theaters in the US, as it was an international success. And, while this is a very good film, I think that sometimes too much emphasis is placed on this film and not enough on all his other great films. While some of Kurosawa's fans might agree to the exact order, they will also acknowledge that many other films are nearly as good or better (such as THRONE OF BLOOD, THE SEVEN SAMURAI, YOJIMBO, and many others--along with is wonderful NON-samurai movies such as HIGH AND LOW, IKURU and SCANDAL).The story itself is extremely creative, as it tells the same story three different times all through the eyes of three different characters. Just when you THINK you know the story, it's told again by a different person with a totally different perspective--revealing all new details or contradicting what you already thought. A recent wonderful movie that also does this is Audry Tautou's HE LOVES ME HE LOVES ME NOT.Beautfully written, slowly revealed, expertly acted--this is an exceptional but not the best Japanese film I have seen. It's too bad most of those out there haven't been exposed to more Japanese cinema to know this.


                
Rashomon displays how masterful director Akira Kurosawa truly was at creating a beautiful story. Rashomon is a series of flashbacks that try to piece together the events of a murdered man and a raped woman. It retells the stories of a wife, a dead husband via a medium, a bandit and lastly a woodsman. Kurosawa explains to the audience that perception and reality are often two very different worlds. Rashomon was made in Japan and released in 1950, well after the horrific events of World War Two. Kurosawa views humanity as weak, corrupt, and morally lost for the duration of the film. The actors portray deceitful and hellish beings up until the rain ceases and a child is brought into the picture. At this moment, Kurosawa shows a glimpse of hope for humanity as the woodsman walks away with the child and the screen fades to black. Not only did the war have an affect on this film but also the styles of German Expressionism left an impression as well. The contrast of light and darkness played a prominent role for each of the character's stories. As the story changes from each character, one can see the light and shadows shifting from one actor to the next. For example, as the bandit tells his story the shadow is cast upon the husband and a gleaming light is proudly shown on him. Additionally, the light is focused more so on the wife (up until the shaming of her) than on the bandit for the husband's side of the story. The use of a gloomy setting and antiheroes are also key indicators of German Expressionism. The storytelling and the depth of the characters made this a captivating film to behold. The different viewpoints of each story about the wife were the most fascinating. She depicted a sad widower, a 'child-like' innocence, a goddess, a con artist, a liar, and a whore. Kurosawa gives the viewers a puzzle but only half of the pieces required to create a clear picture. Overall this motion picture creates a clear portrait on how Kurosawa views humanity. At the last minute, he changes the direction of the film by having the woodsman carry the abandoned baby back to his home. Even though there is much turmoil and disgust in humanity's present state there is also a sliver of hope according to Kurosawa.
Rashomon is a tale of human ego. At least thats what a common cine-viewer would feel. Kurosawa is known to play with human emotions, and he uses this artistic skill to his advantage in this movie. The story, quite simply, revolves around a Bandit, A man and his wife. It encircles a wood-cutter, a priest and a common poor man and an exorcist. Thats all the cast is. The story is quite simple too. The Man travels with his wife through a jungle and a Bandit sees the wife and starts lusting for her. The bandit follows them and violates the Wife. The Husband is dead by the end of the event. Now, the story revolves around this death and the mystery surrounding it. Everyone has a different version for the event. The film revolves around all these four stories told by the Bandit, the Wife, The dead man (through an exorcist) and the wood-cutter. Every version, as told by each, is different. Every story is told and ends in supporting, or rather feeding the ego of the person telling the tale. Thats where the pshycology and the ego comes in. Amazing movie, highly recommended.
"Rashomon" was one of Akira Kurosawa's masterpieces, as the film features an ingenious narrative structure, excellent acting and a musing exploration into the fine line that separates perception from reality. The story of a barbaric crime and its aftermath is recounted from 4 contradictory viewpoints and we are given the gruesome details of each one. "Rashomon" is a beautiful piece of art for so many reasons. In a way, it plays out almost like more of a parable than a film. When asked about "Rashomon", Kurosawa once said, "One of the technique of modern art is simplification, and that I must therefore simplify this film." The plot itself is fairly straightforward and we are not left in a major state of ambiguity by film's end. However, this is a film that, like its enigmatic characters, seeks an ulterior motive. Aside from merely providing us with guidance on how to properly conduct ourselves, it frequently uses metaphorical language which helps to elucidate the more complex ideas. "Rashomon" is didactic in its search, not discovery, of moral and spiritual answers.And that word "search" is very important to the ultimate meaning of "Rashomon". This film does not seek to provide some revelation of truth to negate the varying perceptions, but rather to delve deeper into the human psyche by calling attention to the disparity between how we as humans think and rationalize. It is near impossible to adequately praise Kurosawa for what he created with "Rashomon". The astonishing cinematography and use of "dappled" light perfectly captures the eerie, shadowy feel of the atmosphere. All of the actors (Mifune, Mori) bring a gripping realism to their characters. The dialogue is intelligent and introspective, particularly with its constant reflection of existential questions. What truly set this film apart is that, to a certain degree, every line uttered seems to reveal some level of humanity. There is no superfluous detail I can recall that needn't be said nor presented throughout.One aspect of the film I found particularly interesting is how Rashomon chose to supplant the presence of a judge (to whom each person is recounting their story to) for silence, with each individual stating, then proceeding to answer, the question supposedly being asked to them. This technique demands that we be the one to deliberate over their conflicting stories. It is up to us decide for ourselves "What do we believe?" or, for some, "What do we WANT to believe?" It seems that Kurosawa is trying to convey the idea that, in the end, there is no one right answer - truth is, in itself, a matter of subjectivity. With "Rashomon", Kurosawa offers us a powerful and masterful piece of film-making that really makes you question the human condition.


                
There are only a handful of films that so permeate the film culture that they are loaded with so much expectation, having influenced so much, that it's impossible to see the film for the film itself. Kurosawa has made quite a few of these films, of which "Rashômon" (1950) is, for me, the hardest to approach for the very reason that it seems to penetrate everything.The narrative is, of course, legendary not only how it is executed but how it has influenced art ever since. The untrusted narrator was hardly a new invention, even in film, since didn't noir explore its possibilities in depth? But it is never the novelty of the idea rather than its execution and application that counts in the end. And not that I think it's even remotely interesting and important who did what first here - the reason I mention noir is its vicinity to "Rashômon", which can be aptly described as jidaigeki noir. This is what Kurosawa did so well, taking a genre and then reshaping it, often revolutionizing it in the process.Perhaps there's a need to moralize towards the end that doesn't seem to come so naturally, since to some extent the drive of the disoriented narratives works toward a rather more pessimistic solution, yet on the other hand it's wise to have a counterpoint that actually gives some sense of closure. And if one yearns for pessimism, Kurosawa gives that amply in his last epic.


                
Rashomon (1950)This is a storyteller's movie, where the same event is told successively by several different people (including a spirit) who were (we assume) there to witness it. Each accounting, by various characters (earthy or refined, depending) of the same crime is what gets you thinking, but it also gives each segment a flavor of its own. The concept of stories not matching, despite their common facts, is one of the truths of truth's impossibility. This is the core and the fame of this somewhat forced movie.Rashomon demands, and rewards, thinking. Each of the four main accounts are reflections of the needs of the teller. While there are some traditionally Japanese issues (of honor, both from a male and female perspective), non-Japanese audiences can get it, too. There are mannerisms that are not only Japanese (and therefore foreign to others) but are old-fashioned even for contemporary audiences, kind of like watching Robin Hood, where it takes a little getting used to the style. The sword fights, in particular, seem oddly incompetent in fighting terms. But not at all in cinema terms--they are films with amazing beauty.Kurosawa always found camera operators with real vigor and visual finesse (both!) playing with shadows and light, and moving with a three dimensional logic to the figures in the space. You can, in a movie, like this, almost turn off the subtitles and just watch, and if you lose the details, you get the overall power of it all. It is traditionally "beautiful" with all the shadows and light, and is also compositionally strong, even as it moves through space. Exceptionally so.If you haven't seen this, you might be put off by its lack of a regular old story. I know I am, every time I see it. I never quite get absorbed, because by the second telling I know that I am witnessing a "version" of what happened, relative to the first. It's incredibly fascinating, but not always engaging in the usual way. Clearly a masterpiece in every sense, and a breakthrough for Kurosawa.


                
In medieval Japan, as rain pours over a deserted temple, three persons discuss the recent murder of a samurai and the rape of his wife in the nearby forest. A known bandit has been caught and blamed for the crime, he recognizes he did it but, in the flashbacks we see, he differs in the details from the wife of the samurai and from a medium channeling the deceased. One of the persons in the temple, claiming to have been a witness of the deed, tells a fourth version of the story. Who is telling the truth? If there is indeed something we can call the truth.This Akira Kurosawa movie from 1950 was a breakthrough film not just for the great master but for Japanese cinema abroad. Before Rashomon, almost no Japanese movies had been shown outside Japan. It is a great film, that 65 years after it was made, has stood the test of time.It is a very stylized movie, full of non naturalistic, over the top performances (seemingly influenced by the Japanese theatrical traditions of Kabuki and Noh), especially by Toshiro Mifune as the bandit, and the beautiful Machiko Kyo's as the Samurai's wife. Also with Masayuki Mori as the Samurai and Takashi Shimura.


                
A landmark film with endless interpretations and analyses, so I'll try my best not to prattle on. There is a good dose of cynicism in Rashomon, with human nature shown to be selfish and for people to lie, or perhaps more delicately, to distort the truth through the lens of their own perception. A couple of serious crimes have been committed in the forest, and what's happened is told from four different perspectives. Common to all is that a samurai and his wife were travelling through the woods, and then set upon by a bandit (the incomparable Toshiro Mifune). He ties up the samurai and rapes his wife in front of him, and afterwards the samurai is found dead. It's a grim, awful crime, and worse yet, because of the culture and the period, the rape is viewed with elements of dishonor and shame in the woman. Beyond that, the truth is elusive, and once we see that the flashbacks vary in their accounting, we realize it may be difficult to arrive at what actually happened.In the bandit's account, he puts himself in the best possible light. The woman fights courageously with a dagger before succumbing to him, but then grasps him in her arms when he assaults her, indicating consent in the end. She then tells the bandit that because of the shame, either he or her husband must die, urging them to fight to the death, which they do valorously. The lens here is clearly the bandit's masculinity, perhaps what is most important to him.In the woman's account, after she's raped and the bandit leaves, all she can see are her husband's eyes, boring in to her own. She feels guilty, horribly guilty, and faints near him with the dagger in her hand. When she comes to, her husband is dead, and she attempts suicide multiple times but fails. In her case, the lens is one emphasizing her feeling of shame, as painful as that is for us to see.In the samurai's account, cleverly told through a medium, after the rape, his wife is about to leave with the bandit, when she asks him to kill her husband. The bandit is shocked by the request, and asks the samurai if he wants to kill the woman, or let her go. Because of that honorable action, he's willing to pardon the bandit. The woman flees, and after the bandit releases the samurai, the samurai commits suicide. In this case, the lens emphasizes an honor code, and puts more control of what must have been a helpless and humiliating situation back in the hands of the samurai.This is where the 1922 short story 'In a Grove' from Ryunosuke Akutagawa ends, and I find it fascinating that Kurosawa added the woodcutter's account (beyond him simply finding the body). In this version, after the rape, the bandit begs the woman to marry him, but she refuses and releases the samurai. Instead of an epic battle for her hand, the two are both cowardly, only fighting when she spurs them on, and then with more fear than skill. It's very tempting to think that this must represent the closest thing to truth, as it's told from an outside observer's perspective, contains elements of the other's stories, and shows no one in a flattering light. However even it has discrepancies, casting doubt over it, and thus, the truth is ever elusive.If you think about it, each of the first three stories has an underlying misogyny. In the first, the woman says no, but given enough force, eventually says yes. In the second, she essentially feels guilty for having been raped. In the third, while the samurai and even the bandit display honor, her shame is so great that she requests her husband be murdered. Perhaps there is some redemption in the woodcutter's story when she criticizes her husband for not protecting her in the first place.The other aspects that Kurosawa added relative to the original story was the setting at 'Rashomon', which was the largest gate in Kyoto, the discussion at the gate throughout the narrative, and the ending sequence with the baby. Akutagawa had also written a short story called 'Rashomon', which is published today along with 'In a Grove' and others in a slim volume, and Kurosawa took this setting and the title from the other story. The gate had fallen into disrepair and was a hide-out for thieves as well as a place to abandon bodies, and as the rain pours down, we feel the wretchedness of the human condition. In providing the ending sequence though, Kurosawa seems to give us an answer to the central question posed by the film: how can anything be accomplished when eyewitnesses can't even agree on the simple truth of past events, and people are so selfish, driven by their own egos? It's through mercy and kindness, acts which transcend misunderstanding.


                
Rashomon starts off with an intriguing premise that draws its audience in by subtly referencing the troubling events that transpired prior to the opening of the movie. A noticeably disturbed priest mentions a strange story and the viewer is left wondering what could have happened to cause this character to lose his wits and question his faith in humanity.As the story progresses the audience is told the same story but through multiple different vantage points. Overall, the story is about a belligerent vagrant who encounters a samurai escorting his wife across a passage where he is resting. When the vagrant notices the women he becomes enamored to the point of wanting to possess her at all costs, even if it means killing the samurai escort. What actually transpired after this is up to the audience to decide. But at the end of the day, the samurai ends up dead, his wife ends up at the mercy of the vagrant, and the vagrant is captured and accused of murdering the samurai.Rashomon is a rather short film. The entire movie is shot in black and white but is less than 90 minutes from beginning to end. Yet, despite the lack of production value and limited time frame and color, the movie tells a compelling tale that demands the audience to question the story itself and its broader implications for human nature. As such the film has earned its place amongst Japanese period classics.
Master director Akira Kurosawa released his classic RASHOMON in 1950, and became forever Asian cinema's number one represent. It's a mystery-tale playing like a crime-novel told through five different point-of-views and outplaying on three locations (the Rashomon-house, in the forest, and in court), and the film shows the relativity of truth. The scenes from inside the court involves the viewer, all of the characters are placed directly in front of the camera, addressing themselves - it's like we're the jury, deciding what to believe in, and not. Shot in B&W Kurosawa uses the lighting in the forest in interesting ways, the sunlight that shines through the treetops adverts to the hazy story - faces and situations are partly covered in shadow, and light up by sun. What actually happened, and what's fictitious? And Kurosawa uses many techniques to unveil the plot; the dreamy score, the bandit-character (Toshiro Mifune) is a raucous, beastly troublemaker with farcical acrobatics, long sequences with no sound shows Kurosawa's love for the silent era, the non-linear narrative and the uplifting climax. RASHOMON shows different versions of reality, and Kurosawa pioneered using the camera subjectively.


                
This is a fascinating film. It is one that is based on multiple accounts of an event that takes place in a forest in Japan. A man is traveling with his young wife when they are set on by a bandit (Toshiro Mifume). The man is killed and the woman escapes after being raped by the bandit. The story then becomes a series of four accounts of the events of that day. Each of the participants, including the murdered man gets to describe what took place. It is a story about the sorry state of humanity, but it is more about the Japanese culture. What takes place is hard for a Westerner to really comprehend. Given those circumstances, death, rather than shame, becomes a central issue in the film. Once the woman is raped, her status as a human being is diminished tremendously. She becomes the baggage of the man who wants her. It is totally captivating to see each of the figures tell his or her story. This technique has been used in many TV shows and movies (I remember a show called Petrocelli, years ago where it was the lifeblood of the show), but nowhere is it done better. There is a very positive ending as well where a sense of redemption is left with the viewer.


                
I oftentimes wonder, upon seeing classic films like this, what the atmosphere would have been like in a 1950s movie theatre that had just shown the film. I would imagine that viewers would have experienced the same feelings that I experienced after watching ground-breaking visual spectacles such as THE MATRIX and mind-warping thrillers such as MEMENTO.This film was lauded at that time (1950) for its stunning visual appeal and epic footage. Watching it in today's high-tech world it is a bit difficult to imagine this as cutting-edge, but one thing remains outstandingly clear: this is yet another one of Akira Kurosawa's brilliant stories.The story itself is relatively simple by today's standards, yet there is a pervasive air of complexity that surrounds the film long after its 88 minute run-time. The simple story is told and re-told from four different perspectives, as can be read in any generic plot summary. The problem (and fascination) here is that no two stories are the same, and they all conflict with each other. What's even more perplexing is that the fourth story is told form a neutral point of view and it should therefore be easier for the viewer to believe this recreation, but having seen the initial three scenarios (each of which are equally credible), it is hard to buy into even this final telling.But forget the story, because this film is so much more than just that. This is a film that focuses on truths, untruths, and perspective, all told in a beautifully poetic way. To the viewer, the camera should not lie. The camera is the viewer's perspective into the on-screen world. As such, the camera serves as the viewer's viewpoint and should therefore be totally and objectively honest. It is by such means that people watch movies. However, in this relatively short motion picture, the camera 'lies' to the viewer on at least three occasions, and in the end the viewer is left questioning subjective truth versus objective truth. Many of the core principles are the same as in MEMENTO...that there is no such thing as an objective truth or objective memory. All events are dependent on the observer, and are hence subjective. Indeed, this is a film that has, and will continue to, spark many intellectual conversations/arguments.As with the meticulous Kurosawa, the storytelling and screenplay is marvellous. It is hard to judge the musical aspect of the film simply because it is difficult to compare it to today's standards. All I can say here is that the music appears to 'fit' the movie well. The acting is top notch, and special mention should be paid to Kurosawa's mainstay Toshiro Mifune, as well as Minuro Chiaki, who plays the role of the melancholy priest exceptionally well. My vote for the best actor, however, has to go to Machiko Kyo, who competently takes on a different personality in each version of the story.While some people find it hard to watch classic movies such as this, I recommend that you see this at least once. It may just be one of the more rewarding 88-minute cinematic experiences you will ever have.3.5 stars, 8/10. Should enter my Top 150 at about 115. Highly recommended.


                
Rashomon (1950) has all of the charm and atmosphere of an Akira Kurosawa production. However the subject he explores and the tale he tells to us viewers this time round is much more unsettling and much less lighthearted than many of his mainstream movies.I first bought Rashomon on DVD a few years ago as I had just recently became a big Kurosawa fan after having watched several of his most influential works including Ikiru (1952), The Hidden Fortress (1958) and not to mention Seven Samurai (1954). All of which had ranked well among my favourite films of all time. So I thus had to check out more. And this was recommend to me and being a fan of Murder Mysteries the plot's summary excited me.Set in 17th century Japan, Rashomon tells the dark tale of a vicious confrontation between a ruthless bandit (Kurosawa regular Toshiro Mifune), a wealthy samurai (Masayuki Mori) and his beautiful wife (Machiko Kyo) during which the husband is killed and his body discovered by a local woodcutter (Another regular Takashi Shimura).However upon going to trial all four testifier's, including the bandit, the wife, the dead man (speaks through a local medium) and the woodcutter each give four completely different accounts of what actually happened that fateful day and which make no connection whatsoever with the last.Who is telling the truth? Is only one of them being honest? Are they all lying in order to present themselves in a good light? Or are they all lying to deliberately cover something up? Are they merely giving their own accounts of what happened through there own eyes and from there own points of view? Could Woodcutter's account as the only commoner and passer by on the scene truly be the genuine Revelation of what happened that afternoon? Or is he too holding back on something in order to keep the REAL TRUTH from the audience? All the joys of a "who done it" only much more thought provoking and far more deep in the long term sense. Though a black and white film that does not prevent the camera from creating many colourful and mystifying shots aided by the use of light. The Japanese landscapes are again beautiful and the music haunting thus delivering a peaceful setting to this overall tragic tale and making this an unforgettable movie experience.The nearest the 20th century got to Shakespere. Rashomon is without doubt ranked among my twenty movies list and is definitely in my opinion one of the top ten movies of all time in terms of being well made.A must see classic. 9/10 stars.


                
While sharing the name of the short-story Rashômon, this Kurosawa film is actually in large part based on another Akutagawa story called In a Bamboo Grove. The closest relation it has to its namesake comes through sharing the Rashômon Gate as a location, as well as another small similarity touched upon later.There are some key differences between the film and the short-story, which serve to illustrate a lot of what Kurosawa attempted with the film. The most obvious one is that while we in the original are only related the testimonies of the different parties involved, we are first taken to the Rashômon in the film. The opening scene is stunningly well-composed, with the broken-down building providing shelter for a peasant (played by Takashi Shimura) and a priest from a seemingly endless rainstorm. As with so many of his other movies, Kurosawa knows how to use nature to produce a mood for his scene. The relentless flood, the shattered gate, the two men with their heads dropped, all speak of a distraught situation. Suddenly another man comes running in through the rain, from the direction of the camera, stomping through the mud to reach shelter. He asks the peasant and the priest what they are so upset about, and after the newcomer lights a fire, the peasant starts telling the story of a murder. Yet, the murder itself holds not the strangeness of this tale. How it is related to the police is what leaves all those involved confused. The thing is that everyone related (including the victim via a medium) has given a different account of the events. The only common elements being that a bandit loured a couple into a grove, tied up the man, and raped his wife. Here we see the second difference between the stories, because whereas Akutagawa only include the testimonies, Kurosawa includes a second account by the peasant that found the body. This is not related to the police, but rather to the newcomer under the Rashômon, revealing that he thinks everyone else was lying. But, as the newcomer points out, he could very well be lying too. In this way, whilst the original story subtly points out how truth can quickly become a subjective matter, as well as addressing the sadness in the woman's situation – as she is rejected by her husband after being dishonoured by the bandit – Kurosawa instead makes almost a mockery of how our ideas of ourselves end up being what we relate, and how reality often ends up being much less honourable. This is particularly evident in the peasants second account, as the two men almost quiver whilst fighting each other, losing their swords and stumbling several times.To me, this is where the film almost fumbles a bit. As if it is slightly uncertain what idea it wishes to espouse, the following scene tries to deal with both the consequence of not being able to trust anyone, where the story the peasant told seemed to include a theme of its own. The problem is that if you trust the peasant, the story loses the subtle aspect of Akutagawa's original in that it instead of painting the truth as a loose concept, it paints the people testifying as egotistical. And if you don't trust him, the tale loses the aspect of, almost comically, rendering reality a much less impressive fact than our stories about it. The film ends with the men under the Rashômon finding an abandoned baby and one of them stealing the kimono it is wrapped in, saying that if he does not take it, someone else will (which is similar to Akutagawa's Rashômon story where one of the characters is stealing from the dead under the same mores). After having an argument with the peasant, the kimono-stealer wanders off. The priest has picked up the baby, and when the peasant tries to take him he asks if he wants to steal his linens too. After which the peasant says he has six children and it won't make a difference if he raises another (reminding me of a Turgenev poem about the generosity of those who give from what little they have). The priest apologises, the rain stops, and the film ends. Despite its dour depiction of people, it still wants us to believe in them.Aside from the slight muddling of themes, Rashômon is a great film filled with lots of great visual elements. Kurosawa, is, as always, a master of movement. His characters move together with the background and the camera to fill every scene with emotion. My favourite shot in the film was of the bandit (portrayed by masterful Toshirô Mifune) on his stomach in the sand, sprawling in agony as he just pushed the policeman that found him into the water. The way Mifune moves is combined with the camera movement to show his traces in the sand, telling the story of his last few minutes in a matter of seconds. Throughout the film, this camera use and Kurosawa's blocking is thoroughly enjoyable, adding onto each scene, whether that is in terms of comedy or tragedy. The acting is also top notch, if at times as over-the-top as is usual with Kurosawa. The music is pretty good, but did not stand out to me as particularly memorable. It worked well with the scenes it was in, and sometimes preceded the on-camera reveal.The story is a simple one, and it fumbles a bit in trying to handle several themes, but the film is very well directed and though there isn't much dialogue, the visual acting is tremendous. Mifune stands out. I do wish it was a bit subtler in letting its story speak for itself, like Akutagawa did with the original short-story, as it does not really come through in dealing with the consequences of its themes. In lack of a 8.5 score, I gave the film a 9. Definitely worth watching.
Greetings from Lithuania."Rashômon"(1950) is an interesting story about a crime which is being told (and seen by the viewers) from different perspectives while being "modificated" in a process. It's interesting movie, which kinda doesn't have a clear outcome in my opinion, and as director said himself, this is how life works - not everything always is clear. At running time 1 h 28 min. this movie surprisingly doesn't drag and it's very well paced. The one complain i have about this movie is Toshirô Mifune acting. Was it just me or did e really overacted? I found it kinda annoying, but that's probably was his style, nevertheless, this is not a real acting and more of a theatrical performance. Overall, although "Rashômon" was made 65 years ago, it's still holds up for is ideas, inventive and intriguing storytelling,well pacing and very good script. It's a bit hard to watch a movie in 2015 which was created in 1950, but you can definitely see this one, it's really good movie.


                
Rashomon. The movie that earned Kurosawa a name in the film-making world and the first of a long line of classics afterwards. This movie is probably the first to show different stories on a particular event. So aside from it being the first to do something is it worth a look? In my eyes it certainly is.The plot? in 15th Century Japan 2 men, a woodsman and a preacher tell another man about how the woodsman found a murdered man and the three stories told in court (the bandit that killed the man, the dead man's wife and a medium contacting the dead man himself) all show different sides to the story. After that finally happens the woodsman reveals himself as a witness to the other 2 men and reluctantly shares his view on the story.I have only seen four Kurosawa films so far. Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, Sanjuro and this. I think this makes his best because of the tone it has, especially towards the end. This movie isn't just four stories to show different interpretations on what happened and people working it out for themselves, this is about the honesty of humanity and what they can lie about to make themselves look better (or more innocent). It is definitely worth a look if you are a fan of movies like Stalker and The Seventh Seal.
Four different accounts of the same story. Who to believe? No one? Everyone? The audience becomes the interrogator in Akira Kurosawa's "Rashomon," a film that explores the true nature of man through his subjectivity. So simple is this concept, yet few could match Kurosawa's delivery and craft it into a masterwork like he's done.In the pouring rain, a priest and woodcutter use the remainder of a damaged gatehouse to take shelter as they reflect on a rape and murder they had just testified regarding that happened merely three days before. Another man finds their shelter and asks to hear the story so long as the rain affords them the time. The priest had seen the murdered Samurai and his wife at one point and the woodcutter found the body. At the interrogation, they heard three testimonies from those involved: a bandit named Tajomaru (Toshiro Mifune) who confesses to the rape and killing, the rape victim (Machiko Kyo) and the murder victim (Masayuki Mori) as heard through a medium. Although all agree that the Samurai was bound as his wife was raped and that he indeed was killed, all three of their stories differ as to how it all happened.As each testimony builds on the next, we adjust what we feel is the truth accordingly, which ultimately leaves us with a story in which truth cannot be deciphered from lies. It becomes apparently rather quickly that the meat of the story lies elsewhere and that no right answer solves the riddle.What Kurosawa does with the story, other than put the audience in the seat of having to sort out the "facts," comes out in the tone. Although the events themselves have a black-and- white nature, he thickens their haziness with an almost fairy tale-like tone. The performances of the actors, namely Mifune and Kyo, echo more traditional Japanese theatre storytelling with exaggerations and heavy (and sometimes irritating) emotions. Mifune's cackling and Kyo's wailing have a profound impact on our perception of the events despite the fact that every character's story lacks in veracity.The key to the whole thing comes later from the woodcutter, who reveals he too has a testimony he was afraid to share. Suddenly he provides a clarity (although not necessarily a truth) to the events and Eastern themes such as the protecting of one's honor seem to factor prominently in what seems likely to be made up or closer to the truth.As the priest and woodcutter wrestle with their faith in mankind in rather blunt terms, so do we attempt to insert our own views on human nature. What sets "Rashomon" apart in this eternal dialogue of man's inherent goor or evil is the component of selfishness and looking out for one's interests. It would be unfair to say that the difference in each testimony was caused by calculated lies on behalf of the person giving it. Instead, self-interest can subconsciously warp our perspective and the way we interpret what we see and experience.Kurosawa infuses this tale with an intensity few could match, striking visuals that make you feel as if you're not seeing the same story three different times with slight variations, but three completely different takes.~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com


                
