So Ricky's character lives happily ever after and no one cares that he helped the drug addict kill himself even tho he could have turned his life around too. Great, keep those 10 ratings coming people.
The prostitute and the druggie where too clean to be remotely believable resulting in a complete lack of empathy for their characters.
The beardy twins playing the same weirdos they play in everything really didn't help the story either.
I'm a big fan of the Office and love Ricky Gervais' comedy stunts.After Life, however, is the epitome of boredom.Diving in, I was super-excited about it, thinking it has great potential to develop into a poignant piece that will both amuse and challenge.What it turned out to be, however, was far from poignant or moving. After Life is packed with dry, overused jokes that rarely land and is simply a repetitive pile of self-pitying mess.Horrible. I somehow endured till the final episode, only to be greeted with one of the cheesiest endings ever, when the main character Tony decides to become a better person through a series of uninspiring, lame events.Six episodes have felt like an eternity and After Life has cemented itself as the absolute worst dark comedy show I've ever seen in my life.


                
And on top of that it's actually actively annoying.Wasn't planning on writing a review til I PLOWED thru all the 10s and 9s and . . . wtf . . . what show did they watch.So I'm writing this to balance things out.And I reiterate. This is AWFUL.


                
Just terrible. Full of clichés and stereotypes. And it's hardly pleasant to watch, a fat guy loses is wife and he is depressed... Wow! How original


                
Another fantasy from a miilionaire who is entirely divorced from reality, foisting his image of 'grief' on an unsuspecting public. The irony is non-specific but, grates on the tongue when they inspect their glistening refrigerators and find nothing but the brands that sponsored this pathetic 'dark comedy'. Gervais is another plump has-been who should cough up his ill-gotten gains. I am surprised that the neck-spot queen aquiesced to take a back seat. What next? An award?


                
What a waste of time! What a load of narcissistic tripe. My life is poorer for having seen it. Only thing worse is the film Truly, Madly, Deeply....


                
I thought the acting was unimpressive. Ricky wasn't convincing as a grieving spouse. Grief can do funny things to people but if he was this amazing person his wife talked about in her videos, how did he become so means spirited. Angry, yes but he seems to have gone out of his way to be just mean. To thing that happened that showed where the series was going: meeting Anne in the cemetery and the nurses aide whom he took an interest in. Those 2 people were the catalyst for him changing and he did.
Got pretty boring after that.
Ricky Gervais has come up with this brilliant idea of a man struggling to cope with the death of his wife and his journey towards acceptance. Unfortunately he cast himself in the lead role and it shows every second on screen that he doesn't have the acting skill to pull this off. Though he can pull off and very well to simpler more broad stroke type character's this role is beyond him ironic in that he actually wrote the character. It grates every second he is on screen and spoils what could of been an excellent series. Penelope winton is good but serves only to highlight his deficiencies. David Bradley playing his alziemher stricken dad sadly makes Ricky's performance look good. I think the reason I dislike it so much is that if RG had stuck to just writing it and cast a couple of characters including his differently it would of been outstanding and won awards.
As a Ricky Gervais fan, I was really looking forward to it. I barely got some chuckles out, and the rest of the time neither felt moved or entertained.
The characters were a mix between being flat and one dimensional caricatures. Sandy in particular came across as someone with zero personality. She just seemed to just sit there, with neither doing anything, nor saying much.
And I cringed when I saw the flashbacks of Tony and his wife. He was nothing more than a prick in them. I got zero sense that his life with his wife was as amazing as he talked about it, unless he is just so utterly upset that he no longer has a person to tease with his terrible pranks.
Bath scene of him trying to cut himself, also looked like some terrible acting. Everything just felt rushed too. The idea of giving someone who wants to die the means to kill themselves has many layers to it, yet here it just happens, the brother in law gets upset and that is the end of it. There is no showing of what Tony's reaction really is to the reality that he has given someone the means to kill themselves.
There was no subtlety in this show. Most of the jokes have been told in interviews, or stand up. There wasn't any new material in this.
Someone mentioned Pilkington's "sick of it", and I may just go watch that, to get some of the humor that I was looking for in this. It's become clearer to me that Ricky's work just isn't that great without Merchant and Pilkington.
Look, I get it... I do! I LOVE dark humour! It is simply my favourite no matter how offensive or cynical it is please throw it my way. I love to laugh at the darker side of life (and death). BUT this is not dark humour, it's lazy and shallow insult comedy set against a backdrop of grief. I mean seriously, fat jokes? That is just insulting to the level of despair and hatred grief stricken people feel for the world. There was a huge pool here to dip from for the deeply dark and funny but he chose fat jokes. I would have thought that after so many years and such a great start Ricky's comedy would have gotten better and better but it seems to be regressing to school playground level.


                
It's not as if he's in the garden watering the lawn when he gets a phonecall telling him there's been an accident and she's dead. If Tony's way of grieving is to act like a nasty little bully chances are he was like this before and the only one keeping him in check was his wife.Gervais is still a self-loathing fatso school bully inside a 60 year old husk with a limited understanding of human beings, life and most importantly comedy.


                
I'm getting the feeling Ricky Gervais is a one-trick pony. He makes insulting people funny. . . and that's it. Here, he adds injury to insult by portraying a miserable, self-destructive loser who wallows in self-pity by binge-watching his dying wife's podcasts. Oh - and you can laugh out loud whenever he uses the c*** word if that rocks your boat then feel sorry for him when he resorts to eating cold beans out of a can. Dire television that only the British could come up with and hype to the extreme.


                
Certainly not my thing. I don't get the "humor". Too much cursing. Too many cliches. Do Brits have good looking actors?


                
I would watch. But I cannot stand this bumbling idiot, he makes me want to heave. His 'comedy' is as funny as dysentery.


                
