Ricky Gervais continues to surprise me. I know that he's very funny, with his own brand of humor that many people find offensive, but I like most of his stuff. And I think of him as a comedian - both as an actor and a writer/director. So every time he does something serious and thoughtful, I am amazed at the level of depth, humility and kindness he brings to his creations.
"After Life" is the story of a man who just lost his beloved wife, and with her, the will to live. He probably would have killed himself immediately, if he didn't have a dog to take care of. So he manages to get out of bed every day, and lead an existence devoid of any shred of happiness or hope. He titters on the brink of death, yet doesn't cross the line; he manages to anger, but not completely alienate those closest to him. People annoy him, probably because they go on living despite the fact that his world has ended. Worst of all, he claims to not care about his own life to the point where he deliberately puts himself in harm's way, yet the only people that he's hurting by his behavior are the people who still care about him.
I recently lost the person that I loved most in this world, and who loved me the most, and this show displayed so precisely all the feelings that I've been going through. All the terrible feelings and thoughts that you don't share with anyone, because they are too dark to put into words.
I'm so grateful to Gervais for doing it for me. Now when someone asks me how I'm feeling, I can reffer them to this show.


                
I watched the show in one sitting. It is challeging. It makes you think with great humor. It has its dramas. It will make you almost cry while making you laugh. It's genius and I recommend you watch it if you think you are depressed or you see no point in life. And I guess it's greatest characteristic is that its honest.


                
Easily his best work since 'The Office', maybe even his best work. Poignant, funny, heart warming and beautifully acted. If you watch one thing this year make it this (clearly you won't just watch one thing but not matter how many it is, make sure After Life is included). It is 6 episodes of the most beautifully crafted television on a subject matter that has no right to be this funny. However, the humour is always tinged with sadness (and vice versa) and the balance between the two is perfect.Just watch it and prepare to cry, laugh and maybe just put a little bit of perspective into your life.


                
Ricky Gervais knows how to make you laugh and ugly cry, sometimes together. I think this is my favorite of his series. He speaks right to the dark, sad, and angry part in all of us. He also shows us that everyone is beautiful.The series is beautifully shot, the cast is fantastic and each character has a slow reveal from who they are in Tony's eyes to who they really are. It's beautifully done.Only Ricky Gervais can pull off shows like After Life and Derek. I hope he gives us more.


                
Ricky Gervais does it again.
Makes me laugh, makes me cry and makes me think!
I rather have six brilliant episodes than 20 so and so!


                
Binch-watched it in a few hours. It's brilliant, fresh and endearing. Makes you laugh and cry at the same time.


                
This is a really really good show, absolutely worth watching. Yeah it's heartbreaking at times but also incredibly funny and sweet. Ricky Gervais is a genius.


                
Ricky Gervais may be a polarising personality but there is no mistaking his genius. Once again he's managed to tread the lines between comedy and drama so perfectly that it feels real and genuine. The Office was good but this is 100% more nuanced. With episodes around 30 minutes long it's just the right length to make you wanting more and means you can blitz the entire series in an evening.


                
I watched the show in one evening, and now I'm gutted that its finished so I am watching it again.
Its absolutely fantastic, I laughed, I cried, I was hooked from the first episode. you will be too, I can't recommend it enough


                
I just watched the entire thing in one go, and honestly think it's the best work he's ever done. Just brilliant.


                
There is nothing bad to be said about this. Every actor is marvellous.
The story, the caracters are just warm and so real.


                
Having lost my husband last year, this series really hit me in the heart, but with enough humor to keep me watching. Gervais is a genius.My only complaint was the language was pretty rough, but that is Gervais.


                
I've never been a fan of Ricky Gervais but decided to give this a go. I found it laugh out loud funny and crying out loudly as well!! Most of the cast are well known faces and all gave an excellent performance. The best TV Ricky has ever made. So moving and poignant. 10 plus.


                
Beautiful.
I've been a fan of Gervais since the 11 o clock show so anything he does I pay attention to.
This is like nothing he's done before but it's almost autobiographical as a lot of his views are in this script.
As much as it's very funny a lot of the parts that made me smile were the sad things in life we never want to happen to us.
It's so well scripted and acted the humanity is everything that makes it funny.


                
This show presents emotion at its rawest, I could relate to the emotions of the main character "tony". Ricky Gervais's acting is sublime and moved me in ways no other actor could.


                
I noticed Ricky Gervais has a new series on Netflix and decided to give it a go. I ended up watching all six episodes and was mightily impressed. "After Life" is by turns laugh out loud funny, black as pitch, ridiculously silly and intensely moving. It is the story of recently widowed Tony and his attempts to deal with almost unbearable grief. Not the most promising of ideas for a sitcom you might think but Gervais (writer, director and star) has crafted a beautifully pitched work that had me laughing uncontrollably one minute and sobbing my heart out the next. It is rich with the absurdities of existence that make life so joyful, painful and precious. If you can, go and watch it now. An extraordinary and beautiful piece of work.


                
Ricky Gervais has pulled off something truly amazing with After Life. Watching this show was brilliant. It will make you laugh and cry, in some scenes at the same time. Many viewers will find that they can relate to the main character and some of the other characters in the series as well, we all have or know people like these in our lives.
The series is brilliantly done, heart warming, laugh out loud funny yet desperately sad at times. I watched all 6 episodes in one sitting. Highly recommended.


                
This is the first review Ive ever written, the first Ive ever felt compelled to write.
This season follows a man whose heart was broken by the death of a loved one. At times it is uproariously funny, I laughed out loud whilst alone, which for me, is very rare. But the overall feeling I was left with was uplifting.
Each of the characters are believable and someone that suffers from mental illness, I found a lot of what the protagonist was feeling was relatable.
I know that Ricky Gervais is a polarising figure, but even if you're not a fan, I urge you to watch.


                
Rarely (if ever) do you feel compelled to thank a creator of a show, but Ricky Gervais is the exception, After Life is different, very different, it keeps you wrapped into the main characters cocooned life after the death of his wife, he misses her and longs to be with her again. The supporting actors are superb too. Although the premise may appear depressing the show is filmed in the summer of 2018 and is beautiful to watch, not dank and grey but warm and light. Another masterpiece from the creator of the office, extras and the amazing Derek, oh not to mention being the best stand up of our time.... thank you Ricky!


                
This a a touching, brilliant story by Ricky Gervais and this is his best work ever, better than The Office.Ricky, I hate you because you're not only one of the funniest comedians around but you write this incredible story of a man who discover life again after a devastating loss. Your talent is just boundless!


                
You'll laugh, you'll cry and you'll cringe but you'll love every minute. This series is a masterclass on how comedy has changed and how Gervais has changed it. The characters are amazing and the themes can be confronting but the seriousness of the subject is never taken for granted. It's just beautiful.While most sitcoms have a few characters reacting to how they deal with a situation like finding a lost wallet or where to go for dinner, this show literally deals with suicide, drug abuse and dementia but it doesn't feel depressing to watch. You sympathise with the character and hope that he finds the strength to not end it all. All you have is hope.
I always had a soft spot ricky humor, but this is a little better because he shows his drama side which he can do really well


                
I can't say that I've ever been a fan of Ricky, but I spent the afternoon watching this and it was absolutely brilliant.


                
I'm a huge fan of Shaun of the Dead and Game of thrones and the cast is largely made up of supporting actors from each.2017 wasn't very kind to me in many ways, so this show really hit home. It was brilliant as it told stories about coping and how life can really throw some punches sometimes.


                
Ricky Gervais looks like my Dad, and In this show, his character acts JUST like my Dad (when he's not in a good place).. I encouraged him to watch this show tonight, and it brought a smile and tear to his face. that alone is worth the 10*. Thanks Ricky


                
