Gervais has to find another scriptwriter because on his own he's not very good. Actually he writes like a teenager. Sure, the premise of this is sad but it is a good enough notion to begin examining life and make some remarks, whether funny or not.Unfortunately none of this is funny: it's glum and sour and, worst of all smug. Brandishing forbidden words is not very interesting, or shocking, let alone funny, now. It was when Lenny Bruce did it, but that was a long time ago.The emptiness in the entire project is that Gervais, like a 17 year old, is desperate to be profound, to have something to say about death and loss but he is left with nothing more than bromides and the sort of irritating platitudes aged relatives offer.This is cruising to nowhere and hopefully it will be cancelled, or, if not, a script editor and a second writer joins the team to ensure that the scripts are better than this pretentious unsuccessful and unfunny excursion into deeper waters.


                
With expectations at their lowest point for a Gervais project following the terrible 'Derek', AfterLife doesn't exactly disappoint, it just fails to rouse any kind of reaction at all. It's typical Gervais fare really, laced with a pious 'telling it how it is' sanctimony that typifies his output, from Twitter to his stand up. It's a tedious trope that obfuscates the enjoyment that the finer moments of his work could produce.Episode one contains a string of thinly veiled fat jokes, which betray what you're getting here. For all it's self styled moral grandsizing and subtle virtue signalling, it's simple, you could say lazy, stuff. There's a twee Gervais Lesson on kindness yet again, and ultimately you're neither offended, amused, loved or affected in any way, really. It's just a bit dull.


                
You will see nothing new in this Gervais show/manifesto, which is a shame.
Okay we get it. God doesn't exist, nihilism +++, Dogs are better than people; but the people in this show are all dire TV tropes- the sex worker with the heart of gold, Postman Pat- in the flesh, etc, so it's not a fair comparison is it?
Despite the effort to make Gervais' character come across as a kind, Narcissist with a conscience, the only character who meets this criteria is, in fact the Psychiatrist.
Gervais's character is a pathologically grief stricken Sociopath with no conscience. He happily kills (with kindness) his drug dealer, for what purpose? A sense of power, to see if he feels anything?
His workmates say he has a conscience, but don't be fooled this character would happily go out raping and murdering, if he could be bothered, which he can't, because he's lazy and you know, the mess. Who would clean that up?
Anyway, this show and the world has gone to the dogs
Gervais hasn't been good since he stopped working with Stephen Merchant and hasn't made a good sitcom since Extras. There are reviews here calling this hilarious and poignant. It is neither. It's a man moping and deciding that he'll be shut to everyone because he's sad. That's not poignant. There are a few funny moments but dredging though the contrived dialogue is too much work. There is a scene in this where Gervais says, No one could make a caricature of Kenneth Brannagh as he has no discernible features. That was the only thing I laughed out loud at in this series and not because it's wonderful observational comedy but because Ricky can only write of the top caricatures of characters.


                
I know I'm spitting into the wind here with all these 9 and 10 ratings but this is a horrible show, not entertaining in the least, a real miss for the otherwise funny Ricky Gervais. This series tries to be like "Curb Your Enthusiasm" except for some key elements: there's no light, whimsical background/theme music, there's no studio audience to nervously laugh, and there are no appealing secondary characters; in fact, British people seem to be very plain Jane, bland, dull, etc. Ricky plays a British dude who becomes a real a-hole to those around him as a reaction to a tragic relationship event. His a-holeishness is more harsh and cutting than funny or humorous, though. And the flashbacks are supposed to be endearing, I guess, but they just don't score, they seem out of place for this. This series just fails across the board, can't find anything redeeming here.


                
