This is an excellent return to form for Ricky Gervais whose earlier ventures weren't exceptional. After Life is about Gervais' quintessential middle-aged man who has lost his wife to cancer.He struggles to cope with the loss and finds ways to hurt people around him. This would have been cringe-worthy in earlier shows of his, but here it comes across as poignant and very affecting.


                
Ricky Gervais is known for his unfiltered, politically incorrect style of comedy, both on stage as a stand-up comic and in his media appearances. People either get offended by or fall in love with the British comedian. I've loved Gervais' work, not just his brutally honest comedic style, but also the stories he crafts that are a proper blend of humor and heart.After his hit creation of The Office that later went on to inspire the american remake that remains wildly popular, Gervais created endearing shows like Extras and Derek, shows that had their moments of cringeworthy laughs but remained rooted in rich character development and heartwarming moments depicting true-to-life human struggles.Gervais next work is a 6-part mini-series for Netflix titled After Life, in which Gervais portrays a man named Tony, who after losing his wife to cancer is emotionally empty and takes out his bitterness on those around him. Tony has several regular interactions, whether that be with his quirky co-workers, a prostitute he befriends, his dog, a heroin addict, his snarky therapist, his boss and brother-in-law, his nephew, his elderly father, his father's caretaker, and a fellow widow he sees at the graveyard. Tony's bitter approach and suicidal thoughts are tested as he tries to cope with his loss and see the better in life. That said, Tony can be truly brutal in his insults, providing us as the audience a sense of comedic relief in the midst of a depressing subject matter.Tony isn't a likeable person due to his rudeness. There are times we hate him, yet throughout each episode we can't help but root for him due to the pain he's experienced. Ricky Gervais may be a witty comedian, but few have truly noted or appreciated his tremendous gifts as a serious actor, which is evident not only in prior shows like Derek, but is put on full display in After Life.It takes a truly talented actor to make an audience laugh out loud, feel sad inside and feel turned off by his character's rude behavior all at once. Gervais doesn't tell us how to interpret Tony, but it's nearly impossible not to want him to overcome his emotional struggles and become the person he once was.Even though the tendency of constant bitterness does way down on us at times, After Life proves dramatically and comedically effective due to how Gervais writes and directs each episode. Few people in show business know how to mix comedy with drama so honestly in a style that isn't forced or unrealistic.After Life may not be Gervais' best hit comedic work (find a funnier sitcom than Extras and a better stand up routine than Humanity), yet Gervais reminds us of the value of life and the purpose to care for others. Both heartbreaking and uplifting, After Life is a deeply personal project that incorporates lots of Gervais' personal philosophy and allows us to examine a second appraoch at life through unfiltered comedy and soulful revelations.


                
Ricky G never disappoints. Not a huge fan of his stand up but love every show he has written/directed. He truly captures all aspects of human emotion... so clever and so believable - had me laughing whilst the tears were streaming! Fantastic and familiar casting, too - just brilliant.


                
A series that beautifully presents one man's journey through a place of deep pain and sorrow. Leavened with moments and characters of real comedy to prevent it descending into bleakness, its an intelligent and moving commentary on some of the terrible ills of our society...drug addiction, isolation, abandonment, rage. Ricky Gervais and an ensemble cast of wonderful and familiar actors reveal the psyche and human side of people dealing with real problems, pain and loss. They do this in a sympathetic way without descending into smalch or misery. I think the writing is terrific. It does have a moralising subtext, particularly in the last episode, but perhaps the world needs this in a time when so much of what we are presented on screen lauds violence, cruelty and people taking advantage. Let's hear it for all the good guys! Recommended


                
Great series overall. There is appropriate comedy. The breast milk pudding episode is especially funny. Will make you laugh out loud.
The last episode gets a bit preachy and not at all subtle. Almost as if RG was dumbing himself down or rushing through the last bit just to stick to time or something.
Either way, a good short binge-worthy series.


                
Heartwarming, fantastic acting and makes you reflect on life <f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+0095>


                
I have always been a fan of Ricky Gervais's sarcastic humour and this series is no exception. A funny, depressing at times and sad look at coping with grief with a great cast of characters. This series reminds me a lot of the Alan Rickman 1990 film "Truly, Madly, Deeply" without the supernatural theme or extreme language. If you like this series you may also like "Truly, Madly, Deeply"


                
He does it again. Gervais really can't miss. The Office, Extras, Derek and now After Life. This series is fantastic. It is incredibly well written and directed by Gervais. I love seeing him back together with both Kerry Godliman and Ashley Jensen. He and Ashley have an incredible chemistry that reminded me of their time on Extras. Gervais really does no wrong here. His abilities and range as an actor continue to surprise me. After Life is incredibly sad and poignant but also uplifting and funny when it needs to be. Overall, the cast is great. We get taken on this journey and we invest in these characters' lives. The cast manages to develop these characters and flesh them out really allowing the viewer in. Somehow they accomplish all this in only 6 episodes. There are series out there running 20+ episodes per season that don't accomplish the same feat. Great series, incredibly well done.


                
A comedy for grown ups about grown up issuesLove that Ricky wrote the atheism themes into it.


                
This series hits so deep. Well worth the investment of time. Up until the last episode, I was totally engrossed in this story and where our main character's life would take us. It was just very a very human story of how one individual handles his grief. So very touching and so very real. In this regard, I particularly loved the use of source music and underscore, it set up perfectly, the emotion we should feel for the characters without it getting in the way of the story. Well Done!
I would have given it a perfect 10, if not for the (too) safe of an ending.
RealReviews101


                
Unlike much of the rest of contemporary TV shows, After Life brings something new, real and refreshing. If you are searching for a half and hour break from work, or daily obligations of other sort, this TV show will give more than you than expected. You will get involved, and feel refreshed. I strongly recommend it. Thanks, Ricky Gervais.


                
The critics and the twitterati were pretty rough on this one (Ricky G "gets grief all wrong," scoffed The New Yorker; he's "like the Aaron Sorkin of being a jerk," twitted The New York Times). Way harsh, guys, but though we enjoyed the series quite a bit, I agree that RG's on much firmer ground when he's dragging a stiff-necked waitress who won't let his avatar, Tony, order from the children's menu than when he's trying to say something big about the human condition.Tony's a recent widower who decides to leverage his feelings of loss and emptiness (his "super power," he calls it) by speaking truth to imperfection wherever he finds it and being as nasty as he wants to be to all and sundry; if the pushback gets to be too much, he can always kill himself... This dirtbag village atheist version of "It's a Wonderful Life" doesn't really fly, but the series gets better as it goes along, as RG eases up on the existential angst and gets back to his core business of making with the jokes.Tony works for his brother-in-law writing up reader-supplied content for a small-town weekly ("Area boy plays two recorders through his nostrils" and the like), and the "Office"-style workplace comedy's still quite entertaining, even when Tony tries to defend his atheist unbeliefs to a very basic workmate (the scene that prompted The Times' snippy comment quoted above). The locations were filmed in two telegenic Home County towns, and the secondary cast is great: Kerry Godliman, as Tony's wife (seen only in video on his laptop), supplies some much-needed warmth; Penelope Wilton and Ashley Hansen are welcome as Tony's wise comforters, likewise Roisin Conaty as a cheerful sex worker."After Life" reminds me a little of a middle-period Woody Allen movie like "Stardust Memories" or "A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy" where Woody was trying to emulate the serious directors he admires like Fellini and Bergman and somehow forgot to be funny; luckily Ricky's basic instincts don't entirely desert him here, and "After Life" is still an enjoyable, bingeable series.


                
Heartfelt with splashes of Gervais trademark witticisms. No great wonderous revelations, just one man's struggle through adversity. I love how Gervais' natural affection towards dogs has translated to this work also.


                
This is rickys best work since office-great cast full of comedy and drama.
He even managed to give that wierd bloke of countdown a proper job as an actor or maybe they filmed it in a real neighbourhood and he's now a postman, who knows. I don't know about dressing up karl pilkington as call girl that a bit much.


                
I am a fan of Mr. Gervais even though it hasn't always easy to like him. He is brilliant, obviously, and an acquired taste but such a wonderful breath of fresh air thru the vast Hollywood. But I am also a fan of his because he is a fan of Ashley Jenson, his co-star in the show as well as Extras and this show. Hard not to love her characters.This show is also an acquired taste. I took me until the third episode to buy in; I gave up too easily, I know that now. But, like his character, I am also grieving but not the loss of my beautiful wife, thank Zeus, but the loss of my youth and the good, quick-healing health that youths enjoy. I am making a come-back but let's talk about this show.Gervais is solid here; spot on in his portrayal of a man who has lost his wife and best friend. He mourns her and lashes out at those around him. But despite his abrasiveness, people can see in him someone who needs help; who needs to be rescued from himself but they also know that he is toxic. He's worth saving even if he doesn't want saving. Still they try. It is such a positive show about redemption but without the smarminess and preachiness Hollywood likes to toss around to teach us poor, dumb hicks about life.What a wonderful piece of writing, Mr. Gervais. Congratulations.


                
I am a lifelong fan of Ricky Gervais' television exploits: Extras and Derek were both excellent for different reasons, whilst The Office is potentially the best pseudo-comedy ever made, founding the genre of mockumentary comedies worldwide. After Life is a different style to everything done before - instead of trying to slyly input a moral story and feeling, this show is brutally honest (as shown by the earliest interaction between Tony (Gervais' character) and a readheaded schoolboy).The use of the small town newspaper business and a close knit community adds to the sense of togetherness that everyone bar Tony feels, even with the kaleidoscope of characters involved in the show. The relationships each have with one another impact differently on every episode, ever-changing and all important, regardless of the screentime devoted to each interaction. A subtle soundtrack adds to these scenes, becoming genuinely emotional in the latter episodes of the show.It might be an overestimated sense of self importance, but After Life resonates with me like no other show has before. Whilst having not experienced pain like Gervais' character has, the way it is presented to me/the audience allows you to empathise, without the experience of watching becoming too heavy (thanks to some excellent humour). I would wholeheartedly recommend - and I sincerely hope another season is in the works.


                
At 6 episodes at half hour each you can watch this series in one sitting. It's funny as well as dealing with some serious issues. It's something different and has a laid back easy viewing quality to it that makes it enjoyable.


                
I loved it! Ricky Gervais is an amazing writer and is so funny. This show is about showing the struggles of a recent widower who only has his dog by his side.
He tries to end his life but every time his lovely dog is there to remind him that he's still needed on Earth. It's so sweet.
He also seeks comfort from a woman at the cemetery who helps him with his grief.This is a great show it's a drama that has comedy in it. His humour is clever and it isn't being funny for the sake of it, it fits.I highly recommend it.
Surprisingly poignant and unforgiving. I like Ricky's perspective on life and religion - all its ridiculous nonsense, human failure and imperfection but yet -appreciating the beauty in mortality, true connection, laughter and animals. But I was still pleasantly surprised by the depth and thoughtfulness of this series. Loved it.


                
This was beautiful. So absolutely beautiful. It made me cry, made me laugh, made me think. Perhaps a little too preachy once but overall lovely and full of hope in the darkness. It was life. Nothing more, nothing less. Just... lovely.


                
Great job Ricky Gervais bring a funny side to the loss of a love one and bring male suicide to the attention
Males tend to keep there self's bottled up rather then talking about there issues untill it's sometimes it's too late male pride I guess.
This makes you realise you need to talk and realize that you maybe having a bad time but so can the next person you meet.
Funny
Sad
Eye opening
Big thumbs up guys


                
It's probably the best work of "Rikki" in the latest years. Even though some of the characters are a bit cartoonish, the general storytelling is very subtle and fluid. There were some truly inspirational quotes about generous love and care in a time of so much anger and hatred around us. Great soundtrack as well, made me discover the band called "Daughter".


                
Only complaint is the main song for the last episode, could've picked something better. Really good overall though, I mean don't expect OZ, but maybe the narrations at the start of each episode. 100% worth a watch.


                
I just binged this all today.Per the title, it feels like it's confused as to whether it's a drama or comedy, which is why I can understand some of the negative reviews.Given the topic is that of suicidal thoughts of a husband grieving the loss of his wife, there are elements which were not handled well in my opinion around suicide (won't detail here as this is a spoiler).However, I feel that through the six episodes you see the main character go through the grieving process in his own self induced emotional coma and come out with a positive message in the end.


                
Really enjoyed this, some great characters, and Ricky dealing with death is something that we've never seen him act out before, loved his usual sarcastic nature.


                
