When I first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now. I think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it. Just recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest seeing it or seeing it again. It truly is amazing...


                
I believe everyone has a right to their opinion about films or other topics. However from a lot of the comments I have read about this film, I do not think many got the gist of the message from the author and the film maker. This film is a great modern fable, a fable in the dictionary is defined as a brief fictitious story that teaches a moral. There are many morals defined in this film but foremost is integrity and a simple goodness.I have a half brother who grew up in the Southern U.S. and on one occasion we were discussing this film and he said he felt it portrayed Southerners as dimwitted. I disagreed with him and informed him that the author himself was a native Southerner. The setting is central to this story in that it lets the tale unfold tying in factual events with the fable before us.The film is wonderfully directed by Robert Zemeckis, the film is his opus and is acted by a great cast on all levels. From the children who were Forrest Gump and Gump Jr. by Haley Joel Osment. Say what you want but I feel Tom Hanks deserved the Oscar award. Gary Sinise is synonymous with Lt.Dan whenever you hear those words. Sally Fields is the loving dutiful mother in her challenging situation. Mykelti Williamson as Bubba gives you a real sense in the story that Gump had a genuine friend, he moves you with his character. Words don't grasp the full performance of Robin Wright Penn as Jenny. Jennys' tenderness and pain are palpable as exhibited by Wright.I feel that much of Gumps' appeal is his downright sense of doing the right thing regardless of the people and situations around him and we see that in this film. That being the case maybe we all wish we could be just a little more like that, trying to maintain innate goodness and not the trade-offs we often make as we go down lifes highways.The movie has it all too,drama,comedy and it challenges societal norms as well. Then there are the almost endless quotes from the movie that have slipped into everyday speech. They are too numerous to say at this point.One of the toppers for me in the movie is when Forrest is in a quandary about life and wondering as Lt.Dan said we all have a destiny and his Mom says it is where we are all just floating around like a feather in the wind. Forrest's character terms it very well with this quote,"I think it is a little bit of both." From my experiences in life it does appear to be that way. So if you have not seen the movie,see it soon you are in for a real treat. If you did not like it, give it a try again and hopefully you will see it for the great story it is!


                
This is a powerful yet charming movie; fun for its special effects and profound in how it keeps you thinking long after it's over. Like others, I've seen this movie more than once. One comment I've never heard is that Forrest's simplicity is almost zen-like. I should read the novel to get the author's intention (I remember some people preferring the book and complaining that no one at the Academy Awards gave him any credit.) But rather than an implication that you should do what you're supposed to do and believe in God and you'll win in the end, I see it as zen-like, i.e., living in the moment and not having expectations or particular cravings (other than his loving Jenny.) So he ends up just stumbling into all the major historical events of the time. Granted, he achieves this only because he doesn't have the brains to think otherwise and actually have expectations, but so many of our problems are because we do have higher intellect and desires, which ironically makes us unhappy because we know what we are missing. We love our cats and dogs for the same simplicity and always being in the moment. There's a line in the movie wondering if everything is predestined or happens randomly or it's a combination of both. It is something to mull over for a long time.


                
Quite simply, the greatest film ever made.Humour, sadness, action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one.I'm not a stone cold, heartless villain, but it takes a lot to make me cry when I watch a movie. Bambi's mother, I couldn't care less. Jimmy Stewart in, "Oh, what a wonderful life," - yeah right! The Lion King, when Mufasa bites the big one - on the verge.But seriously - I bawled my big brown eyes out, on several occasions in this film. A real tear-jerker, and a wonderful character, played to perfection by Tom Hanks. Every bit as worthy for the Oscar as Rooney was to win the Premiership in 2007.I cannot say it enough: This is THE film of all time. Watch it, and you'll see.


                
"I've made about 20 films and 5 of them are pretty good"-Tom Hanks."Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time, guaranteed. I really just love this movie and it has such a special place in my heart. The performances are just so unforgettable and never get out of your head. The characters, I mean the actors turned into them and that's what got to me. The lines are so memorable, touching, and sometimes hilarious.We have Forrest Gump(Tom Hanks), not the sharpest tool in the box, his I.Q. is right below the average scores. But his mama(Sally Field) believes that her boy has the same opportunities as anyone else and lets Forrest know that there's nothing that could hold him back. As a boy he is put into braces for his legs since he has a crooked back and really doesn't have too many friends. When he gets on a school bus for his first day of school, NO ONE will let him sit next to them. This scene is so heart breaking until you hear a little angel's voice "You can sit here if you want". Jenny, Forrest's best friend and crush, she looks so incredibly innocent and you love her because her and Forrest are like pea's and carrots. But we find out that there is an extremely unfortunate side to her life, she has a father that's "always kissing and touching her and her sisters". Forrest just assumes that it's a father's love since he doesn't have a dad that could show him that it's wrong.Forrest and Jenny together walk every day from school and when these kids start throwing rocks at Forrest calling him stupid, Jenny just tells Forrest "Run, Forrest! Run!". He miraculously breaks the braces off his legs and run like the wind blows. Forrest meets many celebrities from his life that just happened to be there: Elvis Presley visited his house before hitting it big, President Kennedy honored him with a all American football award, President Johnson who honored him with a medal of honor for his actions in Vietnam, President Nixon(in which Forrest happens to discover a problem in the Water Gate Hotel because some people seem to be flashing lights around), and John Lennon through a talk show to talk about his medal of honor.Forrest meets some interesting people along the way too that are even better than these celebrities combined; Bubba his Vietnam war friend who dreams of owning a shrimp boat one day and was born with big gums. He is just so wonderful and charming and won't stop talking about shrimp. Luteniet Dan, a leader of Forrest's army in Vietnam who gets saved by Forrest during a huge attack and looses his legs as a result. Luteniet Dan was by far my favorite character, he has so much pride and wants to die in Vietnam due to his family history tradition of dying in every single American war. He and Forrest make quite a pair. And of course there's Jenny, a very tragic figure, she gets more mean as she grows up because she knows that Forrest loves her, in some ways you can't blame her really. She was obviously abused and I think she felt that Forrest was too good for her or that he couldn't really give her the love she wanted. Robin Wright, what a beautiful and wonderful actress.This movie is incredible and should be seen by everyone. I am not kidding, "Forrest Gump" is a remarkable movie and inspires everyone. It's not just about someone stupid who happens to be in great places and historic events just because of being in the right place at the right time. This story is beautiful and will inspire everyone to go the distance and see the world like Forrest did and will never give up on their dreams.10/10


                
I have seen this movie easily a half a dozen times, and I find that the beauty of the film is how Forrest Gump not only shares his innocence and purity with others, including the audience, he also manages to retain that innocence and purity through some very difficult times. As a Viet Nam veteran, and a college graduate of the late Sixties, I could of course personally relate to the various periods that Forrest Gump endures. I would only mention that the skillful and seamless blending of music, action, and period costume was enthralling. And yet it was so perfectly understated that Forrest Gump's travels through thirty five years of the stormiest and most meaningful years of American history only became clearly defined for the viewer. Even more so than the well known chocolates quote as a metaphor for life, I felt that the remark that stupid is what you do is probably more workable for most of us.


                
What I find completely ridiculous is why this movie, in my opinion one of the best ever, has such a low rating, so I've tried to figure out what some found against it.I noticed that the haters of this movie who make it have a lower rating than it actually deserves mainly argue that it promotes the government's politics of submission: the idea that "if you're an idiot but you do what you're told then you will be rewarded, but, if you experience life then you're going to die a miserable death." I'm not an American myself so i don't have any intention to defend the government or anyone else, but I think that the political events witnessed by the character in the movie make many miss the whole substance of the film. I think these bits of history only add to the magic of the film, making Forrest part of a fantastic world that seems so incredibly real though. How can somebody say that Forrest is just an idiot, an ordinary person who does everything that he is told to do? It appears to me that in fact,in his innocence, Forrest does what he feels he has to do,no matter the situations and the people around him, lead only by an inner sense of right. So what actually seems to be special about Forrest is that, regardless of his intelligence, he has the capacity to discover simple truth and life values that all the others around him miss: he tries to save Bubba endangering his own life, he gives Bubba's family money and mainly displays simple goodness in everything he does. So if you haven't yet seen the movie or you were disappointed by it, try watching it without analyzing things that much and just open your heart towards that world. The brilliant humour, the hilarious yet touching acting, the special effects and the uplifting message are totally rewarding.
Starring: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Sally Field This was flat out one of the best movies of 1994. It won best picture for a reason, along with a few other Academy Awards. I think one of the tag lines for the movie was, "The world will never be the same once you've seen it through the eyes of Forrest Gump." How true. The movie is basically one simple man's journey through life. And what a journey.The movie opens with Forrest (Hanks) sitting at a bus stop, waiting to go see Jenny (Wright) after being apart from her for years. Who is Jenny, you ask? We'll get to that in a minute. Forrest strikes up a conversation or two with the people that come and wait for the bus with him. Or, more accurately, he keeps talking regardless of whether anybody is listening or not. The movie plays out as a flashback, with Forrest taking us through all the major events of his life and narrating them.The flashback starts when Forrest is a little boy, about six years old or so, just at about the age where he should be starting school. We get to take a look at Forrest's childhood as he gets leg braces to straighten out his back, as his momma (Field) fights (and does a few other things) to get him into public school, and as he meets for the first time the love of his life. Jenny. He meets her on the way to school, sitting next to her on the bus, and they strike up a friendship immediately.Eventually we progress to the point where Forrest and Jenny are in high school, and we travel along with Forrest as he makes it onto the football team and gets to go to college. Forrest and Jenny never date, but he's always there to protect her. Anytime he thinks she's in trouble, he rushes to the rescue, ready to beat the ever-loving snot out of anyone who even looks at his Jenny wrong. I think one of my favorite scenes in the movie is when someone is dumb enough to slap Jenny. The film goes slow motion, Forrest's eyes go wide, and he starts charging at this guy like a runaway locomotive, and has the striking force of one too. Watching him beat the crap out of that guy is hilarious.As Forrest grows up and goes through school, college, the army, a Vietnam tour, becomes a ping pong celebrity, a shrimp boat captain, and eventually one of the richest men out there, he also gets to take a few stops in history as the filmmaker gives us his own spin of how he thinks history would have happened if Forrest Gump were there. He gets to meet the President three times, he's the man who exposes the Watergate scandal, he's at the school doors when Governor George Wallace tries to get some Negroes into a white school, and so on and so forth. It's really funny the way they manipulate historical footage to insert Forrest into the events of the past.This is truly a great movie. You'd be a fool to miss it.Bottom Line: 4 out of 4 (own this movie)
He may have been good in Philadelphia but be is excellent in Forrest Gump.Tom Hanks delivers another great performance in his career by portraying the lovable,king yet not so intelligent character Forrest Gump.It is also Tom Hanks' second straight win for the Best Actor Oscar which he becomes the second man to do said accomplishment after Spencer Tracy.Whilst not as dramatic as Philadelphia,Tom Hanks' performance is just as great in this movie and this movie could possibly be the film of Tom Hanks' career as he used to be a comedy guy who turned to drama in a way which would paved for future stars such as Jim Carrey(The Truman Show),Reese Witherspoon(Walk the Line) and Will Ferrell(Stranger Than Fiction) to name a few.Also staring in this great movie classic are Robin Wright-Penn who plays Jenny,Gary Sinise who was nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of Lieutenant Dan Taylor,Mykelti Williamson as Forrest's best friend and shrimper Benjamin Buford"Bubba" Blue and Sally Field as Mrs.Gump.This film was nominated for a total of thirteen Academy Awards but won six of them which include Best Film Editing,Best Visual Effects,Best Adapted Screenplay,Best Picture,Best Director-Robert Zemeckis and Best Actor-Tom Hanks.This is one masterpiece of a movie that will not be forgotten about in a long time.Bravo!


                
FORREST GUMP (1994) **** Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson. Brilliantly directed and inspiring comic drama about the truly extraordinary life and times of mentally challenged Forrest Gump (Hanks in the best role of his career won his second Best Actor Oscar in back-to-back winning roles), a simple, honest, and decent man whose childlike innocence is his lucky charm through his altering experiences that span the past two decades flawlessly. Mind-boggling Oscar-winning computerized effects by Industrial Light & Magic has Gump meeting the famous and infamous. Hanks is a wonder (dare you not to get a lump in your throat when it finally registers that he has a child {yes, that's Haley Joel Osment}- watch his face!) and gets fine support especially Wright as the love of his life and Sinise as his best friend (Best Supporting Actor nominee) superior adaptation of Winston Groom's novel by Eric Roth (also an Academy Award recepient) that truly captures lightning in a bottle. Oscars also went to director Robert Zemeckis and for Best Picture. *** One of my all-time favorite flicks. I still cry, particularly Forrest telling Jenny why he loves her so much ("You're my girl!") and at the gravesite when the birds fly overhead.
I've seen most of the top-voted 30 or 40 movies here at IMDb, and Forrest Gump probably wins my vote for the single best movie ever made.This is not a conclusion I came to the first time I saw this film, or the second. The more you understand about this movie, the more you like it. And in terms of understanding it, my wife and I both were still gaining new understanding the 5th or 6th time we watched it. (For example: Why does Jenny behave exactly as she does throughout the movie? It'll take a lot of thinking to =fully= understand her.)Just the fact that we've seen it at least half a dozen times says a lot. There are few movies that I ever even give a second viewing. Like many of the truly good movies, there are people out there who see it once and consider it to be a waste of time. Such people are usually just looking for the most "action," gore and sex they can find, and haven't a clue about films that actually involve thought, ideas, and life.Did I mention the script is absolutely brilliant? There are a lot of =truly= funny moments. And the music rocks. But those are only specific aspects of a movie that has just about everything else right about it as well.See it, enjoy it, think about it, see it again. Think about it some more. Forrest Gump is one of the greatest movies -- if not THE greatest -- ever made.


                
Winston Groom's Forrest Gump was a novel that was complicated, but (Oscar winning) director Robert Zemeckis brings events together with visual effects that boggle even George Lucas. And leading the film in this odyssey of American life is Tom Hanks playing Gump (he won his second Oscar for his portrayal) in a film that shows one man who goes through many events in history to find the one he loves.  Well done, well acted, and well directed to pythagorean procision. A++


                
This awesome movie is about an innocent man who represents how the world should be: he's loyal, humble, honest, he would never cheat or lie. He does everything with good heart and reaches success at the most important tasks of life.Only in America he could live such an interesting life: meet Elvis Presley, President Kennedy, John Lennon... He goes to Vietnam's war and he does everything following his heart. He becomes an American hero. Gary Sinise is a great American actor in his best performance too. He served in Vietnam with Forrest and was also a hero, protecting his men and fighting for his country.All in all this is a must-see movie for everyone, specially for non-Americans, so we can enjoy American culture and icons, as well as learn some American history, which is very useful.


                
Can't take credit for this gem. Even if I am her mother.Forest Gump: Movie review by JosephineSo, it's about this really stupid grown-up and there's blood and stuff and it's not appropriate for anyone else in my class, probably, but, you know, you guys let me watch stuff like this. What is up with that? And there's this really bad girl named Jenny, and I hated her clothes. But once she cuts her hair she turns good again. And a guy with no legs, who was weird. He made shrimp, which is gross, except for the popcorn kind. He got a lot better when he cut his hair, too. I liked it. It was funny. Can I watch it again tonight?


                
I saw this movie in the theaters back in 1994. When it was released on VHS I obtained that version. I've watched the movie about once every two years since then. This is an amazing movie in any number of ways. One big way it amazes me, is the way which it, as a simple and guileless little story, like a feather wafting in the breeze, nevertheless evokes raw rank hatred and eyeball-bulging, forehead vein-popping, spittle-spewing vitriol from liberals and so-called "intellectuals" who are absolutely certain that, like a guided missile, it is seeking them out, intentionally, personally, to insult them with rightwing thoughts and ideas, and by a nitwit character no less. Hahahaha. As if.So let's first thing pop that little pea right out of the shooter. Let's dispense with the bilge of this movie being some kind of sub rosa rightwing plot. Puh-leeeze. This is a mainstream Hollywood production. Robert Zemeckis, Tom Hanks, Sally Field, and Robin Wright Penn are all known Hollywood lefties, liberal devotees who would take the pipe long before allowing themselves to be associated with or be used by anything akin a rightwing movie, let alone be openly and voluntarily involved in making one. Bottom line, this is not a political movie. This is not a movie which is making any kind of political or social statements in any respect. People who think it is doing any of that are just working way too hard over-thinking it all. Period. It's odd because it's really not all that complicated of a thing to understand. Which leads directly to another amazing thing about this movie: it is amazing the way the simple little message the movie is actually sending just sails right over so many people's heads. Amazingly they just don't get it, and based on the comments here they still aren't getting it 14 years later and counting. So if you fall into that category let me help you out.What is the message of Forrest Gump? Stripped to its purest essence, this movie is about loyalty and devotion, particularly to the ones in our lives we love and care about. These are the human values being reinforced. Loyalty. Devotion. Forrest Gump embodies loyalty and devotion. To his mama. To his good best buddy Bubba. To the love of his life, Jenny. To his leader, Lt. Dan. And in the end to Forrest Jr. One by one and all together Forrest sticks by and takes care of his family, friends, and loved ones. This is the thread running through the entire story. This is what carries Forrest to all of the remarkable places he goes along the way.The use of a mentally challenged man as the leading man is a conceit, used to illustrate the point that loyalty and devotion are the most important things in life, trumping everything else. It drives home the point that nothing else really matters anywhere near as much. Indeed, it drives it home with blunt force. Maybe it drives it home too hard for such a simple little point. Maybe this is where the movie's detractors get themselves side-tracked. There are a number of other amazing and remarkable things about this movie. The performances. The special effects. The almost poetic simplicity of the story and the way it is told. See it for all this and more, but please, don't over-think it.
My friend suggested me to watch this movie. I didn't expect anything out of it, just wanted to pass some time. After the movie ended, I felt like I had never seen anything like this before.. It even made me write a review. Such a beautifully made movie, has got everything. Teaches you about the power of love and innocence. Sometimes we take our life as granted and all we think is we don't have anything. This movie tells you how to realize and work with all that you have, no matter how you are. Brilliant way of telling a story of a young boy Forrest and his life. Not only through the eye of Forrest, but a mother, a friend and general people. The way your innocence wins over anyone you come across is exceptional, and all you will leave behind is love and respect. Magnificent movie.


                
I am not exaggerating when I say that I have seen this film at least fifty times. It never fails to put me in a good mood. I would definitely recommend this film to everyone reading this review. Please watch this film! I watched this film with my mother at the cinema when it first came out and we still watch this film together, at least once a year. This is the prefect family film, or perhaps a film for a couple that wants to curl up with some popcorn. Tom Hanks is truly amazing in this role, and shows how a versatile actor he really is. My favourite thing about this film is how complex and well thought out the plot is, i often feel that writers and directors falter in their simplistic story lines. Forrest Gump will never fail to amuse :)
I am a long time IMDb fan and first time reviewer. When I am reading through fellow user reviews, I generally find myself gravitating towards reading reviews that hold the opposite of my opinion. If I loved a film, I read the poor reviews and vice versa on the films that didn't resonate with me. I like finding value in an opposite viewpoint.With that said, while I read through the negative reviews of Forrest Gump, I found myself thinking that a number of the reviewers might be missing what I see is a large part of the film's message.Their focus was on the characters' intelligence and lifestyle. I read things like the point of the film was that you would be successful even if you're an idiot like Forrest, as long as you walked a conservative path. If you decided to take the path Jenny's character chose, despite the fact she was more intelligent then Forest, your life would end in disaster.I think the differences between Forrest and Jenny's journeys has nothing to do with the disparity in their intelligence or lifestyle but more with the difference between someone who knows who he truly is versus someone who is searching to find out who they are.I don't think the movie is passing judgement on either person's choices. I don't see Jenny's life ending the way it does as being a failure. Her life had value and she was able to find what she was looking for. Forrest's life was incredible and his love for Jenny was his guiding star. He lived through so many experiences and met so many famous people of that era. He lucked into wealth and at a couple points in the film became famous in his own right. None of that had any real meaning to him. His purpose came from his personal relationships, protecting and doing right by those he loved and his strong sense of right and wrong. Each character's journey (again regardless of intelligence) is representative of the experiences of an entire generation of North Americans.
Forrest Gump is a heartwarming tale about a very different man who just wanted to fit in.Seeing his story throughout the movie made me think "wow,this guy was some guy".Forrest Gump was marvelously played by Tom Hanks who i'd only ever seen (well,heard his voice) in Toy Story.I thought it was funny that he was telling random people at the bus stop his life story.I'm glad that they didn't ignore him.Robert Zemecks directed this movie very well because it made perfect sense.I loved Forrest's confidence that he could do anything if he tried.It was such a lovely story,it made me cry,and i'm not that emotional when it comes to movies.The supporting cast was great as was the set design and the picture.Forrest Gump is fantastic and remember,life is like a box of chocolates because it's true,you don't ever know what you'll get.Thanks for that phrase Forrest.10/10
The best film I have ever seen. If you are looking for something meaningful here's the stuff!!! Cinema is all about how it makes you feel. I think I felt in every possible way during this film at the right guantities the perfect moment. After this unsurpassed experience I became a better person or more specifically I knew how I wanted to be as a person. Life is all about goodness and how you can help your fellowman. You don't have to be smart, talented, gifted, handsome, tall. You only have to be hopeful. Have belief in your actions. Have belief in the world, even in the darkest hours. When you have witnessed pure love, affection, kindness there is only one thing to do. Share it, share it to the rest of the people. Even if people believe you're wrong and nothing will change. It will.


                
actually this movie is one of my favorite movies. the story is amazing, breathtaking. and tom hanks is rocking it! every human on earth should watch this movie! the story shows us that no matter what we can still do big things as long as we believe. Forrest is an inspiration for so many. if you haven't seen this movie yet, let go everything and start watching. after you've seen the movie something is gonna change. go and watch! enjoy!!PS: tom hanks is great. the directors could record him as he sleeps and still he can win the Oscar! :Dit's a movie which has 6 Oscars! c'mon! what are you waiting for? watch!


                
Never wrote a review before but every time I watched Forrest Gump I got the urge to do it.. This time I couldn't resist it and here I am sharing a few lines with you folks :) FG is one of my favourite movies. I think that if I had to choose a word to described this movie that would be LIFE. Forrest shows me how simple, beautiful and basic life is and how easy is to miss it and let it pass you by. The movie is very detailed and keeps you hooked in until the end. Towards the end though it touches you, puts a knott in your throat and even squeezes some tears out of you. I am sure I have absolutely nothing new to add but I wanted to show and share my appreciation for this wonderful and brilliant movie. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful ...


                
I've never seen anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that matter, I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump". Any attempt to describe him would risk making the movie seem more conventional than it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Even a dream....The title character leads viewers through an accidental travelogue of American social history from the early 1960s through the present in this revisionist fable. Vietnam, desegregation, Watergate and more are presented from the perspective of Hanks' lovably slow-witted character as he finds himself embroiled in situations he can't quite comprehend. Academy Award Nominations: 13, including Best Picture, Best Actor--Tom Hanks, and Best Director. Academy Awards: 6, including Best Picture, Director, Actor and Adapted Screenplay The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages, between the 1950s and the 1980s, to become involved in every major event in American history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his shields.Yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man. That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are. Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are criticized for being "too clever by half". Forrest is clever by just exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role. I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him into a person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a breathtaking, balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field), who tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but never criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid", his mother tells him, "Stupid is as stupid does." He turns out to be incapable of doing anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally fall from his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind. That's how he gets a college football scholarship, in a life story that eventually becomes a running gag about his good luck. Gump, the football hero, becomes Gump, the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump, the Ping-Pong champion, Gump, the shrimp boat captain, Gump, the millionaire stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named Apple Computer), and Gump, the man who runs across America and then retraces his steps. It could be argued that with his IQ of 75, Forrest does not quite understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love, although Jenny (Robin Wright), the girl he falls in love with in grade school and never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't know what love is." She's a stripper by that time. The movie is ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American history. The director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic that special effects can do, and here he uses computerized visual legerdemain to place Gump in historic situations with actual people. Special effects are also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who, quite convincingly, loses his legs. Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is able to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound, in what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox". The biggest laugh in the movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. As Forrest's life becomes a guided tour of straight-arrow America, Jenny goes on a parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course, and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. Eventually it becomes clear that between them, Forrest and Jenny have covered all of the landmarks of our recent cultural history, and the accommodation they arrive at in the end is like a dream of reconciliation for our society. What a magical movie!
I think that the best movies are those that you 'appreciate' or understand after seeing it more than once. However, with 'forrest gump', i fell in love with it after the first 15 minutes and knew it would be in my top 10 straight away.It is so unique because of the character Forrest Gump himself, who has a low IQ of only 75. Although he is 'mentally challenged', he finds himself in historic and troublesome situations and like that he manages to 'forrest gump' his way out of it and end up a hero or role model. but the real beauty in this movie to me was his ability to simplify the complexities of the world we live in and somehow do what some war movies fail to do. show the importance of world peace or what love movies can't deliver...the importance of love.I love that Forrest doesn't lose his innocence and purity throughout the movie, or maybe he just can't but either way, this shows you don't need to be evil or really intelligent to be recognised or successful. Then again it is just a movie (and a very good one too). So maybe it doesn't work like that in reality. what that simply means is that the acting and story of this film was incredibly touching on a real level. And in my definition that's what a good movie should be able to do.Every award the movie received was well deserved especially Tom Hanks. Now that's an actor for ya. I love this movie and don't hesitate to give it a 10.


                
Having seen the movie and read the book, I feel it necessary to make an observation. Even though the movie is based on the book, it is remarkably different. In the book, Forrest goes into space; Bubba is white and meets Forrest in college; Forrest runs as a candidate in the senate; Forrest does not serve under Lieutenant Dan in the Army, but meets him in hospital afterwards; Forrest's mother and Jenny do not die (they do kick it in Gump & Co. though); and there is also Forrest's wrestling career and his friendship with the orangutang Sue that should be mentioned too. The book is a fantastic piece of literature and should be on every college syllabus everywhere. But if the film had been taken directly from the book, I doubt it would have been so successful. The film includes fantastic sequences (Forrest running and influencing pop culture; Forrest directly influencing John Lennon) that do not appear in the book. The way Forrest is tied into the last 40 years of American History is great, if a little convenient. I wonder though, whether the sequel will follow Gump & Co. or whether they will create another new monster.
