Great CGI effects & a truly Oscar-worthy performance by Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan. Tom Hanks is a one-trick pony in this movie, how he got the Best Actor Oscar that year over Morgan Freeman was a crime. This movie is a pandering treacly love letter to the baby boom generation, with a barely concealed right-wing prejudice, beginning from Forrest's service in Vietnam all the way through to the "resolution" with Jenny at the end.With that said, though, it is hugely entertaining and an American movie through and through.  I found certain parts of this film exceedingly offensive, Zemeckis dumbs down this movie almost to the level of Gump himself . . .maybe that was the point he was trying to make.
Watch this film and ask yourself "What is Robert Zemeckis saying about what makes a good American?" Forrest seems to have made the "right" choices and been at the "right place at the right time" for the last 45 years. Those who are wrong according to the director's vision seem to pay a heavy price. So is Zemeckis saying that idiocy disguised as innocence and naivety is a patriotic, even AMERICAN quality?


                
"Forrest Gump" is the ultimate fad movie. It came out big in 1994 and created a cultural sensation. It was easy to get swept up in its panorama of American cultural history, and all of the iconic imagery in the film made it seem like it was saying something important. But all these years later, this treacly piece of rubbish is nearly intolerable.The film is full of easy sentiment and false emotion. It depicts one thing after another (the Kennedy assassination, Vietnam, Watergate, the AIDS crisis) that trigger automatic emotional responses in the audience, so that the filmmakers don't have to do any work of their own to make the material effective. But underneath the lesson in American history and the admittedly terrific soundtrack, I can't help but wonder what point the movie tries to make. Are we to applaud Forrest for his pluck and resiliency when the only reason for them is the fact that he's too simple minded to understand the things that happen to him? Are we supposed to emulate him? Is the message that we all make life too complicated, and that we all need to buckle down to the only things that really matter, like love of country, God and our dear ol' mama? If so, gag.Tom Hanks is a winning presence in the film, and if anyone was going to be able to carry this story along, I imagine he did just as good a job as anyone else would have. But the only character worth watching as far as I'm concerned is poor little Jenny, played valiantly by Robin Wright Penn, who comes closer than anyone to playing an actual human being, despite the film's tendency to chew her character up and spit her out.This movie is like a box of chocolates...too much of it and you'll be sick.Grade: C-


                
People are always amazed when I talk about how much if loathe this movie but let's face it, how else should one treat a movie that encourages people to drift through life and tells you that anything that attacks conformity and inspires change is evil. When Forrest asks a girl why she doesn't love him, we are expected to feel sorry for a narcissistic retarded fellow who doesn't see why someone couldn't fall in love with a brain-damaged freak. a film that dehumanizes the counter-culture, makes history seem like a mere play-thing to the idiotic and shows that if you just float through life, you'll last much better than those egg-heads atheists commie pinkos who tried to survive and were sent to Hell by the Almighty.
This movie manages to get the idea of the book and some of the episodes, but completely misses the tone, which was dark and cynical. Imagine Candide being made into a Lifetime movie and you get the idea.Tom Hanks is fine (although actors get a little too much credit for playing mentally-challenged individuals - a bigger challenge would be Einstein, Leonardo, or like Tom Hulce, Amadeus Mozart). Some of the better, more fantastic parts of the book are completely left out. One in particular involves Forrest's being stranded on a Pacific island following the crash of his spacecraft (he is an Astrophysics savant). Would've been great. This movie cried out for a director like Terry Gilliam, but it got hackmaster Z. Oh well. It wouldn't hurt so much if it hadn't won best picture and best actor(!?!?!).


                
Saw this in the IMDb 250, and couldn't believe it was ranked this high. Quite frankly, very sappy film about a mentally challenged individual and how he influences key events through his life. I liked it when it first came out, but every time I see it on TV, I realize that this is a terrible movie. Essentially, it's a baby-boomer's movie reminiscing about the events of times past. And the more I see it, it reminds me of an earlier, even craftier movie with a simple-minded character which was far more intelligent than this film will ever be..."Being There" with Peter Sellers. Essentially the same story, but Sellers pulls of the role more convincingly and the story unfolds much better. Forget this film--"Being There" is the film to watch.


                
After all the hype surrounding this movie and its subsequent showing at the Oscars, i thought i knew enough about this movie to know it wasn't going to be my type of flick. "..feel-good fodder for the dumbed down American masses...simple boy leads extraordinary life in an over-simplified excursion thru post war America.... over-hyped, over-rewarded.. lacking realism and believable characters."that would have been some thing like the review i might have given prior to watching this film.having now seen the film ( thru a rather sad of anything else to do on Saturday night)i would not change much about what i've already said about the film except to say , if possible it was even worse than i feared.Not once did i feel any pathos for Gump. his low IQ was mainly used as a convenient plot device to explain all the unbelievable things that happened to him. Who can believe a guy who runs across America for 3 years just because he felt like it all of a sudden? If all the things that happen to Gump really happend to one person, that person would be a national celebrity if not an icon. Yet Gump seems to end the movie as a relatively anonymous character. Some might say this adds to the charm of the story, that this guy could be involved in all these extraordinary happenings without really knowing the consequences of his actions and what was going on around him. I think this merely adds to the flawed nature of the film. SPOILER ALERT Having said all of this, the movie maybe has one redeeming feature.My girlfriend was in tears by the end when Jenny dies. Maybe this works as a love story.  But i wouldnt watch this film just on that basis. In fact i won't ever watch this film again unless someone offers me a serious amount of money, which lets face it is about as realistic as most of this movie!
I had heard a lot about this film before I actually saw it, and the idea of a man unwittingly being present at the biggest moments of four decades seemed funny and entertaining enough. But I was heavily disappointed.What Forrest Gump lacks most is a stringent storytelling. The movie just doesn´t get off the ground. It isn´t the fault of the actors in general and certainly not of Tom Hanks, who gives a brilliant storyteller and doesn´t make pure slapstick out of the dimwitted Forrest - the actors are doing fine jobs. It´s the fault of the filmmakers. Lots of shots and even whole motives are plainly useless, not even in adding atmosphere, a lot of plot turns vanish into nothingness. The touching moments are soaked in corny music and lose their emotional potential, the technically great TV montages get less entertaining every time because they are wasted in bad punchlines. The whole dialogue is highly predictable. The reenactment of the Hippie movement is quite sound, and details like the Watergate joke are good laughs, but the scenes in between are painfully slow, at the end even simply boring. About a thousand times you are led to believe that there is a deeper moral than "enjoy your life with the things you can do really good" (this being introduced at the very beginning), but it isn´t. I don´t know what, except for the few gags that really function, could earn this movie the triumph that it had and still has. Watch "Hair" for the Sixties and "Harold and Maude" for the moral, you will be better off.


                
have you ever watched a movie and at the end of the movie, you just couldn't figure out why it was written? this happened to me when i saw forest Gump. who writes a movie about a retarded guy who happens to be involved in every major historical event in the 60's and 70's, what would inspire someone to take such an undertaking. the movie is flat out stupid. the plot was silly, the writing was absolutely horrible, the directing, reprehensible however, I read some reviews which say this movie is about right wing politics, to the contrary, the movie is all but right wing, in-fact it's quite liberal. Nothing infuriates me like a horrible movie getting so much revere and attention.


                
I remember the BBC coverage of the Oscars in 1995 . Barry Norman was asking the Brits in Hollywood - Among them Tracey Ullman and Alan Parker - what they thought of the years nominations and the British view was unanimous that FORREST GUMP was nothing more than an overated mediocre movie . After seeing the film for myself I`ve got to agree with the standard British view - This is an overated mediocre movie It`s impossible to believe anyone outside America could love this movie . The overated ( Third time I`ve used that word in this review ! ) Tom Hanks plays Forrest the local town idiot who experiences many of the truimphs and torments of 1950s 60s and 70s America , and it`s all produced , played and written in a sickly sweet way , so sickly sweet you should watch this with a bucket in your hand so you don`t get any vomit on the carpet.Amazing fact . Both American and non American voters on this site give FORREST GUMP an identical voter average - 8.1 . I`m at a loss to explain this


                
I remember hearing so much about this film and after a great year at the box office that had seen the release of Pulp Fiction and the underrated intersection, I thought that this film, from the director of "Back to the future" would surely not fail to the disappoint.Boy was I wrong. Bob Gale must have thanked God that Zemeckis hired someone else for this self-absorbed piece of tripe. The film resembles the films of the eighties that were trying to show female empowerment by having them think and act like men, that you watch now with a odd sense of embarrassment. That's what this film is to the disabled. It tries hard to seem so enlightened and yet most of the film's attitude is mocking. The way he just happens to become a football hero, because lets face it, in America if you're disabled then that's the only way to get acceptance from Bullies. Firstly why would someone want acceptance from Bullies and more importantly what the hell does that say about the world that this is the message Zemeckis is sending out.The film then becomes a horrible mish-mash as Tom Hanks is badly imposed in old film clips of chat shows and presidents, and the only plus of the film comes in the shape of a great performance by Gary Sinese that is spoilt by a cheesy ending where he forgives the Vietnamese by falling for a Vietnamese woman (Kind of like a really naff version of my name is earl.) If there is any justice in this world then this will fall down the list and out of the 250, but unfortunately the world is not just and if this film indicated that, then it would have a higher ranking from me.
I didn't mind this movie too much the first time I saw it, though I thought it was very over-rated and wondered what the fuss was all about.I caught it again recently and got more irritated with it the longer it went.I'll admit that the shots integrating Tom Hanks into historical footage are impressive, technically. I'll admit that Hanks, Penn, and Sinise give very impressive performances. But I'm really starting to hate this movie.I know, I know...of COURSE it won Best Picture--it's cynically designed from top to bottom to do that. It's supposed to teach an important lesson about life while tugging at the heartstrings as big historical events unfold in the background. And what is that lesson? It pays to be stupid.
Well, gang, sorry to burst your precious little bubble, but it doesn't. You won't find guys like Forest running corporations; you'll find them in trailer parks, beating their kids. Them clever folk, with all that book learnin' you so despise, are running the big corporations, and they're laughing their way to the bank over the real morons, who watch crap like this and think it's great and then vote in Forest-like mental midgets to run the country.The worship of the "wise fool", the disdain for education, and the myth of the self-made man are a few things Western, and especially American culture would be better off without. Anything like this cynical and manipulative film, which perpetuates them, should be despised, not lauded.


                
Most opinions have already seen the light of day here, so I'll be brief.As a middle-aged Brit who has had a relatively positive life, I positively loathed the premise on which this film was based - if you are good-hearted then you will triumph against adversity no matter what obstacles life throws into your path (with the subtext "In America"). Sorry, it just ain't true, even in America. I'm afraid to say that I loathed the way that America took this message to its heart even more than I loathed the message.And I have always disliked the way the Academy often favours "disease of the week" performances (I always rated Ernie Hudson's performance as a similarly afflicted character in "The Hand That Rocks The Cradle" - why did that get overlooked?).But let me be fair. There is a short sequence where Gump tries to ask Jenny if his son is normal - maybe 20 seconds in total. Hanks' performance in this sequence is nothing short of phenomenal and, on its own, justifies his Oscar in this film, even if the rest of it is nothing special.


                
The best thing in this movie is Gary Sinise. He growls, smirks, and spits his way through a terrific performance before his character is converted to Forrest's religion. Other than that, there's not much meat in this movie. I thought Hanks was pretty good as Gump, but it's not a role that you can screw up too badly because there's very little character to slip into.
The biggest problem with it is the artificial, plastic directing job, something that other Zamekis productions suffer from also. The sequence of dying Lt. Dan ancestors is particularly egregious - it's supposed to be funny, I think, but doesn't quite make it. I'm also at a loss to explain why we needed the Gump within a Gump voiceover narration. It only adds to the syrupy tone with the kind of pseudo-humor you see in many TV commercials. This story could have told itself quite well without this and similar directorial tricks.I was a little bit bothered by the right-wing sensibilities present, but not all that much. I'm used to the co-opting of counter-culture product to prove alternate ideals (like the idea behind John Lennon's "Imagine"). Using a false history as a dramatic device is OK with me, just do something interesting with it. Hollywood has a tendency to de-legitimize creativity as merely the accident of situation. Zamekis has done this before in Back to the Future, where Chuck Berry supposedly gets his inspiration for "Johnny B. Good" from one performance (instead of years of hard work). I hate it when this is used for a joke - and not a very good one, usually. Just like many things in this movie, it's pandering to the nostalgia of the audience. Similar things are done to Bear Bryant. But I digress.The best scene in the movie is when Hanks sees Sinise at the dock and runs into the water to greet him. It sums up both characters beautifully. And despite (or maybe because of) the heavy borrowing from other movies, other good scenes are the barroom scene with Hanks and Sinise, the orgasm scene, and the initial meeting of Hanks and his Drill Sergeant. I mention these because they don't typify the piled-on heavy sentiment that the rest of the movie employs.


                
This film seems completely to divide opinion. I have to join the group that doesn't know why everybody thinks it's so great. I find the whole movie makes me cringe. Tom Hanks has to be the most over rated actor around. His light weight performance of simpleton 'Gump' shows he completely lacks any imagination. How this won best picture beggars belief. It story seems to be made to fit the facts rather allowing the characters developing on there own. Is Forrest Gump supposed to be a poor man's Chance The Gardner spewing simple phrases that have profound comment. Is this how America really wants the history of the sixties to be remember for? Are we to assume that in the real world the simple with no vices will really succeed. I'm sorry but I for one found this mom and apple pie version of life hard to swallow.


                
Give me a break, this is nothing special. The only reason this movie has the kind of reputation is does is because of the proved fact that it is impossible for someone to play a leading role in which a character is mentally handicapped and *NOT get a nomination, let alone have the movie received well. Think about that for a second and you'll see that's true. There are no movies that weren't received well where an actor played a *main character with a *mental handicap. (keep in mind the asterisked words, that's what qualifies my statement)There are movies like this I do like, this is simply not one of them. This was boring because the film had no direction, it simply feels like you're watching the biography of a person from some historical text played out on the big screen. It's just one episode after the next depicting the heroic acts of Forrest and showing the relationships between him and the people he meets, but all these events don't build into any storyline you can care about. Each individual episode presents its own challenges to Forrest, but these feel isolated and doesn't build to any kind of payoff.If you like stories like this, go watch Sling Blade, it's a much better movie that doesn't put on a facade of being some grand spectacle of our time.


                
I don't get it. Not a bad movie, but I must have missed something, I do not understand why all the hype or why it is considered a 'great' movie. The emperor has no clothes. A couple of laughs, I guess a nice message about living a life with quiet dignity, and a bunch of absurd and nonsensical stuff thrown in for no apparent reason. Interesting when shining a light on the destructive, hypocritical, and hedonistic underside of the 60's movements, should have kept it going instead of getting too silly.


                
I don't get it.  Although I'm a sucker for well-crafted appeals to universal heartstrings, I was mildly repulsed by Hanks' Gump and his dim-yet-supposed-to-be sage insights on the major events of modern American life.  Technically, FG has the right stuff, but the overall effect is all wrong.  Gump should be likable, but he just comes off as either clueless or a hollow witness of events.  I'll leave this sorry box of chocolates for someone else, thanks.


                
Everyone loves this movie... except me.
Somehow I find the contrast between the unsophisticated, often rather juvenile, style of humour, which is juxtaposed with issues like physical handicap, child molestation, mutilation from war, death from war and cancer, jarring and uncomfortable.
For me I would consider the type of broad acting in this film was fine if it were a pure comedy, such as "Ground Hog Day", but in this context, where serious issues are supposedly being addressed, it lacks the necessary degree of subtlety (or respect).
Tom Hanks performance is wonderful, but still essentially cartoonish, like Gomer Pyle. I don't at any time buy into his portrayal as a credible mentally challenged person. (As, for example, I was able to do with Dustin Hoffman in Rain-man)
I guess the Director's concept was for us to view the events from what is intended to be Forrest's limited perspective, but for me it doesn't work.
It's told as a fairy-tale, but personally I'm just not comfortable with many of these topics being dealt with in such a shallow fashion. Hitchcock knew how to mix humour with suspense, but it's not an easy trick to pull off, this film tries to mix tragedy with comedy and I find it an unpleasant mixture.
In the world where little girls are sexually molested by their fathers and young men have their legs amputated after being caught by an exploding shells, crippled kids don't become All American running backs (although they may become gold medal blade runners at the Paralympics!) and intellectually handicapped people don't become Shrimp magnates.
Don't get me wrong, I've nothing against a good fairy-tale, but I suspect this movie aspires to be allegorical and profound as well, which it is not.
The movie packs in so many traumatic situations that it fails to do any of them justice, and then casually throws historical ones in on top
The assassination of the Kennedys and John Lennon, along with attempts on George Wallis and Gerald Ford are mentioned, although Forrest is not present for any of them and doesn't strike me as a person who has any political awareness or would take notice of current events.
(However Martin Luthor King and Malcolm X are spared inclusion.)
The frequent use of familiar pop music from the period is another cheap trick to engage the emotions of the audience without doing the work. Much of the music has little or no connection to the story and even less to the character of Forrest, who has no interest, understanding, or emotional connection with the pop culture of the day.
Forrest is strangely detached from the World around him, and probably that's the intention?
But in that case what relevance or insight can his character have to the events through which he wanders?
I'm sure this story is intended to be very deep and meaningful, but really, Forrest Gump could as easily have been set in the 1920s, 30s or 40s for all the relevance or insight he brings to 50s, 60s, 70s culture.
The part of the movie where Forrest runs across country invites comparison to Peter Sellars character in "Being There", a holy fool, but FG lacks the depth of that movie, and in any case only has five minutes to spare on this topic before moving on again.
There is some tenuous and weak humour involving "Sh*t Happens" and smiley face tee shirts, but no actual words of ambiguous wisdom that might account for his following.
The film continues to throw issues and situations at us, like so many custard pies, hoping some will stick, but most end up being only half baked. (How do you like them mixed metaphors!)
The Apple shares bit is pure product placement, Forrest was already as rich as they want to make him via the Shrimp company.
And why would anyone offer the multimillion dollar owner of a Shrimp company a job mowing lawns?
Then we get not one, but two, tragic deaths by disease to weep about, first Mom from the big "C" and then "me own me sporting Jenny" from a cause never made clear.
Jenny only brings Forrest back into her life because she is dying, not because she loves him enough to want to share her life and their child with him. How is that inspirational?
Good things come to those who wait? The meek shall inherit the earth? 
The secret to true happiness is low expectations?
Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what your gonna get (chocolate maybe?)
Chocolate Happens.
Tonight I fell over in the movie "Forest Gump". You probably have seen many of you.I saw her the first time when it came out in cinemas and touched me very very much. Asked one of my favorite movies, perhaps the most beloved.Not because I laughed with smart funny scenes, but because "he spoke" for all truly beautiful feelings. Love, friendship, faith, patience, sincerity, selflessness, kindness, generosity, hope. But for children traumatized souls, or how to squander our lives on meaningless things and pleasures and lose the chance to be close to those who love us really.Maybe I liked the script because it was a movie different from all the others and still is. I clever script. I loved the music of the beginning and end titles and interpretations of protagonists.But for many it was just a movie about a retarded. The felt ridiculous because it is ridiculous, such a person can accomplish such things in reality. And for other reasons.You have seen how you?


                
Conventional wisdom back in 1994 stated that one must either be a huge fan of Oscar nominee Pulp Fiction (which purportedly signified the new cinema) or of its polar opposite, Oscar winner Forrest Gump (which signified old school film). Truthfully, I am a fan of neither film and of the Best Picture nominees for that year, I would most assuredly have picked The Shawshank Redemption over both without hesitation.Forrest Gump is a simple story about a simple man - expanded over an arrogant nearly 3 hour running time. A Southern man of low I.Q., whose good intentions and well-meaning heart allow him to triumph over the obstacles and adversities life throws his way. The film opens with Forrest sitting on a park bench regaling others with his exploits, such as his outrunning bullies and becoming a football hero, his tour in Vietnam which led to a successful shrimping business and his enduring love for his childhood friend, Jenny.Director Robert Zemeckis can be a great director and the first hour of Forrest Gump is very good. It establishes a tone of bemused whimsy that the material requires. Unfortunately, bemused whimsy is a hard tone to maintain, especially when your film has such a slight plot, a running time that would be a strain with the best material, and a central character that is, let's face it, not particularly fascinating. By the midway section, the film starts to stumble and then completely implodes right around the time that Forrest starts running back and forth from coast to coast for no apparent reason.For comedic measure and a degree of relevance, the story tries to shoehorn Forrest in with historic figures, fads and events, some of which work well and some not at all. The tie-in with Watergate and Forrest showing his wound to Nixon are amusing, but his scene on the National Mall at an anti-war protest where the microphone cuts out so the crowd can remain clueless that he is an imbecile is ridiculously coy. And the sequence with John Lennon, where it is obvious the words do not match the lip movements is downright embarrassing. The Oscar for special effects here is a real stretch.Tom Hanks can be a great everyman actor (like James Stewart). He can also be overrated and it is to his misfortune that the two films for which he won back to back Oscars are two of his most overrated efforts. One can see politically in Oscar circles why he would win for Philadelphia, but the win for Forrest Gump the next year is most puzzling. Forrest has very little range emotionally or intellectually, and he largely reacts to everything the same way.Sally Field seems oddly miscast as Forrest's mother, who apparently gifted her son with his low-rent fortune cookie advice. Gary Sinise provides the film's only really great performance as Forrest's Vietnam superior and later friend - providing some of the grit and emotion that the remainder of the film lacks.In the pivotal role of Jenny - the girl who Forrest has loved since childhood - Robin Wright is a complete wash-out. The film keeps returning to her character, who has become an embittered drug addict and it founders every time it does. Jenny may have her reasons for her addictions, but she is often played as a shrewish selfish person, who takes Forrest's help when convenient, and shuns him when she is finished with him. Hanks and Wright have no chemistry together and because of her shoddy treatment of Forrest, I cannot imagine anyone rooting for them as a couple. A foolishly lengthy mid-film sequence with Jenny on a ledge contemplating suicide actually had one witty film-goer in my audience begging her to jump - I concur. Her final moments in the film are especially absurd - as she once again shows up to prey on Forrest's good will - this time announcing that she is dying from some mystery illness which seems to be AIDS although the filmmakers refuse to say and she wants Forrest to care for her son, which she assures him is his (although we as an audience are not really sure given the characters chronic dishonesty). This strange disease seems to have been borrowed from Love Story, as Wright's only major symptom seems to be that she gets more luminous and has better lighting the closer to death she gets.The final hour of the film is near unendurable. The whimsy has been lost and the events surrounding Forrest just seem to get sillier and more pointless. As a character on which to hang a film, Forrest is largely a slow-witted blank. He ends the film almost exactly as he starts it. He has had no great epiphanies or insights or much in way of growth - he has been largely a passive passenger riding the wave of life. The film's meme that good-hearted people will always get what's coming to them is beyond naive and a tad insulting - as there are many good-hearted people who have the opposite happen. Ironically, we never get to see the expressions or reactions of the people Forrest victimizes with his tales, which may be intentional since they may have run screaming from the park bench or just passed out in bored apathy.
This is one of those rare films of which I am very aware, but had never seen. Nineteen years on I decided to put it right. Director Robert Zemeckis has gone on to have a distinguished career and is a Hollywood stalwart, a traditionalist in the Spielberg mould. Unfortunately, as the story unfolded, i became aware that my subconscious had been a shrewd judge of what I enjoy.As a modern day, conservative, fairy tale it is well crafted , easy on the eye, tugging at the heartstrings and rich in warmth. But the sub-text is as stodgy as a toffee chocolate. Gump, a man of modest talent, but great determination and opportunism, triumphs in life. We never see the Commies in Vietnam, just Gump's bravery, we do see those subversive anti-war protesters and Black Panthers though, but even dim Gump manages to see his way through.Told in flashback, and with amusing and inspired manipulated archive footage to put Forrest at the heart of historic action , much pivots upon Forrests's star crossed relationship with a girl, played by Robin Wright. Gary Sinise shines as Lieutenant Dan Taylor. Yet for me the sentimentality is mawkish, the message awkward and simplistic, and the treatment a cynical manipulation of the audience that loves The American Dream. Its appeal is obvious. Its claims to greatness over stated.


                
While iconic and inspirational (in a way), Forrest Gump is still an absurd cheese fest with a silly performance from Hanks (he sounds like a redneck Bert from Mary Poppins) and not a whole lot of likable characters. The movie is ridiculous and also tries to embrace autism while simultaneously making fun of it. The biggest highlight of this film is its visual effects.


                
..as he gets accidentally rich, throws it all away to go running for a few years, and pines for a girl that basically rapes him and doesn't tell him he has a child till she's dying and has nowhere else to go except her good ol' Safety net, a retarded Tom Hanks. Also we're gonna gloss over the fact that he was named after a member of the KKK, that his mother was a protstitute, that Jenny raped him and probably died of HIV/AIDs, and even though we constantly mention that Forest is slow or stupid, we're not gonna once hint at what mental deficiency he possibly has because it would probably distract us from the heartfelt, uplifting quotes of the film like "Run, Forrest" or "Life's like a box of chocolates" - full of crap, just like this movie. #Sorrynotsry
I TOTALLY don't get why people like this movie. I thought the acting was horrible and overall the movie was horrible and ridiculous.They say the worst thing an actor can do is take a part of someone with a developmental disability because it is so difficult to get right. Dustin Hoffman. Yes. Tom Hanks. NO.I love Tom Hanks and all his other movies. This one was an absolute failure.


                
What were we thinking in 1994? This has to be one of, if not the worst mainstream movie in history.


                
