SUITS is smart, sassy, clever, sophisticated, timely and immensely entertaining! The new series debuted with a full 60 minute story that establishes the characters very solidly, opens pathways for many story lines, and boasts an exceptional cast of fine actors. Here is hoping it makes it as an ongoing series, especially since it is not yet another crime drama! Not that Criminal Mains, The Mentalist, Without A Trace will lose their place among the best show on television, but with all the spinoffs on the crime shows, the available choices have been dwindling lately. SUITS is a lawyer show. Set in New York (captured, by the way, in beautiful cinematic vistas) it focuses on a very successful law firm, managed by Jessica Pearson (Gina Torres) who balances the talents of her two top lawyers, the smarmy Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman) who is a control freak, and the very brilliant but egotistical Harvey Spector (Gabriel Macht). There is a particularly appealing and very bright secretary Donna (Sarah Rafferty) and a beautiful paralegal Rachel (Meghan Markel) and last but certainly not least by any means there is Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) - a young lad who is extremely bright, has a photographic memory, dropped out of college because he took tests for fellow students and got caught, fell into marketing drugs by default for need of money so that he could pursue his dream of being a lawyer, and falls quite by accident into the role of being selected as associate to the brilliant but self absorbed Harvey Spector. This is the team of characters who are destined to provide fascinating substories as they interact. The dialogue (Aaron Korsh and Sean Jablonski) is clever, bright, snappy, unclichéd, witty, and helps define the complexities of the characters. The pacing is exceptional (directors Kevin Bray and John Scott) and the series has the appearance of a high-end movie - excellent cinematography, expansive development of story in well-selected locations - but most of all this is a cast that is worthy of attention every moment they are on camera. It will be interesting to watch how Patrick J. Adams and Gabriel Macht grow into our psyches: both are exceptionally fine and provide a spectrum of the lawyer personality we haven't seen on a series before. This should be a major hit! Grady Harp


                
It has been a while since I have discovered a series I truly enjoy watching. Some are way too stupid and then others are way too boring, and then some have horrible actors and the list goes on.However, in this little gem, everything is exactly right. The script matches funny and serious, silly and smart, everything at exactly the right amounts. The actors act well. Watching this show is a generally enjoyable experience which, I think, is a lot when it comes to some recent series.I would recommend this to anyone who likes 'House MD', 'How I Met Your Mother' and other series that are often watched to feel better after a long day.


                
Patrick J. Adams & Gabriel Macht both give convincing performances in the pilot, something sure to excel even more throughout the series.The script, acting, and quality are all flawless, as far as television goes. If you're looking to be highly entertained on Thursday night, then look no further. The subtle humor, creative plot, and enjoyable dialogue entices the viewer more with each passing moment.If you're into legal shows that include all aspects of human nature, including compassion, then Suits is for you.Hopefully this show continues to have the opportunity to thrive; it has definitely drawn me in and I won't miss a second of it.


                
Suits is a compelling legal drama set in the heart of New York City at one of the city's most successful law firms. The story is centred around the firm's best lawyer, Harvey Spector (Gabriel Macht), an egotistical, uncompassionate, charmingly witty Harvard graduate who will do whatever it takes to win – "The best closer this city has ever seen"; and his associate Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams), an under-achieving compassionate genius with an eidetic memory who strikes lucky by having the opportunity to work at one of the highest profile legal firms even after being caught for attempted drug trafficking and without the required qualifications. The show follows both characters as they face different legal and personal challenges in each episode whilst maintaining the gregarious and quick-witted rapport between the two.The show offers plenty of variety besides the law by developing the relationships of many characters inside the firm, "Pearson Hardman", managed by Jessica Pearson (Gina Torres), a career-minded powerful woman. Jessica must balance between her two best lawyers, a devious Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman) and Harvey, whose relationship is filled with rivalry and playable banter, is certainly one to make you laugh. The show also follows the stories of the beautiful Rachel (Meghan Markel), a paralegal whose test anxieties are stopping her from fulfilling her ambitions of going to Harvard to study law and Donna (Sarah Rafferty) a smart, sexy secretary.Besides the two leading characters, Suits is balanced excellently with an ensemble cast filled with intriguing relationships and an original and sharp script combined with the beautiful backdrop of New York City to make this a thoroughly enjoyable TV show which I can't help but grin ear-to-ear from start to finish and I hope it continues its high standards for seasons to come. Suits is brilliant.


                
I am very pleasantly surprised by this show and will certainly continue to watch it. The characters are likable and, with the exception of "Mike Ross," a page out of real life. I can guarantee you that there is not a single lawyer at a high power NYC law firm that didn't go to law school. Additionally, no lawyer as green as Mike would be given so much attention. Here is where I will cut the show some slack- without such deviations from the truth there would be no show.Some reviewers liken this show to House but with lawyers. Sure, there are some common elements surrounding Harvey being cold-hearted and cocky yet excellent as his job. But this is where I want to draw the distinction: characters like Harvey actually exist in this world (minus the likability). There are charming, proud, extremely competent, rude, driven, and ruthless lawyers in every major firm in every major city. At some point it becomes a requirement of the job. Doctor House meanwhile is too much of a self-destructive train wreck for my taste.If you want to get a glimpse into working at a high power law firm, an investment bank, or any other high stakes pressure-cooker job look no further. Keep the insane hours, lose the friendliness, and amplify the cockiness and voilà: a glimpse of reality. This show keeps the bad but throws in the good, so instead of feeling like work, the show instead feels like entertainment.


                
This was an amazing show with a cast of actors who have great chemistry together. After setting aside the hour and a half allotted for the show, I was happy I did! It follows a young adult who is struggling with his life who finds himself thrown into a job as a lawyer after he is hired by a big shot, charming 'closer. After the pilot episode, I am hooked and look forward to seeing this show on USA every Thursday! As long as they keep the comedy and drama coming, I will be an avid watcher for life.


                
I cannot wait until next week to see how it all plays out. Gabriel Macht is an amazing actor, I don't know if it's because of his performance, his good looks, or because I am in law and studying to be an attorney, but this show is incredible. Incredible isn't even the word for it, but I am so happy I watched it! Not only is based out of one of the greatest states of all times, but the chemistry between the characters have together is outstanding. I can definitely relate to this show in more ways then one. And that's what I love about the script, and roles these Actors are playing. Gabriel Macht usually plays a bad ass or handsome love affair but this show makes me see him in a totally different way. Patrick J. Adams has the cute little boy next door look, you would never guess him for a drug dealer, but he has to do what he has to do in order to get money...and survive. But then "Harvey" gives him a shot at a once in a lifetime opportunity, which in reality people would kill for, especially in this economy, which by the way they mention by doing Pro Bono cases. And Harvey's boss Jessica talks about you would be lucky to even still be working. I don't know if I am going to like Rick Hoffmans character yet, will see. Great work, please keep writing, directing,acting and work together, because this show will do well, and it will be hard for people to let go of this one.and now will be a life long fan! Can't wait to see what happens next.....!
It's a new show and because of positive reviews I though I give it a shot and I was absolutely hooked. First thing that came to me was that I got the same vibe around there as watching House MD. I'm not sure if this is about solving cases and helping people being collateral damage or not. There are some similar things in characters, you know it when you see it. Like one of main characters, Harley is kinda reckless, arrogant, narcissist, brilliant human manipulator, who secretly cares. Mike is he's sidekick I guess, who's also very smart, but have had a lot of set-backs in life and got another chance thanks to Harley. He seems to be very open about caring for people, clients. I think two of them complete each other. but to sum it up i guess i would say if you like a show with bunch of very well played mind-games, with light humor here and then, with slight romance, interesting characters and cases.. good acting with good script! You definitely will love this. I absolutely suggest it. Worth watching. And oh I wasn't trying to imply this is a rip-off ..of something, because it's not.
This show is a big hit. I like shows that revolve around lawyers. The plot is super interesting. The casts are super talented! But renewing for season 8? Was a bad idea. The reason why, because:
1- totally different casts with the same objectives: claiming the name partner.
2- recurrent events.
3- ... the show is NOTHING, without Patrick J. Adams and Gina Torres. 
But overall, hotshot lawyers with amazing plot twists.. What can we ask more?
It took me a while to get around to watching Suits, and I'm more then glad I did eventually get around to watching it. It's be far the most clever and sophisticated lawyer show I've ever seen. It's also wildly outrageous, funny and loyal to its viewers. Nothing really faults this show, except the fact that each episode is fundamentally the same, but that doesn't matter when it does its job of making it addictive. A must watch show that doesn't become too full of itself, nor does it insult the viewer with excess of unwanted material. It has strong romance, comedy, drama and crime themes that makes every episode as fun as the last.


                
After watching the first episode I was like what will happen next. Then I wanted to become a lawyer do the shady stuff, kick other lawyers ass. Gabriel Macht, Rick Hoffman and Patrick J. Adams are the best. If you are into law stuff it is the best TV show for you. It also includes all aspects of human nature like emotions and stuff. Suits is best drama and comedy series I've ever seen. Must watch suits is the best.


                
I shall not bore you all with the ins and outs of the plots because the acting says it all but what I can say is - AMAZING!!! Patrick J. Adams & Gabriel Macht both give convincing performances and even it were badly written, there characters "bouncing" off one another is incredible. So far I am on Season 2 on Netflix and not once have I thought, "nah, this isn't for me". It's very light on it's feet and does not send the viewer into a state of trance or make you feel your looking into space.Harvey Specter..."the man who men want to be like and the women who want to sleep with him" - FACT. If there's one thing I can add for viewers help, it is that, if you are watching it on Netflix on your laptop/PC for the first time, you might want to open a tab and learn about what American legal jargon is bounded around in the show - I know what an Escrow account is now :-)If you're into legal shows that include all aspects of human nature, including compassion, power, arrogance...then Suits is for you.


                
What to write about this TV-Series. The characters are chosen carefully and it pays of. Watching this series is one of the best things you can do during the day.It's not just a series about a law firm in NYC, it's way more than that. It's about the relations within the firm (business and private) without making it juicy. One of the hardest things for directors is that the public can relate and emotional bond with the characters. In Suits it happens the whole time. From really hating someone, to being surprised you like them and then back to hating. Would recommend it to everyone!!


                
This was one of the best episodes so far in my opinion. Finally there is like a lot more connection between characters and even separately. You got this enormous connection between Donna and Rachel, Mike and Harvey, Jessica and Jeff, hell, even Mike and Louis. It is like a whole new story or whole new TV show starting. There is not a lot of comedy involved like in other episodes of this season (I don't know if u guys noticed that too or it is just me), but there is this "side choosing" where we can pick our side and see some "pros and cons" of each character. I hope You guys will like it as much as I did too. Great episode and I just can not wait to see more of this. LOVE IT! SHOW MUST GO ON! :D


                
The two leads share an enjoyable chemistry. Supporting cast is passable with Hoffman being a stereotype.Slick and fast paced but rings hollow on subject matter.TV characters lead a charmed life but the ease and clockwork regularity with which these guys find a perfect solution to rather challenging problems strains the credulity a viewer must necessarily bring to the table nowadays to enjoy any sort of filmed entertainment.Fear for the longevity of this show. The bad guy is already wearing thin and constantly finding things by reading stuff that others failed to read already feels far-fetched. And if all else fails, make stuff up ? Please. As another review pointed out the writing needs a fundamental improvement. All the snappiness will only distract for so long before the nagging empty feeling becomes too much to ignore.Doomsaying aside, have enjoyed it so far and wish them the very best with their work. Thank you.Has improved. Personal melodrama still feels decidedly contrived but professional drama is moving away from ooh I read it/oh I lied. That assistant needs to tone down her facial expressions a bit, she's on camera not on stage but she can be really funny and look forward to seeing more of her. Still hooked.Second season going strong. The assistant really hit her stride which made 'it' all the more shocking. Hoffman and Torres are also better. Stories are still uneven but decidedly better. Lame romance has rightly been back burnered. The personal relationships between the diverse characters are far more interesting than any 'will they, wont they' rubbish. They really wasted an opportunity on the initial firing situation. Harvey should have been ready to fire Mike. Mike should then have engineered an out and then there would have been some real tension from an uneasy alliance. Instead Harvey goes from shark to poodle on commnand. The writers should stop this childish habit of saving his utter ruthlessness only for the lesser characters. He and Mike should have been allowed to turn on each other a little.
A lot of people suggested me to watch this show, but i was not interested as i thought it would be the typical lawyer TV show, one boring night i decided to give it a shot and turns out i was wrong. Its very entertaining, funny, witty with intelligence that makes you want to see what happens next. I was shocked at its low ratings, I love the actors and they're acting very well, the direction is pretty good and the plot is very different. I guess people are just put off by the typical lawyer shows, which have become too common. Please give this show a try, its a must watch series! :) I'm totally hooked to it, can't wait for the next season.
i've always loved Gabriel Macht since "because i said so" i thought that he's charming, and has a lot of charisma, but i've never seen this coming.the great thing about this show is that every character manages to stay unique and is brilliantly cast, that we actually believe it's not them it's the character. this show is incredibly well written, i love all the lines, and unlike any other show you may not have a favorite character, you can relate to each one of them and they all tend to be fascinating. Harvey is "the Dream", Mike is an attaching "Will Hunting" who takes his smart as it is and tries to make something out of it ( thanks robin williams) , Donna is a gorgeous bitch, Louis has major self-esteem issues , Jessica is the mom, Rachel i hope will be the one Mike is gotta see about...Enough said about the characters. Lately, the best surprise i've had is "The good wife", as i love brilliant law TV shows. i wouldn't say that the good wife is better than Suits as they both have the same ingredients, great plot, both are witty, amazingly written, unique characters but for those who wants an extra-dose of humor and fun, suits has it... Suits has it all.this is my first review, because i was truly surprised by this Gem, i hope they'll have a lot of seasons coming and many awards as they deserve it.


                
Unlike many other shows that I watch, I have to remain 100% alert to keep up with the dialogue in this show. You are basically watching people bickering with the utmost intensity and rigour for 45 minutes straight. At the end of it, you are physically pulled closer to the screen from trying to catch every word. It's so sarcastic, so witty, and so much fun! This is a great show--especially for people looking for motivation while studying for their LSATs this summer.I enjoy the accurate use of lawyer lingo, giving it some educational value as well. Each episode unfolds with a new case, which ultimately strengthens our understanding of characters and their dynamics in relation to each other. However, I am entirely split on the ethics of Mike's situation. An objective viewer would be torn between their love of Mike's character and their sense of right and wrong. Overall, a thought-provoking, entertaining, gripping show that MUST be watched at least once!


                
WARNING: THIS SHOW IS VERY ADDICTIVE.Without further ado, let's present Harvey Specter. One of New York's best closers and a senior partner at Pearson Hardman. He needs to pick out a new associate, a Harvard graduate, and eventually teams up with Mike Ross. These two form a great duo and this show will go case by case basis but in every episode you will see and learn more about the characters.They are all brilliant in their roles and this show will bring you tonnes and tonnes of great quality Quotes. This is a show that YOU-MUST-SEE if you are in the corporate business world working with similar jobs. You will learn a lot from it and while it is good it is also very, very, addictive.


                
I have started watching this TV show three weeks ago. The pilot was not so good. Actually, I thought I should stop watching it. Luckily, there was one specific moment in the pilot convincing me I should give this show a shot (the moment when Harvey dumped the case to Mike even though he should not). Three weeks later, I watched both seasons.First season was good and I enjoyed it. The second season was 120% awesome....I cant remember last time I saw something nearly as good as this.I have not seen any movie while watching Suits every night. With the second season in my pocket, I had to return to movies and have seen two movies. So disappointing. This TV show set the bar so high that I am not sure I will see anything else before summer. Cant wait for next season.Strongly recommend to everyone.


                
Suits is a show that neither my husband nor I want to miss each week...as a seasoned law show addict, I can usually practically predict what the characters are going to say next...not so in this drama...love the writing, character development, and twists in the plots...great ensemble acting...I think Patrick J. Adams has really developed as an actor since last year...He has added more depth to his character...and grandma...she's always been one of my favorites...Loved her on Wings. I think she is an underrated actress, not seen often enough on TV. Last, but not least, the score is great...the music invites you in, grabs you, and helps to seamlessly connect the scenes without distraction or overkill...Hope this first-rate program continues to excel...no such thing as too many intelligent and stimulating adult dramas on TV!


                
I love Suits!! This is the few law TV drama that I would love to watch!! I personally prefer medical drama. All those characters are so interesting! Especially Donna, she's super funny!!I can stop laughing every time I watch her interact with Louis. I just looking forward to see how Louis will embarrassed himself in every episode. I really hope I can see more interaction between she and Louis in Season two. I don't know if I am the only one feels that, but I really feel like there is something between Mike and Harvey!!They filtering with each other in every episode!! I beg the scriptwriter wrote these ambiguous scene on purpose!


                
This is the best TV show and I wonder why it has never received any awards. I would suggest everyone to watch it and once you start watching it you'll thank me for suggesting the show to you. The show gets interesting from the first episode itself when a drug dealer but a genius guy trying to ditch the cops , ends up giving interview to the New York's best Closure Harvey Specter. Two lawyers , One degree and one big secret. The story will thrill you and you will get addicted to the show. Those people are very lucky who will get to watch it for the first time. I myself have watched the entire series for like 6-7 times. So, Enjoy the show and take a look towards professionalism. #Suitsforever #Teamspecterandross
In 2011 USA launched what-would-be the second highest-rated show of that year, losing only to GoT. "Suits" is about lawyers at a top-tier NYC firm that goes through more name changes than Sean Combs. It reminds me of a more serious, edgier version of "Franklin & Bash". Here's a category breakdown:Writing: The writing has absolutely matured and gotten bolder since season one. It doesn't get too controversial because the stories and plots, so far, haven't really required that. But it's smart, (dry) witted, razor sharp, and moves at a pace quick enough to not bore, but not so quick as to lose you. If you're a fan of "Breaking Bad", you'll like and appreciate how some things aren't put out there right away. They're saved for flashback episodes, and seamlessly work.Characters: Their various developments are what adds to this show's charm. Everyone has their own backstory, though some aren't as filled-in (yet) as others. The show doesn't start off where the two male leads are a team. That's mostly why the pilot is 90 minutes. How they do come together epitomizes "right place right time". Macht's and Adams' chemistry is as good as it gets. Rick Hoffman is brilliant as Louis Litt; he's a scene-stealer. It's obvious why the six leads were cast. You can tell (most of) their characters have been together for years. Overall: This has become one of my favorite shows to watch. Right now it's the only show I have to anticipate during the summer, so my excitement for Wednesday is further amplified. The stories will intrigue, you'll both love and hate pretty much everyone at least twice. In the end, "Suits" is a winner. But since "true" perfection is arguably a myth, I score it 9.5/10.
This is the best one can get not only LAWYERS can watch it anybody who has a love for the best drama is going to love it.Yes, just give it time watch it and then there will be a time you can't just wait you can't stop and you need to watch more and more.You even can watch these episodes 5-6 times continuously and even after that you will love it.The Writers have written the duologue's of a lifetime it is very tough to write these dialogue's these days that will settle in the Heart of the people.The Actors even performed it brilliantly.THANK YOU,,,for bringing such a show...Please watch it on TV and increase viewer-ship that this show never sets.


                
