When I started the series, I enjoyed suits and would probably give it an 8.I quickly realized that it fell into a cycle that was unbreakable :The same things seem to happen over and over again . It just becomes so repetitive that the " new " narratives just aren't interesting enough to satisfy you as the viewer.They also seem to exaggerate quite a bit at times so it really does not feel realistic at all.


                
Suits does start well, although a bit clichéd. If you can ignore that, you probably can enjoy the first season. But, that's it and nothing more. It just keeps getting more shiny by every episode. You can see the pattern even from the first episode. But by the end of second season, it gets too self-inflictive and boring.Obviously its about a law firm and we have two protagonists who are nothing less than super humans. One is a pro in the field and have a little boring troubled past and the other is a highly intelligent junkie who drops out of college but finally ends up joining the firm. We also have some more professionals in our firm and some rivals, none too strong. Every one is of a different personality but none of them have any depth. Well, the entire show doesn't have much depth. Our two protagonists are almost always way too cool for you and me or for anyone else for that matter. Well, Ross is a little less cool, but he makes up for that with his superhuman abilities.So, who can stop them from winning every case? Of course, NONE. Remember, they are studs. All you'll be watching is the other characters scheming and whining around while our heroes crack down things and get their way.Can't say much. I just lost interest in it. If you care for some character depth, I'd suggest you to skip this. The first couple of seasons are a bit watchable, nothing more. However, there are better shows and this might not be worth the time.
I thought that Suits might be something of a mix between The Good Wife and Damages while being primarily about men (because women don't really wear "suits") but I was disappointed to learn that it was none of the above (other than just a show about men who wear suits and 'powerful' women who only wear revealing dresses). The characters are unsympathetic and the plot is all-too mainstream. Frankly, it has been done before (like in the late 90s).In the world of Suits, a young rebellious genius without a law degree (he was expelled from college) is hired to be a lawyer at a prestigious law firm that "only hires Harvard graduates". Seriously? Give me a break. This is the first problem with the show: unrealistic, unimaginable, and yet overly pretentious all at once.While it is "based" in New York, the scenes are clearly shot in Toronto (Second Cups in the background, and a row of yellow taxis lined up on Bay Street, as if taxis in NYC just hang around outside of office buildings in the financial district). I find the show cheesy to put it simply, and somewhat of a wannabee in the legal drama genre.I generally agree with the majority view on IMDb (for the most part, broadly speaking) but the ratings for Suits are off the charts and I have no idea why! Am I missing something? Suits is not a high quality show. Have a closer look for yourself and see what you think.


                
I don't understand how people can be this excited about "Suits" and even compare it to shows like "House MD". What made the latter great was its unflinching (if somewhat biased) glance into the human psyche, the way it looked at the anxieties, the lies and the little betrayals that the characters on the show liked to sweep under the rug but that ended up coming back to haunt them, often in dramatic and life-threatening ways. That, and the contradictory and vulnerable characters the show placed at each other's mercy."Suits", however, is not like that. It doesn't have any of the inquisitiveness and candor of "House". All we see on this show is a group of young, pretty, rich, high-powered yuppies who are too cool to care about anything. The main characters always get the last word, know the wittiest response, look the most elegant. Everyone "gets it" or ends up as a loser on the sidelines of the show. Basically, all the main characters (and most of the supporting characters) are the same. Of course, Mike is still a bit wet behind the ears and thus not quite as stylish as the other characters. But that's the only difference between him and the other protagonists.That's why it was impossible for me to care about anyone on the show. It's not interesting to me to follow the journey of people who excel at everything without showing any kind of depth or conflict. Of course, the characters on the show have their flaws, too: they are "too committed to their work", they are "too straight-forward", they "can't keep their opinions to themselves", etc.. In other words: they have exactly the character traits their job calls for. And we are supposed to accept these "flaws" as somehow adding complexity to the characters at hand?The show has some intelligent plot lines, that is true. I enjoyed the way the lawyers were trying to best each other, spinning the issues at hand around, looking for the little detail that could help them - it's an interesting show concept. Also, the acting is pretty good. But after 6 episodes, I grew so tired of the bland characters that I skipped to the middle of season 2 to see if there would be any character growth. There wasn't. The main characters were still the same as in the beginning.The boring characters are what kills this show for me. If I want to see effortless success, I can always watch my washing machine. It has more soul than this show.


                
I love lawyer dramas so I was drawn to Suits. What ruined it for me is that I could not cheer for the 20 something associate with a key eye for details and instant recall of legal cases who stumbles into a one-in-a-billion short cut to becoming a lawyer with a major law firm. Once he gets in the law firm's door, the writers turn him into a whinny idiot who does not deserve his rare opportunity. He can't find the internet, legal software, law books or some resource outside of the law office to help him fill out even basic legal forms for important clients. No, he has to bug his coworkers who have their own work to do and, of course, it does not go well. The point here is that it is completely unbelievable that he would not have been not fired in his first few days. His mentor, a supposed top attorney, does not show any real courtroom talent, just ego and attitude. Suits might have worked as a satire of other lawyer shows if it had been played for laughs. As is, this is a dud.


                
I went through seven seasons of SUITS, and was generally involved and impressed. But now that the two most interesting and sympathetic characters (Mike and Rachel) are gone, and Katherine Heigl has been added to the mix, doing her usual "tough woman" boring nonsense, the show is no longer worth my time or money. How many unsympathetic characters can the show support? I regret having purchased the 8th season, and probably won't get through it.What a shame.


                
Season 1: Great - Season 2: Good - Season 3: Meh - Season 4: What the?While this show had a fantastic first and second season, it loses steam in the 3rd season and is completely all over the place and just plain unbelievable towards the end of the 4th season (current episodes). Not only is the current storyline completely unrealistic (a guy who is seen earlier in the series to cry about his cat suddenly becomes the show's most revered lawyer and is able to single-handedly crush the two partners who thus far have been proved unbreakable by even the most shrewd lawyers and tycoons, really?) and just plain silly, there is really no coming back from it. Once they turned Luis into the villain he could never realistically be, this show lost all its appeal to me. Its become completely unwatchable as these characters cannot go back from this and evolve and grow. This is really too bad because it was quite a good series. I recommend watching the first two seasons and skipping the rest.
A really promising series....or the first few seasons, but then it felt like a merry-go-round that I wanted to get off. Too many similar scenarios and ridiculous outlines in trying and keep viewers going back for more. Are there any lawyers out there who´d like to give us a picture of what the real world of corporate law is like? Now they have introduced a so called actress. A Prima Donna of the screen who tries so hard to justify her pay with over-achievement to a point of grating ones teeth. Sorry, the writers should go back to the drawing board and give it a fresh coat of paint.


                
I have enjoyed every episode of this series. However, when I read that Katherine Heigl will be joining the cast, my curiosity throws doubt about her credibility judging from past shows that she will be a positive asset. Based on that, I am downgrading my rating. Jumping the gun? Yes, but her Prima Donna attitude has followed her every role.


                
Cookie cut scene, the actors might as well hold up their lines and read them aloud. First we have short bursts of anger and confrontation; then everyone's apologetic or there's some corny antidote someone has to spew out in some kind of melodramatic way.
Scenes cut from one office to another office with no interaction from any minor players like we had in the past. Story lines jump from one to the other like a steeplechase race but no one ever clears the hedges or ditches. Just a parade of suits and dresses, and what's with those shirt collars!
The shows broken, time to end it, they shoot horses don't they?


                
I liked season 1-3. Not your typical chain smoking, show.Season 4+ does what all the other TV shows do, it turns from a court drama to a daytime melodrama. The season 4+ writers turn the job over to interns and children of the producers.
I rate S1-3 with a solid 7 and S4+ as a solid -1.The whole S4+ show is arguing, bickering and childish manipulating. They spend 2-5 minutes on actual courtroom a$$ kicking.


                
With Mike and Rachel on the show at least there was an interesting side story. Now with them gone it just the same old lawyers screwing each other and their clients. Not worth watching anymore unless you like that sort of thing.


                
If you haven't watched SUITS before, this is review contains Spoilers! Yet, it is my intention to review what I perceive to be the overall message of the series. not individual story lines.What is the message the writers are trying to share with the viewers? Here is my take on two major issues on the television series SUITS:1) Are most lawyers corrupt and self-serving?2) Should people desiring to practice law be required to graduate from law school?Corruption - I have watched this series, up through the beginning of Season 6. A message I have seen repeated over and over again is that almost every lawyer is corrupt. Jessica, Harvey, Louis, Daniel...and their staff, Donna, Rachel.... Even many of the government attorneys are willing to look the other way to serve their own agenda. Self-serving - The more you watch the show, the more you get the impression that each attorney's personal agenda is more important than respecting the law or helping their client. Instead, they seem more interested in protecting the firm or allies. We see many rivalries taken to extremes, which often hurts the person or client company they are supposed to represent. Why do Harvey and Jessica believe it is more important to win than serve justice?Law School - Mike, is the one of the man characters in this series. He has a photographic memory and is well-versed in the law, but didn't attend law school (or finish his undergraduate degree). Are we to believe that Harvard Law School isn't that important with regards to practicing law?Bar Exam - A few states (not New York, where this series is set), allow for people to take the bar exam without graduating from law school. Are the writers of SUITS, trying to make a statement that law school should not be required? In the case of Mike, it appears it wouldn't help.Overall, the show held my interest for a while. However, when I looked at what I consider to be the agenda of the writers, the constant corruption, negative portrayal of the law, and story lines that are just a bit unrealistic, I gave up by Season 6.Hats off to some stellar performances but that isn't enough to overcome a plot that seems more interested in painting most lawyers as demons and our justice system as totally corrupt. Just my opinion.
It was awesome the first few seasons. Then the last 3 made me feel like I had short term memory LOS as story lines were being used repeatedly in different scenes. Then the basic storyline began repeating. Let the show move on into the sunset.....


                
Honestly, this was my favorite show at the beginning and I was waiting for every new episode. Sadly after season 3 it started becoming extremely dull but I continued since I was already invested in the story. Now at season 8 it is just unbearable. I just finished episode 6 and I am not watching episode 7.. ever. The show turned into a cheesy drama. Every scene starts calm and escalates into an argument, using 'god d**n' or 'bull****', within a matter of seconds. Then the scene ends and another scene like the one before starts all over again. The acting became extremely dull and predictable, even the actors that played great in the beginning are bad right now. It is full of cheesy cliches and I am pretty sure non of the law is 'correct'. 
Sad, just sad.


                
I watched a few episodes of "Suits" hoping that the one huge, glaring problem would be addressed in some semi-logical way.We all know what the problem is, right? No spoilers here.You've read a few reviews, so you know Harvey, who has just been made a Senior Partner in a New York law firm, is sent on a headhunting trip to hire a new law associate from amongst the graduating class of Harvard Law School. But, he is bored, oh, so bored. He instructs Donna, his executive assistant, to "pre-interview" the candidates in the hopes of finding one with wit, who thinks fast, who stands out from the herd.Donna succeeds magnificently. Only her find isn't witty; Mike is being pursued by the cops because he has a briefcase full of pot. Which he proceeds to spill and fumble about with in front of Harvey.Here is where I have a hard time: After an unbelievably short period of reflection, Harvey decides to put himself in extreme danger of disbarment and prison time, his firm in the most dire professional liability and danger of fraud charges, every other partner and employee of his firm in professional jeopardy for the rest of their career, and every client of his firm in legal limbo. All because he is bored.Harvey actually hires Mike. Who has no degree. As legal associate. That means "lawyer".I waited a few episodes for him to come to his senses and send Mike to law school. But no one in his right mind would do what Harvey and Mike are doing. It is a recipe for disaster.


                
saw two episodes of this and didn't care for it at all , a show like weeds , dexter , ray Donovan , boardwalk empire, prison break or the following at the end of every episode at least there was something to come back to. Characters you can relate to and cliffhangers this show it didn't do much for me. I'm not one of those people who only watch say action movies or sitcoms either I'll give everything a chance.The episodes drag on to the point where I multi tasked and played guitar it was as boring as the first 4 episodes of Hannibal which for whatever reason people are going nuts for. Seriously save yourself the time , this show looks good on paper ...but... it isn't , I can't take the genius kid seriously this should have been some B listed movie and that's it.just see the movie Limitless instead the one about the pills that make the guy use 100% of his brain it's a similar concept but more believable concept. If there should be anything on TV it should be a show about assassins or something , this show tried to be original but it failed miserable in my eyes. Perhaps it's the writing , who cares. If you can sit through this check out the house of lies.


                
This is my first review and decided to make it for this show. This was one of my favorite shows for a very long time. But I must say after season 6 this whole show started falling apart. These writers have very very limited vocabulary since every other word on the show now is "goddman". It is getting very annoying. And now that Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) has left the show, there is absolutely no reason for me to watch this. Which is sad because I have always been a fan of Dulé Hill (because of Psych) and when I saw he was the "Ross" replacement I was sooo happy. But then, same thing, every other word out of Hill's mouth is GD. GD this and GD that. Let's pick a different word writers...
This my first ever review oN imdb. thats after watching scores and scores of series movies, animes( for those who dont count them as series).I just check the rating and this show (no pretentious piece of crap) has the most wrong rating. its more than my all time favourites like the leftovers ,community etc.
Dialogues are so lame. you may like the characters in first season but after that they only go downhill and start becoming pretentiuos and cliched.
i stopped watching midway in season 3 ( I like complete ending but i dont think i will i eveeerrr return back so such lacklustre show.
i have given 5 ( which is waayyy more than it ACTUALLY deserves) because of descent 1st season and good cinematography.
PLEASE DONT LET THE AMERICAN TV STANDARD SINK ANY FURHTHER.


                
There are the Oscars and the Emmy's for the best of the best and the gongs for worst. How about we introduce a list that credits the actors that have to keep a straight face and deliver the dribble that this show has led too. The problem here would be a conflict of interests though as both main actors Gabrielle and Patrick are existing producers so probably have that little extra incentive to deliver said dribble. This show Started off well but soon ran out of gas and lately has resorted to repeating the same formula with different actors, notice I did not say 'characters' but actors. It has a quirky side in early seasons that are just bearable, at let's say, 5% content and are cute but to stretch this angle with zero plausible plot is taking the mick. The plot has more holes than I can care to mention and I swear they have even resorted to extending the blank screen between scenes for need to chew up a few more precious seconds of their 45 min time frame. I did not add a spoiler to this review as I fear they have spoiled it themselves with their terrible story lines and unconvincing casting in later seasons. See ' sociopath ' in season 6 and you'll get my drift. Sorry guys I use to put up with this as my light and easy drama fill but TV is far too exciting to keep up with this nonsense.


                
What a boring last season...or a few
Amazing how on this show, there are either really great actors or really bad ones. Especially Markle in the last season. You could see she doesn't feel like acting being in love with Mike.
Couldn't wait for it to be over


                
After watching this program for quite some time and enjoying the characters and plot I have regretfully decided that Henceforth I will have to boycott watching "Suits" due to the excessive and loosely use of the "GD" word used way too often, I find it very offensive. I wish there was a way to have the scripts edited to exclude the use of the GD word.


                
