I have watched all seasons.... unfortunately.Originally the drama was tense and fun. The bromance between Harvey and Mike was also really interesting. However, over time the sparkle disappeared and the magic of Mike's amazing memory seems to have disappeared alongside it. Instead of being fun yet tense, the show has evolved into a continuous screaming match and people panicking about mundane nonsense. Made up drama that feels too forced to be entertaining.Live. Die. Repeat.Every episode seems like a catastrophe for the firm or the people. They resolve this by yelling at each other or trying to be really clever. Unfortunately the clever seems to have turned into everyday unspectacular. The characters are now just bumbling ants without direction and without any capacity for passionate relationships. Even Mike and Rachel or Harvey and Donna are washed out.Worth a watch up to about season 3. Thereafter, it turns into a slow and agonizing death of a show.


                
Suits started as a promising TV series. The characters had a little something in those first episodes. There was a hidden promise that they could evolve, the plot seemed to be heading somewhere. And then, too soon, Suits became a parody of a TV series. Bad acting, flat boring characters with fancy clothes, dialogues deprived of any depth or whit. After the second season it was -and remains still- nothing but a bunch of people screaming empty threats at each other. The background of the main characters is used with no imagination to prove a sallow point every now and then when the weak plot needs a way out. No plot, no characters no reason to even take a look.


                
The show is entertaining up to the point that it questions the viewer's intelligence.A legendary lawyer in what's probably the most competitive city in the world takes a chance on a drug-dealing pothead, who pretends to be a Harvard educated lawyer. OK, sure, what the hay.Except the pothead, Mike, can't get his excrement together. He can't even *look* like a lawyer, which could be easily done by getting a decent suit and stopping riding that ridiculous bike. Sorry, but in New York City lawyers working at top firms don't ride bikes to work, especially not with messenger bags slung across their chests. He looks like a frat boy working as a bike messenger.Then Mike starts messing up left and right. He has no sense of professionalism and his boss as well as the managing partner of the firm - seriously - keep putting their butts on the line for him. That simply would not happen. And every time Mike messes up big his superiors threaten to fire him but instead of firing him they keep giving him more chances and letting him handle/interfere in high profile cases.Mike's unlikable and arrogant, and I just keep hoping he'll get hit by a truck and die. By the second season Mike, the pot smoker who used to get paid to cheat on college entrance exams for other people, the guy who kissed his best friend's girlfriend, the same one who sleeps with a married woman etc. etc., starts his right/wrong tirades, believing he's doing the right thing by betraying client privilege when he shares confidential information with the prosecution. And his top dog boss still doesn't fire the guy.Like, no.
Season 1: a young man with eidetic memory and a job that consists of taking entrance exams for others ends up employed masquerading as a lawyer from Harvard. Can he fit in without the real law school experience? Mentored by one of the best lawyers in New York, if not the country, I guess we'll see.Season 2 and following: But then the story line changes to sex lives of the many unique characters, lawsuits that are decided by lawyers without their clients' consent, depositions that never seem to last more than a few minutes, and routine criminality among the various lawyers. One guy sneaking into the legal field is plausible. But when every officer of the court is a criminal, even the guests brought in from time to time, the story starts to become just silly, if not boring.Leaving the episode to episode story aside, the characters never seem to grow, improve, or to even realize their singular dimension. How many times do we have to hear Harvey say "I" beat you. How many times will his secretary pine like a lovesick teenager? Will Louis show why he is supposed to be a great lawyer (no) or just be the nerd that everyone jokes about (yes)? Frankly, it's now just a boring wait for the imposter lawyer to find the key document that will let Harvey win again.
Initially Suits were one of the best shows on TV. Right now (S8) its going so bad, its 4/10 at the most. Everyone (Specter, Louis, etc) are behaving as irrational as it gets, like complete morons. Show to replace Mike got Samantha Wheeler - instead of the most likeable character on the show we got easily the most DISLIKEABLE character among the "good guys."


                
Some Spoilers ahead.Granted the show has some good characters and sharp dialogues. But so far, no case has been good enough. It is just too average. And I am not blaming it for being average. I just don't understand the 8.9 rating (I know how the rating system works.) Now, let me point out some stuff that bothered me. In the first episode Harvey hits on a waitress and she denies. Next shot goes straight to his house where they just had sex. That is not just cheesy, but also lazy characterization. Mike Ross' aunt or grandma being in the hospital is not exactly original either. The next few episodes have some good stuff but nothing that justifies the hype. I will not be continuing further. As I have much better shows to watch.
The last 3 seasons, its gone down.
Now its all about posturing and treatning. Could'ent even finish the latest season. To bad.


                
This show is so cliché that it actually hurts. I know there are many out there who likes these "goodfeel" happy-ending stories, but I am certainly not among them. The show has some entertainment value while watching it, but when you reflect over what happened a bit after this I was left with one thought: "Wtf?" The story is not credible, and the awkward Mike Ross characters is one the least well characters I've probably ever seen. The dialog between him and the gorgeous Rachel is so fake that no breathing human being can give it credit. Not to mention how predictable it all is. For those who have seen the show "White collar" it's a lot of the same. Every time something goes wrong you can see the solution coming from miles away. The character Harvey Specter is a little bit more likable, but still doesn't impress me. Reminds me of Robert Dawney Jr. in Iron Man. This guy is too cool for himself, and I'm definitely not buying it. I sincerely recommend you find something else to watch. But maybe this is just me.


                
This started out as a strong concept: man with photographic memory fools everyone into thinking he is a lawyer, gets a job as an associate with a shark mentor, hilarious action ensues. Then they started to use GD like it was a conjunction. We counted 14 times by the lead actor in ONE EPISODE! So offensive to the 85% of America who claims to be Christian. Then they forgot the photographic memory thing for Mike and it became about Jessica being black and Louis Litt having Asperger Social issues and the shark. In the 8th season they got rid of Mike with the photographic memory all together and brought in one of the most hated actresses in Hollywood, the blonde chick that was fired from from GREY'S ANATOMY. That mess is just unwatchable. Too bad, started strong.


                
I am a screen addict so if I only watched what I really enjoyed, I would have been done a long time ago. Plus, I knew Suits existed, because everyone was so crazy about it, but I deliberately avoided it, because I suspected it wouldn't be any different from any other lawyer-based show. When I had no other choice, I finally gave in and watched Suits. Boy, was I right about it being no different than so many other shows revolving around law suits. Predictable to the core and what's worse, the law and lawsuits weren't even in the center of it. Or, if they were, they've all been about protecting the firm for 6 seasons. If they weren't about protecting the firm, they were about protecting Mike, who is really unlikable and annoying as hell with his morals and rejecting Harvey and going back to Harvey that same night. I couldn't see one crumb of evidence why this Mike is so special. Usage of his photographic memory was utilized a total of 5 times during 6 seasons. Keep expecting Harvey to admit he's his uncle, since he adores him so much regardless of him being a teenage-equivalent lost boy. which I wouldn't be surprised by if they do it in the next seasons."Goddamn" sound familiar. It's all the characters' go-to angry phrase. Keeping/putting hands in pockets looks familiar. If you have the patience to watch again, just pay attention to Mike and Harvey. Donna's know-it-all-and-more character - don't get me started. Hardman's unstoppable come backs, even though he's a changed man.I've missed so many scenes doing something else and never missing a second. Normally I'd pause a show so I don't miss anything. But missing something here would mean absolutely nothing. I'd go back and see Donna being very smart, Harvey being very arrogant in his own right, Louis being "cute" and Mike being not attractive. I am actually starting to laugh now. Or vomit a little bit. So I'll just stop reminiscing. Not worth your time and I should have stuck to my principles of not wanting to watch it.
This used to be one of my favourite shows but with the departure of Mike & Rachael the writers seem to have run out of ideas. It seems that all the drama now comes from the lead characters over-reacting to everything and then later apologizing. I would expect otherwise highly intelligent people to not let themselves be ruled entirely by emotion, at least if they want to function successfully. I certainly wouldn't hire any of these unstable hotheads.


                
Since I don't get the USA Netflix library, my watch list is limited. I worked for over 25 years in the legal industry. I know one thing for sure. No law firm would survive with all the garbage that goes on in this drama. It's not believable.It is sometimes entertaining. Not quite, actually not even close to the Good Wife. But it does have its moments. Also, I realize that this firm being based out of NYC, the rules are quite different from California. The entire premise of the GIANT secret that fuels this show is that one of the attorneys did not attend law school In California this is not illegal if you pass the bar.Nonetheless, I personally would like to ask the writers to execute/murder Louis Litt. PLEASE, PLEASE! Then they could open another office in Los Angeles and move Mike there.One more episode: Another attack by a drone blows up only the floors of Pearson, Specter. Or it could be an attack via the ventilation system through poison gas. You could pick and choose which offices to kill off. LOLThanks for reading this.


                
First episode was great. But then it all got very the same every episode.. and also -- i think a lot of things in suits and gossip girl is a like - all the conflict, the constant view of newyork-skyline, expensive clothing and people who think being sassy means you can conquer the world. I have only seen the two first seasons of them both but... nah. I had higher hopes for this show


                
