After watching the pilot episode I was pleased from what I saw. The episode was long enough to give us a glimpse into some interesting characters. There seems to be a lot to go around with both leads social lives and how they impact the secondary characters. There Is no shortage of eye candy. I did find some of the time lines a bit of a stretch, but nothing major. I most enjoyed how the writers took the time to give good background material on just about the whole cast witch I think Is becoming so rare, knowing this info helps to get into these characters from the start. I recommend this show to viewers who like a lawyer type show with just a touch of softness.


                
By chance and luck, Mike Ross is saved in the nick of time by a lawyer one night during an escape from a shady marijuana dealing that had gone wrong. Harvey Specter, renowned as one of the top lawyers in the city, is in the midst pf recruiting for the "right" law associate. Coincidentally, Mike is faced abruptly by this job opportunity that is definitely able to bestow him the money he urgently needs to cover up for his grandmother's medical funds. Facing a major life-changing decision, Mike decides to go for it instead of partaking in illicit activities for the rest of his life. Mike affirms he makes the appropriate position for Specter, and manages to impress Specter with his deftness in retentive memorization. However, having no genuine degree from Harvard, needless to say any formal college degree, lingers as an ever-present issue. Realizing no other man Specter had interviewed so far possessed the same sense of intelligence quite like Ross, Specter is willing to cover up for Ross and his background to land him the job as his associate.I am fairly pleased to see this new show making its way into a hit television series. It's been time they've come up with something new since Law & Order.


                
I really liked the show for the first several seasons. Mike and Harvey made a great team that was fun to watch. Add in Donna and Louis and it was a really entertaining show. With Mike's trial they took a real turn to heavy drama. Then when Mike and Rachel leave the show, it goes downhill fast, and you can see why it's now canceled after a concluding season. There is no humor after Mike aside from occasionally Donna, and instead it is just one argument then backstab after another.
My wife and I came across this series on Amazon Prime streaming programming. We started watching it from episode 1 of season 1. Right now we are almost finished with season 2. Most episodes are about 42 minutes long, made for one hour time slot with commercials. We often watch 2 or 3 episodes a night.The premise is set in the first episode, Harvey Specter is a great lawyer and senior partner in his firm. As he is fond of saying "I never lose." As he is looking to hire a new associate, interviewing one after another Harvard law graduate, Mike Ross suddenly and frantically appears at the interview venue. Mike Ross has no degree, he is a petty drug dealer, and takes the BAR exam for others for cash, he is a genius with a photographic memory but no degree. In spite of all that Harvey hires him.Therefore an ongoing issue is who else will find out that Ross isn't really a lawyer? Specter and the firm obviously would get into lots of legal binds when or if it were found out.As the characters flesh themselves out we meet Jessica Pearson who is the managing partner. We meet Louis Litt who is a brilliant lawyer but also a petty, deceiving chipmunk. He and Harvey are always at each other. Rachel Zane is the highly talented paralegal who desperately wants to pass the BAR and attend Harvard Law School. Donna Paulsen is the pretty and smart assistant to Harvey. Season 1 has the best stories, as we are getting through season 2 we are losing a bit of interest but overall it is an entertaining diversion. We will probably keep watching.FEB 2017 edit: We are now into season 4 and the show is still keeping our interest. We watch mainly for the characters and their interactions, the actual stories are secondary. Louis Litt is a great character.MAR 2017 edit: We have completed season 4 and now are in season 5. My interest has been piqued again, a nightly ritual to watch 1 or 2 episodes when nothing else is on regular TV.AUG 2017 edit: We just finished watching season 6 on DVDs from our public library, things changed quite a bit, not the least of which was Mike's stint in prison and Jessica's decision to follow her heart. After so many episodes the characters have become even more interesting.AUG 2018 edit: We just finished watching season 7 on DVDs from our public library. While Jessica has moved on and now in Chicago she still turns up from time to time. Mostly a series of interesting storylines and Litt continues to entertain. Maybe this time next year we will be watching season 8.


                
Last night I tuned into the TV premiere of the TV show "Suits" which is broadcast by the USA network. The show is about a twenty year old under achieving drop out named Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) who earns a living by taking various test and entrance exams for others. He's blessed with a photographic memory which he uses to impress a senior partner, Harvey Spector (Gabriel Macht), during an interview for a position as an associate at Harvey's law firm. Although he does not have a law degree, Ross has taken the LSAT numerous times. Ross uses his photographic memory to impress Spector, causing him to break one of the law firm's major rulesonly hire Harvard graduates. Ross with no degree of any kind certainly does not qualify for a job.The premiere episode of the show keeps you interested from start to finish. It mixes just the right amount of drama and suspense to capture the attention of the audience. I must say TNT could take some cues from USA, on the right way to premiere a show-- with limited commercial interruption and a pilot episode that leaves you wanting more. The two lead actors are properly cast for this project. Each actor epitomizes his character, a twenty year old slacker and a high powered suit with a narcissistic personality. Gabriel Macht has appeared in well known projects such as "Behind Enemy Lines," "Middle Men," "Whiteout," and his most recent "Love and Other Drugs." His co star Patrick Adams doesn't have a significant filmography but has appeared in numerous TV series such as "Flash Forward," "Numbers," and "Ghost Whisperer" with this being his most consequential role to date.I give the premiere of this show an A- and have high hopes for its future prospects. I would recommend this show to anyone who likes an interesting drama that could be on TV for many seasons to come. USA network has definitely strengthened its summer lineup with the addition of "Suits" alongside "Burn Notice" and "Royal Pains." Check out my newly launched blog at: www.logansmovieblog.blogspot.com
I rated 10 until season 7, but 8 lost power without Mike. Also the "name-partner plot" has got a little bit annoying.
After watching the fourth episode, I was one of the first reviewers of this show (August 2011), and my review concentrated on the good/the bad and with a desire to affect narrative shifts/development (hopefully producers' minions read these things, and I think so given the show's subsequent development). Caveat: I write about media as my profession, and, again, I rarely take time out to write this kind of stuff because I have enough on my plate. But, SUITS has emerged as a private indulgence. Yes, it's an L.A. Law remake (and there are still issues with genre -- "what does it want to be?" is still a problem), but it's a much more self- conscious and playful show, and the writing is brilliant, evoking noir-like banter. After two years, and my original review, I am happy to see the show develop its women characters (and not overly sexualizing Jessica, like before, one of the most powerful African-American women characters on television) -- I like the new stylists' choices of making her stylish/sexy but not overly Ally MacBeal, such as the use of asymmetrical dresses/suits during episodes when she was in conflict with Harvey or Darby (nice homonym, by the way). But, what's the deal with all of the bags/purses? Professional women don't bring Hermes Birkin bags to every in-office conference (I think I have counted the number of purses in a shot, and it's kind of astounding, enough already with product placement). The "Rachel" character has also developed. I was a little worried about scene changes: those establishing pov shots that focused on Rachel's bootie, but then there was a funny complementary shot focusing on a woman looking at a man's bootie. Rachel is developing as a character; that said, the actress who plays her needs to eat a muffin, as she's tubercular these days. I keep expecting her, out of starvation, to fall over the copy machine. Still love the filmic banter (meta-cinematic references to film culture, super fun and opens up the show), and now it's not just btw Harvey and Mike, but is extending across the show/characters (even to Louis). And, yes, Louis. He's still a caricature, but he has pathos -- yes, he's a comic relief figure but also a person now. And, I think my favorite episode this season was the great Cat Trial, which made me laugh out loud in its surrealism. The show is now much more bifurcated, but in a good way. It attempts to explore legal culture (but it does not glorify such work, as it examines the economic determinism that runs against humanist ethics) but also has these really fun, outrageous, implausible fun sub-narratives that are about human empathy, struggles and, well, neuroses. And, what is legal culture but the expression of human neuroses? I like where it's going because I don't know where it's going, which is a rarity. That said, as a suggestion, I think it needs to exteriorize (beyond the lame Game of Thrones line) & open up the space of the firm. And, Mike Ross is now kind of in limbo. I still think he should go to law school and maybe now with Rachel (as a means of personal legitimization?). Could be some fun scenes of them being equalized in law classes.


                
As a lawyer, the problems I have with this show are the same I have with many shows about lawyers. It is often clear that the writers don't know anything about how being a lawyer actually works. I can forgive missing some of the more nuanced things, but they should have at least gotten more of the basics right.The biggest glaring problem is that Mike Ross did not pass law school and therefore does not have a license to practice law. A lot of the show's drama is built around the fact that the firm has to hide this to allow him to continue on. However, every state bar has a database where anyone can simply look up your license. Not to mention there are many other checks in place that would prevent a nonlawyer from getting away with pretending to be a lawyer for so long. The show would be just as good if they had simply brought him in as a paralegal who helped the other lawyers and then financed him through law school or something. It's really an unnecessary plot point that comes up again and again and distracts from an otherwise pretty good show.My other quibble is that every character in this show constantly breaks rules of ethics and behaves in ways that lawyers don't. I don't understand why writers of lawyer shows don't simply consult with a few lawyers before finalizing their scripts. Sadly, this is common in pretty much every show about lawyers. In spite of this, the show is really good, especially compared with other shows of its kind.


                
This season of Suits has proved to be the most character-driven of them all. The battles at the firm seem more like a backdrop to the internal struggles each of the characters is facing than the central conflict of the show, and what we see of their professional lives at Pearson Specter Litt only mirrors the private changes that are taking place away from work.The emotionally-charged mid-season finale shows what happens when those two worlds, personal and professional, begin to violently converge. Harvey confronts one of the most difficult choices of his adult life to make yet another difficult decision regarding his "family" at work. Mike revisits a tragedy in his past to get guidance for his future with Rachel. Jessica reminisces on her failed marriage to remind herself just how much she has given up for the sake of the firm. Louis has to choose between Jessica and his sister.The recurring choice seems to be: your family at work or your family at home.The firm or Rachel. The firm or Quentin. The firm or Esther.The episode manages to juggle all of these interwoven plot lines fairly well, and still manages to deliver each of these new developments with a remarkable depth of emotion. The flashbacks do seem a little out of place at times, and their extensive usage in the span of one episode makes them feel a little forced. Though the writers of the show are known to make things up on the fly, these past revelations would have been more effective had they come earlier.All in all, the mid-season finale proves to be an excellent installment that asks (and answers) some of the tough questions we've been pondering, taking on a tone not often seen in such a humorous and feel-good show. The last scene was both unexpected and welcome--we all knew it was bound to happen--but by wrapping up other story lines, the episode still manages to be a satisfactory ending whilst keeping the audience impatient for more.
Got to admit, at first I was skeptical to this TV-show. But after the first 6 episodes I love it. The characters are well written, interesting and they all work together really great. The relationship between all the characters is exciting and create a lot of drama. The main character is Mike Ross, great character. Patrick J Adams does a great job. Another main character is Harvey. Yes, just yes... Strong character that in the beginning seems to be an arrogant and smart lawyer, but now seems to be developing into something else.What this show also does really good is the cases, most are really interesting and exciting. Not to mention the razor sharp dialogs. How this show presents lawyers makes me want to be a lawyer. Cool, smart, successful.. Can't honestly think of anything negative about this show. This show has a lot of potential, I really like it and considering some of my favorite TV-shows is Doctor Who, True Blood and Supernatural shows that this isn't exactly my genre. But I really like it never the less. hmm... writing this 1.25 AM... get to excited to sleep after watching this show :D


                
".. then kill yourself." After you reach a certain age, it is fun to watch certain types of shows evolve in front your eyes. Like being Darwin on a remote island, only without the island, the bugs, the lizards, the boat trip, and the lost years.In the beginning, TV treated lawyers like ... hm .. gods.Perry Mason with the deep breathing.The Defenders with EG Marshall, who, with a beard, could have played Moses.In the 80s we went NextGen with LA Law. Suddenly lawyers were no longer Gods, they were frisky little devils who did what they had to do to advance themselves, and their clients. The family law specialists did not hesitate to sleep with the sobbing wives and the criminal guys did not care if you just murdered Cleveland.In other words, more like real life.Was there room for another evolution? SUITS proves there is.Start with LA Law, drop 15 years from the average age of each character, make everyone so quirky they are as likely to fail an inkblot test as pass it, and sprinkle here and there some dialog so sharp that you might think Sorkin wrote it.Mix well and sip.That's SUITS


                
Meghan and Patric just screw this amazing serie... Is there any chance to bring them back? Episodes from season 8 are really hard to watch. Unfortunally, Harvey's speech and character is the only reason to still watch the show.
I had so been enjoying this production for the first three seasons. Season four started to deteriorate with the use of the expletive 'shit' so much. Season five is even worse....between so much use of profanity, and yelling at each other constantly, I am definitely losing interest in what had a very good start. It was fun in the beginning when Mike and Harvey were the only ones who knew... now it's just become ridiculous.Sorry, but I am signing off Suits with great disappointment! I just don't 'give a sh..' what happens to Mike anymore!P.S. Donna is the best character on the show.


                
Nowadays we are so into crime, law, the art of the deal, and the art of the con that we have a plethora of shows on TV that deal with these very things.USA has brought us Suits, a sophisticated, well-acted show about the inner workings of a law firm, and it's truly one of the better ones. Having worked in a law firm for many years, so much of it rings true.First off, on Suits and White Collar, New York City has never looked so good. Having recently seen a repeat of Kojak -- New York is neither all as seedy as what is shown on Kojak nor as sparklingly beautiful as Suits, but who cares. The cinematography is wonderful.The law firm is managed by Jessica Pearson (Gina Torres) who dresses like something out of Vogue (and looks like something out of Vogue). She's tough and has the unenviable job of dealing with Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman), an impossible man, and the firecracker, egomaniacal Harvey Spector (Gabriel Macht).Before some changes in the story, Harvey's secretary was Donna (Sarah Rafferty), a clever, resourceful redhead who will do whatever it takes to help her boss. Then there is Rachel (Meghan Markel), another beauty, whose father is a well-known attorney; she is currently a paralegal studying law.The big secret of the firm is that they have a sharp lawyer who is not a lawyer in Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams). He has a brilliant mind, a feel for the law, and a photographic memory, but he left college because he took tests for other students and was exposed. His next career was as a drug dealer. Then he became an associate, at the firm, working with Harvey Spector. He has no law degree. If anyone finds out, there will be hell to pay. It hangs over the first seasons of the show like a machete.We become involved with not only the cases but the private lives of these characters, from Donna's latent acting ambitions, the Mike- Rachel romance, Harvey's problems with various women, his ongoing feud with Louis, Louis' romance with a law recruiter, and everything in between.Suits is an excellent, involving show, and I'm not saying that just because I have met and love Stephen Macht, Gabriel's father, who has been on the show a few times as a law professor. I can only say the Machts are a wonderful family. And the show is wonderful, with a wonderful family of characters, some of whom are a little around the bend, and all of whom are interesting. Highly recommended.


                
I must warm you that I have a soft spot for movies which show people with extraordinary abilities! August Rush, Good Will Hunting, A beautiful mind and all that type.That being same, Suits is truly awesome!Fast Paced, amazing humor and out of the world acting. I mean, Gabriel Macht. Phew! I cannot even begin to describe him. He is smart, arrogant and the way he takes every problem just takes your breath away.Mostly, the whole of Suits is based on law practice. There is a lot of courts and depositions and settlements. Watching this only if you enjoy them!I sat down for three days and finished two seasons. Then I passed out for 14 hours. Watch at your own risk!*Sigh* I hate waiting for season three. :(
I am at the end of the
5th season. used to love this show. but this end is pathetic.


                
It's an amazing series, something different then all these shows about death and what not. The witty humour is great but not too much and you get attached to characters quickly. I recommend that everyone watched the Pilot If you don't like it then, don't continue but I knew from that moment onwards I was glued to this series. I will admit as a HUGE fan of this show that sometimes you get the feeling of "oh okay that's a bit of BS" but most shows do but I think overall most cases are dealt with quite fairly.


                
Without wasting readers time, Suit is captivating and awesome, I have followed the series up till now, but I think one character is lacking. The suit has played out mostly in winnings and settlement but has not revealed the unforgiving character that never bends no matter the settlement or the compromise. Some characters in real life do not mind going to the grave on a particular belief or idea. This kind of Character is yet to be featured. Perhaps the author and writer of Suits write in the dimension that the series should play out, but in my own opinion, I think such character aforementioned should be introduced and explicated in details. But the series is informative. Kudos!


                
Suits had an exceptional start when it first premiered. It was fresh, had style and great story lines. However the show started to take a downward turn after its first few seasons and ever since gone up and down in its quality. Here is my brief summary of the seasons to date, I will try and be succinct in my take on them. Season 1. Outstanding start and concept whereby a very intelligent person, Mike Ross, was hired by the charismatic Harvey Specter. The two perfectly balanced each other out. Mike would show great intelligence but Harvey would show him how to be a lawyer. Their personalities, lines, jokes and chemistry are a treat to watch. The two take on some great cases together in a cutthroat law firm meanwhile keeping their secret public. Mike tries to manage his personal life with his best friend and his friends ex girlfriend while Harvey urges him to let go of his drug dealing friend who almost got him arrested. Ended with a great cliffhanger that could expose Mike.Season 2. Very strong start as from the opening Mike is exposed to Jessica who wants to fire him. This turns the table of the entire series as what is Harvey and Mike going to do. We see some thrilling episodes of Harvey trying to keep Mike safe, we also see some great legal cases. Mikes private life is once again heating up and interesting with his friends ex partner becoming his partner. Sadly her time was cut short far too early to unnecessarily pave the way for Rachael. Another great end to the season with Mike and Harvey now at opposite sides and Harvey wanting to fire Mike but Jessica saving him. The story about his fate lurking in the balance makes for great viewing and keeps us tuned in. Season 3. This is where the show starts to take a big dive. It was nice to see two Game of Thrones actors appear as the writers are fans but they were used for poor story lines. Unlike previous seasons this season revolves around one major story line which is a risk because if it's terrible the show could take a hit, sadly it was terrible. It was an unrealistic, dull and ludicrous story line whereby the main culprit was a lawyer. While this show is about law firms it is ridiculous to make the bad guy a lawyer in an international incident involving far more dangerous parties, it unnecessarily brought it too close to home. The only redeemable aspect of the season was Harvey trying to oust Jessica for managing control. Season 4. This was the worst season of the show. No one wanted to see Mike leave the law firm to become an investment banker. This is Suits and the uniqueness of the show was him acting as a lawyer while covering his secret. Unless they pulled this off really well it would not fly well, it didn't. Probably the most excruciating and painful part for the audience was the Logan Sanders affair. No one cared and was remotely interested to see a cheap affair between Rachel and Logan Sanders, it was dull and uninteresting. It felt the show forgot what it was about and made it different. Rachel's character I feel at this point became completely unlikeable and overprotected as a character who had a huge emotional reaction to everything for no reason. If you watched The Office she basically became Pam Beasley. Season 5. The show recovers slightly and improves. Harvey shows us a different and vulnerable side with his panic attacks due to losing Donna. Daniel Hardman returned and it was interesting to see him and Jessica all vie for control of the firm. There were also some other interesting characters added to the mix like Jack Soloff. The show looked more like a soap opera than the kick ass legal drama we first saw. Katrina Bennett would have been far better suited to Mike's character and the show. After Jenny this was another big missed opportunity for Mike's love interest. It also picked up with Mike's secret not being much of a secret anymore with most of his firm knowing and a special prosecutor after him. Season 6. The show builds on its strengths from last season and further improves. Suits meets Prison Break in a new and unexpected way. Mike is now in prison for something he would have been found not guilty. It was a decent season with seeing Mike survive in prison while Harvey tries to get him out and hold it together at a law firm that has lost its clients and staff because of Mike's fraud scandal. It had a great end with Mike applying to be a lawyer and up for a difficult hearing while now working a legal aid clinic. He also brings his clinic to the law firm. Jessica dropped a bombshell on us by leaving the firm and possibly the show. Lets see what season 7 has in store, unsure whether I will still be tuned in but maybe the first episodes because of Harvey. Every great show has its points of difference that make it stand apart. The show forgot about its point of difference a few seasons earlier, it also resembled a soap opera with agonizing emotions that people didn't need to see. No one wanted to see a departure from the kick ass legal drama that had so much style.
Suits Reminds me the white collar series,a genius criminal who is a good guy actually but he didn't have the choice to be good and have money at the same time,so another person(in this case a professional lawyer) gives him this chance,in white collar Nill61 61was running from his past all the time,just like Mike in the suits,the serial has two line of stories: 1.the main story:the main story is about mike,how he deals with his personal problems,his connections with girls and his best friend,the main story line is good,but not good enough,its really weaker than the white collar's main story line but still,you can enjoy it. 2.the stories that would begin and finish in just one episode: The best reason for watching this serial is this kind of stories,they are very good. actually I can say they are even better than their kind in white collar. Its fun serial after all, it doesn't have the secrets like the lost series showed us before,and its characters don't deal with huge problems like characters in prison break series did.but still,it is a very good choice for those who like to watch both comedy and drama at the same time,in my opinion suits is not a "Must watch".its not that great really.but you can enjoy it and it never let you down.so have some free time? Watch this,you will like it for sure.
I'm willing to forgive a few unrealistic things in the plot of seven seasons of SUITS since the characters really popped for me .. and I got hooked. Suits is more a soap opera of the friendships and power struggles between lawyers in a firm. There are occasional court room scenes but what really hooked me is the suspense of the premise of the show .. a lawyer who never attended law school manages to get hired in a firm. There is such a thing as "reading the law" so I could easily get behind this premise. The antics that follow can sometimes bend believability but by then, you're so hooked on the characters and their relationships, it's easy to overlook. The main two characters of Harvey Specter and Mike Ross are played very well by Gabriel Macht and Patrick J. Adams. But I have to say my favourite character by a long shot is Louis Litt played by Rick Hoffman. His constant battle with himself and others made me laugh out loud so many times. I was not a fan of Rachel at first ... she seemed chronically relegated to the role of a femme fatale. But she grew and took on more responsibility as the seasons rolled on. Harvey's secretary Donna, played by Sarah Rafferty, is a delight .. although (SPOILER) I doubt any firm would offer her position of COO just because she had great intuition. But this only happens in the 7th season and by then you're on board for the ride with this fun group of characters.As far as anticipated season 8, Patrick J Adams and Meghan Markle are leaving but I believe Harvey Specter, Louis Litt and Donna Paulsen are returning and I definitely want to see more of Louis Litt. I think Rick Hoffman could carry his own show.


                
Suits is a great series about lawyers, that allows people to imagine how the daily life of a important firm in NY works.The two main characters are Harvey (senior partner) and Mike (an associate). Harvey tries to show Mike how to be a real lawyer, as Mike is a fraud because he pretends that he has graduated from Harvard except he is not, but he ended up working as a lawyer because of his brilliant mind. He has a photographic memory that allows him to remember everything that he reads and for this reason he convinces Harvey to hire him. So, in every episode they resolve a case and they also show their personal life.The dialogue is so clever and the acting is quite good, and these two things contribute to establish solid characters. And whereas in the first season the plot focus on Mike, in the other seasons you are able to know more about Harvey and the other ones.


                
I would make a review about season 6 (1-10) since I have finished watching it. Finally! That is the perfect word for this season since everything go back to its original plot (season 1 and 2) where Harvey is as strong as ever not some emotional distraught brainless lawyer like season 5 did (pure disappointment for that season), Mike stays on his track with honesty and still smart ass guy (forgive the language) but really even though he did not get to become a lawyer again "soon" he still a big help for those who needs his help, Louis becomes Louis still some bad temper love hunger weird guy but this season he was not cunning or even did dirty tricks like former seasons which I really prefer, Rachel showing more of her humane/emotional side which is OK but not really likable, finally Donna act like a super secretary unlike a secretary who got angry when her feeling was not reciprocated by her boss then left to work for others (a betrayer I suppose) it's good for the production team to keep Donna-Harvey thing as professional love just gonna ruin the show.So this season is finally not as boring like season 3, 4, 5 not too dramatic importantly and focusing in solving law cases of course with clever ways instead of dealing with inside law-firm conflict, personal problems of those working in the firm, anger-management and insecurity issues (not only with Harvey but almost everyone in the show). Gladly see this show's improvement "FINALLY".
I wasn't expecting much. Another show about lawyers. In New York. Yay.And for the first episode things went more or less predictably. The snarky super lawyer, the bright but naive understudy, the power female executive, and the thoroughly evil office Darth Vader (Louis!).The lead characters - Harvey and Mike - kind of carry the show for the first half season but then the ensemble cast takes over. I watched this marathon fashion since I'd never seen it before and by the time I got to the middle of the second season I felt like fast-forwarding past the Harvey-and-Mike scenes. Their roles are kind of predictable after a while - you pretty much know they'll hit some roadblock and at the last minute they'll have this amazing idea and win the case. Feels kind of like House in that regard.Donna (Harvey's legal secretary) is incredible. Smart, funny, complex. Every scene with her is interesting. Rachel is gorgeous and has an infectious smile and laugh - a bit of a drama queen, but so what - she's fun to watch and carries her role very well. Louis is a tour de force - you at once can't stand him and a second later feel bad for him - a thoroughly damaged human being that combines an Arthurian sense of justice with the people skills of Josef Stalin. It helps that the head writer comes from a comedy background. This show would not work as a straight-up drama. What makes it immensely watchable is the humor that every character brings to their roles. No matter how heavy the plot-line is, there's always a scene or two - usually with Donna or Louis - that are comedy gold.I gave it an 8 because it's fun to watch, but the show needs to be careful of becoming too formulaic and predictable. When the tertiary characters start stealing the show on a weekly basis, that says something is wrong. Harvey, Mike, and Jessica are almost caricatures by the end of the second season. There are no surprises from them. The constant focus on internal office politics and attempts to take control of the firm likewise gets tedious after a while. They should focus more on cases. But overall this is a pretty good show and worth watching.


                
Suits has held my interest from season to season with twists and turns and relationships which are not surface but complex. The premise of the show is unlikely in the extreme but made believable because of the acting and the interactions between the cast members. The good and the bad are marched before the screen, as are the petty and the grand. The thing that has lately rubbed me the wrong way is that most people have a penchant for swearing in a particular way and the writers have given all of them the same penchant for using G-damn which is not realistic and on my part, not appreciated. The plot is so interesting, there's need to detract from that. Keep us on the edge of our seats and wondering what's next.


                
