After finishing every available episode of House, Bones, Fringe, and Prison Break, I found myself at a loss of what to watch. So as I was browsing for new TV Shows, I stumbled on this one and decided to give it a go.I am very picky about TV series' but this one really captured me. After not expecting much, it really caught me by surprise how great this was.It reminds me of Law & Order but with more drama and a following into the characters lives. It reminds me of "House" in many ways. It features a strict boss that will do anything to get the job done, and an employee willing to do anything for his boss.It is certainly a new age show that will bring in audience from all ages from teenagers to seniors. I guarantee that you will not be disappointed with this show, as many new shows have disappointed me.


                
when i first heard about this TV series i thought why bother its probably stupid ! how good could it be ? but then i thought you know ill watch the pilot and give it a shot , why not ? before i knew it my eyes were glued to the screen from beginning to end and i enjoyed it to the fullest . this show in a way reminds me of "house MD " a TV series with a lot of knowledge and brains and in the future will show many law cases which will be won by these guys , a top of the line lawyer named Harvey and a genius without a degree named mike who when hears anything or reads anything remembers it forever . and i strongly recommend this TV series to anybody who likes to enjoy themselves because trust me this TV series ain't boring !


                
Smart writing is only one element of a great show - the cast/characters also need chemistry. Suits has it all in spades.Mike and Harvey are great together. The writing is tight and they feed off each other - it's so much fun to watch.Do we have to take a leap of faith that he would hire someone as a lawyer with no degree - Yes. In the grand scheme of current shows, this little nugget is perfectly acceptable and even believable considering that Zuckerberg never graduated (tell me who would not hire him because he has no degree). Plus, every show needs a hook - here it is folks.Regarding Louis as being one dimensional - I am not in agreement. His character just emulates those people who are actually one/two dimensional in real life; they do exist.Where some shows take you for a ride via backseat, Suits takes you Shotgun! Buckle up b@tches...


                
I prefer a lot of US and Canadian TV shows - they seem to get the right sense of comedy and drama. This is a really cool program with some eye candy for us girls as well - with a little bit there for the blokes too! We came upon this gem by chance and gave it a go,the stories are good and it certainly entertains. Harvey and Mike make a good team and there is definitely chemistry between Mike Ross and Rachel. It gives you a kind of insight into the working life of a lawyer but in a short,fun way. I hope they make a second series and don't cancel like they've done to so many good American/Canadian shows. Better than the boring rubbish we get in the UK. Well done on a good series but think it needs to be advertised over here a bit more cos people are missing out!


                
What A Show! The way that Harvey and Mike play off of each other is really great. These two seem like seasoned co-workers. Louis is def. bad news, so very much looking forward to more. Although I am confused on the facts of Mikes drug dealing and him and Trevors relationship, it does give the show a dark side that keeps you worried, but begging to know more. -Cant Wait to see the rest of the season. -Gabriel Macht plays a great hot shot as well, having only seen him in Behind Enemy Lines as Stackhouse, its a new a different side! Having never seen Patrick Adams before, I have no expectations as to his acting, but his boy-genius wit and quirky charm are definitely great qualities for the show!
I admit I started watching SUITS out of curiosity when Prince Harry and Meghan Markle got engaged, thought I should see how Meghan was. I am now totally engrossed in the series, watching several episodes daily whenever I had the time. Meghan is very good but Gabriel Macht is excellent and Gina Torres is a stunning looking woman and a cool actress. Well written with very clever dialogue. Great !


                
started hesitantly to watch this series, but the more i watched the more i got addicted to it. best thing about the story line is that the suits team have managed to keep it unexpected and full of twists. you never get the feeling that it has become a circle of similar episodes over and over again. the strongest attribute of this series is its script which is effectively delivered by the actors. well written, well directed and well performed. the intensity of drama never dies. along with it the cleverly conceived humour is simply brilliant. the guest stars have delivered wonderful strong performances. i hope it continues beyond season 5.


                
Very entertaining Eighties-style 'loadsa money' brought up to date! Great comedy drama with a subtext that money and power corrupts everything, including the law. Full of the kind of characters that have mid-life crises wondering what they've done with their lives.Beautifully shot and edited with a great sound track. Some stellar performances that further develop characters that are in reality paper thin.At first, I felt empathy for anyone that could be drawn into corporate law as a way of life until I remembered that, as with much of corporate life, most of those involved for the long term are psychopathic in their pursuit of power and money. A sad eulogy for an industry whose only real benefit is that it forces people to question their motives, get out and discover themselves.


                
After watching a hoard of TV shows and awaiting new seasons for a few of them, i stumble upon this show. The ratings and reviews seem good and i decide to give it a go.But once i started , it was so exciting and well paced that i just could not stop. Completed watching the entire first season in a day.SCRIPT : Well written,refreshing and at the same time maintains a certain class about it.ACTING : the leads as well the support have done a good job, with each actor seeming well suited for their characters.DIALOGUES : Sharp, at times too sharp keeping you hooked.SCREENPLAY : well balanced, makes even law seem interesting.OVERALL : A good show if you are looking for something new and interesting with a separate charm about it. Awaiting similarly interesting future episodes and seasons. 9/10PS : This is my first review and any non conformance should be forgiven.THANK YOU :)


                
It's nice to watch a series where the characters actually make you believe they are who they play. Good rapport, timing, interaction...which also means that the writing is good as well.Hadn't watched this show till I saw the first episode (it's already into the second season) and was delighted. I've always liked Gabriel Macht and he plays his character to the hilt. Not familiar with Patrick J. Adams, but am impressed by his ability to be believable.The characters are a little bit stereotypical, but it's completely watchable and easy to root for the good guys. I hope the writing stays fresh and this show can be around for a few seasons at least.


                
Suits is a must see as it's been able to maintain interesting plots even after Mike's secret discovery through all the first 7 seasons. However season 8 is a major let-down for me. So far (episode 8 or 9 I think) there's absolutely no main plot, only subplots that nobody cares about in order to develop characters like Louis, Sheila, Samantha, Alex...to make up for Megan and Patrick departing from the show. It definitely feels like the season 8 is going nowhere despite trying to make us believe the opposite. Only Harvey, Donna and Louis remain from the original winning team and let's be honest, it is not the same without Mike and Rachel. I still give it a 10 because the previous seasons were really great and entertaining but the show should have stopped at season 7 when Patrick and Megan were still part of it, at least you could have made a good end.
SUITS is a lawyer show. Set in New York (captured, by the way, in beautiful cinematic vistas) it focuses on a very successful law firm, managed by Jessica Pearson (Gina Torres) who balances the talents of her two top lawyers, the smarmy Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman) who is a control freak, and the very brilliant but egotistical Harvey Spector (Gabriel Macht). There is a particularly appealing and very bright secretary Donna (Sarah Rafferty) and a beautiful paralegal Rachel (Meghan Markel) and last but certainly not least by any means there is Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) - a young lad who is extremely bright, has a photographic memory, dropped out of college because he took tests for fellow students and got caught, fell into marketing drugs by default for need of money so that he could pursue his dream of being a lawyer, and falls quite by accident into the role of being selected as associate to the brilliant but self absorbed Harvey Spector. This is the team of characters who are destined to provide fascinating sub stories as they interact.


                
Suits is the best show on TV. The acting is superior in quality and the writing is beyond anything we have had to subject ourselves to over the course of this last prime time fall/winter season! Unless you count The Good Wife which is about an 8 out of 10. I would count SMASH, but the only reason I tune in to this new show is because I love the music, not necessarily the writing or the plot. I would give SMASH a 7.5. I loved Pan AM but again, once you like a show, it gets snuffed out before they give it a chance. I can't believe we have to wait till July to tune in! This show has it all, comedy, drama and great characters. I hate to get hooked on a show because once I am hooked, the shows get canceled! If they cancel this show anytime soon, I will boycott Hollywood!! What do you think?


                
Suits is a must watch programme, It's not like any other garbage programme on T.V that are all the same I'm not going to name them out yous already know what programme's I'm talking about. I waited ages to start watching this series when it first came out i said to myself not my kind of T.V show and i finally watched the first episode and thought it was brilliant, two lads Harvey one the best lawyers around and Mike his protégé each one of them extremely smart and good at what they do, they try to act like boss and employee but they're more than that they're friends but neither one of them will admit it.Now I'm not going to tell you's everything about the workplace relationship and friendship relationships between both characters find out the rest for yourselves and I guarantee you'l love this programme as much as me its hard not too.


                
This show is great from the get-go. With a unique plot, 3 dimensional characters (including the female characters, which one reviewer failed to notice... I believe he's confusing this show with 'Franklin and Bash', which is a 2-D cartoon compared to 'Suits'.) and clever episodes, I think this show has a bright future. After the pilot, the first few episodes felt a little repetitive, using the same episode plow over and over again (new associate makes a mistake and spends the rest of the episode cleaning up for himself and trying to set things right). But, the writers broke their mold and the show only got better as the season went on, along with the development of deep characters and relationships. I'd gladly recommend this show, especially to anyone with a lawyer in the family (my mom and her brother are both attorneys). Can't wait for a second season.


                
I'm usually biased to law and court series (The Good Wife is one of my current favorites) but this takes it to a whole new level.. You can say it is like "The Practice" and "Frasier" mashed into one series ! The show is sassy, sophisticated, and funny as it could be. It has the smartest dialogue and punch lines delivered perfectly by the cast, they are all brilliant but some shine more than others, specifically Mike and Donna's characters are just over-the-top hilarious scene-stealers with their perfect facial expressions and intelligent delivery of their funny and refreshing scripts. You wanna be friends with all of them ! I'm already in season 3 and I'm glad that the show is still running with season 6 coming out soon and shocked as hell when I found out it was snubbed by the major TV awards, this show should have showers of noms and wins... A must see !


                
It's highly addictive, I got completely into it since the beginning. It is well written and fast-paced. Each and every character is charismatic, smart and complex with a little something that makes him special. It takes place in a corporate law firm so sometimes it gets hard to understand fully every case but that doesn't matter. What does are the main characters and their interaction between each other.Harvey is smart, sharp and sassy. He has style even in the few moments he's not in a suit. Even if he's a egotistic yuppie, it's obvious he's got a carapace and actually, he is ready to fight for the people he care for. Mike is touching,sensitive and makes me laugh with his references and quotes from movies. Donna is stunning, dashing (No one says dashing... James bond says dashing !) and has an unquestionable authority. Although she's at the bottom of the ladder in the firm. Her cleverness and her efficiency up-scales her position ten times. Rachel has a great chemistry with Mike and is very classy. Jessica is very credible as the captain of the ship, ruthless. And last but not least, Louis is as funny as he's smarmy, merciless control freak who wants to cover the insecurity that his rivalry with Harvey drive. He's a supporting role thought he's essential to the show. Sometimes even scene stealer.I hope it will last many years.


                
Suits is the story of a young man who has a lot of troubles (especially with drugs) who lands in the world of lawyers together with master 'closer' Harvey specter. Together they try to close or win the the cases of the clients of the firm. But apart from the lawyer cases they get caught up in intriguing business power games.I love this show a lot because it let's you take a look in the world of the biggest lawyer firms in the world. Especially the way Harvey Spector and Mike Ross interact with each other in the series intrigues me. This is one of the best leading roll duo's I have ever seen.This show who work great for people who love shows like: House, Arrow, Game of Thrones The shows that people love to watch relaxed but with still some intrigue.


                
After finishing every available episode of House, Bones, Fringe, and Prison Break, I found myself at a loss of what to watch. So as I was browsing for new TV Shows, I stumbled on this one and decided to give it a go.


                
Hi there, I show episode 10 of s05, It was really awesome, It was full of emotion. I literally cried after seeing it. Like Harvey had Panic Attack" i got "Emotional attack" after i show.. Really telling my faith in family relation got stronger... The way, on the same time, multi story of family relation was evolving it was the peas of cake!All charterers were giving such a good massage... very good. This i really good.This is really very good.Also want to say the at last the excitement was at top "What will happen next!"Thanks for making this type of good stuffs. Keep rolling..


                
This show was fine throughout its first couple of seasons, but afterwards the same joke structures got old, the plots became repetitive, and it lost a lot of its shine and became bogged down by the faux seriousness of the situations it created.Season 4 was honestly a train wreck for the most part, until the very last 3-4 episodes. Just when it was almost all lost, Louis Litt saves the day.In season 4, Rick Hoffman absolutely carries the show to its highest of highs. The writing for his character is excellent, and his acting is phenomenal.Watch this show just for Louis, it's worth it.p.s. As a side note, I had it originally at a 7/10. After seeing the last scene of season 4, that got bumped up quite a bit.


                
Suits is a modern, stylish take on the lawyering world based in NYC. Both the cast and set compliment each other extremely well, constantly evolving with the topsy terby storyline. A tail of deception, lies and betrayal it's a must watch for anyone looking for hard hitting drama. An enormously talented cast and crew, with both strong male and female characters keeps the audience on there toes and the future of "the firm" in the balance. With a new tail waiting at every corner, Suits is by far the most gripping TV series to come to our shore from the US since Entourage. Cant't wait for season 7.


                
Great chemistry through out! Good stories and fun to watch! I am disappointed in the recent episodes language. At first I thought "here is a decent show with good stories and a minimum of foul language" .The producers must be aware that this is the most singled out reason that people object to in movies and cable. Then the last few episodes here comes the so called "Adult Language" which is in fact mostly used by young teens. Come on do not ruin this program with this kind of distraction. Stay with the great chemistry and stories. Sorry this is all I have to say about this program. I hope it gets printed because it needs 10 lines


                
There's a flood of court room type of TV shows. But this one tops them all.This show has depth. It's not plastic. It has great characters, superbly built scenes and dialogue. The cinematography looks and feels great. The story is well crafted and moves nicely from one episode to the other. Almost like a mini series. Oh yeah and the plot is also great. It will turn in directions you wouldn't expect it to go.The best thing though are definitely the characters. Kudos to the story editors and director.This is one of the best show currently on TV. It's up there with boardwalk empire and game of thrones (not quite but that's just because of the budget differences).My only grief is that it could have more depth in a more "artisty" kind of way. It's still a little plasticy, but it has to be. It's a TV format. This is why I give it 9 out of 10 stars. And even this is to harsh. I just hope it doesn't get repetitive. I know that a TV series has to have a basic structure that is unique to it but just don't let it get to much like a maths formula (like House Md. for instance).Keep making the show great guys! Continue making great deep characters and excellent plot. This kind of work motivates the rest of us to produce better films, to be better at what we do! Br S


                
Hello all SUITS fans!!! I'd like to start of by pointing out the quality and the effort from all the actors,directors,and producers of this TV-series.It is truly amazing how much time went into making these episodes and if you've watched interviews with the actors on Youtube then you already know how well each actor is suited to its character.Personally to me SUITS is a TV-series which not only reflects real life situations in a law firm, but also shows a great deal of social interactions between employees and the two combined is a perfect mix.It is hard to put it in words but right from Season 1 to Season 3 the viewer is hooked to the screen. The eccentric value of events and twists in the script could not be better done. "Mike" who is starred by Patrick J. Adams is a whiz-kid who as we find out never went to law school yet he is working at the most well-known law firm in NYC. His relationship with "Rachel Zane" starred by Meghan Markle is complicated yet at the end of the day the two are a perfect match.Season 1 started with a twist, personally I did not expect the story to unfold this way. My first thought was that his best friend "Trevor" would be the one who will make loads of money eventually them two would become super rich. And it turned out exactly the opposite..In Season 1 episode 5 Trevor is bailed out by Mike who is now "taking care" of his friend who screwed up his life by dealing drugs. These are the kind of twists that make suits so valuable.I am really glad that Rachel and Mike finally "bonded" by the end of Season 2(Start of Season 3) I hope that mike continues to succeed while Rachel might be away..in law school. The new episode will be on USA channel on 20th of August,Wednesday and it will be interesting to see the flashback "10 years ago".I am hoping the forthcoming episode will be just as exciting as the previous ones.And to finish off..As all the actors were asked in an interview to describe Season 3 in one word i will say its challenging.I hope you enjoyed reading this review, and keep on watching SUITS! follow them on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter! and keep supporting these actors they deserve heaps of recognition! :)
