Even after 14 years of the end, Friends still the best American sitcom.
In 10 years, Monica, Rachel, Phoebe, Chandler, Ross and Joey made us laugh, cry, think about life, career and love. Everyone has their own personality.Monica: The mother of the group.
Rachel: Spoilt and Sensitive.
Phoebe: Cute and Crazy (In a Good Way).
Chandler: Sarcastic and funny.
Ross: Nerd 
Joey: Womanizer."Should we get some coffee?
Sure... Where?"10/10.


                
'Friends' is simply the best series ever aired. The acting is amazing; after watching a few episodes you stop referring to the actors by their real names altogether, even if they appear in another movie. The characters are addictive, none are completely positive or negative. It would be quite easy to get along with or to be very annoyed by any of them in real life. Yet, all of them together (or even divided in groups) create this amazing chemistry that most people desire and few lucky ones have. The humor is wonderful, no matter what type of humor you like, you will get to a point where you will find at least something absolutely hilarious. There is slapstick, some light humor, some dark humor, some raunchiness, some cheesiness - a little bit of everything. The story is captivating; viewers keep coming back to see what situation fate (being the writers) puts the characters in today. It is truly a television masterpiece.There are, however, many people who scoff at the mentioning of 'Friends'. My guess is they've never seen or paid attention to the show. It's easy to discard something because "everyone likes it" and be "unique", when in reality the uniqueness is actually bias. Just watch a few episodes with before making any judgements - chances are you'll fall in love with it too. I would have serious doubts about one's sense of humor if I heard that they hated 'Friends'.


                
Don't watch friends all ten season because than there is nothing left in life to watch


                
I love this show so much! F.R.I.E.N.D.S is a sitcom that you could easily binge-watch at any time of the day. I was able to finish the whole 10 seasons, which ran for 10 years, in under a month. That's just how great it is! I can't even give it a negative review about anything. You'll just really learn to love all the characters through time. No wonder people have clamored for a reunion with the cast, you just can't get enough of it.When you're feeling down and think you could use a good laugh, put this one on top of your to-watch list. It doesn't matter that the show ran from 1994-2004, the humor it had is timeless!In a perfect world where we could pick a series that could run forever, F.R.I.E.N.D.S would be that show. Notice how different TV networks are still doing re-runs at present time even after it has ended back in '04. You'll find that a new generation of viewers who are watching and loving it are surprised to discover that the cast are quite old already. Nothing could beat it.


                
Friends is without a doubt the best American TV show ever to air. It has sad and hilarious storylines and makes you feel the sadness and jot out of any situation. The actors do fantastic and you really feel like you know a part of them by the end of the show. This will be a show I will never forget as I make constant references to the episodes. I wish the show could come back on air because I miss them so much, but I'm glad it got all the fame it did because it deserved it.


                
I am such a fan of the Friends tv show. The characters are well developed independently and together they play off each other well. Some moments are cheesy while others are funny, while the rest is just very well acted and dialogued by the cast. 
At least give the first season episodes a go, if you still don't like it, don't watch it. But for those who enjoy a well developed multi character show..... Friends is sure to make you laugh and want to get to know each character more. 
Its a television show.... there are bound to be goofs or inconsistencies, no television show has ever ever in the history of tv been 200% perfect. 
I plan on buying the whole series on Blue-Ray soon to add to my dvds.


                
So, i recently saw Friends for the third time and i must say that this series is still perfect. For me, it's best sitcom i've ever seen. Imagine that you came home after really tough day at work or at school. You just sit on your couch and turn on the TV. Then you start to watch Friends and your day is way more better. I don't know exactly what it is. Maybe it's some kind of the magic. 
The series is pretty funny, jokes are simple and great. Scriptwriters did awesome job and the whole crew made unforgettable show.
In the end i want to say that everyone needs Friends in their life and that Ross, Monica, Chandler, Rachel, Phoebe and Joey will be in my heart forever. Thanks, thanks for this special show.
And of course Chick and Duck will be in my heart too.


                
If you want a show that is filled with romance/drama and comedy, this is the show that is fit for you, because it IS filled with romance,drama and comedy that is why wherever I go I will NEVER forget that show,those characters and those series. I am unlikely to give good reviews but F.R.I.E.N.D.S really captured my heart!This show is the BEST show that I EVER watched because: 1.It makes me laugh. 2.Whenever I am lonely I watch the show so that I will be happy again. 3.The actors and actresses portray their characters very well. 4.The stories are unique. 5.The script IS Amazing!So now that I gave you the reasons why I love it... I now recommend you to watch It!


                
I wasn't even alive when this aired but I must have rewatched all 10 series about 20 times now!!! It's just so good!!!


                
FRIENDS is the best sitcom ever made. It is one of the things which made my growing up years special. This is the first TV show I watched and absolutely loved. It taught us friendship, love and loyalty. It has the most adorable characters and one can never get tired of watching reruns. FRIENDS is just pure joy which leaves inside you a warm fuzzy feeling, lifting your spirits and instantly brightening your mood. It is the only show which can make you laugh, cry, fall in love even after all these years. It inspires. The dialogues make me laugh and cry even though I have already watched and heard them countless times. It is timeless. It still feels so difficult to watch the last episode because you do not want it to end. I love this show and I am so sure I will love it even 30years from now. The most beautiful, funny and inspiring show ever. I just wish there were more seasons, though they ended the show as beautifully as possible, I loved the show too much to see it ending. FRIENDS always. :)


                
It's really crazy but I still watch Friends 4 times a week. There is nothing that could cheer me up like this on a full day. The humor, the characters, the details (i see more and more every time - and I've watched every episode A LOT). I was born in 1992 and the last 4-5 seasons I bought when they just came out. I have them all on DVD. I have the Friends Book. Just missing a 'Frankie says hi' t-shirt to join the collection ;-) I just dissapear in the serie when I watch it. Love it.
BIG CRAZY FAN says bye! X


                
Personally I get rid of all my tension,stress when i watch the show. There isn't a single episode i doesn't like.All the 10 seasons are great. It gives our life back.It shows us that there's lot in this world for living. A must watch.While watching the show i always feel like i wish i have those friends. I like Chandler very much,especially his "hi5".Joey's "How u doing?",Phoebe's "Smelly Cat".Monica's food,Ross's paleontology classes and Rachel.......I miss all of it and I miss this show a lot.And also the comedy in this goes great season to season.It'll be good if they make a film on it.And that's why its the greatest show ever!!! Friends'is simply the best series ever aired. The acting is amazing; after watching a few episodes you stop referring to the actors by their real names altogether, even if they appear in another movie. The characters are addictive, none are completely positive or negative. It would be quite easy to get along with or to be very annoyed by any of them in real life. Yet, all of them together (or even divided in groups) create this amazing chemistry that most people desire and few lucky ones have. The humor is wonderful, no matter what type of humor you like, you will get to a point where you will find at least something absolutely hilarious. There is slapstick, some light humor, some dark humor, some raunchiness, some cheesiness - a little bit of everything. The story is captivating; viewers keep coming back to see what situation fate (being the writers) puts the characters in today. It is truly a television masterpiece.


                
Even now, 23 years later there is no other tv-show that makes me cry and laugh so hard as friends does. A true masterpiece.


                
Amazing and fun all characters are wonderful :):):):):):)


                
This is the best show/sitcom ever!!! Always a great show to watch!!


                
I recommend anyone to see this sitcom, it's the best of all. Even after 14 years you will defiantly enjoy it and love it.


                
The best serie ever 
I watched 4 times and I still enjoy watching it


                
Suffice it to say that Friends is a classic comic treatment of what I have always called the "post-college adolescent phase" of life, which is roughly the ten years immediately following college graduation as you strike out on your own and try to find your place in life. It is the time in life when you are likely to have the best health, the most freedom, the most disposable income if not necessarily the most total income, and the most fun if you are fortunate enough to have people to share it all with. This phase ends when you "settle down" both career-wise and family-wise, and I always found Friends to track this time in life quite accurately and with both drama and great humor.It follows the life of six young people living in New York City from 1994 to 2004, so even now a few of the cultural references will be stale, but the relationship truths never will be. Ross is the nerdy guy who grew up to be a little uncomfortable in his skin but still very good looking. Ross' sister Monica is an aspiring chef who is now thin but was obese up until the middle of high school. Rachel has been Monica's friend since high school and is adjusting to life without daddy's credit card when the series begins, and is looking for a career in fashion. Chandler, Ross' friend since college, is successful in his budding career in business. Rounding out the group is Joey, not the brightest bulb in the room, who wants to be an actor and as a result works a series of odd jobs and stars in a series of odder commercials and the occasional appearance on a TV show. Finally there is Phoebe. Her history with the group doesn't go much past the beginning of the series as she's had a rather Bohemian upbringing that has led to a Bohemian adulthood. Complicating factor as the series begins - Ross' wife has just declared she is gay and left him for another woman, Ross now and always has had a crush on Rachel who doesn't know he's alive, and Ross' wife discovers she is pregnant by Ross shortly after the separation.One of the best shows on TV with the most heart and the most laughs. Highly recommended.


                
The heck u doing here ? go and watch the show already !!!
EDIT: i already miss them , FRIENDS is a masterpiece , don't miss watching this sitcom, am already depressed cuz i finished it :(


                
I used to see people talking about Friends all the time but I never got the chance to watch it. One day I was bored as hell so I searched some funny moments of friends and next thing I was watching the first season. More I watched more I fall in love with their chemistry, comedy . Now I am mad about Friends and I know that I will be watching this again and again for the long time.All episodes are best but I will not watch the last 2 episodes ever because they make me sad to see they are drifting a part. I wish they have shown a clip of them hanging out again with their children and having same fun at the end. Joey doing what he does best chandler throwing his best sarcastic jokes.However I love friends, My favorites T.V series spot has been filled I am sure that it will never be Replaced.


                
FRIENDS is perfect blend of comedy, romance, quirky dialogues, silliness, jokes and anything else you could. One could never regret watching this.You can't resist laughing atleast once during the 30 minutes show!


                
I'll keep it simple and short. This is the one and only show/movie I gave ''10 out of 10'', and if there was 11 i would gave it 11. Why? Humor in shows and movies evolve, what's funny today, won't be funny tomorrow, and what was funny yesterday, won't be funny today, but the thing with ''Friends'' is that their humor is not predictable in any way as that is case with other shows, and they make you laugh every time you watch them, no matter if you've watched them 100 times or more. It's one of those shows that you can watch with friends, girlfriend or alone. It's also one of those shows that you can watch no matter if you're sad or happy, it'll always make you smile. Simply said, it's THE BEST SHOW EVER MADE!


                
Looking back on the run of the TV series "Friends", it is easy to see why it was so popular. The casting gave America six young adults who actually felt like they were our friends. On each episode, after its catchy theme song by The Rembrandts, we got to visit with a cast of such well developed characters who we liked: Rachel Green (Jennifer Aniston) is the beautiful, yet accessible and funny, girl who became a style setter. The country followed her hairstyles and the drama of her ever-evolving relationship with Ross.Ross Geller (David Schwimmer) is the nerdy PhD who struggled with the timing of his relationships, managing to marry and divorce before finally getting a shot at the love of his life, Rachel. In my opinion, Aniston and Swimmer were the talents that elevated this show beyond good to great. When you watch their performances, their comic timing is perfect and their characterizations feel true.Monica Geller (Courteney Cox) is Ross' sister and the neurotic neat freak who still bears scars from her younger fat days. Besides some very interesting relationships, she eventually marries another one of the friends. She is hyper-competitive, especially when it comes to games or sports.Chandler Bing (Matthew Perry) is the class clown. Could anyone BE any funnier? His bromance with Joey is the center of his life until he falls for Monica.Joey Tribbiani (Matt LeBlanc) is the clueless actor who knows how to score with women ("How YOU doin'?") and shares his passions for games and "Baywatch" with Chandler.Phoebe Buffay (Lisa Kudrow) is the kooky folk singer with a penchant for writing odd songs, like "Smelly Cat." She has a twin sister who is also "out there", and an unusual past.The writers for this show had some great talent to write for, but the writing itself always gave us funny premises, great ongoing gags, and the occasional touching moment. It was always fun to invite them into our homes and experience their trials and celebrations.


                
First of all I must confess that I am not a big fan of TV-series, however "Friends" is an exception for me. Each of the numerous episodes contains a hilarious, funny, kind and sometimes touching story. When you watch "Friends" you forget about your own problems,you get so absorbed in it, that all your bad mood can go away. Besides, some deeds and situations can remind you of your own, and you can learn some very useful lessons. During these 10 seasons I can honestly say that I fell in love with all the characters, not to mention the main melody. I like them with all their different types of character, although each of them (just like each of us) is far from being an ideal. They are so different and interesting in their own way: sophisticated,nice but sometimes stubborn Rachel; charming Monica with her passion for tidiness; kind and a little bit weird Phoebes; not so clever but lovable Joe; shy, but romantic Chandler with his jokes; gentle, but proud Ross who always gets into funny situations. And how many funny and entertaining events passed through! Certainly, it is not a masterpiece of art, but if you want to laugh your head out, to feel the atmosphere of friendship and adventures or simply have a very good time, "Friends" are definitely for you! P.S. The only thing I want to complain about is a little detail. Minsk. People, it is not situated in Siberia or somewhere else in Russia! It is the capital of Belarus and it is a very beautiful and sunny city!
i love friends than any show i have ever watched i love chandler bing hes my favorite i also love Matthew Perry the actor who plays his character 2 place would go to joey aka Matt Leblanc they are to of the sexiest guys I've ever known of i never thought chandler and Monica would get together but from the moment i first saw them kiss i knew they were meant to be together seeing them together is to know that true love does exist seeing them together brings me so much joy and as for Ross and Rachael i was kind of hoping joey and Rachael would last they were cute together as for Ross he should have stayed single his divorce crap annoys me Phoebe and David should have gotten married bravo to the creators writers and actors in friends though they did really good i miss the show so much especially chandler i loved him good job guys
