This show is just getting so irritating and predictable, all the "jokes" are based on only few facts such as:1) Joey's unrealistic stupidity (the weird part is that he wasn't that stupid in the first few seasons and then out of the blue he becomes dumber than a dodo)2) Monica's cleanliness habits3) Chandler's sarcasm Rarely any other jokes are based on something else. This show also contains a lot of drama and unneeded angst (created by the dreaded and irritating duo of Ross and Rachel) . In conclusion:The show is cheesy, cliché and predictable accompanied by witless humor. But on the good side, if you have not watched any episodes of this show, the first few seasons would be enjoyable. Also it a good pass time show.I give it 5/10


                
Friends is neither so unfunny that I switch channel, yet nor is it funny enough to ever make me laugh out loud. At best, I'll chuckle, but that's as far as it goes. The dialogue consists of 1-2-1 exchanges that with almost clockwork precision result in one of several "quirky" expressions, most commonly the much copied "sh'uh right" from the infinitely funnier Wayne's World. Its that, or its Phoebe's expression of disgust, "Y'eugh". You get the idea. The comedy is built around this predictable exchange, with the audience no doubt cattle prodded into laughing, or paid. Over the years that the comedy has run, attempts have been made to develop the characters, and I believe this was directly in response to the masterful writing in Frasier, which managed to combine complex character and relationship development with laugh-out-loud humour. But Friends failed to succeed in developing either the characters or their relationships. Rather, what we were presented with were teenagers in adult bodies, 'playing' at being adults. And in a sense, for people who love this comedy, it perhaps represents a 30 minute opportunity to identify with this and its opposite, namely being 20 but living the life of a 30 year old, or being a 30 year old, and remembering back to when they were 20 fantasising about being 30. In the latter sense, comfort can be found in knowing that they aren't the idiots that the Friends are, but at the same time, they have achieved a comparable lifestyle, whilst being able to fantasise that they too have achieved that lifestyle with the same level of ease as the Friends. Conversely, people in their 20s can fantasise that they too will be able to attain a comparable lifestyle with the same level of ease. Herein lies its success but simultaneiously its weakness, that contributes to the general lack of substance that characterises this show. Life, especially in the city, is often about struggling, and indeed, it is in the struggle from which much comedy is born: the struggle to find love, the struggle to find work, or in my case the struggle to find Friends funny. Friends is a hugely but inexplicably successful series...I hesitate to call it a comedy because this would be to imply that it is funny. It is not. Put it this way: I can watch Friends, and effortlessly hold a straight face. It simply is not funny. The paradox, however, is that aside from Matt Leblanc, the cast have proved themselves elsewhere to be excellent dramatic and comic actors. But you would never guess it from watching Friends. I was glad that Friends finished, only to realise that there would be in eternity of repeats to avoid. I can only hope that Arrested Development is given a new lease of life on HBO, that Kelsey Grammar and gang return to a new series based around Frasier Krane, and that the new seasons of Curb Your Enthusiasm and Rescue Me start soon. These are shows against which Friends is eclipsed and soon forgotten.


                
IMDb TV ratings are insanely suspect, but downright laughable when it comes to this particular TV series. This is a mildly amusing rip-off of the famous show about nothing otherwise known as Seinfeld. Stealing a premise would not have been a big deal, after all there are only so many premises for TV shows, but the amount of stolen story and plot lines, sometimes down to the same camera shots is incredible. The ultimate downfall for this show however is the completely untalented principal cast. These have to be the worst actors ever assembled to star in a sitcom. Awful delivery of most the lines, where most of the dialogue, is set-up - punchline, which is where this significantly departs from Seinfeld and reality.The popularity of the show is understandable, after all, it's a pretty girl/pretty boy soap fest of a show but the critical acclaim is baffling indeed.
When I first saw this show I hated it. It gave me the impression that it was a bunch of spoiled out of touch hipsters living in an expensieve new york apartment. However my roommate, who happens to be older than me actually liked the show. So I gave Friends a chance and after a while it grew on me. Specially when I found out Fibi Buffet was once homeless. Though her character doesn't act like anyone that was homeless that I've ever met even if they are now in a home. I found it a cute premise but still out of touch. Joey was cute and sexy even though they overplayed how good looking he was. He was cute but not handsome by any means and besides he was kinda short. Anyway, I watched it off and on for years but I am so sick and tired of TV stations playing this in re-runs over and over again. I'm now sick of the show again and hate it once more. I did go through a spell where I liked the show but I really didn't feel for any of the characters no matter how deep they tried to pretend to be. I still found them all fake and phoney. Now in 2012 almost two decades since the show started it seems that local stations are contractually obligated to play this series to death... or I should say way past it's death. There are newer fresher funnier shows like 30 Rock that have jokes and humor of today in 2012 and not from a decade that people don't act like anymore. I wish more TV stations would play newer shows like 30 Rock or something else. One reason I got rid of cable was the limited handful of reruns they owned. Don't get me wrong I love re-runs but there is such a tiny supply of shows on TV these days. On the internet there are hundreds of shows to choose from while that dinosaur TV hits us over the head with shallow peppy plastic shows like Friends. I don't care how deep they tried to come off that show was total and utter phoney garbage. Now who ever owns the rights to Friends is forcing the local TV stations to play them over and over again until we all die a little inside. I know I can turn the station or go back to the superior internet. But there are times when I come home at night and would like to turn on the TV and have them present me with something enjoyable, fresh, today, and actually funny. Sure the characters on 30 Rock come off as hipsters too but they meant to be hipsters, they are meant to be absurd. And that's what makes it funny. But Friends is so obnoxiously transparent I can't believe that it has the TV contracts that it does. It's a cute show but so aren't a lot of things. A plastic doll is cute but that's all it is. Plastic. If Friends were to disappear forever I for one would not miss it at all. If I ever see this show again it will be too soon.


                
Pretty funny until Monica and Chandler get it on and then it totally sucks until it finally ends.


                
