I am stunned to discover the amount of fans this show has. Haven't said that Friends was, at best an 'average' sitcom, and not as great as others have made out. Let's face it, if it wasn't for the casting of Courtney Cox Arquette, David Schwimmer, Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow, Jennifer Aniston and Matt Le Blanc, then who knows whether this show would've lasted as long as it has done. I very much doubt that. Although as the series progressed, Friends got more progressively predictable, lame and boring that I couldn't care less about the characters- of whom are the most overrated in TV history- or of their plight, nor of who was sleeping with whom. And it went from being funny in the first four seasons to occasionally funny. And even when it had all these A-list Hollywood actors from the movie world, I still didn't bother to tune in. The writing in Friends became stale that I lost interest in this show from the sixth season onwards and as for the ending, well it was predictable to say the least.What was annoying though was that this lasted for ten seasons, whilst some of my favourite shows lasted for only three, four seasons for instance and were eventually cancelled and taken off the air for good. The show should've came to an immediate halt by the time the cast wanted bigger salaries. In truth, as much as the series waned, it was the show that was bigger than the actors themselves, not the other way round. When it ended in 2004, I was so relieved to see the back of this sitcom. Now, there is talk of a friends reunion show coming to our TV screens very soon. And yet, I for one will not be looking forward to it whatsoever.


                
The over extended story of six young people looking for love with the right guy or gal was funny for a while, but eventually ran out of steam. It boasted many memorable moments, but also plenty of groaners to go with it, usually in the form of various guest stars who's guest spots were pretty badly exploited and under utilized (like Bruce Willis, Ben Stiller, Alec Baldwin, Jon Lovitz, etc). Billy Crystal & Robin Williams had a fun bit once though, but Tom Selleck was the only guest star to have actually had a respectable character.When they came up with the Joey/Rachael storyline coupled with Rachael getting pregnant and giving birth to baby Emma, the wheels had most definitely fallen off the wagon.But then again, that should have been obvious from the 1999 season finale in Las Vegas. The only real highlight of that finale was watching the Rachael dis-robes and walks around naked in her apartment sequence, allowing everyone a look at the then 29 going on 30 Jennifer Aniston bear her 5'5" figure in the dark lit sets of Warner Brothers. The staff clearly spent the last of their talent writing that scene and Rachael's embarrassment at dis-robing herself even though there was no one around to see her naked and her quick adjustment to being naked in her home and the forbidden joy of it.
6 stars out of 10.


                
being born in 1992,i remembered watching friends with my aunt,sister and mother when i was young<U+0085> I'm in my twenties now, i saw the show was on comedy central and added it to my recordings and within a few weeks i have a collection hundreds of episodes to watch. i watch a couple of episodes everyday and average of one/two laughs every episode (provided by Chandler/Ross/Phoebe) (joey really made me laugh at the "thursday third day" line). i won't bad mouth this show because it is a decent show to watch but as a comedy, the hype and excitement around it is exaggerated. maybe as a guy it doesn't really excite me that much (so much to say the best show ever) most of the story lines are about relationships and happy endings.. its like an escapism. i like the cast, i like the show but it just doesn't have that gutso<U+0085> i would rate it 7 out of 10 but simply because of its over hyped I'm going to give it a 4.


                
It's not the worst thing on TV, but nowhere near the best. For everyone who says it's horrible, lighten up. If you watched it more frequently you'd find something you like, and besides there's been much, much worse. As for being the "best sitcom on TV," I'd have to disagree. There's only one really great sitcom- Seinfeld- and everyone who's seen an episode knows it. I'd rather watch a rerun of Seinfeld than a new episode of Friends any day (if they were still making new episodes, of course). However, I'd also rather watch a rerun of Friends over any episode of According to Jim or Yes, Dear. And for everyone who says Jerry was bad in Seinfeld because he almost cracked up in many episodes, that's because the episode was so funny nobody on the set could keep a straight face. Actually, when I see him almost laugh it makes me crack up because I know the joke really IS that funny. Back to the subject at hand, if you want mediocre, go with Friends. It's not that horrible.


                
