Friends always had a special place in my heart from when I was 10 and up to now. Frankly, I'm not exactly an old one now, but I would say I grew up with it, since my parents used to watch it a lot. My mom had all 10 seasons on VHS, and later on DVD, and it's great. I loved it growing up, but watching it now took away some of of the charm.Now don't hate me already, it's a great show, I still believe so, but it has its flaws. For the most part, its issues lie in the continuity of the show. I get that it's a satirical sitcom, but that doesn't mean it can't try to keep a flowing story, which it feels like it is actually trying to do. But it keeps bringing in plot lines that end up forgotten a few episodes later. For one, there's Ben, Ross' kid. He was somewhat forgotten. The wedding episode of Chandler and Monica is a good example of this. Ben is at the wedding, and obviously he came with Ross since Carol and Susan aren't there, but Ross acts like he's not even there. It's his son, and obviously his own son would also talk to him. But he doesn't, neither does Ross talk to him. For god's sake, he doesn't even acknowledge his existence.Phoebe's dad is another example, also her biological mother. Her dad is in the show for one episode, the episode where her grandmother dies, but he's not in it post that, even though it feels like some kind of character development could happen between the two of them, a relationship maybe, like what we have with Monica and Ross' parents or Rachel's parents. The same for her biological mother. She's there the episode they meet, the episode after and then when she needs advice on whether or not she should be a surrogate mother for her brother and his wife. But after that whole ordeal, she's gone for the rest of the show. She's not even at her wedding with Mike.These continuity errors are my only real problem with the show, the whole point of the show, the humor and the friends, is amazing, it's great. And that's why I give it a 7/10, because it's good, but has flaws.
I've been reading a lot of these comments. Some people don't like the show...claiming it to be unrealistic or that the plot lines get boring.I didn't discover Friends until a year or two ago (thanks to MY friends) but I ADORE the show in syndication and I hope to own the DVDs. Its damn funny and no one can deny it. Except for stiffs. And whats best about Friends is that its REAL.Ross and Rachel getting old? How could it? Do relationships get old in real life? No, they're ongoing, sometimes stagnating, sometimes changing. Thats REAL.This show is about 6 people who love each other like family...which I must say as an 18 year old... is very real. Once you hit your late teens - early twenties...things begin to change. You grow both closer to and further from your biological family, and as you reach more independence, you adopt another family of your own: YOUR FRIENDS.We may not all sit in coffee shops, but we all LOVE our friends like they were blood. That's what this show is about. Makes you all warm and fuzzy (and sore from laughing) inside. And as a show: FRIENDS will always be a part of MY family.


                
Friends was never anything extraordinary. Seinfeld did friendships better and The Jeffersons, Good Times and Newhart did 'residence comedy' better.Despite that, it did have its charms. Lisa Kudrow added some heart to the show and the on and off relationships were realistic, if not endearing at times. Where the series kinda falls apart for me is the guys generally seem like lunkheads most of the time while the girls come out shining like daisies. While this also reflects some life situations, balance is good too.Friends was good, it was trendy but ultimately it lacked the character and depth to keep me hooked.
Let's be blunt, friends is hardly the most challenging comedy out there or the most enthralling drama. The thing it has got going for it however is its ability to draw people in. It's essentially comfort TV. Watching it doesn't require any effort at all, you just sit back and enjoy. With the best comedies, the office for example, there's the idea that you have to work a little to get some of the jokes. You have to be able to extract the joke for the full effect. With friends they simply present it to you and you simply take it in, no thought or effort required. It's easy to relate to on some levels, but sometimes their problems are simply comedy situations rather than ones you would come across in life. The wit isn't groundbreaking but is reliable to keep you going without annoying you. While its neither the ideal comedy or ideal drama it is a perfect example of comfort TV. If you want to be challenged by your TV then go elsewhere, otherwise just settle in, switch off and enjoy.


                
Friends is a funny and witty sitcom with some intelligent humour and a couple well written plot sequences. Unfortunately the show is bogged down by one of the most irritating characters in any show in recent memory. Rachel, played by Jennifer Aniston is constantly whining and complaining about the smallest of things. I'm aware her character is meant to be spoiled but there is a point where it ceases to be funny and is purely frustrating. But other characters are flawed as well. Phoebe is forgettable, and Ross's illogical eagerness to simply put up with all of Rachel's whininess is foolish. Chandler is easily the most deep and funny character although his depth is still nothing significant compared to other more modern sitcoms like How I Met Your Mother. In the end, Friends is a very funny show that stays consistently amusing throughout it's 236 episodes but falls short of greatness.


                
Friends is the best sitcom of all time and maybe one of the best shows of all time, the writing and jokes are timeless and just phenomenal. All the characters have unique personalities and their own catchphrases, my favourite ones are Ross's like "WE WERE ON A BREAK" or "MY SANDWICH". Chandler and Ross are my favourite characters and my least favourite character is Phoebe, mainly because she has way too many relationships that don't end very well and after a while you just stop caring.Another negative thing I have to say is that by season 6 or 7 you can definitely tell that they're running out of ideas and that the show is getting a little stale. A few examples are the many flashback episodes that occur in the later seasons and dozens and dozens of pointless relationships the characters have which barely last 2 episodes. But the quality does get higher again for the last few seasons.Overall I thoroughly enjoyed the series and it's hilarious characters.
From the pilot to the last episode of series ten, the antics of Ross, Rachel, Chandler, Monica, Phoebe and Joey captured the world's attention on an unprecedented level for a sitcom. Whether Ross and Rachel would get together, Rachel's haircuts and fashion, Phoebe's mannerisms and Joey's one-liners and Chandler's jokes became water-cooler moments just as much as the story lines. Even the theme song became a hit. Friends fever was HUGE. Since then most sitcoms I've seen have done a Friends "bit" - the same scenario and lines.The story arc was mainly centred around Ross and Rachel's relationship but the loves, work, family issues of the six pals were interesting, varied, sometimes ridiculous and often serious life issues. Always, however, there were laughs aplenty as the situations were made funny but a lot of the jokes were sometimes a little bit silly. It hasn't really aged well, and because it's on so much I think it's had some overkill but I still enjoy it despite knowing it back to front. Its a good giggle.


                
It still is a symbol of the Nineties and it will always be, but it really was that good just before they started to lose they creativity - which happened around the end of the 5th season. I mean, all what happened in Las Vegas looked so fake, quite the worst season ending of all.Then we had to swallow Joey falling in love with Rachel... aaahhhgh God. They just had no better ideas than this crap? Last 5 seasons were just like prolonging the agony by making Monica look even more psycho, making Phoebe look even more crazy and bipolar, keeping Joey in his childish mode forever while the other 3 poor victims seemed to be there just to look after them.10 long seasons. 5 was more than enough.
