"Friends" is one of those television shows that you just can't define and not because it's so great and original that words don't exist to capture it, but rather because it's so ordinary and it succeeded.6 twenty-something friends trying to navigate life, jobs, and romance sure doesn't sound original and it's not. It's not ground-breaking in any way except for the fact that it basically united and defined a generation for almost no explicable reason. Almost every single person who grew up with the friends, can now relate every daily occurrence in their lives to an episode of the show. The show wasn't even that realistic, but all of the actors added a warmth and accessibility to each of their characters, that we hung on to every word, found comfort in their flaws, and craved that they found what they wanted.The characters weren't even that well written. In every episode you can find a contradiction to something they said or did in an earlier episode, and sure that will bother you for awhile but then the next week the friends made you fall in love with them again because the actors had that gift of connecting you to them.There's a good chance that a new show like "Friends" will not be able to find the same success. So I say to the new twenty year-olds out there to start watching "Friends" because it just may capture your generation the way it did mine.


                
I just finished re-watching Friends on Netflix, and I must say that the show still holds up pretty well. The first five seasons are undoubtedly better than the latter-half, which is more dramatic than the first seasons, but overall it's a pretty solid show.The show was never as intelligent as Seinfeld, but the chemistry between the actors compensates that. My only complaining are the homophobic and sexist jokes. I know that the show is product of it's time, so I don't feel particularly offended, but I must say that Seinfeld which was from the same era, has aged far better than Friends on this regard(not that there's anything wrong with that!). Seinfeld didn't rely that much on gay jokes, so it has aged far better than Friends, other than that, Friends still is a pretty solid show.


                
Considering that I was allowed to watch the show growing up, and have really only watched episodes sporadically, I decided to watch the entire series in order. It was really great. Not surprised it lasted as long as it did. The chemistry of the entire cast was something a lot of shows lack, and their ability to ease into any scene or joke was admirable. My absolute favorite actor was Matthew Perry--Chandler Bing being my favorite character as well; He was relatable with his wit, charm, and all-around cluelessness. He almost made everyone else great. In all reality, it's a really great show. I just CANNOT get over Matt LeBlanc's character Joey. They over-exaggerated his stupidity, even as a comedic relief. I realize this is a comedy show, but it was highly irritating... Even Courtney Cox's character Monica was a little neurotic sometimes, but considering she plays a character like that on her most recent show (can't remember the name of it), it's a little more understandable that she may only know how to play one character. Both characters were made more tolerable with Chandler by their side.Overall, recommend it to anyone looking for a good honest laugh.


                
I would recommend this series to anyone who likes comedy series.
Six friends living a common life, with their details, their dreams, and their thoughts, and the most beautiful are the moments of their frustration that is based on pure comedy.
24 years after the first episode, Friends still show cool. it's the best.


                
I liked the show so much but what pissed me off is WHY PHEBE IS MARRED TO MIKE HE JUST APPEARS FEW TIMES IN THE LAST SEASON !!?? I SHIPPED JOEY AND PHEBE SINCE SEASON ONE BECAUSE THEY BOTH ARE IDIOTS AND FUNNY AND SAYING STUPID THINGS ?? but at least Ross and Rachel get back together and the show is really good worth watching it
The best reason for explaining why I like "Friends" is that it is not just a very, very funny comedy, but also has an intelligent screenplay. Well... Many people may say 'If you want something intelligent, watch "Frasier" or "Seinfeld"' But I've already tried to watch them, and I just hated both - they're boring and unfunny, and so is "Ally McBeal".This show is recommended for everyone who wants to laugh very much. The actors are great, specially Lisa Kudrow- one of the funniest actresses in Hollywood nowadays. She's really incredible!So watch it and have great fun! (Fortunately the next season is coming next week to Brazil)


                
It's a very special thing when a television show can cross that line from being just another show, to appointment television. That's what happened here, about six twenty-somethings with exaggerated facial expressions and manic line-readings who live each other's adventures in Manhattan over a ten year period. I was thoroughly unimpressed with the first season, which contained standard sitcom annoyances. Such as HEAVY laughtrack usage after unfunny jokes and characters, who when a friend's date would show up, would all aline near the front door and lean on each other and say "hi" all at once. Ugh, this show will be axed after six episodes. But with little competition on other networks in the 8:30 slot (and a hell of an attractive cast) this show dragged on through a whole season. Things finally perked up with an unrequited crush between two of the main characters, which culminated in a terrific cliffhanger. Then something happened in season two, and the writers just exploded. From then on out over the next five years, this show couldn't miss. Constant on-target jokes, a newly budding romance with a great pay-off, and one of the fastest paces of any sitcom ever. Instead of the usual two-story structure, a third sub-story was added which made the 22 minutes fly by each week. The executive producers names would come up, and literally every week, I'd cry out in frustration: "It's done already??". But after around season six, viewage dropped and the show went onto cruise control. It still made you laugh, but wasn't as flawless. Then amazingly (mostly due in part to 9/11 after effects of wanting to smile again) the ratings soared back to number 1 where they stayed till the show went off the air three years later. As far as performances go, the actors were all terrific choices. Aniston really evolved from the spoiled rich girl to a successful, career-minded professional. Cox's neurotic tendencies were played for good laughs, but weren't overdone, wisely. And she had a great softness and emotion to her many romantic moments over the run. Two characters however, remained in a realm of intolerance as a viewer. The Phoebe character portrayed by Kudrow, was completely unrealistic in her quirkyness, and I think would not be accepted by anyone as a friend. This left her character undefined, as they focused mainly on her family background for most of the first five or six years, and never giving her a solid romance like the other characters. Then you had LeBlanc as the token dumb stud, a guy who constantly misconstrued information and bugged his eyes reveling in the joy of the prospect of living in a supermarket of eating a sandwich. He made you laugh but at times was too stupid for even TV. LeBlanc could be great in his serious moments, but that distracted from his lack of intelligence in other episodes. His would-be romance with Aniston's character was rightly abandoned as it just didn't play right.This brings us to the most unbalanced character of them all, Ross, played by Schwimmer. In the beginning he was the most rounded character who was going through a divorce after being abandoned by his pregnant lesbian wife. Far-fetched sure, but at least he brought an authentic turmoil to his role. Plus his secret affection for Aniston's character made you really root for him. HOWEVER, by season six or seven, the writers had him do a complete 180 and turn increasingly unbearable with his wild outbursts and disturbing mood swings. The idiotic handling of his post-break up years with Aniston was infuriating. IT'S OVER, MOVE ON! Yet, the two characters always had to stare at each other dramatically when the other would start dating again. This followed by the most embarrassing episode where Schwimmer gets drunk and carries on like a woman upon finding out LeBlanc and Aniston have a thing going. "I'm fiiiiiine!" will go down in the annals along with "We were on a break!!" (which was classic). For last I've saved Matthew Perry, who in my mind was the second coming of John Ritter. An expertly gifted physical actor, who patented his own uprorious line deliveries and facial reactions. He was the writers go to guy early on in the show---too much in fact. Chandler was just a walking punchline, trying way too hard. But in years following, they toned it down and turned him into one of the best TV characters I've ever seen. Not just standard jokes, but great inside references only some of us folks would get. Which made his dramatic moments shine even more, the few he had. Chandler Bing will be missed. The finale was a tremendous let-down, going in bland directions and really lacking an emotional conclusion. Nothing is really resolved as they lay on the guitars thick for a final fade out (on a door????). In summation, it was one of those shows I really don't see recreated again, with the type of snappy dialogue and lovable characters who you will watch into syndication infinity like other shows. Oh....my....God, TV "Friends" like these are hard to come by.


                
Even though I have never seen Friends when it came out on the year I was born and until it was finished in 2004, I just still think its a very entertaining show. I only got seeing the episodes because of the continuous repeats on Comedy Central or other Television channels. The cast are just the best, I love the fact they got Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer as the main cast. They are just such great comedy actors and they honestly don't need to be comedians to laugh at ones jokes! I even love the soundtrack, its catchy, fresh and just happy! That definitely is a number one thing you need to get away from reality = a good upbeat song! Regardless if this isn't really a favorite television show of mine, it was a pretty good TV series!
Friends features the comedic lives of six people living in New York city. Phoebe, Ross, Rachel, Monica, Joey and Chandler all live in apartment towers and regularly have social time with one another either at their apartments or at the 'Central Perk' coffee house where Phoebe sometimes plays her guitar and Rachel is the love interest of the bartender Gunther. The comedy involves many plots, such as a new piece of furniture or a new relationship or somesuch thing, and is similar to Seinfeld in its lack of long plots and continuity. It is quite entertaining and worth watching. At present it is on Channel Ten at six rather than The Simpsons so i watch it instead and its not that bad. The humour is quite intelligent, using much wordplay and complex gags as well as simple social gags. Whenever troubles arise they always wn in the end and the show has a very upbeat feel about it.
After seeing every episode of this much loved sitcom i much say that the writers and cast have succeeded in making something that is not only humorous, but also forces you to care about the characters and what happens to them in the future. All six of the friends bring characteristics to the show that make the viewer feel like they know them. Each one of the characters is funny in their own way and due to the shows fast pace there is never a boring episode.I will say however that towards the end Friends did start to lose what it had but, never the less was still very good. I started watching the show at series five but from then on i was hooked.I recommend this sitcom to anyone and everyone.


                
I really do like this sitcom. I never understood the need of people to compare it to Seinfeld and make a battle of which show is better. I like them both, but those are two different types of sitcoms to me. Just because they are both about Friends living in New York it doesn't mean that they have that much in common Friends has created some pretty good characters. Chandler is one of the favorites because of his sarcasm. Phoebe is a very unique character. Ross is incredibly funny. They all have something special about them The acting also was good. David Schwimmer is my absolute favorite in it. His performance as Ross often made even episodes with story lines I didn't care much about rise to a higher level. They all had their moment where they did a great job, some more often than othersAnd there were quiet a few great story lines. Some of them that went on for several episodes and some small ones that we only saw for one episode. There was a lot of diversity in those themes and some original ideas The show did go down a bit after a few seasons. Mainly after Monica and Chandler got together. What happened after was that Monica's character was completely ruined. She used to be likable in the first 4 seasons but after this there was nothing positive left about her. Chandler went down a bit as well because of their relationship. And Phoebe had her bad moments towards the end even though for the most part she remained a great character There were a few story lines that I could live without, like for example the whole Joey and Rachel story.And yet, I can probably find 10 or maybe even less episodes that I completely disliked in the whole ten seasons. The show continued to make me laugh until the very end And I don't care if the show isn't all that realistic. If I want reality, I watch news. This show is sitcom that I watch to laugh, not to figure out how Joey makes Chandler pay for his stuff or how Phoebe can afford to live in Manhattan. I also don't mind that it is lighter humor, not something incredibly intellectual. I like this as wellAnd besides comedy, we also get some great relationships on this show. My favorite one would be Joey and Chandler. Their friendship is my favorite. They have so many great moments! The time when Joey moved out, or Chandler going to the box and staying quiet when Katie talked to him because he cared for Joey. These are just two examples out of many.Ross and Rachel's relationship was very well done as well. All their ups and downs have kept viewers intrigued for many years. And they have performed it very well and always had a great chemistry.No matter how often I watch it, I always get a feeling of sadness when I see the last episode and I have tears in my eyes when Rachel gets off the plane. They really did a great job with keeping me enjoying the show for so many years And now that I have said it all, I just will tell my opinion on the most debated topic of Friends: They WERE on a break!
Rachel Green (Jennifer Aniston) is a runaway bride. She finds former friend Monica Geller (Courteney Cox) who lets her stay in her New York apartment. Monica's brother Ross (David Schwimmer) has a secret crush on Rachel. Joey Tribbiani (Matt LeBlanc) and Chandler Bing (Matthew Perry) are their neighbors. Phoebe Buffay (Lisa Kudrow) is their eccentric friend.You can call it too fake. You can call it too white. But you can't deny its popularity. The show is about six friends in NYC. It's not much more. It doesn't have anything out of the ordinary. None of the Friends had much of a resume before this show. They were all new and fresh faced. Most importantly, they had chemistry together. The incredible popularity and the over night success really isolated these 6 and cemented them as lifelong friends. And you can tell they were friends. It showed on the screen for all 10 seasons.


                
Being knowledgeable of pop culture I've known about this show for years before I actually binged it on NETFLIX so I had already known about the major plot point of Ross & Rachel. I had recently finished watching the King of Queens series, that did not end well IMO (then when I re-watched many episodes I realized the show wasn't very funny, damn sure not funny enough to survive 200+ episodes). P.s. I noticed Carrie Heffernan, Doug's alcoholic boss, Kelli Palmer, and Mr. Prizan in later seasons (all characters from that show were all in earlier Friends episodes). However unlike that show I found my self laughing mighty hard at many episodes of Friends. I thought as far as representing many 20-30 year olds this show did a pretty good/funny job of depicting that time period in many peoples lives. It wasn't perfect (especially regarding relationships) because I thought in later parts of seasons 4 & 5, many things happened too quickly: Ross & Emily, Gary the cop and Phoebe (he asked her to move in with him after only 5 episodes?). Season 5, Rachel and the Tate Donovan (yeti) character, why was she soo obsessed with him, he truly had no attractive qualities. My other problem was why did Chandler and Monica keep their relationship a secret, your friends are supposed to be the 1st people you come to with relationship news. In season 6, ep. 2, Monica says she didn't want to rush into moving in together, however, they say they only do it because marriage is too extreme. Shouldn't you live with someone because you want to cohabit-ate with them? Which brings me to my least favorite characters: the Gellers. I wasn't a fan of either character, don't understand why anyone would want to be in a relationship with either of them. Monica's incredibly anal and selfish while Ross is a whiny baby of a man who is also incredibly selfish (I don't know what the hell Rachel saw in him, I get that relationship played well for audiences but is it the most believable? I don't think so). Every time something good happened to Rachel, Ross's 1st thought was WHAT ABOUT ME, HOW DO I FIT INTO THIS? Don't even get me started with the "we were on a break" scenario or when she gets her 1st fashion job and how he flipped out about her not being able to eat dinner with him one night. 
BUT the humorous parts outweigh my disdain for the Gellers and the whiplash pace of relationships. My fave characters are Phoebe and Joey they cracked me up SOOOO MUCH. Some of my series fave scenes were Phoebe singing the song about underwear in the episode where she dates 2 dudes, those 80s flashback scenes, the Smelly Cat video, and so many more. Ultimately 4 of my favorite scenes from the entire show involve guess who... The Gellers, When the 2 of them dance on New Years Rockin Eve, when Monica dances during the closing credits in season 6, ep. 15, when she dances in that 80s flashback at her first college party in season 10, and of course, Ross's bagpipes. I almost cried during all those scenes!! It is definitely a show I can and will re-watch multiple times.
Frankly, that's the highest praise you'll ever give a show that went 10 seasons.This show, of course, is filmed in front of a live studio audience. And there's a reason so many comedies do that. While it seems distracting (until you get used to it), it actually does something almost sinister. It makes a show seem funnier than it actually is. Laughter is more contagious than any disease on earth, so when we hear a studio audience cracking up, we will, too.That being said, this show is genuinely funny - but not because of the writing. Sure, the writing can be great (the "Backpacking in Eastern Europe" story is a standout in fantastic writing, as is "The One With the Embryos"), but surprisingly, the thing that makes this show so damn funny is the actors. And it's one of the only comedies that operates this way.The vast majority of comedies work because of the writing (think "Malcolm in the Middle," "How I Met Your Mother," "Master of None," "30 Rock," "Modern Family"). There are a few rarities that work because of the directing (think "Arrested Development" and "The Office"), but "Friends" is pretty much the only one (although the Office does too, a little) that works because of the acting.For me, the funniest moments in the show are all attributed to the actors' performances. These include Rachel coping with Ross' new Girlfriend in early S2 (Julie! Isn't that just kick-you-in-the-crotch- spit-on-your-neck-fantastic!?), Chandler and Phoebe's career performances in "The One Where Everybody Finds Out," Monica crying in "Rachel's Going Away Party," Joey Speaking French, and of course, the ALL-TIME FUNNIEST PART OF THE SHOW, Ross being "fine!" and spelling out the word L-O-V-E in his intense state of denial.But beyond the acting and a few other moments of great writing, the show doesn't offer any real heart. I enjoyed the episodes with Ross and Rachel, and Chandler and Monica, but not because I was invested in their love stories, because they used great jokes in those episodes. And at the end of the day, that's the show's largest weakness: the characters. The six mains are either complete stereotypes, or have no real personality. I'll show you.Ross: The only consistent thing about him is that he's a nerd. But in any given episode, he's barbaric, romantic, rational, insane, or anything else you could attribute to a human. Weak character. Rachel: Also has no personality. She's spoiled, but other than that, nothing, really. She's also too down-to-earth for her own character at times. Monica: A stereotypical control-freak, neat-freak, competitive type. No other depth. Joey: Stereotypical ladies' man. All about the ladies, dumb as hell, but a child at heart. Makes for good comedy, but not good television. Phoebe: Literally just the oddball in the group. Not only are the throw-away jokes about her past contradictory to each other almost constantly, so are her personality traits, the things she says and does -- and oh yes, she's very funny...until there's an episode devoted to her.You'll notice I left Chandler out of that. And that's because Chandler is actually a really good character. At first, it seems that Chandler is just a way for the show to deliver stand-up-style jokes, but it works because that's exactly who Chandler is. He uses humor as a coping mechanism, and as he says, "it's all I have." While that's really only two layers of personality, that's twice as many layers as everyone else on the show, so kudos.My other note, neither criticism nor praise, is just an observation worth sharing: in my opinion, the show peaked from Seasons 3-6. It took a while to find itself completely, and fell flat towards the end, but those four seasons are truly great. The best one is S4.You're probably thinking I'm being to critical of the show. But I gave it an 8/10. That criticism would bring a drama down to a 5, maybe a 4. But after it all, "Friends" is a comedy, and it's purpose is to make people laugh, and in that, it succeeds admirably. It remains a funny show on multiple viewings. It's humor got it to an 8. The only thing that kept it from a 10 was quality and depth (and don't think that comedy can't be deep and funny -- look at "Modern Family" and "Master of None").8.4/10. As far as comedies go, this one's damn good.
This is a show which is created to attract teenage group especially girls. A show which revolves around six people who lives in New York. They come from different settings but somehow they connect with each other and lives a happy life.. the end. Sounds like a fairy tale, doesn't it? Well, the show has good moments, witty jokes and sometimes does deliver wonderful situations of mishap created by guest actors. This show which was created in the 90's have certainly gained a lot of popularity even in the 2010's modern era, all thanks to the blissful internet and it's piracy and free streaming services provided by lots of websites. More than fifty percent adolescent people has spent their time watching this show and they wants to relate to it. I won't deny the fact that I've some best times watching this show in my time and I did wanted to relate to even though it's not relatable most of the time. If you want to have an amazing time depending on who you are and what period of life you're living, this show might be the next thing you want to watch.


                
This show is great, but people treat it like it's jesus.


                
Friends is a fantastic comedy in which everyone has their own story and would give anything to tell them at The Central Perk.The actors and actresses who made this possible are Jennifer Aniston, Courtney Cox Arquette, Lisa Kudrow, David Schwimer, Matthew perry, Matt Leblanck.It all began when Monica, Phoebe, Ross, Joey and Chandler were at their favorite coffee place and Monica's best friend from high school, Rachel, runs in. Soaking wet. In her wedding dress. Crying. The rest is history.My cousin and Friends fanatic first persuaded me to wacth Friends and it was really good. now whenever I'm upset, she uses Friends lines to make me smile again.
I adore Friends, but I've watched it all the way through several times and I keep finding more and more plot holes. Like, why do they all seem to have multiple birthdays, and why was rachel 28 in season 3, but not 30 until season 7. It makes no sense. Still an enjoyable show if you don't focus on that stuff too hard.


                
Some episodes are better than great. I absolutely hated that they retconned things so that chandler and Monica were meant to be together, that was awful.Now, onto the characters:
Ross - I didn't mind Ross as much as some people did, except the whole Unagi rubbish, that was bad.
Rachel - Was annoying. Selfish, conceited, vapid, not funny
Chandler - Everything positive people say about Chandler is true.
Monica - again, very annoying. Bearable at times but ultimately ruined episodes.
Joey - Joey was funny, and him and Chandler had great chemistry. However, there were times when it just didn't work(cow's opinion for example).
Phoebe - Anyone who says Phoebe was likeable is wrong. She is one of the worst ever TV characters. She wasn't "quirky", she was weird. And don't get me started on the whole lobster rubbish.The only positive of Phoebe is Lisa Kudrow's performance is great


                
I think of this show being a modern day saved by the bell. With Rachel and Ross being Zach and Kelly. You just know they will end up together. This show was Red-Hot to me its first five or so seasons. Ever Since Monica aAnd Chandler got together the show kind of fell apart and I have lost interest in it. But it is still the best show on TV today. And I will be collecting the DVD set.


                
