By far the best sitcom of all time... Friends series had one of the most well built characters on a comedy show and the romantic part in it isn t an obstacle for a dude who hates love stories. Sarcasm is the main characteristic of friends


                
Friends is one of my favourite TV shows. I have to admit that I hardly watched it at all when it first aired. That maybe because I was still going to elementary school and high school then. After that I began to watch the re-runs, and found it to be very appealing. I was looking for some comedy, and got plenty of it from Friends. I guess the big reason why I didn't want to watch the show at first was because it's so popular (the leads are famous too). The series was very successful in the ratings, consistently ranking in the top ten in the final primetime ratings.The show's biggest appeal is the humor. You can always count that each episode will have at least a decent amount of humor. Most episodes are just hilarious! After I watched the entire first season I began to care about the characters. The series revolves around a group of friends in the area of Manhattan, New York City, who live together and share living expenses. I'm not going to go into which of the six leads I like the most because I like them all. They all get a chance to shine throughout the show. However, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer are definite standouts. They're good in their roles, and are often very funny. Friends also has a memorable cast of supporting characters. I especially liked Monica's and Ross's parents, Rachel's father, Richard, Janice, Rachel's sister Amy, Mike Hannigan, and Phoebe's boyfriend David.The series starts off strong. In the first few seasons the main relationships form, and there's a good bit of drama too. The middle is probably my favourite part mostly because it's the funniest. And although the show does become a bit repetitive and goofy by the end, I still found it to be very entertaining. In all, there were 10 seasons with 236 episodes. The finale was watched by about 53 million American viewers, making it the fourth most watched series finale in TV history. Friends has made a large cultural impact, and the Central Perk coffee house has inspired various imitations worldwide. Repeats of the series continue to air worldwide. Throughout its run, the series won many awards and was nominated for 63 Primetime Emmy Awards.One of the most important things that makes any story great is the characters, and Friends has six good ones. By the end, I liked the show so much that I didn't want it to end. I now have the DVDs so I can watch it anytime, and often do. Rumours have surfaced of a film. Most of the lead actors expressed interest in starring in the film, but for now the film is just a rumour because nothing's final yet. If you haven't seen Friends yet then don't hesitate to do so. The series has almost universal appeal. There are good reasons why it was so popular.


                
'Friends' is one of my favorite TV series, and sure is in the top 3 of them. When the series started, in 1994, I didn't care so much about it, and even couldn't understand how everybody could enjoy Friends so much. When my father started to buy the DVDS,(last year) I could follow the episodes from the very beginning,and then realize why it makes so much success. Friends is comic, without forgetting of being also romantic,dramatic and ironic. It's great to watch when we are in a bad mood, because the laughs are guaranteed. :) I love all the characters, but I need to say that I Monica and Chandler are the best! Chandler is without doubt, the funniest of them all. Monica with her paranoid personality, besides the fact she doesn't accept to not be the best, always make me laugh. For everybody who wants a nice day, watch Friends.:)


                
Friends is a landmark television show- one whose aftereffects in comedy still reverberate to this day (think Big Bang Theory). This show about six twenty-somethings in New York City became an instant classic and the reruns have ensured that the popularity does not fade. Endearing characters, witty jokes and personable storylines throughout the 10 years made this one of the most widely watched shows not just in America but all over the English-speaking world. If you want genuine entertainment you cannot go wrong with Friends.


                
This is the first TV show I have watched every Episode, every moment without feeling boring!! Even still now I am watching the old Episode again for the second time. I love Joey and Chandler so much!! <3 This is a full pack of laugh out loud. This is the best show ever. and before "Friends", the six actors who play the main characters were all unknown. Today, Jennifer, Courteney, Lisa, Matt, Matthew and David are six of the most known people in the world.


                
FriendsFor 10 years i've lived with this show, as far as i can remember back i have been watching this once a week, taped a lot of episodes and collected them, this is by far the best tv show i have ever seen, and i ask myself now, will it ever be beaten? I think personally, no. Never have i been able to identify so easily with characters of a tv-show, never have tv-show portraited things without a deeper meaning with such excellence, this show is basically about the general life of 6 friends, and it works so well, even without a moral backbone, it just flows, it is perfect.Having just watched the final episodes, i must admit, i cried, not so much because of a sad episode, but mostly becuase i was thinking how this ended an era, an era not only for me, but for many people out there who has come to love this show.Over the years there are so many great moments to think back at, i've come to love all these 6 "fictional" friends, my weekly friends on tv. And man will i miss this show, it's unbelivable, over the years we have gotten to know these persons so well, we have laughed, cried and felt with them, this is a tv show that should never be forgotten.Besides this i don't know how i would describe the show, there aren't really any words for describing it, it's the best show ever, that's how i feel, and i'm very sad that it is over, but i think they ended it well. Now i will collect the DVDs.


                
The combination of powerful writing and amazing performances of Friend's ensemble cast manage to give the viewer some mild to strong laughs as well as a bunch of other emotions such as sadness and compassion.Not to forget the chemistry this magnificent cast has, the ability of the writers to give each and everyone of them a good storyline on each and every episode, etc.You gotta love friends. Because from the very first episode to the very last one there is no way you can hate it. Every episode contains a great number of funny lines and great facial expressions and performances from it's ensemble cast.I've seen a great numbers of sitcoms and I say Friends is on top of them all.Both thumbs should be up when criticizing the sitcom Friends.


                
Friends is a landmark television show- one whose aftereffects in comedy still reverberate to this day (think Big Bang Theory). This show about six twenty-somethings in New York City became an instant classic and the reruns have ensured that the popularity does not fade. Endearing characters, witty jokes and personable storylines throughout the 10 years made this one of the most widely watched shows not just in America but all over the English-speaking world. If you want genuine entertainment you cannot go wrong with Friends.


                
One of my favorite tv shows. 
Couldn't been written any better, I just love watching every second.
Great cast, great acting..
The only bad thing about it is that it didn't last more!


                
So were Rachel and Ross on a break?FAVORITE SITCOM


                
Who hasn't seen Friends? The show is immensely popular all over the world. Friends is a landmark television show- one whose aftereffects in comedy still reverberate to this day (think Big Bang Theory). This show about six twenty-somethings in New York City became an instant classic and the reruns have ensured that the popularity does not fade. Endearing characters, witty jokes and personable storylines throughout the 10 years made this one of the most widely watched shows not just in America but all over the English-speaking world. If you want genuine entertainment you cannot go wrong with Friends.


                
Well what is there to say? It's a classic. Even though I lived through the original airing of this show I never really got around to watching it. Even so, I knew the show was huge - it was everywhere in the culture. I finally decided to watch through the series. It didn't disappoint. What I liked best about the show was the way they managed to weave in emotional high points contrasted with low points in the lives of the characters. That is something that seems to be missing in most of the sitcoms of today - never any true low points in the lives of the characters to connect with them and cheer them on when they achieve the high points. 
Clearly, it's a show worth watching!


                
I can never get enough of it. It's so hilarious even if you're watching it for the 1st time or re-watching the 25th time or on repeat mode, the hundredth time. The spontaneity is gold. The characters are so nuanced. Mylove for every other TV show faded away and this one is an exception.


                
It's a timeless television series that will be memorable for a long time. It's not just the catchphrases, it's not just the well-known actors/actresses that lead this fun sitcom but there's characters to relate to, there's jokes to be heard and ultimately there is friendship which we all crave and need.The show revolves about Ross Geller (David Schwimmer) trying to be with the woman he's loved since the ninth grade -- Rachel Green (Jennifer Aniston). Chandler (Matthew Perry) and Joey (Matt LeBlanc) are great for their one-liners and providing the 'friends' vibe throughout the entire run. Phoebe (Lisa Kudrow) will provide you with some random comedy, throwing you off track almost every time she utters something. Monica (Courteney Cox), Ross' sister, is an obsessive controlling neat freak who glues all six of them together.As time grows on, the friendships between the six strengthen and the comedy increases. For a total of ten years, you'll learn and become friends with fictional people and hope that someday, somewhere, these people exist.Fans of Friends, like me, will most likely talk on the message boards, know the detailed trivia of each of the characters and sometimes live in their own world with their "Friends".It's not a show for children, as some of the jokes in the later seasons because sexual and/or adult themed. However, I grew up watching Friends, from the age of barely six till sixteen. I wasn't a normal kid. When my friends were watching Barney, I was watching Seinfeld or Friends.I love Friends and I think it's one of the best sitcoms of all-time. It incorporates so many elements that we all possess in some way. Each character has something and is missing something that the other characters help with. Ross is quirky, but he's shy, but Rachel helps with that. Joey is a womanizer, but lacks intelligence but is helped thanks to Ross. Every person who has watched Friends can walk away telling their own friends which character they are most similar to.It's filled with episodes that will make you laugh, warm your heart and some that will make you cry -- happy and sad -- tears. There's nothing to hate about Friends. A great treat for viewers is the long list of elegant A-list cameos/guest stars over the ten years that the series ran for. I thank Marta Kaufman and David Crane for their efforts and creative vision to create such a wonderful show.
Each one of us have different taste and preferences but if one cleaves on the point that Friends is not a great show I think one needs to find musing time to discern that they are wrong.The first season is slow and is just like a foundation stone to make the building strong and I take it when some people find it little slow or average,but The show outstrip all the loopholes from the season 2.The show is fabulous,stupendous and I bet you will be in light and different mood in those 20-22 minutes and there will be rampant flow of smile and laughs for those 22 minutes.This is the only show whose episodes I can watch infinite times and each time I will last laughing loud holding my stomach.All the six actors have played their characters ingeniously and cannot be replaced or replayed equally well by anyone else ever. The show starts with "Monica" being teased by her friends Chandler and Joey in the central perk coffee shop and along with the cup of coffee the show starts brimming your life with fun,excitement,happiness and emotions.All characters are different and best in their own ways.Monica as motherly character being piqued for even a small changes made at her house by anyone except her and always eager to cook and thus rightfully the chef by profession.Ross brother of Monica and affable goof with profession in paleontology.For Ross or "Doctor Ross" the love for dinosaurs is entail and marriages(including one while he was drunk) are inevitable with the record of three divorces thanks to her first lesbian wife,second inscrutable wife and drink for the third divorce. David Schwimmer was considered for this character even before the part for Ross was written.Rachel Green portrayed by Jennifer Aniston a naive runaway bride who met her school friend Monica in coffee shop and thus awakens the love of Ross again after so many years.The character is naive,confused and even stupid in nature but evolves independent and bold.Chandler the character played by Matthew Perry has become pinnacle alternative for sarcasm.Chandler,the Ross college room mate to Monica's spouse is well known for his punches and lively character.Joey is the struggling actor and was the room mate of Chandler.Joey has a charisma or art to endorse girls towards him whether its because of his innocence or famous tag line "How you do-in" but no love is more to him than love for food.Joey is the favorite character of mine especially because of his innocent and carefree behavior,his love for acting is appreciable so is his play,practice of hosting TV show and practicing French :-pPhoebe the egregious,satirical,bold and confident character who has spent her childhood without parents on road among criminals thus became so strong and bold.This character does not worry about the world and its adjudication.Phoebe with her guitar and carefree nature has many self-written and self-composed songs,whether one likes her singing or not but becomes attractive towards "Smelly Cat" and Yes!! you can not play with this song when Phoebe is around.The character of Phoebe is also known for her recrimination however stupid it would.Phoebe Buffay-Hannigan is played by Lisa Kudrow.The sitcom is incomparable with any show,and will make you ludicrous while watching the episode for 22 minutes.Those 22 minutes are the best time of the day.I still rejoice Friends episodes whenever I get time to watch it.


                
This show, when it debuted nearly 25 years ago this fall and ended nearly 15 years ago with a memorable finale, remains a gold standard for comedies on TV. You can find it on network tv as well as on netflix and still have a crush on the characters. There have been attempts to spinoff the characters such as Joey, but to little fanfare.


                
Friends is a show full of whitty humor, fun characters, heartbreaking moments, and awkward situations. From the airing of its first episode in 1994, up to last episode in 2004, writers David Crane and Marta Kauffman found ways to keep audiences captivated, Humor, brilliant set designs and the wildly ordinary lives of Joey, Chandler, Ross, Monica, Phobie, and Rachel are what kept us all watching.
Thanks to the creative writing style of Marta Kauffman and David Crane, Friends quickly became a fan favorite. Many of the iconic phrases they used throughout the show fall may somewhere in your vocabulary today. Phrases like, "we were on a break," "how you doin?" and worst of all, anything that comes out of Janice's mouth. We can all her her voice now, "CHANDLER BING," and "Oh. My. Gawwwwwwwd." Kauffman and Crane were brilliant writers, their ability to adapt and come up with new fresh ideas is what kept Friends alive. The two writers spent a lot of their time during shooting tweaking their writing to the crowds reaction. If they didn't get the reaction they were expecting, Kauffman and Crane would turn to the audience and ask for input. They turned to the cast members, particularly Matthew Perry aka Chandler, for suggestions as well. Many times the those suggestions made it to the final cut of the episode. This was their way of ensuring that everyone was enjoying the show.
Kauffman and Crane's writing was fantastic. Their writing however, was not the soul reason Friends was as successful as it was, people like the writers who helped Kauffman and Crane, editing teams, cameramen, light guys, boom operators, and the set teams. These amazing groups of people mad it all happen and brought writing on a paper to a ten season tv show. Just as iconic as the character of Friends are, some of their set pieces are equally as iconic. When thinking of Friends, there are a couple pieces in each set that one might recognize, the orange couch from the coffee house Central Perk, the foosball table in Chandler and Joey's apartment, the picture frame around the the peephole in Rachel and Monica's apartment, and even the bizarre 3D framed picture named Edna that floats around from time to time. These things, along with others you may be thinking of, enhance the aesthetics of the show and draw your attention to the sets and what is happening around the characters. When you see these pieces, you know exactly where the characters are. This, along with good camera work are another reason why Friends, more than ten years later, is still loved by many. But arguably, the best part of the show are the characters.
Ross, Joey, Chandler, Monica, Pheoby, and Rachel are 6 iconic names that made Friends into the show it is today. Writers Kauffman and Crane made these characters relatable, friendly, and funny in order to gain fandom amongst all crowds. From the controlling behavior of Monica, to the corky dad like humor of Chandler, everyone has someone they feel they closely relate to. The choice of actors for Friends could not have been any better. With Jennifer Aniston aka Rachel, being the most popular of the bunch, all have been able to go onto different acting jobs and perform very well in various roles.
Friends has been off the air for over ten years now, but the humor is not lost on us. We use their language, we recognize their names, and we see their talent. For its time, and even for today's standards, Friends has earned its spot in history with all the other great movies and TV shows Roger Ebert said were, "two thumbs up."


                
Friends is one of the best sitcoms of all time if you haven't already seen Friends then stop reading this and watch the first episode you will not be disappointed by it you will find a part of yourself in one of the six friends will you be a Joey a Ross who knows but soon you'll begin to wonder how you lived your life without Friends until now.


                
Delightful contemporary show about youth living the dream in NYC. Great comedy to relieve one's daily stresses. Never to be duplicated.


                
Who hasn't seen Friends? The show is immensely popular all over the world. Friends is a landmark television show- one whose aftereffects in comedy still reverberate to this day (think Big Bang Theory). This show about six twenty-somethings in New York City became an instant classic and the reruns have ensured that the popularity does not fade. Endearing characters, witty jokes and personable storylines throughout the 10 years made this one of the most widely watched shows not just in America but all over the English-speaking world. If you want genuine entertainment you cannot go wrong with Friends.


                
I had a lot of laughs, and friends is a amazing serie but for me serie got ruined by the ross/rachel relationship. I skipped so many episode because i was annoyed with rachel and ross getting back together and then break up and then back together
This show about six twenty-somethings in New York City became an instant classic and the reruns have ensured that the popularity does not fade. Endearing characters, witty jokes and personable storylines throughout the 10 years made this one of the most widely watched shows not just in America but all over the English-speaking world. If you want genuine entertainment you cannot go wrong with Friends.


                
Most Comedy Series I criticized.an excellent TV show. All of the actors are excellent,so many and so failed romantic scenes. love, love,separation, tears of Rachel and Ross, the return of Rachel and Ross,tears of Rachel and Ross, the return of Rachel and Ross. it is clear that most of us get bored from love of Rachel and Ross.* Pheobe Buffey how can a reasonable person to become so crazy? Impossible, Joey foolish, stupid, we find like him but Phoebe she is not stupid, but her scenes very crazy.* Monica Gellar best female character in this series - she certainly does a good job convincing you that she hates to be wrong.* Rachel was not convinced by me, but she has one thing in her..we need for someone like Joey to know what it is .*Chandler in the first 4 seasons, almost before his love to Monica was the best, his passion to her dropped him down in my opinion then joy appears .* Ross - fixed level from start to finish, he is talented .Friends failure to be a Comedy - Romance Series.Just watch a few episodes with before making any judgment
I admit it. I haven't watched a single episode of Friends until two weeks ago. After watching some random episode I thought 'Hey! This ain't so bad', so I decided to give it a try. Now, two weeks later I'm halfway through season 9... I really got drawn into this show. You start to care for those six people like they were family. Each character has his own perks and flaws and that's why you start identifying with them. And with 3 guys and 3 girls there's really enough material to appeal to both men and women.Even though I love the characters and the comedy, I can't give this show the full 10/10 because, after 7 seasons, plots are starting to repeat themselves, I especially got tired of the whole Ross & Rachel situation after a while. Also this show often contradicts itself. While in the beginning Ross has "only slept with one women" (His ex-wife Carol) somewhere in season 6 or 7 Chandler reveals that he slept with some cleaning lady in college which simply is not possible. Stuff like that happens quite a few times and I sometimes get the feeling that the writers forget to watch their own show. Those flaws really do bum me out and keep me from really 100% getting into this show.Still great, 9/10.


                
Four years ago, after the series final I would've said this is the best comedy sitcom ever made. t After watching it's reruns, now with cold head, I can only say it's a triumph of American Comedy. Sure, one of the most successful and popular comedies ever made but it's no lie that it isn't 100% about quality.From season 1 to 4 the show is a complete mess with unfunny situations, SNL imitation sequences, and awkward performances.The show starts to get a unique vibe and special charm since 1999. To be honest, the humor gets more witty and leaves behind cheesy lines for raunchy humor instead; but keeping the typical American humor all the time.Courteney Cox, Jennifer Aniston and David Schwimmer shine all the time while the rest of the cast does it very fine and even gain status as people's favorite characters on any sitcom.The situations are tremendously creative from 1999 on and I can't think of any other show to perfectly manage the facial expressions of it's cast. It's also part of the charm of the comedy; pretty people performing decently even with their faces.Give this show a try and be part of American pop culture.


                
