OK, here's my basic viewpoint on the wonderful piece of celluloid known as 'The Matrix,' seeing as how it was full of plot holes, and the only things good about it were Laurence Fishburne and the effects.
In all honesty, I hated every single frickin' minute of this flick. It was boring, unimaginative, and really quite contrite. The scripting was terrible, the acting horrible, and for Gods sake, the movie wasn't even a movie, it was a playhouse for new visual effect techniques. Show me one part of this movie that you feel is good, and I'll show you a person who's afraid to make up their own mind on anything good in movies.While The Matrix was busy making millions of dollars, people skipped out of movies with a SCRIPT and ACTORS such as 'Waking Ned Devine,' an incredibly character driven movie, with real actors, not Bill and Ted rejects. (Don't get me wrong, Laurence Fishburn wasn't in Bill and Ted, and I did like the B&T movies, I just didn't like TED!) This movie was full of eye candy...it's a disappointment that movie goers now a days will shell out $7.50 for a movie full of things you can see on a Playstation...but you don't catch people sitting around the house and paying money to watch some guy play Final Fantasy.Now go watch a real movie, like 'Brazil.'


                
This film has no saving graces.  A silly, unbelievable plot is made worse by childish characterisation.  The gratuitous violence at the end, with innocent security guards being shot to pieces by our illustrious "heroes" completes the film's moral bankrupcy.  Would someone tell me why the bad guys where dark glasses?


                
I'm not sure why so many people were so impressed by this movie.  Story? Perhaps if you've never thought about realistic virtual reality, or dreamed you were a butterfly and wondered if you were a butterfly dreaming you were a man.  Then you might be blinded to the huge plot holes. But the script will fit wonderfully to its obvious destination: a video game surely on its way to stores right now.Perhaps the action sequences, if you're the type who likes violence video games so much you'd be happy to sit and watch someone else play one... over and over and over.  The camera tricks and effects were interesting once, but we've all seen them on TV already -- the commercial, in fact, is better than the movie.Certainly it wasn't the characters.  Only Morpheus had any kind of personality, which saved us from having to find out what the other actors might have been like if they'd been called on to act.  Keanu got two scenes that required acting (the kiss of life, and the epiphany), but he missed on both and just laid or stood there.  The rest of the movie, Neo was called The One, but he might have been The Zero -- other than a token reference to him having the trouble with authority figures all action heros are required by Hollywood Law to have (subtlely portrayed by having someone tell him "you have trouble with authority figures, don't you?") he had no character, making Keanu a great fit for him.William Gibson, save us!


                
The Matrix is a horribly formulaic stew of standard pulp items (conspiracy theories, bands of gallant rebels, babes in tight black leather) with a light dusting of philosophical/religious concepts to make it all seem like serious, meaningful stuff.  It is almost unnecessary to point out that none of the philosophical concepts plays any real role in the plot, which is basically just a sequence of action scenes enhanced by computer graphics. Its fans may talk about savior figures, but this is salvation lite, by means of gunfights and kung fu.  A better bet is Scary Movie: you'll see the same action and maybe even have a chuckle or two, which is more than can be said for The Matrix.


                
the movie's plot, storyline among most other things are some of the worst I've seen in a movie in a long time. I wouldn't pay 10 cents to see it again. the only thing about it that was remotely ok was a few action sequences. Even now those sequences have been surpassed by many other movies.  It certainly wasn't a standard precedent for movies of that nature and the way they were produced or filmed.


                
I will say that the matrix had a good idea and for a brief 20 minutes in the middle, it was intriguing.  But the cheesy special effects and melodrama were too much for me.  Most of the movie was laughable.While the religious symbolism was there, the direction was poor.  The camera shots were bizarre, too much was left unexplained.  All in all a very poorly executed idea.


                
Anyone with half of a brain could see right through this mainstream Hollywood garbage.The effects are not "spectacular" (they are loud, annoying, and overblown) the acting isn't "great" (It sucks).It's kind of like Bill & Ted's Adventures Through an Alternate Reality.Most of the "serious dramatic scenes" were laughable.  I am outraged that this is number 38 on the all-time 250!!!  It should be in the bottom 100.It's talk, talk, talk, with something remotely resembling an action sequence popping up on the screen every 30 minutes.  It looks like a crazed computer ate up a roll of film and spat it back out.You are WAY, WAY, WAY better off watching the GREAT movies like Citizen Kane or City Lights or Superman: The Movie!!I give it a 0 out of 10, it's a BOMB!!!But, I'm sure the over-crazed Matrix fans will have some lame excuses for all the movie's shortcomings.


                
I know that this is one of the most popular movies of all time, but that is a flaw in the viewing public. The main reason I dislike this movie so much is because it was a rip off of a much better movie that came out a couple years before it. That being Dark City. Lets review the similarities shall we? First of all our main character wakes up disoriented and not understanding the world around him JM because he lost his memory and Neo because he is taken out of the matrix. We find that both characters have been given a false set of memories by puppeteers (be them aliens or robots) We find that these puppeteers are doing the same thing for all people in an attempt to keep their own race going (matrix as batteries DC cus they need to find the soul) Finally the main character proves to be the savior of the humans by finding they are the only one who can put an end to the false lives that the puppeteers are forcing humans to live. they both do this through the same method. by having a mentor teach them how to use the devices of their captors against them (neo learns how to hack and control the matrix while Murdoc learns how to use the machines of the strangers to alter reality. also we see stylish black leather as the main wardrobe in the matrix. black leather gowns are the main wardrobe for the strangers. moving away from the rip off problem we see that Dark City has a message implying you to ask yourself if your identity is more than just the sum of your memories. the matrix makes people feel smart for understanding the movie, but really offers no deep thought. the feel of Dark City is also better since it has the dark ambiance created by the same director as The Crow. while the matrix has nothing new or special about its "feel" just your basic action movie with a plot to try to make the viewer feel smart. Point is: same movie only better (although lacking the eye candy the public adores) is Dark City


                
Whoah!  That was a really awful excuse for a movie.  Horrible acting and a horrible script is what you get with this one, but I expected these things to be bad.  What I didn't expect was that the SFX were horrible too.  I can't believe people think that they are good.  Good special effects make you forget that you are seeing special effects, and you can believe that they are real.  In The Matrix, you never forget.  They are way overdone and end up looking very childish, and we've seen these cheezy effects done a million times in commercials even though people may not realize it.All I've heard about this movie is how the effects are amazing, but I say if that is what you are looking for watch The Phantom Menace or The Mummy.  If you want to see a good virtual reality movie watch eXistenZ or even The Thirteenth Floor was better than The Matrix.


                
Great idea, with very little of that idea transferred to the silver screen. Plenty of neat special effects to distract the audience from the flawed and empty re-telling of the age old "what is reality" story. A few interesting bible references, great blue-screening (better than Episode 1 by far), but with stone-like acting from every cast member, everyone ends up looking like part of the machine. If you want to see a movie that really deals with the issue "what is reality" see Darren Aronofsky's "Pi" (1998). If you want to see a bunch of fake kung fu, slapped together on an Avid machine to impress you, then see the Matrix, but most of these reviewers are mistaken (no offense); it's really just filler with a bit of truth. Wake up.


                
Somewhere along the line, someone planning this film forgot to put in a plot.  It's worse than "Twister" in that respect.  Ooh look at all our fancy camera tricks and weapons and weird sci-fi stuff that really makes no sense. But it's loud!  And that makes a good film, you know.  And I would love, just once in my life, to see Keanu Reeves not play a blank-faced doofus in every movie he's made since "Bill and Ted."In short, I absolutely and totally hated this film.  My fiance loves it and watches it at least once a month, but I would rather clean out a cat box every hour for the rest of my life than ever see this film again.


                
I side with the negative crowd on this one; with the risk of sounding pompous I have to say this: To believe that this is a brilliant film suggest a low level of education and an underdeveloped personal philosophy. There, I've said it. To question the realness of reality is a 400-year old Cartesian idea. Actually, it was explored more interestingly in the old Star Trek episode "Spectre of the Gun" in 1969. The rest of the film is an obvious rip-off of "The Terminator" and all of John Woo, which are far more interesting movies. The film ponders too long on the central premise, and there isn't enough action to make it a good action movie, either. Still, overall production design is great, but the acting is wooden, and Fishburne makes for an unconvincing guru. All the good scenes were revealed in the trailer, so there's not much else to do than just sit in the theatre and feel patronized by the whole thing. At least, that's what I did. The whole thing just isn't half as clever and original as it wants to be.


                
This film is abolutely awful. My girlfriend and I would have left the cinema half-way through if we knew that we both felt the same about it at the time! Apart from the special effects, the film suffers from WOODEN ACTING (There goes Keanu again!) and ridiculous storyline. The special fx are amazing though - apart from that it is a total waste of time. However - we seem to stand alone on this one, as the rest of the world seems to think this is the most amazing film ever made. Oh well.


                
And boring.  And needlessly confusing.  Leave it Larry Fishburne to make Keanu Reeves look good.  It's always great to see a potentially good actor follow up such stinkers as Hoodlum and the god-awful Event Horizon with a movie that can dig him out of a craphole.  Too bad this wasn't that movie. And what about Keanu, you ask?  Well he's good.  Especially when his mouth disappears.  And credit those Bound brothers, for giving him as few lines as possible.  Unfortunately, they didn't seem to do fit with Fishburne.  And, by the way, when are bad guys gonna be something besides guys in black suits and black shades?  When is a special effects movie going to be made that has a decent story?  When are American filmmakers going to stop copying John Woo?  Does he really deserve to be copied so much in the first place? Finding these answers maybe like finding a reason to watch this movie again: Impossible.


                
I don't get why everybody loves this movie so much. It's just not that good. On its own merits, it deserves more than the one star I gave it, but when you factor in the annoyance factor of the gushing fans... well, let's say I just felt a need to counterbalance its high ratings.Blah, blah, blah, special effects. So what. Yet another example of Special-Effects-In-Search-Of-A-Movie. The story holds together poorly. The premise was initially pretty interesting, but the movie seemed utterly incapable of establishing rules for how its world works and sticking to them.Finally, the movie hit a pet peeve of mine, which was, to me, its ultimate, fatal flaw. I'm very big on the "science" part of "science fiction". So you lose me instantaneously when you start introducing mystic mumbo-jumbo into a science fiction story. For me, this film jumped the shark when we get to that wise woman character. (nevermind that the mystic nonsense is somewhat demystified in the sequel films; this review is about *this* film). Yeah, dropping in an all-knowing, cryptic prophetess, without the tiniest hint of explanation of her abilities, makes for a convenient plot device, but defies all reason or sense.


                
I just did not enjoy this movie at all. We are left with too many questions, not enough answers, yes the action is great, other than that, not a very good film. The whole idea about a savior just sucks, where the hell did their inner spacecraft come from, why such yucky food, why, why why !!!!! Why bother !


                
Is Matrix action-packed? Yes! Does it have great special effects? Yes! Action movie lovers will be thrilled.Is the plot solid? No. The background situation is so completely improbable that it borders on the ridiculous. The justification behind the action scenes is very, very weak. The potential philosophical content (about virtual realities) is completely ignored - unlike in Thirteenth Floor, for example. The symbolism is so heavy and cheap (Trinity, Neo = One, etc.) that it truly stinks.And then you've got tons of ridiculous stuff going on. For example, within that virtual reality the heroes still have to use a heavy mobile phone to call home.  And then they cannot be "beamed" from that cell phone, no, they have to go to a fixed line phone - how very likely and logical!I gave it a 6 for the action - and I was generous.


                
Seeing this movie was like watching someone else play a video game: after 10 minutes I wanted to either leave or play some myself. As a matter of fact, the producers of this thing probably owe its popularity to parents who dumped their kids in video parlors at malls instead of sending them to school.I mean, even if you get past the impressive (for awhile, anyway) whistles and buzzers, "The Matrix" pushes the envelope just an inch too far when it asks us to believe Keanu Reeves' MIND is being sought to SAVE THE WORLD! It's too funny for words. WHO could believe it?Well, I guess if you have never met anyone who actually HAD a mind you MIGHT buy it. But, if that were the case, you probably wouldn't be allowed to go out of the house alone to see "The Matrix."


                
The Matrix is perhaps the most overrated movie i have ever seen, it doesnt offer anything but... Overwrited or other manner bad and comic dialog. Amusing armchair amateur philosophy that makes me laugh! Boring, overcool, unintentional-comic and baffled looking kung fu fights and shooting scenes with stupid looking slowmotions. Also a lot of clichés and scenes that are copied from other movies. I give The Matrix 1/10 and it deserves its 100%. Dont ever watch this movie, its waste of time and maybe waste of money if you rent it or go to cinema to see it!


                
Tell me...what do you get when you take a bunch of computer nerds who have no concept of effective storytelling and put them into a room to make a movie...?  You get "The Matrix"I hate this movie...and you wanna know why?  Because it serves no purpose. It's "Dude, Where's my Car" on steroids...louder, flashier, but not a bit more interesting.  The whole thing is based on special effects.  It's a film by two directors that think half of the cameras running at 300 fps is art...or something.Hugo Weaving has the only good performance in this movie as Agent Smith. Carrie Anne Moss is bland as can be.  Do I even have to comment on Keanu Reeves....dude...woah...nuff said.This is the perfect example of Joel Silver run amuck.  Just because you have money to produce movies, doesn't mean you should produce bad movies....sounds pretty obvious to me.  I'm just so thankful when I see someone like Steven Spielberg putting out a movie like Minority Report...a movie (actually...a director and crew) that knows how to USE special effects to drive a story.  Not just shoot the hell out of a government building...hmmmm...not such a great scene to slip in there now, huh?So, to everyone involved in The Matrix...give up your black leather, gun toting, world-is-an-illusion, horrible filmmaking and go put your money to good use...like film school.


                
I can't believe that anyone would seriously suggest that this film was even average!  It was worst film I have seen in a very long time.The movie had so little to offer, it is hard to only point to specific flaws:1) Keanu has to be one of the worst actors of our era.  He shows no signs of even moderate intelligence or talent, and as a hero, he comes across as flat and unispiring.  It is hard to believe that his character would have anything to offer that would distingish him from your average idiot.  And in action scenes, it was impossible to tell if he is *supposed* to look silly or if he can't help it.  No charisma, no flair, just pathetic.2) Very shallow and poor development of an unoriginal idea.  The idea that our reality is not real at all is hardly original.  It has been the subject of science fiction for decades, and a successful treatment of the subject should delve into some psychological depths.  We should be left wondering whether our world truly is real.  Or we should get a sense of how willing or unwilling we might be to face the fact that our world is an illusion.  We should wonder whether it matters if our world is an illusion, or whether reality is what we perceive as real.  Whatever the protrayal, we should leave the theater feeling intellectually moved.  While the film briefly brushed on some of these topics, it was so brief and shallow that no impression was left.  Instead, focus returned to martial arts which had no real purpose in terms of the plot.3) The story dragged as we were forced to sit through an explanation of the matrix that was completely obvious--a couple of visual effects would have gotten the point across in less than a minute with more effect.  While the characters beat the idea of the matrix to death in the dialogue, it did little to shed light into the hearts and minds of the characters.  What was their motivation, from where did they get their drive and courage?  Why were they able to sense the matrix?  None of the answers are even touched upon, and the characters are flat and unrealistic as a result.4) The idea of the matrix is very poorly thought out.  Instead of creating a believable world and believable rules for the matrix, the plot resorts to physical fighting, which makes no sense at all.  The film obviously had no intention of stretching the mind of the viewer, instead catering to an audience of mindless action-addicts. While action might have added to a well-thought out film, it cannot support a film where the premise is psychological or intellectual.5) No sense of despair, darkness, or power from the futuristic scenes. The future world is portrayed so little that we really don't even have a chance to be overwhelmed by how horrible it could be.  In an attempt to make a happy action film, the dark undertones were completely dropped.The very few redeeming values were: 1) Interesting use of slow-motion action 2) A few nice special effects (no more than an average action film these days) 3) A promising premise.  While not original, the idea has great potential. Several other films, such as Dark City have shown a bit of this potential, and there is a plethora of such plots in books.In short, any thoughtful, insightful, meaningful, or inspired treatment of a potentially interesting idea was completely dropped to show a few almost laughably out of place action scenes.  The fact that people rave about this movie shows that people are willing to swallow the mindless just for some cool effects.  How sad.


                
I didn't like The Matrix. I thought it was an alright movie until I saw it again, then it just got to be annoying. I know only pseudo-intellectuals use this term, but it was pseudo-intellectual. I thought the characters were wooden, the dialogue was pretty bad, and it was all too convenient for me. When a character skips over the growth and learning process because they just downloaded the skills, like flying a helicopter or learning kung fu, I see that as a flaw in the story and writing. Then where does it stop? I was expecting a character to actually say, "Well...yeah...I know how because I uh...I downloaded a...program." Nobody's fooling me with the whole "it's about computers, they can do that" bit. Save it for the 13-year-olds that "understand" the plot. There are smarter and more creative ways of conveying this idea. I hated the fight scenes as well. CGI on almost every fight, especially when everything looks like a game later does not mean its good. Far from it.


                
The only reason this movie was such a success was because it was released at the right time.  All the characters have ZERO development, and Reeves' character has even less... if that's even possible.  I really can't stand this guy.  No matter what he's in, he manages to ruin it and suck away anything good the movie had going for it.  Whatever he's in, he taints.  He ruined "Devil's Advocate" for God's sake (and admit it, if you DID see it, you know you saw it to watch the always-magnificent Pacino make a total buffoon out of Reeves)!  And what's with this "religious insight" crap people are "gaining" from the movie?  You only think those things because you want them to be there.  If this "messiah" crap in the movie was actually there, then it would be obvious and EVERY viewer would realize it.  Fans of "The Matrix" just say those religious things are in the movie because they wish they were there... but they're really not.  People, please... Keanu Reeves is NOT Jesus, I assure you.  And if you still think he is, then I pity you for your stupidity.1 out of 10


                
Superb special effects. Hideous,stupid,time consuming philosophising and acting,especially by Reeves.The kung fu moves are the best thing in the movie except that the original japanese and hong kong studios have been doing them for years with really skilled martial artists.A 10 for general consumption and a zero for people with a brain. New term for grossing more than 100 million: gross out.


                
