I seriously can't compute, how is that possible for such below-average show to get rating as high as other really good shows out there. I will admit I only watched season 1, episode 1 to 6, and I promise I tried really hard to developed the interest, but I can't. It wears me down and makes me want to put my fingers through my eyes, into my brain, and swirl around. Hoping for premature stroke, as it will be far better than another second of it.Characters are childish, border line annoying, and the whole script seem like it was written by 15 year.Perhaps I'm getting old, or this show is just another Rebecca Black and Justin Bieber phenomenon. Despite major unpopularity, there is still huge fan base, god only knows why. Now, if you don't mind, I like to kill myself. Reaching episode 6, made me not want to live on this planet anymore.


                
Welp, I've changed my mind about this show. I absolutely loved the first season. I was a bit hesitant to watch season 2 because by the end of the first season they'd gone in exactly the direction I feared with the romances - EVERYBODY is trying to bed Jeff, including, surprise surprise, Britta. It's BORING, okay? I'm sick of male/female buddy comedies consistently going to that place.That said, I gave the second season a chance, because there were some truly wonderful moments in season 1 ('Modern Warfare', 'Contemporary American Poultry', 'Physical Education', 'Environmental Science') that I was really hoping would flow into season 2. Well.... 'Epidemiology' and 'Conspiracy Theories and Interior Design' were great. 'Abed's Uncontrollable Christmas' was cute and a really good idea, but in the end it felt like an uncomfortable attempt to give Abed a deeper character and push us into connecting with him. Only problem being he was already my favorite character, and quickly becoming the only character I actually liked. And the way they did it was lame. Abed's mom who always always watched a show with him doesn't show and crushes him. That's great for the character, who has had a lifetime of building up an impression of a character. The audience has never actually seen Abed's mother and really? After not showing up for a year and a half she is ... not showing up? Well, that's... not any different at all. Too bad, because I want to like that episode so much.But then it all went bad. Like really bad. The character of Pierce was written to be an asshole. I get this. Insensitive and dickish. I get that. What I don't get is why they keep shoehorning excuses to keep him in the group into the story. He never, ever changes, and yet the group keep letting him back in after the most shallow apology scenes which frequently ended with him making yet another offensive or hateful statement. I realize this is a comedy and it's done for comedic effect but HE IS AN ASS. 'Advanced Dungeons and Dragons' was the last straw for me, with that character. Again, here is an episode I *really* wanted to like. It was brilliant. But Pierce's actions were beyond selfish or thoughtless, they were actively, brutally vicious. I felt nauseous when he ripped into Neil. If Jeff had stood up at that exact moment and punched him in the face, I'd have been okay with that. As it is, it was the usual five minutes of ignoring Pierce followed by a forgiveness scene summarized as "ha ha, our wacky old racist sexist sociopathic friend did it again!"After that I just stopped liking the characters. Abed I liked. He doesn't seem to have a malicious bone in his body - he just wants to help everyone, he enjoys the things he enjoys, and he seems confused as to why he shouldn't. I like him, and I would love to watch more of him. But Jeff is the next most likable, and he's the self-confessed asshole from the beginning of the series. He's likable because he *admits* to being a huge jerk. Well, and because he did at least actively try and get Pierce to go away several times. At least.... well, more on that in a minute. Let's go through the cast list. Pierce, duh. Shirley is a bigot. Annie is manipulative. Britta is a poser. I suppose you could boil them all down to "they're hypocrites". Shirley and Annie both act like sweet, innocent girly girls, but when they want something, they do whatever it takes to get it, only showing remorse at the end of the episode - and then forgetting it by the next. Britta pays a whole lot of lip service to various causes that she never actually engages in. And Troy - well, there's nothing wrong with Troy, but *there's* an empty character. He's an ex-high school jock. He enjoys having fun with Abed. I really love their friendship, but it's not enough to keep me in the show.The two-part ender to season two *nearly* convinced me that things were going to change... until - ooh, surprise - Pierce was once again forgiven and praised at the end of the last episode, after spending *two* episodes being a horrible human being. FABULOUS. I forget where the humor is in that. I'm sure it's because I lack a sense of humor and not because being an asshole isn't funny.Despite that, I gave it one more try. I started tentatively into season 3. I got through episode 1, in which Pierce is finally gone until JEFF OF ALL PEOPLE lets him back in, godDAMMIT, Jeff... and then episode two began with a wacky alternate Annie, Britta whines about a friend being held hostage having a facebook group, Chang gets *another* wacky situation to be wacky in...And then I turned it off. For good this time. I'm so sorry, Community. I wanted to like you, I really did. You had so much promise. But at the end of the day you're full of terrible people pretending to be good people and doing a lousy job of it.


                
This show was about as uncreative as it gets. Basically a show that takes place in a community college with the characters well above college age, especially Chevy Chase. This makes SAVED BY THE BELL:THE COLLEGE YEARS look like a winner. Thats how bad this was. Horrible plot lines, bad acting chemistry and just a silly show that brought nothing new, as far as humor , to the table. The actors seemed uneasy. This is a depressing program and the acting chemistry was just non-existent. I did not find it funny and really felt bad that Chevy Chase needs parts so bad , that he had to take this one... Not that Mr. Chase was any good. He clearly was not. Just like the rest of this vanilla cast he was bland. The one bubbly actress in the cast was Yvette Nicole Brown as Shirley. She overacted in her role. Dan Harmon may have a good resume, but this show is a loser. Bad acting, Unoriginal plot lines and bad direction. Avoid this show .


                
If this is the best thing people can find on network television, I can see why the ratings are declining.The character Abed (or Ahmed)-- you can't understand what they actually call him. He talks too fast. This is supposed to be funny, except for nobody actually talks like this and the bit is overdone. And when I say overdone I mean every time we see him he takes anxious rapid little steps while impersonating John Moschitta.The lawyer character has this confusing "Ferris Bueller" like relationship with some ex professor (WOW ORIGINAL). He's boring too. Except he is supposed to be clever because the writers make him hit repeatedly on a random girl. The love interest is a completely flat character. We're supposed to get insight into her from the retarded guy Ahmed spouting off 2 seconds of random facts he has allegedly gathered about her. The rest of her appearance is supposedly witty comebacks in response to the man who plays the lawyer. The comebacks actually aren't witty and are not plausible or realistic. People just don't talk like this.Chevy Chase is dressed like some kind of middle-aged hippy but the jokes mainly center around calling him an old person over and over. Is making fun of old people really that funny? Maybe the writers could throw in a couple fart jokes. I am reluctant to kid that they should show him drinking fiber, because that actually would be a better character angle than what they currently have.Overall I would say this show is one of the most unoriginal and completely lame I have ever seen. I'm surprised I was actually duped into watching it. Apparently NBC has a better marketing division than a writing division.


                
I watch Community and it's funny most of the time. Some episodes are not so good but overall I think it's a good sitcom so why does this show have such bad ratings on NBC? I don't understand how a show can have so many fans but yet not be as popular as "2 Broke Girls" or "How I met Your Mother". Community has been on NBC for years now and it still can't get really good ratings. How did this happen and can this change? The Nielsen ratings for Community is at best average for NC and when compared to ABC & CBS & FOX then the ratings are really not good so how can NBC turn this around? It seems to me that smart sitcoms do not make NBC any money which is really sad. If NBC puts it back on Thursday night and if "Community" continues to get medium ratings do you think that NBC will keep it around long enough for syndication or do you think that NBC will continue to see the writing on the wall and try to be more like ABC & CBS?


                
I attempted to watch the first two episodes of this unfunny mishmash of a sitcom, but was compelled to quickly find my "clicker" lest what's left of my 'baby boomer' brain disintegrate. My mother taught me to try and find the good in everything. Okay. Gillian Jacobs is easy on the eyes. That said, the rest of the show is just plain stupid. Set on a community college run by a cartoon-like dean, there is a politically correct group of losers comprising a Spanish study group formed by a film-flam disbarred lawyer whose sole goal in life is to score with the lovely albeit icy Ms. Jacobs. Chevy Chase, whom I haven't yet forgiven for 1997's "Vegas Vacation", plays a moronic, clueless-faced, senior citizen turned student. It only gets worse, as Joel McHale's character gives new meaning to 'sleeze' and has the warmth of a frozen rattlesnake. It's not that I don't like off-the-wall comedies, as "Scrubs", "Arrested Development" and "The Office" are among my all-time favorites. It's just that I do not find stupidity very funny. I must confess to a triple digit IQ, so "Community" will in all likelihood be a smash hit. I mean if "Parks and Recreation" can make it to a second season while "Arrested Development" gets canceled, anything is possible today's idiocracy.


                
I watched almost all of season 1 and 2. Then I realized a reoccurring theme. It's Homophobic, Racist and just all around regressive. So many homophobic remarks and just horrible depictions of gay people. It's like it was written by Mike Pence. In one episode they just flat out say gays are not "normals". Like wtf. Chevy Chase's Character Pierce is just the worst person ever. They don't try to help him get better or even do more than a slap on the wrist for being racist like every episode. It's just not funny. There are some humorous moments but then it goes back and just makes you want to throw up after watching it. If you are LGBTQ or a person of color just do yourself a favor and not watch it.


                
In the spirit of fairness, I like to watch at least a full season of a TV show before I review it.That was very difficult with this terrible show.I'm sure there's some under lying message of white genocide in here somewhere but the lack of plots and humor make that hard to notice.I had to watch three full episodes before I even realized it was about a community college.They rarely mention that fact.They are too busy being unfunny and unoriginal to write any stories about a community college.Just like Parks and Recreation, this show is a half-baked Office clone.They stole everything but the comedy.Watching a boring,old Chevy Chase continuing his extremely long career of never being entertaining is just sad.It's like watching your retarded elderly uncle trying to tie his shoes.Jim Rash is the only person on this show who has ever been funny.Too bad it was on other shows.


                
Awful don't waste your time. I don't recommend! hate it, just awful.


                
