i am very critical of television. i hate clichés, shows that try to teach you things, and more than anything ripoffs(like the fact that family guy takes most of its plot lines form old simpsons episodes). but Community is original, and dead-on with every punchline. Abed has some of the best delivery i have seen in years. everything he says and the way that he says it is side-splitting. the whole episode i am just longing for more words to come out of his mouth. brilliant beatbox/rap at the end of episode 2 by the way. Joel McHale is a great leading man who plays an ass trying a little harder not to be an ass(maybe its just to get a girl but regardless). i was confused about the purpose of chevy chase in this (dont get me wrong, he is hilarious, but in this he's just a side character) until i saw the second episode (Spanish 101) in which he does a Spanish presentation that is golden. no more doubts in my mind.this show is bound for great things. my only concern is that every show that i love gets canceled because not enough people get it. (Firefly, Arrested Development, Freaks and Geeks). So i just hope people give this show a chance. i was won over after one viewing. This is one of the nicest surprises i have seen in a long time and i strongly encourage you to at least watch the pilot on HULU. worth every minute.


                
The promos for this series really turned me off. Another dreary, predictable story about the uncaring horny guy pursuing the lovely stand-offish female? Wow was I wrong! These characters are refreshingly complex and give us lots of surprises in an all too short half-hour. The concept of a bunch of mismatched community college students bumbling through life is rich with possibilities and, speaking as a former community college student, has the ring of truth all the way through. All the actors are wonderful -- especially Gillian Jacobs and Alison Brie. The cherry on top is the amazing Chevy Chase, so oft-criticized for being the self-indulgent ham, who delivers as nuanced and compelling ensemble-sensitive performance as you are ever going to see. My sense is that this show has got some serious legs!


                
As a European, I am not really a big fan of typical US comedy. Yeah I can laugh at some scenes of friends, Seinfeld or any other main network sitcom, but they never make want to rewind and watch a joke/situation again.I only had that with some moments of Scrubs and well.... Community!First of all thank god for the absence of the laugh tape. I hate that old figment of the 60's etc. If something is funny, it's funny. Not because other people are laughing on tape.Community has this really quirky well thought sense of humor where every aspect is really worked out. Offcourse there is some typecasting going on like the oh-no-you-didn't African-American woman but Yvette someway makes that type more than a type.I could give a review of every cast member but all I have to say is: the ones casted as a typical egocentric bastard, pretty girl or anything else are bringing more than just that.I have to say that Danny Pudi, Chevy Chase and Donald Glover are the absolute funniest written and played characters/types on this show but I have to say: none of the cast hasn't NOT entertained me.The type of humor really reminds me of scrubs and British humor with more interest to the unexpected. than to the typical expected. Not "just random" humor, but just something else then the thing you've would expect.Please do not cancel this show soon. It is one of the shows I really look forward to each week.


                
This show is just awesome. Me and my chap are often having to pause it or rewind it just because of the amount and the level of humour! All the characters are great. Sexy Jeff pulls the best faces, Pierce is just brilliant (he is very nearly my fave), Annie and Shirley bounce of each other and have some great moments, Britta is cute, funny and geeky and Abed and Troy take over the show when they have scenes together. Even watching the pilot episode i was laughing my bum off!!! Spanish professor Chang is also great. My only criticism is that Troy needs a story line or a few more scenes as he is so so funny but the end scenes with Abed and Troy more than make up for that. They are genius! The whole cast is just great and after watching the whole first series in one weekend i cannot wait for the next one. One of the most clever, entertaining and FUNNY shows i have ever seen. Along with the other fans. I beg you PLEASE do not cancel it! Here in the UK i am sure we would pick up this series for at least 5 seasons, its just THAT good! :-)


                
I'm so happy for Joel McHale (The Soup) to have found a comedy that works for him. It's great to see Chevy Chase back on the screen, in a role that is so unlike himself but that he plays so convincingly that I often forget I'm watching the guy from "I'm Chevy Chase and You're Not." I also love seeing Donald Glover in a supportive and recurring role on a show- he's a wonderfully talented writer and has been in the business for quite some time, working with Derrick Comedy and even writing some of my favorite episodes of 30 Rock. Glover's on screen relationship with Abed is hilariously funny- the two have an amazing chemistry, and people who think that's weird are "just jealous." The ladies are also quite brilliant and unique, each with their own distinctive personalities and eccentricities. The ensemble cast is quirky and the characters are extremely diverse but somehow fit together first as a Spanish study group and then as friends. Moreover, after dropping out of my first pick of universities, I myself attended a community college for my sophomore year, and Community does well to portray the...uniqueness of this type of school. The student body is quite diverse, and the cast of the show represents all the stereotypes of people who end up in such a place. However, it also reflects the actual sense of community that can be formed in a smaller university and the bonding between students who otherwise would have never met let alone become friends. Oh, and we can't forget the mix of normal professors and absolutely insane ones ! What more is there to say ? I love this show; I think it's The Best new comedy for 2009-2010. I'm crossing my fingers and toes that it goes another season !!!


                
This show is hilarious and at times I find it inspiring. Favorite episode so far is Season1Episode3/Introduction to Film. The show is very clever, the characters are such a mismatch it does what the Breakfast Club does in revealing human nature and sociology. The community college they attend often tries to give a university feel and in doing so also it parodies universities.Character Abed is the funniest! I love Joel Mchale on this show . Joel plays the character Jeff, and does not present himself as the over-the-top jerk on the Soup -he is still a jerk but a blander(or more reserved) version giving the other characters a chance to shine. The rest of the cast as the series progress you learn more about them and appreciate their depth and humor they bring.


                
The fall of 2009 was a great year for comedies. Two reached out to me with both having Blast from the Past actors (Chevy Chase and Ed O'Neil) which are Community and Modern Family. Viewers have found two new shows to laugh at once again with fresh new witty humor and great acting.Community has hilarious ideas with having a Asian Spanish Teacher which is well played by Ken Jeong. Abed the movie loving/quoting difficult social skills middle eastern and finally one of the moments I have been waiting for of Donald Glover (or anyone from DerrickComedy) finally having a spot on TV. This show is great and have not seen one disappointing episode. The extra clips in the end are great way to end each episode to.
This show is vastly underrated. It gets overlooked next to popular titles like The Office and 30 Rock. Not that these shows aren't great, I love them, but Community is far superior. Not only is it hilarious, it's incredibly creative and unique. You never know what to expect. In one episode, the plot will simply be that the main character, Jeff Winger, gets back in touch with his old lawyers buddies. A few episodes later, contaminated meat turns everyone at a party into mindless zombies with an appetite for flesh. And then skip a few more episodes and you get a story told entirely in claymation! Joel McHale is the perfect lead for this show. He's cool, calm and a great leader for the study group. But the whole ensemble is where Community's strengths lie. Chevy Chase is great, as always, as the strange and hilarious Piers Hawthorne. Gillian Jacobs, as Britta, is fantastic as Jeff's on-again, off-again love interest. With this relationship, the show does an amazing job of spoofing classic sitcom "Sam and Diane" relationships. Danny Pudi, as the movie and TV fanatic Abed, is perhaps my favorite character. His character seems self-aware, and he frequently makes references to their lives being similar to a sitcom. Donald Glover and Yvette Nicole Brown also star as the dumb-jock with a heart of gold Troy and religious divorced mom Shirley. Rounding up the stellar ensemble is Allison Brie. Playing the innocent and simple character of Annie, she could easily be overlooked. But of course she fits the part perfectly and steals the show in many episodes with her emotional outbursts.All in all, Community is a great show that is worth checking out. And if you want an episode to start with, the action-movie spoof "Modern Warfare" may be the best thing I have ever seen on television.


                
Community is that great comedy that you cannot wait to see. It's not only that it is funny (and when it is funny, it is hilarious!) it's just that it's simply a joy to watch. The ensemble cast is great. In fact, there is probably not a better comedic ensemble cast out there right now. No one outshines anybody because they are all great, and all of the characters are likable. I never knew Joel McHale had it in himself to play this type of character this well. I thought he was more of a sketch comedian, based on his show The Soup. Jillian Jacobs is great as the most well-rounded character here, and she becomes more lovable as the show goes on. Chevy Chase is just freakin funny, no question about it. Alison Brie is the 'cute' one, and will have your heart. What I really love about this show and what makes it stand apart from other great comedies in the air right now like 30 Rock, Modern Family, and The Middle is it's energy. It gives off a cinematic tone and feel, of the best type of comedies out there. It has energy that never stops, and the meta-humor and pop culture references elevate it. Ultimately, this is as smart and ambitious as 30 Rock and as funny as Modern Family. However, it does stand higher than those shows because of that combination. You won't be disappointed.


                
Holy crap...Every single character on this show is so unbelievably awesome. Every single character is likable to some degree.Let me first say that I see everything. I work at home and I need one of my monitors to have some television show to keep me occupied. I was in such a dry spell lately having nothing to watch when a friend recommended this show. After the first episode, I thought it's not bad. After the second episode and that Spanish gibberish rap, I knew that I had found a winner.Even the teachers like Senor Chang make me smile whenever they enter a scene.What is most interesting is that this show is new. It is not based on any formula. The relationships are completely original and they are smart not to get mired down in romantic relationships unless for the sake of a joke.I'm currently ending the first season and I heard that the second season is even better.EXCELLENT SHOW


                
Premiering in 2009, "Community", created by Dan Harmon, stars a fantastic cast of actors, portraying characters from very different stations in life, as they all come together in the hopes of receiving a higher education (well... "medium" education is more accurate) at community college. Though each character is very different, and many don't seem like the types to hang around with one another, the seven leads eventually come together, first starting as a study group, before blossoming into a sort-of family.Joel McHale (E!'s "The Soup") stars as Jeff Winger, a lawyer who has returned to college on a deal to keep himself from getting disbarred- if he can earn a more legitimate degree (his previous degree was not from Columbia University, but rather, an illegitimate degree from Columbia the country), he can return to his former law firm. He's cocky, smarmy, and exploitive at times. He starts the series as a self-centered jerk, for lack of a better description, but over time, has calmed down and opened up a little more.Gillian Jacobs portrays Britta Perry, a fellow classmate whom Jeff has on-again, off-again feelings for. Britta is a strong-minded and strong-willed woman, with concrete (if not sometimes asinine) beliefs, thought she often hides the fact that she can be sensitive and vulnerable. She's the voice of reason, arguably, but she's also a darned great character, and doesn't fall back on clichés at all.Danny Pudi (in an outstanding performance) plays Abed Nadir, a pop-culture aficionado, who also seems to have some social and minor mental difficulties (Jeff says he has Asperger's Syndrome at one point, and as someone who has the condition, I'd say he was probably spot on), but is also fairly intelligent and can "read people" very good, even to the point where he can predict people's behavior slightly. He wants to be a filmmaker, and spends a lot of his time referencing movies and TV shows, and directing student films.Yvette Nicole Brown plays Shirley Bennet, an older woman who has returned to community college to start her life anew after her husband left her. She's a very kind woman, and a devoted Christian (which occasionally causes problems with the group's diversity), though she has gossiping problems as well.Alison Brie plays Annie Edison, a strong-willed but insecure young woman who just graduated High School. She was very unpopular in the past, and sees community college as a second chance at making friends (and getting close to Troy, her crush). She was formerly addicted to Adderall, but has turned her life around following rehab. She's the bookworm of the group, and tries a lot harder than everyone else, but hides many insecurities common for people her age.Donald Glover plays Troy Barnes, a former football star who had to stop playing following an injury. He's a bit rambunctious, and has a simple sense of humor. He becomes best friends with Abed, and they spend much time together. Short clips featuring the two of them close every show.And finally, Chevy Chase plays Pierce Hawthorne, a moist-towelette heir... member of a Buddhist Cult based around obscure concepts and "levels" (Guess which trendy Hollywood "religion" that's parodying!)... Very racist, but never with poor intentions... Seeing himself as more talented and valuable than he is much of the time... And physically awkward, setting up for a lot of slapstick gags. This character is perfect for Chevy. Need I say more?Every actor on the show is exquisite (with Pudi's performance being my personal favorite- no disrespect to the others), and each actor really transforms into the character. They all gel perfectly. They all work perfectly. This is one of the best comedy casts I've seen in a long time. The show also features actors such as Jim Rash, John Oliver and of course Ken Jeong in recurring roles as staff members, and each one gives a great performance as well.The show is quite smart, and well written. Characters are fleshed out and developed in a naturalistic way, and the situations often build off of that. Also, it's interesting in that the college (the infamously bizarre Greendale Acadamy) itself seems to become a character in the show. "Community" has just the right combination of realism and obscure outlandishness. As insane as the show can get (and it gets pretty insane), it never "jumps the shark." Everything still seems grounded and real in it's own cartoonish way.It honestly doesn't surprise me that the Russo brothers produce this show. When I first started watching it, I got a small hint of "Arrested Development" (the best TV comedy since "I Love Lucy", as far as I'm concerned), many episodes of which were directed by them, and when I found out about their involvement here, it made sense.Similar to "Arrested", this is a fantastic show. It's smart and put together, and is a prime example of modern TV comedy done right. It's one of the best TV comedies of the past 10 years, and my favorite show on TV now. A perfect 10 out of 10 from me.


                
Community surprised me with it's excellence, with good characters that are easy to relate to, and lots of references you can spot everywhere. As I listened to much of the creator's (Dan Harmon's) pod-cast, Harmontown, before I watched the show, I found myself linking the different characters to parts of him, which made it even mode entertaining. I read a review (in Norwegian) from a man who thought Abed (Danni Pudi) is the least relatable character because of bad acting, but for me this isn't true. Abed is easy to relate to, and wonderfully acted. My sister studied Autism, and she's always pointing out how my behaviour at times show signs of autism, and maybe that weak autism resides in most of us, but it shows in Abed, he is just like I can be. Abed is also so kind, as the only thing he wants is to make the rest happy and be with Troy. He is also a very funny character as he is the one who really brings the big guns when it comes to references. His impressions are hilarious, and I can't get enough of batman. Pierse(Chevy Chase) is my least favourite character, mostly because I think it is wrongly cast, community doesn't need a celebrity to carry it. It's also because most laughs are on him, and his inability to laugh at himself, but even he manages to get under my skin after a while, because it is not hate, merely ignorance who makes him who he is.The funniest character by far, however, is Dean Pelton (Jim Rash). I have watched the clip of him turning up and claiming that "it's time to Tina Turner... the clocks ahead" dressed in a Tina Turner costume what should be too many times, but I'm still crying every time. The running gag in the first season was also hilarious, where he starts by saying "This better not awaken anything in me" while watching a clip of dalmatians. The season rounded off at the ball where the dean had to run off in the middle of a speech to speak to a human in a dalmatian costume who had shown up, and then later getting worried when another one came.The series as a whole is the perfect poke at the side of the rest of Hollywood. I agree that after the first season, the seasons lost a plot, but the episodes by them selves are so good, it makes me think that that is how a sitcom should be. The plot might not always be there, but there are many three-dimensional characters, there is always some sort of meeting with the goddess, and the reference humour is too good for the show to be missable, can't wait for the sixth season. I don't particularly like American comedy, and that especially applies to American sitcoms. I watched Friends as it became stale, and the other super-popular sitcoms as they followed the same recipe. Boring. I also watched the whole of The Drew Carey Show in a lapse of judgement, but at the end it wasn't cutting it, any of it. My love for Comedy started in Britain, and that's where it'll stay, but Community will always have a piece of my heart, reminding me that America is a big country with lost of different stuff in it, it's not one big goo.
Community is brilliantly scripted: the dialogue is ingenious, the acting is superb, and the creativity is off the charts.Don't watch this show with high expectations because those expectations will be met, but the show excels if you have an open-mind and as you relax.The humor is abundant and you will fall in love with at least one of the characters, if not all. I would attempt to list the diverse features of each character, but they really can't be explained. Each character truly cannot be labeled, they are each so unique and realistic that you'd have to watch this show in order to understand.If you aren't a fan of this show yet, give it a chance and you will be, otherwise you're missing out of cinematic entertainment at its finest. I would classify this show as one of my favorite comedies, ranking alongside Arrested Development and It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. Community is definitely the cleanest of the three so it's a great watch for a good time without being overly offensive.You can read all of the positive feedback about this show, but the best way to fully understand this show is to immerse yourself in it by watching it.


                
This show, don't get me wrong... starts off not so great. I only endured the first few episodes because I had no other shows. If you can make it through the first 3-5 episodes, you are in for the best treat. The show is brilliant, hilarious and just so out there. If you have no imagination, you are no fun, and don't get absurd humor, then you wouldn't enjoy this show. It is for people that think outside the box, and tend to be more intellectual, not people who like your every day run of the mill comedy shows. Season one, is wonderful, season two has a few OK episodes but their episodes that are good, are gold, and season three is the most brilliantly written thing I have ever seen(comedy wise). This show starts off in one direction, and you get to enjoy watching how they completely take it down a completely crazy path instead. They must have so much fun writing, reading and acting out this script. Each cast member is phenomenal, at first I had a few characters I didn't care for, but now, everyone has their charm, and is hilarious in their own way. Quite frankly, I don't think I'd ever be friends with someone who can watch this show all the way through season 3 and isn't enamored, you'd have to be stuffy, and have a very straight and narrow sense of humor. No comedy show has come close to even touching my love for Arrested Development, until Community, and it surpassed it. I will miss this show so much after this next season. Anyway, point is, if you are fun, your mind is all over the place and you enjoy jokes that are taken too far, or just absurd situations, this show is for you. I promise it will be worth watching. Just make it past the first few episodes.


                
Community joined the NBC Thursday night lineup back in 2009 as the show with Chevy Chase, the guy from the soup and the Asian guy from The Hangover. It was a huge underdog from the start (and still is) with bad ratings and not a big fan-base. But when the first Halloween episode rolled along something changed.....it became GREAT and the cast really found their chemistry. While most people tuned in for Chevy Chase, Ken Jeong and Joel Mchale originally, it was the others (Glover, Pudi, Brie, Brown and Jacobs) that made this cast the best on TV. Then with the "Chicken Fingers" episode and "Modern Warfare" It showed America what it's like to take your classic sitcom and smash it into millions of pieces. It became the anti-sitcom, if you will. Community is the most creative and genius shows ever to grace television.


                
This is an unusual show with great imagination. The cast is superb with many actors giving a special touch to it, from Chevy Chase to Ken Jeong. The show has a balance between traditional humor and the unexpected. I found this show from an interview with Gillian Jacobs in Craig Ferguson and fell in love with it. While some parts can be slow, the creativity is what keeps it going. I rewind and watch parts multiple times to make sure that I did not miss any pieces. My wife and I watched all episodes in both seasons in one weekend. I am surprised that it is rated 81st show in the last year. I hope that it does not get canceled. Assuming that it keeps the current standard, it can easily go for a few more seasons.


                
What I love about community is the versatility of the mish-mash of characters and the way their chemistry just works. You have a bit of everything. In Jeff Winger you have the smug, speech making likable anti-hero. Troy Barnes, the silly, immature, lovable ragamuffin. Shirley Bennett, the lovable innocent bubbly one. Annie Edison, the gorgeous and bubbly, point making, try hard, witty young lady with an unexpected history. Abed Nabir, who's 'dissability' of Aspergers Syndrome is made light of by making him obsessed with pop culture, meaning endless film and television references which drives the cinematic element of the show. Britta Perry, who's witty, self obsessed persona bounces of other characters with hilarious consequences and finally Pierce Hawthorne, played by the fabulous Chevy Chase, who's hilarious, inaproprism lands gives him one of the greatest one liner characters in recent years. Not to mention the supporting cast, who are excellent, played by Ken Jeong, Jim Rash, Dino Stamatopoulos and John Oliver to name a few.Another thing which is great about the show, is it's self awareness, in the sense it recognizes itself as a television show, justified by the presence of Abed's character. "I thought we were like Chandler and Phoebe who's stories never go together" and "this is a bottle episode" are a few examples.After more or less every episode, comes a great character sketch between Troy and Abed, who's friendship and bromance are a thing to cherish.So watch this show, it's bloody great.


                
I am a person who generally doesn't watch current live-action TV shows because they just aren't funny.. This show is an exception. This show is brilliant and the actors have great chemistry. The script is written perfectly and the comedic timing is amazing. This is a comedy that will have you laughing but also have a great story to it. The promos made the show look cheesy but after watching an episode I was hooked.. It has a great cast and I really hope this show will stay on NBC. NBC better not screw this one up. Aside from the hilarious comedy, the stories in each episode are comedic but have good messages behind them.Basically, this show is genius and is sure to make you laugh :)


                
The story centers around a Spanish study group at a community comedy, the group is made up a variety of people who go to community college: recent high school graduates, elderly looking seeking company, single mother, a former peace core activist, and lastly Jeff Winger<U+0085> a lawyer with an unofficial degree. Lot of heart warming lessons with humor goes throughout the series.Review after finishing Season 1: Funny and loving, I watch it for the humor and for the love in the the character's relationships. It may not be everyone's type of humor, but it is general enough to be brilliant and not to obscure. Not only that the humor is unique but not weird. It reminds me of Scrubs with a new type of humor. I say it's a much watch comedy.Season 2: IT just gets better and better!


                
Such a wonderful refreshing show. I recommend it two thumbs up. Hilarious! :D I so needed that!At first I thought it would be a cheese show but it was such a pleasant surprise. Some of the lines... are absolutely hilarious. Everyone should see it. I am an instructor at a community college and recommended the show to everyone. It's really well written and is super funny! The characters are hilarious but have substance to them. The plot of each episode has sense to it and the twists make you want to watch another one and another one :) I just got Netflix and watching all episodes is such a treat. Thank you!


                
This is my first review for a TV Show, I love TV Series, especially the funny ones, You're gonna have to search hard to find a good comedy TV show nowadays, I mean,they are really hard to find, and when you think you have found one, they would get canceled or even worst getting boring and finally becoming expected and not funny anymore, well this show so far has not done that, I mean it always has fresh ideas which well is always funny, the latest episode is an example about the creativity of Dan Harmon and his crew.The actors have gotten even better and with the introduction of Ken Jeong into the study group,it could only get funnier.For all of you who are searching for a good laugh from TV, then look no further, as this Community will get you laughing out loud and craving for more.oh and Alison Brie is HOTNESS!!!


                
I'm not the kind of person who finds any TV whatsoever laugh-out-loud funny. Some sitcoms will make me smile and are generally entertaining. But Community changed it all !The poignant and complexe characters mirror Dan Harmon's writing skills; he managed to pull together this motley crew who in any other scenario would be horrible together. As an avid viewer i can also add the amount of detail in each episode is amazing - if you don't see what i'm talking about be sure to watch the backgrounds and look and what is happening behind the characters in certain scenes and you'll see just how meticulously written and directed this show is. I found this comedy to be so refreshing - a step away from the crude humor and endless product placement we see in almost everything else we watch. Wit, energy and a unique cast make this a MUST SEE show. A special mention to Danny Pudi and Donald Glover who make the best twosome i've ever seen and of course their amazing acting skills. Community is a real breath of fresh air - and a definite laugh-out-loud comedy!#savecommunity #sixseasonsandamovie
My skepticism almost caused me to miss out on this awesome show. When I first saw a glimpse of it while I was zapping, I zapped away again, because it just seemed like one of those school comedies. Even after I heard good things about it I still waited a long time before I gave it a real chance, but when I finally did I was hooked straight away. I haven't laughed this much in a long time. I've watched both seasons twice already and I just can't wait till the next season starts.I find it hard to describe what makes this comedy so great and refreshing. What I can say is that all the characters are great, there's not a single character on the show I don't like. They've created a perfect mix. The actors themselves are all awesome too. I'm amazed by how well they play their characters both real and funny at the same time, which makes me believe they really enjoy doing this show. Great acting in comedies often get's overlooked, but in this show even the ones that play a single episode are fantastic, like the obnoxious high-school kids from season 1 episode 22 for example. Besides the actors there's also the original writing. One of the things that makes the show refreshing is how they've come up with either very original stories or original versions of old ideas every time. There is rarely an episode that seems like another one.Now, I could compare it to other comedies, but that wouldn't do it justice. The IMDb recommendations I got were definitely not a good indication. This is a show you should simply go and watch, especially if you're looking for something new and refreshing.


                
I have been consistently charmed by this show since it was first recommended to me by a friend, and I think a huge part of that is the fact that it doesn't act like its audience is incapable of a little thought. It puts the work in, and we give it the fleeting moment it needs to set up and pay off. Truly delightful comedy comes from taking a truth, giving it a great setup, and laying out a perfect delivery, and man oh man is Community a delight.The action is character-driven, wonderfully creative, juvenile without being idiotic, FUN, and refreshingly honest. I don't think I could've picked a better cast, either - particularly Donald Glover, Alison Brie, Chevey Chase, and Jim Rash. Joel McHale and Danny Pudi play their roles well, but they rarely get the chance to break loose. Yvette Nicole Brown similarly does a great job, but does not often get the chance to go nuts (with a few wonderful exceptions). Ken Jeong is a joy to behold. I would have never expected him to be as great of a physical supervillain character as he is. His broken crackle from the Pop-And-Lock-athon will haunt my nightmares.I greatly respect Harmon for respecting us enough to deliver the show he wanted to make. If the latest season on Yahoo is any indication, there's still a bright future ahead.


                
One of the best shows ever on modern television with its pop culture references & one liners. Plot threads weave thru the entire show but also allow for indiscriminate viewing of episodes for pure enjoyment much like the Simpsons. Each character of the show has its own defined niche (the cool guy, the nerd, the jock, the Christian, the idealist, the over achiever, and the old guy) that adds nicely to the group. The ensemble cast is the best part of the show, with each character really getting a chance to shine. Episodes include mock Ken Burns documentaries, paint ball wars, claymation Xmas, and they even get a whole episode as video game characters


                
