This series is best described as a handful of comedic genius mixed in with a pile of misguided, moralistic garbage. 75% of the episodes are dedicated to Jeff Winger being taught a pointless lesson. If you've ever lost a court case due to a charismatic lawyer, you'll love every minute.Great: -All of the Halloween and paintball episodes, as well as few other thematic ones (AC bandit, etc). -Troy and Abed in almost every episode. Their characters are creative, insightful, likable, and believe it or not, mostly focused on HUMOR and not politics. -Annie is also likable and funny in most episodes.Terrible: -Britta. Unbearable, single-handedly ruined several episodes for me. Completely unlikeable and not funny, yet gets a ton of screen time. Garners an inexplicable amount of sympathy from the writers despite being an insufferable, self-righteous harpy. Can't stand her, brings nothing to the table. I'd give the series two more stars if she was abused more frequently or cut-out altogether. -Shirley. Just not funny most of the time. Character seems out of place. -Emasculated Jeff. He is supposed to be the "cool" guy, but after he cries, pees his pants, and apologizes for no reason on multiple occasions, the illusion is lifted and he is just pathetic. Not significant in small doses, but after watching all 5 seasons in a month the sheer time spent on just this gag overwhelmed me.Pierce, Chang, and Dean Pelton are funny at first, but all of their bits just get recycled and more over the top as the series progresses, which I found tiresome.I'd sum up the series as a missed opportunity. The show's premise and some of the characters carry a lot of potential, and when focused on lighthearted laughs it delivers in a big way. Unfortunately, that is only fraction of the time. The rest of the time the writers want to teach you a lesson. Three stars out of ten reflects the ratio of funny to unfunny episodes for me, and an extra star for the magnificent Troy and Abed. I recommend cherry-picking, unless you hate lawyers.


                
I don't understand why this show have such high ratings. I was forced to watch a couple of episodes in school because my teacher loved this show. I maybe laughed twice and fell asleep in most of the episodes. I was not at all impressed by the acting and I found the script cheesy. The story line was okay, but it was poorly executed. I felt like this show could have been so much better with more creative scenes and a lot of improvements in character development. It was a torture to sit through this show that I would've rather done schoolwork instead. I know a lot of people would disagree, but this this show was just not for me. I would not recommend this to anyone who's looking for a good laugh, because this show was seriously lacking comedy.


                
This was a great show for seasons one and two and is highly recommended. Don't bother with season three - its awful. It's not funny anymore, the writing is terrible for season three. In seasons one and two, you feel like they're actually at a college. For season three, that feeling is lost. Season three stories have minimal plot. Any story in season three focusing on Abed is especially bad. His character is not very interesting, and painful to watch for extended periods.The cast has been excellent throughout, too bad they have no material to work with for season three.


                
I've watched three episodes of this and now I am wondering why that pilot of the American version of the IT Crowd didn't air and this did. Both of them starred Joel McHale. McHale, who I love in the Soup and his small part in Pushing Daises, is a very talented actor who can't find his way in this series. The add one of the masters, Chevy Chase into the mix. Add Ken Jeong, who was so brilliant in The Hangover. Add some new people who have promise into the stew too, like Danny Pudi, and stir some more. You think this would end up being fantastic comedy fare...it just isn't.I don't know if it is the writing, the delivery or lack of charisma between the actors, but something is wrong here. I could say I need to watch more and maybe the characters will get funnier, but I just doubt it. I would find myself very lightly snickering a few times. That's it. I need more than that in order to watch a half hour show. I personally don't like how community colleges are looked down upon anyway. I've gone to both a community college and four year college. I felt the teachers cared more and I formed better friendships in community college. A lot of smart people go there to save money. So having the stereotypes of supposed community college being dumb jokes, divorced women, sleazy guys and older tycoons (why is Chevy Chase's character there again? Can't remember. Can barely remember why Joel McHale is there).The chemistry between McHale and the girl he is trying to court is kinda icky at best and lukewarm. No sparkle. I feel the most for the character Danny Pudi plays and his film about his dad last episode, but even that wasn't that funny, it could have been better and I am not sure if it is the actor's fault. I think it is the writing.
what is this? why it has a score of 8.8 out of 10?? I watched the first three episodes and they were disaster. I didn't laugh at all and it really made me depressed and sad. It rally really has nothing to say. I don't know maybe I have a problem. My favorite TV series are Friends, Californication, Big Bang theory, Blue Mountain State or even How I met ur Mother. Do I have problem? or really this TV series is awful? I really can't laugh at this. Every body says about the Spanish presentation. Was it really funny? The casts play awfully. despite having all first three seasons I really do not have any tendency to see that. I wish I could write a criticism about this catastrophe in a paper!


                
I am a major TV wonk having grown up in the forties and fifties when TV was all there was in life. Over the years I have noticed a pattern by writers that when they run out of material they will do a retrospective or go back in history episode. All of the great shows have done it and it strikes the death knell. I remember when Northern Exposure went to an episode about the founding of Cicely and how the two lesbians were the founders of the community. I loved Northern exposure and I loved all of the characters but to pull this bad story out of a hat and mess of a good record with it is terrible. The same with Community. Immediately when they had a retro episode I knew that the end was near. Check it out. I am right.


                
Community is a comedy that has 1-3 real laugh-worthy moments in each episode, which isn't really that great for a comedy show.


                
