Finally, after a long dry-spell, I have found a live-action TV show that actually makes me laugh again.Watching this show made me burst out laughing so many times. The script is wonderfully written and the actors have excellent comedic timing to match it. Sure, there are a few less-than-funny parts about it, but then again, it's not sketch comedy, so it can't be funny all the time.McHale leads nicely, but both he and Gillian Jacobs do a weird 180 degree turn in character after a couple of episodes. It was supposed to be a step meant to make them seem more human and vulnerable, rather than absurd, comedic characters, but ends up making you a bit uneasy. A special kudos goes to Ken Jeong, for portraying one of the funnier characters portrayed on screen as of late.


                
Ever find yourself flipping through your channel listings over and over and over again, throwing your remote at your dog, and complaining about the lack of quality television programs to your Twitter followers? Well, odds are you just haven't given the shows that are actually worth watching a chance. I made the mistake of avoiding the hidden gem that is Community for nearly two years. The often unappreciated NBC comedy follows the antics of a study group consisting of seven Greendale Community College students from all different walks of life: the egotistical and recently disbarred lawyer Jeff Winger (Joel McHale), the outspoken liberal Britta Perry (Gillian Jacobs), the dynamic/inseparable nerd duo of socially awkward Abed Nadir (Danny Pudi) and former high school jock Troy Barnes (Donald Glover), the pill-head turned sweetheart Annie "Adderall" Edison (Alison Brie), the morally driven Shirley Bennett (Yvette Nicole Brown), and the oldest, most inappropriate member of the group desperately trying to stay hip Pierce Hawthorne (Chevy Chase). The cast teamed with the incredibly talented writing staff will have you chortling by yourself at the witty jokes and fresh comical situations. Community's ability to develop such intricate relationships between the characters in such a short amount of time is what separates the award winner from the competition. In between the laughs, the show has a lot of heart, allowing viewers to build an emotional bond with the odd group of characters who, despite all of their differences, share a sort of symbiotic relationship. The show is simply in a league of its own. Community has the perfect mixture of comedy, emotion, and storyline, not to mention an incredible amount of action packed into a few paintball episodes. Like Fox's Arrested Development, Community, likely entering its last season, will go down as one of the most under-appreciated shows of all time.


                
What an excellent show! It is witty, funny and keeps you wanting more. I love the cast of this show, everyone fits their characters well. I feel like the study group that was formed offers a bit of crazy in all kinds of forms. I like how we meet the characters from the beginning and get to be a part of their lives as the show develops. I found season 2 to be even better than season 1. I have a few favourite episodes but overall I can watch any episodes more than once. There are few shows I would re-watch and this has been added to my list. I feel like the humour in this show is very creative, as the situations are not the typical comical situations that you would expect. Everyone in this show contributes to the comedy, from the Dean to the lunch lady, again a great cast! I can't wait for season 3!!!!


                
At first I was not a huge fan of this show because I had only seen multiple scenes from it that seemed less than enjoyable. However, when I actually sat down and started watching it I realized that it wasn't like all the other punchline humor series that plague television. On the contrary, this show utilizes a lot of dry humor, mostly from Danny Pudi's character "Abed". This kind of humor makes the audience think for a minute instead of simply laughing when the recorded laughter in the background erupts. In return this makes the humor even more comical. The show is about an ex-lawyer (Joel Mchale) "Jeff" who has to go back to community college. The whole plot sparks off of Jeff's ulterior motivation to befriend Britta (Gillian Jacobs). However, his efforts quickly lead to the construction of a small study group which throughout many circumstances become there own little family. This is by far one of the best and most underrated television shows I have seen. The style, humor, and cast all flow together in a way that you wouldn't think would work, but it does.
Finished Community (R.I.P).I believe I started watching community after watching a couple of seasons of Big bang theory and How I met your mother a few years back and I found it so refreshing. A well written, no laugh-track dependent, creative sitcom with an awesome cast. Its setting is a community collage 'Greendale' and hence the name 'Community', where a rag tag group of people form a study group. They become something more than a group though and they deal with AMAZING stuff throughout the five seasons. Very well acted show, which makes you completely fall in love with its characters. The best thing about this show, for me, was that it starts as a normal collage days type show where it develops its character but slowly introduce awesome pop culture spoofs, special episodes, hilarious 4th wall breaks etc. And since you have grown to love the characters by then, seeing them in different roles and different situation becomes a blast, provided you know what is being spoofed. Easily the king of special episodes, community has a HUGE array of awesome episodes that I could watch on forever and will never get bored. Struggling with ratings and viewership, and the loss of two main characters in season 4 and 5, the show finally got axed at the end of season 5. Would have loved a final season to completely wrap up things. But it gladly didn't end as a cliffhanger and gave enough closure to subdue the pain of cancellation. Also, I really liked how the show compensated in season 5 for the two missing main characters. The new group was pretty good.Seasons wise, I will say that Season 1-2 are the best. Season 3-5 are second best and Season 4 is the weakest as it saw departure of show runner Dan Harmon, who thankfully returned for season 5 and his return really did show in that season. One of my favourite sitcom, and a must watch for anyone looking for a comedy series. 9/10


                
Jeff Winger (Joel McHale) is a lawyer with a degree from Columbia (the country) who is on the verge of being disbarred. He enrolls in Greendale Community College, and tries to get close to Britta Perry (Gillian Jacobs) by tutoring her on Spanish. The film obsessed weirdo Abed Nadir (Danny Pudi) mistakenly invites divorcée Shirley Bennett (Yvette Nicole Brown), former drugged up Annie Edison (Alison Brie), slightly dim former high school football star Troy Barnes (Donald Glover), and cranky old rich guy Pierce Hawthorne (Chevy Chase) to the study session. They form a study group and a new family of sorts in this ridiculous lower education center.Show runner Dan Harmon has created one of the most unique network TV comedies around. It has the group friendship that is the bread and butter of network TV. It forms the backbone of the show. The comedy is very sarcastic and throws a lot of references around. Dan Harmon and his writers obviously love TV and movies. I love the group, but I'm in love with the comedic material. You don't have to be Abed to like this show, but it sure would help. The low viewership finally catches up after 5 seasons.


                
I saw bits of the pilot and at first didn't see anything that I liked. However, picked up the series in the middle and started getting more interested in it. Before I knew it, I watched 22 episodes in 3 days. This is probably my favorite comedy on TV at the moment. The Office has taken a backseat to my new favorite "Community." One thing that I've noticed is that this show is heavy on references. However, this doesn't seem too forced. There is actually a character that makes references to movies and TV in order to relate to people. However, this is not as annoying as it sounds as they have created him into the most funny and lovable persona I've seen on TV. The whole cast is actually great and you can tell that there is a good chemistry amongst the actors.The whole thing takes place in a community college that is under the influence of a dean with issues on political correctness and status. They bring the insecurities of the school into play a lot by having lots of school events like Green week, STD fair, Merry Happy week, etc. It becomes an atmosphere of hilarity as the group of misfits plow their way through this school of abnormalities and oddness.There is not one actor on set that I hate or think is doing a bad job. So far there has only been one season so we shall see how long this lasts before they potentially ruin some characters. However, I am optimistic about the future of this series and really think this show will catch on in a big way. This is how comedy should be done. I can't get over how many times I have laughed watching this show. Usually I don't laugh that much while watching TV.


                
This is my favorite comedy currently on TV. As its plot summary indicates, the show originally seemed to be built around McHale, with Chevy Chase adding legitimacy to the supporting cast. However, the supporting cast quickly proved to be amazing (including Ken Jeong, who skyrocketed to fame in The Hangover), and the writing expanded to showcase more of the fascinating characters. Nowadays, it's hard to tell who the lead is<U+0085>and I am constantly delighted by the creativity, unique spins, and pop culture references. Season 2 is my favorite by far, but it's best to watch this show from Season 1, Episode 1, to really appreciate its development and the many comedic call-backs it keeps building.


                
I really enjoyed watching this show!!! It is plain awesome in lack of a better word :) First, the movie and TV shows references, which are always hilarious and well written! Second, (starting to sound like Jeff a little :) ) the cast and the writing are just phenomenal and u can see that they are all just having so much fun on and off camera ! :) And third, the first show after BBT i can really really call the best comedy on the air... Just hope NBC does a good job keeping it on the air :)) Hang in there u guys, u r truly the best !!!! Greeting from Serbiap.s. My only remark was the stereotype u made about the Balkans and Serbian rum, although i do think we kinda deserve it as all the other racial and country stereotypes u so well put in the show an a comic and intelligent way ! Keep up the good work !


                
Welcome to Greendale- it will 'chang' your TV watching experience! At first glance Community has a familiar feel, the school setting, good- looking lead actors, but thats where it ends. Community takes the sitcom premise and turns it upside down, inside out and back around again. I have to say it is one of the most bizarre, silly but hilarious programmes that I've seen in a long time.We have Jeff Winger the smooth-talking, oft-insincere lawyer who has been debarred when his college degree is discovered to be a fake. He's forced to go to Greendale College and there meets the 'study group', other students in his Spanish class. The characters make this show and as the series progresses their respective craziness is unleashed, with each episode just getting funnier and funnier. Dean Pelton is an absolute comic genius; his costumes, his Jeff obsession, everything- as he would say himself he is Dean-tastic. I have to give special mention to Abed, by the brilliant Daniel Pudi the pop-culture obsessed member of the group, weird and wonderful, sane but totally insane. Abed is responsible for most of the show's 'meta' elements, for example while sitting beside another character he will begin to 'narrate' them. The show never feels as if it takes itself seriously; it obsessively references and copies other programmes and movies, but simultaneously acknowledges this and pokes fun at itself. And there lies the beauty of Community; it's clever but it not afraid to laugh at its cleverness and wants everyone watching to laugh along too.


                
It is really good show.It has cool script and the characters really know how to nailed it! I loved series 1 and 2, also 3 but it is true that the all college place is lost although is cool to have those changes, because either way IT IS A SITCOM. Every character is great, my favorite is Britta Perry, she has the most interesting background.It is such a great series, I watched the whole 3 seasons in less than a week, maybe 3 or 4 days.The relationships are cool... even though Britta is with Jeff then with Troy (we know that the BJ thing is far away from being love love) and the Anne and Troy and then Jeff (we know Anne just wanted to fall in love because she was in love with the idea of being loved) and the cool thing is Abed and Annie. But, it is nectar that they don't do a big deal and there are other characters to be part of the love life of the group *for example: Voughn, the carnival guy, the Doctor, Slater, Lukka, the secret service chick, Andre, etc..) So... that topic is quite balanced.We don't see redondoism in the show which is great.
Love this show but the last 2 seasons get pretty painful. Hilarious and fun.


                
Sometimes when you're bored and disappointed from TV shows like friends, or how i met your mother or maybe two and a half men.. you look around , search the goddamned web to find a refreshing series. Stop ! You've just found it.This show is strangely refreshing. It has jokes of all kind and beautifully crafted dialogues. You'll literally find it difficult to find a favorite character. The Troy-Abid duo is my favorite , the chemistry between them doesn't seem forced, but seems natural..The story progresses as a lawyer is sent back to college to earn a real degree unlike his fake one and his struggle to keep up with it. It doesn't take much time for you to get hooked and once you are, you'll love every minute of the show..Watch it and love it..


                
I came to Community after finishing Rick and Morty and looking for more created by Dan Harmon. I was not disappointed with Community. This is by far one of the best shows I've ever seen. It took me 2 weeks to watch it start to finish.Community starts with Jeff just making up a study group to get into Brita's pants but as the show progresses he becomes closer to the study group. They have their ups and downs in this group but overall value each other as friends. The cast seems like a dream-team so to speak because every actor plays their role phenomenally. Each character has their own quirks that make them funny and different, even characters that come up less like Fat Neil and Leonard.If you've seen a lot of popular movies and TV shows it will drastically improve your viewing pleasure. I say this because the show has a lot of references throughout the series. Whether it's one quote, a small segment of the show, or even the whole episode they're able to pull this off very well. The show gets a little less enjoyable after Shirley, Troy, and Pierce leave but it still manages to be funny.Overall it definitely deserves a 9/10. I'd recommend it to people with a lot of movie knowledge so they can fully enjoy the allusions within.
This show is one of the most underrated series I have watched in a while. The characters are all well-written and the chemistry among them is quite sound. The initial setup in the community college is relatable and the plot itself is crisp and subtle. Joel McHale is great in his role as Jeff Winger and his reluctance to do anything is a punchline in itself. Alison Brie is great as Annie and she does full justice to her role as a compulsive overthinker and over-planner. Gillian Jacobs, Donald Glover, Yvette Nicole Brown and Chevy Chase are all great, but the best is Danny Pudi as Abed Nadir. His comic timing is fantastic! The way he delivers his dialog and his expressions are quite something. I loved the way he portrayed his character. One of my favorite portrayals of someone possibly on the Spectrum.The first 2 seasons were the best but over time, this show went through a lot of ups and downs- primary cast leaving, the showrunner getting fired, controversy after controversy. The series definitely deserved a lot better. One of my favorite comedies written in recent years.


                
I have just sat through the entire series..all six seasons of it. So try and hear me out.What Dan Harmon has done, is unprecedented. He has taken the concept of a sitcom and thrown it entirely out of the window. Case in point, his characters. His characters have so often juxtaposed their own existence on the show, its not even funny. Its brave. I can see why he was fired and the show got cancelled, it simply wasnt a conventional sitcom. But what he has created is something rather profound. The friendships created on this show, are so real so unique, either the actors and writers did a phenomenal job (they did) or the show transcends the screen (which it does).Please ignore the haters and those who say this show drops in ratings after the 4th season. But what it gives in return more than compensates for the few mediocre episodes.Mr. Harmon, we are avidly waiting #andamovie


                
I don't think there has been such an original show on television since 2010 like this. It is set at a community college and focuses around an unlikely group of friends from a variety of backgrounds and ages. The first three seasons were absolutely hilarious, the pop culture references and the quirky dialogue made it funny to watch. However, the last two seasons seemed to decrease in quality. I think this was due to the character of Pierce being killed off. The show still has its funny moments but the feel just dosen't seem to be there anymore. Another thing I enjoyed about the show was how each new episode has a different funny theme to it. It is a truly original show that is very funny and enjoyable to watch.
This show is literally the deadpool of all sitcoms. It is self aware and intelligent, different yet still familiar. It makes you feel uncomfortable at times due to it's risky take on humour. I didn't, but i know that plenty of people might not be as comfortable with jokes about islam, racial issues or homosexuality. But that is the charm. It is so aware of its own flaws that you might as well just sit back and shut up. In the last season (no spoilers), there i was at the end of an episode thinking, "what was the point? I mean, am i supposed to learn something out of it?" And my thoughts tramsformed into words from abed. He literally said what i was thinking of. As though he could see through me. It just knows what you might be thinking of and it flips your expactations upside down. The pop culture references, along with the constant fourth wall breaking by abed was brilliant. Each joke was perfectly timed and perfectly executed. And it was original and intelligent. While still being simple as hell. SIX SEASONS AND A MOVIE!


                
Sitcoms out there. Truly addictive the characters were so great they actually felt like they were a family, BUT
Only season 1


                
This is my favorite comedy show currently in production. They have done a wonderful job of keeping the show engaging, fun, definitely on the lighter side.The season one, story revolves around "Winger" a sleazy lawyer trying to get back into his profession after falsifying his educational background. The show fails initially to hold much attention due to the lack of sympathy created by the main role, but you keep watching because of the sidekick character which later become more of a main focus as we move into other seasons.Season two, now the show has a theme and a different character gets pushed into the lime light, Abed the Aspergers film major. Many of the following episodes become nods to classic movies and sitcom scenarios! The cast move around in a more Abed centric world and brilliance ensues.Disappointingly, Chevy Chase seems to fall by the wayside after a brilliant season 3, to the point where he is almost written out of the script for the majority of the episodes of S4. Perhaps he is reconsidering his commitment to the show? Non the less, the show remains consistently stellar as we go 4th season and beyond as the writers re think the delivery medium and format of the show.Highly Recommended, just hold it's hand through season one!


                
