Enough rehash already! Although not a remake in the traditional sense, "Casino" is a virtual re-presentation of Martin Scorcese's '91 smash "Goodfellas". Now that was a great gangster film. Graphically violent, self absorbed, bitingly funny, brooding and epically proportioned, it was a knockout. Not so "Casino".This is a real exercise in excess, and one that completely backfires on Scorcese and his team. The film is terribly overlong at three hours, and many will struggle to pay attention the entire time, especially given the narrative which has leads De Niro, Pesci and others talking us through the whole show, another big miscalculation.The movie is far too violent, being often hard to stomach rather than effectively portraying the characters and their personalities and motivations. It's just one long, drawn out gangster show set in Las Vegas that is spotted with bursts of gruesome violence. In short, Scorcese and co-writer Pileggi have used exactly the same formula that they employed in adapting the latter's first book "Wise Guys" ("Goodfellas") to the screen, which made that film a sensation, and this one a mindless bore.Performances are strong, especially Sharon Stone as the hopeless drug fiend Ginger whose love of money proves her undoing. She is well deserving of the Oscar nomination that has come her way. De Niro and Joe Pesci, though impressive, are really only reprising their original "Goodfellas" turns. De Niro's Jimmy 'the Gent' Conway is very similar to his Sam Rothstein, the Jewish gambling icon who ran "The Tangiers" for the mob. And Pesci's Nicky Santoro, the ultra-violent, crazy mob guy assigned to look after Rothstein, is a dead ringer for Tommy De Vito, his violent, paranoid persona from "Goodfellas". Other support players make the most of their limited roles.Definitely under edited, tale could have been told in less than two hours, but Scorcese had to over indulge didn't he. Robert Richardson's camera work is impressive, though even he seems to be trying too hard. Perhaps that's just the whole feel of the movie. An over-rated, over the top, over inflated waste. Art and sets are incredibly lavish, while the costumes are wild but spot on. PS I bet Pileggi's book is great reading.Sunday, March 24, 1996 - Knox District Centre
I think it has been said plenty of times before, we've all seen this film before.  It was called "Goodfellas" and it was better.  Actually,  saw this film before "Goodfellas" and I still hated it.  Three hours long!SPOILER ALERT The beginning, by all means, keeps you interested with all the work of the process of cisinos.  Looks like like a very rewarding business.  The voice overs of Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci are also well written eventhough we've been through this with Ray Liotta.  The direction starts out considerable. I thought the work was particularly good when De Niro is insulted with the subject of a penn and Pesci steps up by repeatedly stabbing the man out of line in the throat with his own penn.Later, we get to meet Sharon Stone's character.  A prostitute who works for James Woods.  When De Niro lays his eyes on her making trouble for a mistake made at a crabbs table, he instantly sees something in her.  He convinces her to marry him and give up her job for the pimp.  He gives her a gift of millions of dollars worth in jewels.  What De Niro is not aware of, but becomes suspicious of, is that she is still secretely with the pimp with meetings and phone calls.  When they are caught at a restaurant, she msut plead for his life.
Peci makes trouble in Vegas.  In one scene, he plays blackjack and throws vulgar remarks at the dealer while he throws the cards he recieves out.  In one scene they find a thief on the inside and spend days torturing him with with woodshop supplies untill they get names.  Eventually, Pesci works his way up to being band from Vegas completely.  The FBI eventually gets on to all of them.
Sharon continues to be the perfect little wife, snorting coc and drinking away.  They have a daughter together who gets the luxuries of witnessing all of this right before her.  Eventually, she breaks out to find Woods, bringing their daughter with her.  While they're there, they make cash and get a good share of coc.  Eventually, De Niro tracks them to get their daughter back.  Saron, high and more out of it then ever sleams back when she breaks away from Woods.  While running an eran, she did the thoughtful thing of simply tighing their daughter up on her bed and leaving.  Sharon continually threatens to leave and the yerns for the jewels so that she can get money and dump De Niro.
Rivalry starts up with De Niro and Pesci.  Pesci starts getting jobs on his own, still dodging the Feds who have gone as far as hring lip readers. Eventualy, Sharon finds her way into Pesci's arms and they have a short go for something.  Eventually, however, Sharon just schemes to get off cash and Pesci kicks the whore out.
This film is based on a true story, yet seeses to be realistic.  There's a scene when a man at a blackjack table is caught counting cards.  He is brought out into a back room and they breack his hand with a hammar.  One very cardinal rule in any organization with publicity.  Always appeal.  To take a mafia tactic like that on an ordinary civilian, would be desastorous for business.  People would be disgusted.  Thaty doesn't seem to bother the story, however.  Even though it should.
Pesci's sharacter couldn't be more exactly like his character Tommy from "Goodfellas".  Still cold blooded.  Still aggressive and unreasonable.  The most noble character in the film is De Niro.  I can't even get into how annoying Sharon Stone got, whether it was sincere or a good performance, it just got old, stupid, and aggravating.  Ya want De Niro to just simply draw his gun and blow her to bits, but he won't because after all thiss "I love her."  This after she bardged into his house to get the key to the bank where she can collect her wealth.
Yes, the film is violent and gorey.  They should have spent much more time on that then all the other crap that is boring and annoying, not gripping. I'm glad to see that it didn't go on to any real success.  An osar nomination for Sharon and four stars from Roger Ebert who is simply in love with Scorsese.  That's all except for, I believe, a script nomination which I certainly don't appove of, other good review that may have come up, and, of course, the movie goers.  It's a shame so many of them likd this film. Plenty of other good or great mafia films out there.  "Goodfellas", "Bugsy", all three of "The Godfathers", and probably much more.  This is certainly a waste of time and it seems like a considerable deal of effort went into it. Too bad.
Why is it, any movie with DiNero and Pesci is automatically highly rated. These guys can play ONLY gangsters. They are about as narrowly talented as Bugs Bunny. The ending is particularly contrived. It's almost a documentary/clean-up vignette with crash and burn visuals. This movie sucked, plain and simple.I challenge anyone to find a De Niro role in which you can see him as anything but a hood, gangster, Italian or all three. It must be that New York style, persona, poor English that attracts so many to these characters. I, for one, don't get it.


                
To me, a shocking misfire from great director Martin Scorsese. This movie could have been great, but it was really miscast. Robert De Niro is a great actor, but he was wrong for this movie. For one, he doesn't even bear a slight resemblance to the real Ace Rothstein. He is just sleepwalking through the entire movie, and his cigarettes seem to be more animated than he is. Sharon Stone is good in her role, but she is just so unlikable that you don't feel any sympathy for her. Same for Joe Pesci. He has none of the humor that he brought to his role in "Goodfellas", where he played another mob psycho.That is why I hate this movie, because all three lead actors are so unlikable that you don't care what happens to any of them. Only the supporting cast, led by Don Rickles and Alan King breathe any life into this movie. James Woods is great in his limited role as well. Funny how you sympathize more with his scumbag role than you do with the other three. Woods could have been the lead in this movie. It just goes on FOREVER, and there are long stretches where you feel like nothing happens. A great cure for insomnia.This was the last Scorsese/De Niro film, but hopefully not the last. Scorsese seems to have gotten his balls back with "The Departed", and it would be great if someone would write a good script for these two.
The only thing that kept me watching this movie was to learn what happened to the character played by de Niro, apparently blown up by a car bomb at the beginning.As in GOOODFELLAS, there is voice-over narration, this time by de Niro and Pesci (Ray Liotta was the narrator in the former film), but it is nowhere near as effective, and often provides unnecessary, even distracting asides, that only further lengthen a film that could easily have done with 30 minutes less. Curiously enough, GOODFELLAS also had de Niro and Pesci in the cast, led by a highly inspired Liotta, but the only performance in CASINO worthy of any mention is that of Sharon Stone, who portrays a truly repellent character (the incident where she binds up her daughter and confines her to a cupboard is a bolt from the blue and struck me as unconvincing, perhaps because nothing in her actions toward her child suggest anything so excessive). She is very convincing, however, in her descent into drugs and her relationship with her pimp, the "real" love in her life, as opposed to the source of wealth that de Niro represents to her.Pesci reprises his exceedingly violent character of GOODFELLAS and kills people as routinely as one would flies. This time, however, he is less credible because he is reportedly clever enough to take over the running of murky business from other ruthless criminals, but then commits excesses so stupid as to make suspension of disbelief impossible. His affair with Stone is also difficult to swallow. I could accept a blow job or one-off sex because she is too drugged up to reason it out, but surely he knows that de Niro will not tolerate it, and he is just too flippant about it. Ultimately, his character is just not rounded enough to stand, and so wayward as to become confusing, annoying, and ultimately lose the viewer's interest.The character played by de Niro is a very odd customer indeed, and the actor's talent is sadly wasted in a part much too ambiguous for me to enjoy. He wants to go clean but stupidly allows ultra-violent chum, Pesci, to join his casino and childishly believes Pesci's promises of good behavior and compliance with the "legit" nature of the casino operation. Even harder to swallow is that he should entrust the key to his fortune to Stone, even after he finds her cuddling her up to her pimp again. De Niro seems rather unsure about the role, too. I spent the whole movie waiting for the character to do something but ultimately he accepts everything like the Good Samaritan: he takes in dangerman Pesci, marries pimp Woods-infatuated Stone, has a distant relationship with his daughter that unexpectedly turns into something closer, loses half of his fortune without a whimper when he has seemed money-driven from the start, and is just too polite and quiet to convince me that I haven't wasted close on three hours watching purposeless characters going nowhere.Photography is competent, somewhat reminiscent of GOODFELLAS but less inspired. Direction is very disappointing, especially in light of the standards set by Scorcese in TAXI DRIVER and GOODFELLAS.


                
Hello IMDb, let's review this movie! Casinos, starring two men and a lady. Mobsters are boring. Their stunted little lives of cruelty, machismo, violence, and crime are meaningless. It's just not entertaining anymore. The town of Las Vegas sucks. It's not cool there, it's a bunch of sh*tty casinos all on one street. Why is that glamorous? How are you impressed by one street with a bunch of casinos on it? No, I mean for real, what makes sense to you about Las Vegas? The town is a tyrannical water thief, wasting daily thousands of gallons of precious fresh water so vain idiots can throw away money. Where is the glamor in hubris? What are the luxuries afforded by furious insanity?


                
