Casino's better than Goodfellas. Why? It's got everything Goodfellas has and more. De Niro is so brimming with emotion. Robert Richardson's photography is sensational. Martin Scorsese is a genius. De Niro's character is more complex and likable than the one he played in Goodfellas. And Sharon Stone proves she's a real actor. It's a more emotional film than Goodfellas. The main characters are more sympathetic somehow. And James Woods is a great addition. It's good entertainment. Casino's long but the 3 hours goes quickly. Casino's a great movie. Enough said?


                
Any cinephile could easily place CASINO in their top 25 favorite movies ever. There have been countless times when I turned to the channel it was then being shown on - just to see what scene it's up to - and end up finishing the last two hours of the film. The way it arrests almost anyone's attention is one of the hallmarks of a Scorsese film, and it is in this aspect that movie-lovers find his genius. The casting is superb. Ace Rothstein - played by Robert DeNiro, a Scorsese regular - is probably the perfect model of what every aspiring gentleman wishes to one day become. The gorgeous Sharon Stone's performance is probably the best in her career as Ginger, but it is really Joe Pesci who shines most in this film. From his accent to his attitude, Pesci perfectly depicts the kind of criminal Nicky Santoro and his real- life persona were.Anyone who even casually likes movies should definitely invest the three hours and watch CASINO. The way Scorsese brings you into the world of the casino and shows you the then-criminal element of its inner workings will give every viewer that curious yearning to participate in the dangers and defiance that all great crime movies instill. While we watch, most of us know what is happening on the screen is wrong, yet somehow we all want to be a part of it - admittedly or not :)


                
...or is this the darkest black comedy ever made? I just find Casino so amusing and funny that I hardly even notice the grim violence and harrowing drama. I also think that Casino is far, far superior to the over-rated Goodfellas. Even though it's longer, it passes in a breeze. Casino is just so colorful, multi-layered and intricate despite it's apparent simplicity. The film has three different characters narrating the story but none of it feels like exposition and it's never over-bearing.Adapted from a true story, the film focuses on the fictional Tangiers Casino in Las Vegas. The boss is Sam 'Ace' Rothstein, his wife, volatile hustler Ginger and his psychotic 'friend' Nicky Santoro. All they needed to do was to keep the cash-flow at the Casino steady to satisfy the bosses back home. But it was just never meant to be. And everything implodes at the end.Casino is filled with dozens of sub-plots, tangent stories and brilliant side-characters. James Woods is especially funny as a lowlife con-man who can't even win a fight with a ten-year-old girl. Vinny Vella also amuses as long-suffering Artie Piscano. But it's Sharon Stone who walks away with the movie. Despite starring opposite loads of well-established male lead actors she owns Casino. She was absolutely robbed at the Academy Awards when they gave the Oscar to Susan Sarandon. Stone delivered a performance so authentic that it's truly unfair the amount of criticism she gets for her other, less-important films.The violence will satisfy gore fans. In this lovely film we have a dope with his head in a vice (after getting icepicks in his balls), a truly brutal beating with baseball bats, some moron getting a pen shoved into his neck and a cheater getting his hand mashed by a hammer. Don't let this put you off, that was the old Vegas. Nowadays you just get told not to come back.I know most people will call it sacrilege to condemn Goodfellas but Casino is just the better film of the two, plain and simple. Better lighting, far more impressive cinematography and more entertaining characters. It just has so much going for it that Goodfellas did not.
"Casino" (1995), a visceral examination of the Mafia's influence on the casinos of Las Vegas in the 1970s, is also the so-called "companion piece" to Martin Scorsese's "GoodFellas" (1990). Both films star Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci, and were written by Nicholas Pileggi.Some even go so far as to claim "Casino" is a semi-remake of "GoodFellas." And many critics found flaws regardless of its connections to the earlier mob film. "Go in interested and you may find your interest tested way past the limit," wrote Mick LaSalle in the San Francisco Chronicle. "'Casino' is not about people, just Vegas. It's an ambitious film -- but also a scattered, unfocused one." Viewing the movie a decade after its release, it holds up well. The film's real strength lies in its narrative and unflinching examination of its characters. Sam Rothstein (played by Robert De Niro) isn't a nice guy, and never really gains our sympathy. Nicky (Pesci) occasionally exhibits acceptable behavior, but if the film has a villain, it's him. And Ginger (Sharon Stone in the best role of her career) is selfish, spoiled and depressing.Critics didn't get it. "'Casino' runs a little under three hours, but (you) will feel like it is at least five due to the plodding pace by editor Thelma Schoonmaker," wrote Internet critic Steve Rhodes. Rhodes, along with countless other reviewers, complained about the level of violence <U+0096> suggesting an NC-17 rating would have been more appropriate.Whether you will like "Casino" or not depends entirely on your tolerance for character-driven films <U+0096> and, of course, heavy violence. Ironically, despite its flaws, "Casino" is closer to Scorsese's older work than any of his other recent films <U+0096> "Taxi Driver" and "Raging Bull" did not feature likable people, either. Whereas we followed Henry Hill's journey from youth in "GoodFellas" and felt empathetic towards him, "Casino" drops us square in the middle of Sam's story and there's no connection <U+0096> this will either alienate or enthrall you, depending entirely on your taste in cinema. I personally love studies of characters <U+0096> especially ones that examine the evil inherent in man, and Scorsese is brilliant at revealing these things.His movie exhibits recognizable elements <U+0096> a whiz-bang style with quick-cuts, rapid zooms, a diverse pop-and-classical music soundtrack (with no less than four or five Rolling Stones songs), and of course, his famous tracking shots (here, he stages an impressive three-minute examination of a casino without breaking until we exit the front door). But "Casino" doesn't confine itself to the restraints of Scorsese's styling. Here he goes hog wild with the visuals (more so than usual anyway), soaking up the vivid colors of Las Vegas, absorbing the dizzying array of flashing bulbs and tacky bright clothing.Editor Thelma Schoonmaker, Scorsese's long-time collaborator, experiments with digital editing for the first time here <U+0096> and employs some new techniques that are subtle but make a subliminal impact. The title sequence, designed by Elaine and Saul Bass, is simultaneously dazzling and haunting.The performances are almost flawless. De Niro is Sam "Ace" Rothstein, a legendary gambler who is chosen out of the blue to maintain a new casino for the Las Vegas Mafia. Sam explains the economics of the system <U+0096> the mob take their cut of the profits, the rest goes where it should, and everyone remains happy <U+0096> so long as nothing goes wrong.When Ace's old friend Nicky shows up in Vegas he begins to orchestrate a ring of violent robberies <U+0096> becoming the new leader of a vicious gangster force that threatens to destroy Ace's chances at cutting it straight. Since Nicky is a made man, and Ace is Jewish, he can't stop him <U+0096> but fears their new lifestyle will only lead to misery.In the meantime Ace falls for the beautiful call girl Ginger (Stone), who doesn't love Sam, but marries him for his wealth. Her heart really belongs to her ex-boyfriend/pimp (played by James Woods), and at first Ace believes he can tame her into submission; but her free spirit ruins their lives and destroys Ace's confidence.The movie does have its blunders, and is not on the same level as "GoodFellas," but would at least make the list a few titles beneath it. Some scenes seem unnecessary, and Nicky's violent attack with a pen does seem a bit reminiscent of an almost identical sequence in "GoodFellas" when Pesci attacks someone at a bar. And as enthralling and entertaining as "Casino" is, it never really matches the overall energetic exuberance of "GoodFellas" <U+0096> they are, despite their close ties, very different films in a cinematic sense.Still, this is a great film, well made and daring. You'll probably either love it or hate it, but there's no denying its powerful impact on the viewer.


                
I have never been a Martin Scorcese fan. I did not like TAXI DRIVER. Even as much as I love mob films, I didn't care all that much for GOODFELLAS. Back in 1995, I wrote movie reviews for my college paper. One of the movies I had to see was CASINO. My first thought was, "oh damn, I have to sit through a 3-hour Scorcese movie." It is strange because I didn't like GOODFELLAS, but I love DeNiro and Pesci. In CASINO, DeNiro and Pesci made the movie as great as it was.Robert DeNiro is Ace Rothstein, who is an expert gambler. He is asked by the Midwest Mob to take control of the Tangiers Casino in Las Vegas. He immediately cleans up the casino of crooks (in one scene, a man who is caught cheating has his hand beat with a hammer) and brings in a lot of money for the bosses. During this time, Ace meets Ginger (Sharon Stone), who is one of the most notorious hustlers in Vegas. He falls in love with her and they marry, even though she is still faithful to her ex-pimp Lester Diamond (James Woods.) Nicky Santoro (Pesci) is called in by the Mob to protect Ace and make sure no one messes with the casino. All is well for a while until Nicky begins causing trouble and that's when all hell breaks loose.This movie is almost three hours long, but the time flies right by. The supporting cast is top notch. If you are a fan of mob films, you can't miss CASINO.Rating: 9 out of 10


                
Scorsese is my favorite director working today. From his first great film Mean Streets to Wolf of Wall Street, he's given the world some amazing movies. Some are better than others of course, but I would be hard pressed to say that's he's ever made a bad film. Casino, when first released, was unfavorably compared to Scorsese's Goodfellas, and it's easy to see why. Based on another Nicholas Pileggi crime novel, the returning cast members Robert DeNiro, Frank Vincent and Joe Pesci, a long running time and "rise and fall of a gangster" plot. But while Goodfellas is my number one Scorsese film (Followed closely by Raging Bull), Casino has slowly become one of my favorites. The violence is still sometimes hard to watch, two scenes come to mind that in my opinion, rival anything in Goodfellas in terms of visceral, shocking brutality. The infamous torture scene is still shocking, comparable to the ear amputation in Reservoir Dogs. Scorsese's eye for detail and use of narration serves him well, and the acting is across the board excellent. Sharon Stone deservedly won an Oscar for her role as hustler Ginger McKenna. And Joe Pesci is on fine form as hot tempered, coked-up muscle Nicky Santoro. The eclectic soundtrack is great, filled with 70s classics like Jeff Beck's "I Ain't Superstitious" and Boogaloo Down Broadway. Robert Richardson's cinematography is amazing, capturing the gaudy style of the era perfectly. And longtime collaborator Thelma Schoonmaker edits the film beautifully and doesn't shy away from the sometimes brutal violence. There are a few flaws. You could trim about 10 minutes of Nicky Santoro and his gang (We get the point, they're bad guys). And Robert DeNiro looks about as Jewish as Vladimir Putin. But these are minor complaints. A great film that i'll watch over and over for years to come. Highly recommended.


                
I haven't seen too many Scorsese films. I've seen The Departed, The Aviator, and 'most' of GoodFellas. I just watched Casino last night and I think I can say it is one of the best, most involving and well-directed films I've ever seen and I've seen a lot of movies. The acting is great, De Niro and Pesci giving wonderful performances of 'Ace' and Nicky, respectively. I haven't seen Sharon Stone in any film before, but she also gave a great performance as Ace's wife Ginger.In a way, Casino is a companion piece to GoodFellas. However, it needs to be judged as a film in it's own right. GoodFellas is a great movie, one that almost anyone can enjoy. But Casino, to me, is more in depth and gives a much more detailed look into the 'big' mobs, the ones that ran Vegas.The photography is great, especially the camera movement. The voice-over narration may be more than you heard in GoodFellas, but in a way it's necessary to get into the minds of Nicky and Ace. It's like a documentary and these guys are just giving us the facts. Not using a traditional film score also helps to make it feel more 'natural', the pop music selected to give exactly the right mood to its respective seen. Particularly the 'House of the Rising Sun' played towards the end over a sort of 'epilogue'. It not only fit's the scene, but the film as a whole.I think it's hard to actually say or write what this film is about, like any great film. All you can do is watch it and find out for yourself.


                
Had me on the edge of my seat most of the time. Pesci is scary period. Dinero is possibly the greatest actor of my generation. Throw those two in a greatly scripted film and surround them with great supporting actors and you cant help but make a great movie.I don't consider this Goodfellas 2 but its close. Its a variant with two actors carried over. Don't get me wrong, This film stands very well on its own merit. If you never saw Goodfellas it wouldn't matter.You can always tell a great movie when you forget you are watching one.The violence is very scary and powerful. I grimaced several times the first time I saw it. The realism is there in every sense.A great rise and fall movie. In certain respects its sad the old days are over. There was an aura about it. But on the other hand, the Mafia was just to damned violent.


                
One of Scorsese's best films and one of the best films of the 90's; "Casino" in a no-holds-barred criminal drama that never ceases to entertain while at the same time, telling an extremely intriguing story. I'm not a big fan on gangster/mafia films (only a few exceptions), but this transcends my personal biases. The acting is phenomenal. De Niro, Stone and Pesci are perfectly cast and deliver performances with depth that is rarely seen on the big screen. Scorsese crafts this film with all of his usual intensity and the result is a masterpiece that certainly doesn't feel three hours long! Whether you like mafia films or not, give this one a try... you might be surprised. I certainly was.


                
Martin Scorsese's Casino is in my opinion one of the best movies of the 90s. Every character in this movie is believable because of the great performances of the actors. Especially Stone's performance as the con-artist trophy wife is truly memorable.Scorsese never fails to amaze me. From Mean Streets to Goodfellas I loved every one of his movies. His movies are usually dark and gritty pieces but in Casino I experienced a new side of Scorsese. This movie has a big epic feeling to it unlike other of his movies. And it works so well. The film is very beautiful to watch because of the great cinematography and score. Scorsese seems to have an ability to make movies with very different kind of looks. And in this movie, I think he mixed his directing techniques of Age Of Innocence and Goodfellas. Like Age Of Innocence, it has a clean look, but the characters and dialog reminded me of Goodfellas (maybe also because of the topic of this movie).Like all the Scorsese movies, this one is also a great character driven, sometimes dark and tragic, sometimes wild and brutal piece of cinema art. Each character of this movie is well developed and deep. The movie is 3 hours long, but it had me hooked from the (great) starting scene up till the very ending shot.Must see movie


                
first off,Joe Pesci is the man i first saw in "my cousin Vinnie[1992]" a movie about a lawyer cousin saving his brother from the state court. he looked funny in that. way too funny but entertaining in the second half mostly.average though.good.fine.BUT, in Casino,he blew me off,totally. the man looked really angry in the movie.one mad man out for making money out of anything. really mind blowing anger portrayal by him. really great stuff.total gangster authority type and mind-blowing selfishness shown in his character.Robert De Niro as always, had godliness of some sort in his performance. i don't know he just does it every time, in every movie. Sharon Stone was good too,was really beautiful though she looked like a stoned whore most of the time.Too much of vulgarity coming out from her mouth didn't look appeasing. But all the same , she still looked good, added to the theme of the movie certain sanguine elements or though the storyline is a little complex to understand if you don't pay attention in the first 30 minutes,because that's when the action unfolds, us getting introduced to the world of money making in casinos.top of the line vulgar dialogs,hard hitting acting by the lead actors,and the helpful narration in between times in the film,really enhance the film's value. sharp and nice dialogs.totally different stuff. they all actually send you into the movie. you get into it and get the feelings the movie spurts out. totally brute and clear. so very mesmerizing. an altogether another genre in totality. seriously, couldn't expect much more from the director. he's done it many times. he's just natural at it. so natural. i was actually left wondering after the 3hrs of the film - if i ever had watched another such engrossing entertaining thrilling hard hitting flick ever of that too - 3hrs! worth a watch,no more than that. again i say out loud and clear to De Niro's fans - see this if have seen him in taxi driver,the fan(so much crazier then Nicky in casino),etc...totally this guy is so versatile. so very adapting to the roles.mind-blowing film. i give it 9/10. a great memorable experience. a must watch for all,for lovers of any genre.


                
I just watched Casino again for the first time since around 1998. The thing that I remember most vividly from seeing it that last time is being thoroughly upset by the scene in the cornfield at the end of the film. Most of the rest of the movie was overshadowed by the memory of that one scene, so I wanted to watch it again because I love Scorsese's films so much that not knowing about Casino was just acceptable. So I watched it again and I loved it again and my respect and amazement at the quality of the movie and the acting and the story and everything else was renewed, and nothing was that bad during the whole movie, so when the cornfield scene was coming up I thought, come on, there's only maybe 8 minutes left in the movie, how bad could this scene really be? Still, my heart was pounding in my chest. It was bad, man. It was real bad.Now, when I say it was bad, I should clarify that it wasn't bad film-making, it was brilliant film-making. But it was too brilliant. It was so brilliant that it affects me as though I was watching what took place in that scene before me eyes in real life. Scorsese gets a lot of bad press about his films being too violent (from my mom, anyway), and Casino is no exception. In fact, it's probably the flagship of violent Scorsese films. I've been an avid horror fan for more than a decade now, so violence doesn't really bother me, but Scorsese's violence has a grittiness and realism that sets it apart from most other types of film violence. It is graphic and sudden and has a gravity and an on-screen affect that makes it look like a documentary depiction of it. Spielberg achieved this same effect in some of the murders in the not so well received Munich in 2004. Now, as I watch the end of Casino, I wonder what it's like watching the dailies with Scorsese, as he sees for the first time what they've captured on film. Do he and the other cinematographers that work with him jump up and clap each other on the back and pump their fists and yell, "YES!! We got it, that's the PERFECT shot!!" Or does Scorsese turn his head from the screen in disgust and whisper, "That's the one. Print it." I'm guessing (hoping) it's some combination of the two.(spoilers) Odd, by the way, that the cringe induced by the final scene should be caused by seeing what happens to Nicky (Joe Pesci), who is by far the film's most violent and out of control character. The brutality of his character is as thorough as can be, but Joe Pesci is just so COOL. He plays almost the same character as he was in Goodfellas (an infinitely more watchable and, in my opinion, even better film overall), and he just does it so well. Makes me wonder what he's really like in real life. He can't really be like that, but he can't be that different, you know what I mean? Sadly, no matter how good this movie is, I just can't watch that cornfield scene. I learned this afternoon that I don't ever want to see it again, just like I don't ever want to see that cop get his ear cut off in Reservoir Dogs. I think those are the only two scenes in any film I've ever seen that I really don't ever want to see again. Brilliant film-making though. I haven't said anything about the myriad of brilliant performances yet, so I'll just say that Sharon Stone plays your typical hysterical woman, always shrieking for her money, her drugs, and her jewelry, her jewelry, her jewelry, for crying out loud, and DeNiro is brilliant as well (and as always). But Pesci steals the show in every scene though, including that last one. Now I need to go watch Home Alone to get that image of him out of my head...
Casino was the last great film made by Martin Scorsese, who is certainly one of America's finest filmmakers. Despite the three hour running time, Scorsese tells us a powerful story filled with memorable characters. Although he seems to have moved on to big-budget extravaganzas like The Avator, and Gangs of New York, it's films like Casino and Goodfellas that properly showcase his incredible talent.The plot centers around Robert DeNiro's character named Ace Rothstein who has been sent by the mafia back east to manage the Tangiers Casino in Vegas. Ace knows everything there is to know about gaming, and he makes the place rather profitable. A good chunk of change is sent back to the mafia bosses each month. Things seem to be going fine until two things happen. First, Ace falls in love with a shady woman (Sharon Stone) who hangs around the casino and extorts money from unsuspecting high rollers. She has a sleazy pimp-like character (James Woods) brooding over her who complicates things further. In addition to all that, the mafia bosses send some muscle (Joe Pesci) into town to presumably watch Ace's back. But this ends up backfiring as Pesci tears the town apart and draws every cop in the city's attention to the Tangiers. Things continually spiral downward for Ace and the gang until the typically violent climax wipes most people out. There are plenty of other details that you will have to experience for yourself.The film introduces characters we care about, and the actors portraying them are exceptional. Stone, Pesci, and DeNiro are all terrific, and James Woods once again reminds us what a scene-stealer he can be. The film is very violent, but also funny at times. It uses many of the same production techniques that made Goodfellas such a wonderful experience. You also get a nice insider's view of how Vegas operated back before it became such a commercial city. The Vegas that Scorsese shows us is for adults, not families.At three hours, the film is indeed too long. There is a little too much time spent on detailing what a bitch Sharon Stone's character is. After she started fooling around with Pesci, we got the point. Still, we are treated to too many arguments between her and DeNiro. I cannot help but think that if Casino had the two hour and twenty minute running time of Goodfellas, it wouldn't have lost a thing. You won't daydream all that much, but you will find yourself wondering when the next scene with Pesci is coming.Casino was made on roughly a $50 million dollar budget. That's chicken feed compared to some of Scorsese's recent ventures. Though it didn't make that money back in theaters, it has since become profitable through the means of home-ownership. Most of the people I know seem to have the DVD in their collections, anyway.It's time to put DiCapprio on the shelf, and start making some more like Casino, Mr. Scorsese! The Hound thinks Casino is worth 9 of 10 stars.


                
Martin Scorcese really knows how to make movies. Every one of his movies are just well-done classics worth watching over and over again. Casino is no exception. I'm kind of surprised that no one seems to have seen this movie. I guess it's just overshadowed by other Scorcese's films with greater hype such as Goodfellas or Taxi Driver.This movie is almost a sequel to Goodfellas. It goes much more in depth in the lives of the gangsters more than the fore-mentioned movie did. This is about how the mafia placed a guy in charge of running a casino. This guy wants no unnecessary problems, but unfortunately that happens in the way of his new wife.The acting is very good. Robert de Niro is one of the greatest actors of all time. Joe Pesci is great as the cursing, ugly slimeball. The only weak link is Sharon Stone. I'm not a big fan of hers.The voice-over narration in the movie works. That kept me hooked throughout. Also this is one of the most violent movies ever and that is also good.Overall, this is a fine depiction of the mafia. Despite it's length, I would see it over and over again. I rate this film 9/10.


                
It would be easy to forget Martin Scorsese's Casino, or to dismiss it as derivative from his previous works like Goodfellas. But in my honest opinion as a moviegoer, that would be a horrendous mistake. I had more fun with Casino than I have had with every Scorsese movie except Taxi Driver. Casino extends for almost three hours, but unlike Gangs of New York, it doesn't sprawl - every scene is necessary, interesting and well-done, from the first to the last. A great deal of Casino is exposition, but its good exposition - and enough interesting stuff happens during it that it is still a lot of fun to watch. The most distinctive element about Casino is the casting of Sharon Stone. She is simply superb as Ginger, with a remarkable range displayed throughout the film. Her debut scene is cheeky and flirtatious, and I was as hooked on her as DeNiro was. Throughout the film, she convincingly descends into alcoholism and substance abuse, and she more than holds her own in her many screaming fights with DeNiro.Casino reunites a lot of the elements of previous Scorsese films, as well as a lot of the elements, but it manages to bring a lot of fresh material to the table. The voice-over doesn't get distracting, and I loved in the final scene where Pesci's gets cut off just as Nicky's fate is revealed to the audience. Its almost as if the narration is coming from the future, and the future dies the second the hit men lay hands on him. The tracking shots, freeze frames and excessive violence are all here, but he uses them for a reason - because they're effective.The interesting element of the DeNiro/Pesci/Scorsese partnership is that between this film, Raging Bull and Goodfellas, the combination is always shaken up. In Raging Bull, DeNiro is the dominant to Pesci's submissive. In Goodfellas, they were more equal. Here, Pesci completely runs over DeNiro. The two guys are capable of such great things and are convincing no matter what side of the partnership they are on. As I already said, Pesci is brilliantly belligerent, exuding power and arrogance far exceeding his performance in Goodfellas. There are subtle changes in their performances, but ones that bring a whole new dynamic to Casino. One of the most important things I felt was the total dominance he had over his lovers - he would kiss them once and then force them to perform oral sex. He is in charge.DeNiro gives a very under-appreciated performance here as Ace, because its so refreshing to see DeNiro claw for his power and not be 100% in control at all times. I also really bought his love for Ginger - Scorsese wisely refrains from his protagonist's usual womanising ways in developing Ace, and as a result, it brings a lot to his personality. It made their love story so tragic. Casino's screenplay really should have been nominated for an Oscar. It helps a 3 hour film remain thoroughly engaging. It is packed full of killer dialogue, wicked insults and eventful story archs. I loved every moment of the relationship between Ginger and Ace, and I loved the fights between Pesci and DeNiro. I loved the exposition about the FBI tracking Pesci. I loved the running of the casino scenes and the voice-over. My favourite line in the whole movie was the "holes in the desert" surrounding Vegas explanation. It was so well done, and I'd never thought of it before.I loved Casino. I could easily watch it again and not get sick of it. DeNiro and Pesci and Scorsese work fresh takes into old moves, and Sharon Stone and the screenplay are simply amazing. Any Scorsese fan, put this on your to see list far far above his more famous The Aviator, Gangs of New York or The Departed.


                
But he had a fatal flaw<U+0085> 'Ace' always felt that he could logically and intelligently deal with things, even to deal with emotions<U+0085> So he decides on making a life with a woman who, he knows, does not necessarily love him<U+0085> Anyway with such a sexy wife and money to burn, 'Ace' was the epitome of opulence, confidence and power<U+0085> Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone) was fascinating<U+0085> Great woman, truly beautiful, one of the best- known hustlers in town<U+0085> For her, a guy like 'Ace' was the ultimate score<U+0085> So the way to Ginger's heart was clearly money<U+0085> 'Ace' knew that but he didn't care<U+0085>What he wanted was to marry her<U+0085> Sharon Stone really stood up to the challenge in her role as a casino hustler who is so wild<U+0085> She was young, fresh, confident, looking absolutely fantastic as the independent woman whom everybody desires<U+0085>Joe Pesci succeeds in his scary tough role as the strong man who has nerve, and isn't afraid of the cops<U+0085> He was reportedly a mob hit man reputed to be a sadistic killer<U+0085> (In one scene, his character is shown torturing someone by putting his head in a vise.) To protect his friend and adviser, Nicky (Pesci) would beat to a pulp any street guys who messed with 'Ace' or didn't give him the proper respect<U+0085> Over the course of their friendship Nicky delivered a number of these messages always making sure that 'Ace' didn't get his hands dirty<U+0085> 'Ace' witnessed several beatings on his behalf<U+0085> Nicky's mission was to show his worth to the family as an enforcer<U+0085>


                
I'm usually not a fan of the way narrative films are. So this movie was a pleasant surprise. This is a true story (with names and places changed) depicting the life of Sam "Ace" Rothstein and his friend Nicky. Sam is a great gambler, and works his way through the years, eventually landing a job running a casino in Las Vegas. He watches for cheaters and uses his friend Nicky (a man in the Mafia) to get rid of problems using violence. The Mafia protects Sam in return for scamming money from the casino. When Nicky starts to get careless with his tactics (even getting kicked out of Vegas' casinos and put on the infamous blacklist) and Sam's wife gets hooked on drugs and is cheating, things start falling apart. The FBI comes after the Mafia hard, and the Mafia in return starts to come down on everyone. As the story goes on things fall apart more and more. Sam and Nicky stop being so close, and violence gets worse and worse. This was a well put together movie. Excellent acting, great directing, and an amazing story come together perfectly.Soundtrack: 8- Most of the time the music works for the movie, but there were a few moments where the music didn't fit in the film.Script: 10- The writer knew how to write mobsters well. The writing was smart, and believable. I really liked this element.Originality: 10- Yes, this is a gangster film. But when you watch this, you never know what to expect. This isn't your average gangster flick. There were all kinds of new elements, and it was well done.Cinematography: 7- Martin Scorsese has a very specific style to his cinematography. It isn't necessarily bad, but there are some moments that disconnect me from the story.Casting: 10- Joe Pesci and Robert DeNiro playing in a movie about the Mafia. Need I say more? Acting: 10- The actors put so much emotion and perfection in this film. I was never bored, and I was so engrossed in the film so deeply that I constantly forgot I was even watching. It was so real, and these actors should all be congratulated for their work.Overall: 9.2
A shockingly frank and simple Goodfellas reprise, the period at the end of the Mafia sentence, the finale of Scorsese's "Italian Trilogy." Like Raging Bull and Goodfellas, Casino never veers into unwatchability, remaining inspired throughout, especially for those interested in the truth, whether it be about the Mafia or no. The real truth here is the heart of mankind, which is filled with evil. The perpetual lure of sex and violence, end of the world hypocrisy, the false faces that cover the insatiable lust and love of money. Man's inability to avoid corruption, the ease with which he walks and rides roughshod, to roll in destruction and without remorse. The real world extremes of what people are capable of. Of what seeds are planted in the soil of the human heart, and the flowers of evil that are nurtured and grown. Martin Scorsese is an end of the world prophet here, and this underrated masterpiece is one of the brightest sermons he ever delivered. A latter day warning to mankind that the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.


                
The 1995 true crime film Casino directed by Martin Scorsese isn't just one of Scorsese's most underrated films but also one of the most underrated films of the 90's. Both Robert De Nero and Joe Pesci are at the top of there game, making it nearly impossible to look away from the screen. the narrative in the film is genius and allows the audience to go behind the scenes per say, to watch how a mob takes over the city of Las Vegas. The film contains the classic violence an brutality that Scorsese films are notorious for. Every actor from De Nero and Pesci to James Woods and Sharron stone deliver a performance of a lifetime. I highly recommend this film to any Scorsese fans out there


                
I've been intrigued but never been excited watching an Italian gang themed movies except this one.The movie is based on the life of real life character Frank Rothenthal played by Robert Di Nero. Sam Rothstein (Di Nero) basically isn't a bad guy asides from his talent to sell gambling to the would be gamblers. But because of his underworld connection, he gets into more trouble than he deserves, including an attempt to assassinate him. This is one story that what actually happened is more exciting than any fictitious story. I couldn't keep my eyes off of the screen when I first saw it. It's certainly one of the best movie director Martin Scorsese ever produced. Joe Pesci was spot on as Sam's friend Nicky. He really looked like the character in real life he was portraying. The gory ending would be climactic for a movie, but to think that it actually happened in real life is inconceivable.If Martin Scorsese had to choose a character to make a movie out of, he couldn't have chosen a better one than these two. The story is explosive at every turn, and is one of THE best mob based movie ever made.


                
watching Casino for the 4th or 5th time now. it's like a clip out of the history file; the remnants of mob ownership of the famous casinos of Vegas (all of which have been now demolished for the new 'what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas'.Sharon Stone truly impressed me with her Oscar nominated performance of the hustler that couldn't quit. it was in her blood. DeNiro on the other hand in my opinion should have earned a nomination as well as Sam Rothstein the casino owner. Quote: 'back home (east coast) they would have put me in jail, out here they give me awards'. a city awash in cash, proof of the adage 'a sucker is born every minute'.I personally have never been to Vegas and have no intention of going. I have however been to Atlantic City and can understand how the glitter and jingle of the slots can be so mesmerizing, or more precisely saw just that happen numerous times. I never felt the tug, my suspicions confirmed one day at the local casino when I popped a token in a machine and lo, it came up 'bar' 'bar' 'off by one'. Confirmation that slots are PROGRAMMED to commit way more 'near misses' than statistical average would dictate. So I guess the 'hustle' has merely gone digital.Very entertaining movie. Watch it before you go to the casino.


                
I can quite confidently say that this is one of the best directed films I have ever seen. The way Scorsese has it a Ace's recollection of past happenings and has narration whilst the plot unravels is really clever and works so well. It kept my attention throughout and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Despite the fact that it is quite a long film, there wasn't ever a point when I thought it was slow or boring.Some great acting from De Niro and, like in goodfellas, Joe Pesci plays the blood thirsty tough guy perfectly. Sharon Stone also plays a great part but makes herself very unlikeable (at least that's what i found).Overall, it was a very enjoyable film with strong storyline, great acting, perfect directing and also made in the year I was born. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in Scorsese's films, and Mafia films, unless they dislike the use of swearing or violence.


                
The first half of the 1990s was a glorious, competitive time for mob films. Okay, so we started off with the disappointing (but far from terrible) The Godfather: Part 3, but later that year Martin Scorsese released GoodFellas, which many people consider to be the definitive gangster film. In that same year came Miller's Crossing, and Quentin Tarantino added to the palette with both Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. In 1995, Marty hit back with Casino, redefining the blockbuster genre in a way that wasn't emulated until some twelve years later, when Nolan got his hands on the Batman franchise.Comprising of an all-star cast headed by the incomparable Robert De Niro, Casino tells the story of Sam 'Ace' Rothstein, America's finest bookmaker in the 1970s and 80s, whose knowledge of the industry lures him to Las Vegas. At the behest of the Mafia, he becomes the executive manager of the fictional Tangiers casino. Childhood friend Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) comes along for the ride, and all seems to run smoothly until a desire for women, wealth and the very essence of Vegas sends the gambling empire into a tailspin. Expect nothing less than utter professionalism in the direction department. Scorsese gives the audience an excellent look into the luxury, excess and emotion that defined Las Vegas for so long. The visuals are striking, displaying the bright lights of the city in external scenes, and giving the film a glossy undertone during internal scenes; a highly unconventional technique, but one that reflects the tone perfectly.As with most of Marty's masterpieces, Casino is unique in the way that it dosen't follow a structured plot. Rather, the film is, for lack of a better phrase, a whole bunch of 'things' that happen, and how they impact on (or are caused by) the main characters. In fact, a positive aspect of the movie that isn't recognised by most is just how much influence the characters have on the story. The first half of the film is concerned with how Ace and Nicky run the casino: turning over profits, keeping customers happy and dealing with cheaters. The second half deals solely with each character's personal issues, and how they destroyed something so valuable from the inside out. We see how Ace's hustling wife Ginger (Sharon Stone, in a career-best performance) turns two former friends against each other, while slowly killing herself as well. There is no doubt that the events of the second half are on a smaller scale to those of the first, but so much more emphasis is placed on the former because of the magnetism and excellent performance of each actor.Drama is on high supply for the film's entire three-hour run time, but allows for some well- written comedy to complement the pace. For all the excellent younger actors Scorsese has worked with in the past decade, none of them convey the effortless on-screen chemistry of De Niro and Pesci, whether they are joking with each other, or wishing death upon one another. At its simplest, this can be called the ultimate guy's movie. It features shooting, swearing, suits, money, fast cars and even faster women. Delve a little deeper, and you'll appreciate the practically flawless acting, indulgent cinematography and a cautionary tale just as critical of greed and the flaws of human beings as Wall Street or Scarface. I take issue with this film's tagline: 'You don't stay at the top forever', because it will take one hell of an effort to knock Casino off this movie-lover's list of top 20 films.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review.*


                
Gripping story of a handicapper with Mob ties that tries to right himself to an extent as being legit for the first time, but can't be on his own with this as he is stymied by his long time babysitting pal Nicky. Nicky, played by Joe Pesci brings back the Tommy from Goodfellas in an even more sadistic but leadership kind of way. May not be the same wisdom as he had in Goodfellas, but much more of a brutal, ego filling mobster - at first protecting, but jeopardizing all the Mob influence had in Vegas which was the beginning of the end for them controlling casino's and their teamster ties. Scorsese masters the filmaking of these longtime actors, with Sharon Stone coming along for the ride, with truer feelings than in any other mob movie he has made. This was more, of a drama - soap opera than what can be called a mob movie. If you haven't seen it which is doubtful. You must see this movie which is probably the best casino movie of all time let alone, top 10 gangster movies of all time, with a comedic tone that never goes away. Fabulous as most are from Scorsese
One of those movies that will surely withstand any test of time , a modern gangster classic that is also a must-study material for any student of drama ,for any acting school, or a necessary reference for the quality adaptation of a high quality literature by N.Pileggi on par with M. Puzo's The Godfather! Everything in here has its place , meaning , reason ,the characters have their psychological depth ( e.g. : Ginger's pathological dependence on her low-life pimp, who doesn't have to raise a voice for her to fulfill any of his junkie whims combined with her obsession with jewelery , expensive clothes , cars, drugs ,and consequently her indifference towards her own daughter ). Las Vegas is shown as hell on Earth ,where all the glitz , music , the most beautiful dancers and most popular entertainers are but a dream , a facade , that must lure as many 'suckers' as possible ,who simply cannot win ,and even if they do , measures as taken to bring them back to the pools and tables ,where they are destined to lose more than they might have won the previous night , and no cheap gambling tricks of any kind are possible ,as everything is constantly watched by ex-cons now in employ with the casino, with the god himself ,Mr. Sam Rothstein , flawlessly portrayed by R.DeNiro,while the money is coming,and the casino itself is but a money-churning beast with areas sealed off even for the manager himself, and when the coffers are on time and full, 'cappi de tutti capi 'are smiling and satisfied regardless of the number of unmarked graves in the desert around !And this dream has to come to an end ,and when this happens ,everything goes , the guilty and less guilty are disappeared ,as is the case with one of the most disgusting graphic scenes ever towards the end ! M.Scorcese at his best!


                
