I've read lots of good reviews, so I gave it a shot.Episode 1 is just so out-of-it and so unrealistic that it made me cringe. In short: a royal family-member is kidnapped and the prime minister has to do an indecent act to set her free, live on TV. I thought: "No way, they will find a solution to it, because this is what the story about: twisting and turning to come up with something brilliant". Nope, they let the prime minister do an indecent act, live on TV so that the whole world can watch. To make it even worse, his whole staff is pushing him to do it!I mean, common!!!!! How far away from realism can that be? I know it's not a documentary, but they might as well let some aliens come over and save the girl! There are few nations that give in to kidnapping. They might pay some ransom but they will definitely do it behind the scene. Usually, they crack down on them with brute force. So, to have a minister do an indecent act live on TV to "pay" for the ransom is just ridiculous. No nation that respects itself would even think of giving in to this!! At the end you even know who did it and why... that even ridicules the whole thing to a magnitude of 7.I thought that maybe the second episode would be good, but it's even worse, because there is no tension behind it. Just something that drags on for an hour or so.
I watched the opening episode of this series in that faint hope that a series would come along that MAYBE had some really timeless qualities that the Twilight Zone had, namely, smart, innovative, fantasy, horror, science fiction. What I came across was an absolute waste of time. After watching the series opener "National anthem" I was horrified. Horrified that someone would conceive and execute such a vile, disgusting piece of television such as this. Instead of fantasy, charm, literacy, and magic, we get an absolutely disgusting piece of rubbish. Rod Serling is turning over in his grave after this garbage was likened to TZ by Netflix. Everyone involved in this should be embarrassed, but I doubt that's possible anymore in the world we live in. But I guess that was the point wasn't it? Please do yourself a favor and watch literally anything but this.


                
Watched the first 2 episodes with my wife and I have to say this is the most awful thing I've seen in a long time, no real plot and the first episode should have been enough to drive me away but everyone I talked to said the show was good and I thought maybe the first ep just got off on the wrong foot but no the shows rubbish.I'm shocked this has such a high rating on IMDb and disappointed I wasted a whole night watching this. SPOILER: Really the first episode is about f$#%ing a pig..... I mean come on who wants to see this, yes I understand the episode was making a point but it was just.....awful.
Not sure why anyone would give this a good review, other than the fact that they must have a sick demented soul. I could not watch more than 2 episodes. I don't really want to give away the plot, but it starts off with a woman screaming, and lead into someone having to have sex with a pig on national TV. I did not watch much more than that THIS SHOW IS FOR PERVERTED PEOPLE.


                
I'm embarrassed there are so many good reviews here, it exudes pretentious, elitist posturing to me. I watched the first episode for the three minutes it took to get to bestiality and that is more than enough for me. Writers, Directors and any performer who pushes the edge of morals and ethics to go for shock are merely demonstrating their lack of talent and creativity.Many people today like to be shocked or pretend they are open to anything in a movie or book. But, when you go too far, and accept anything you will change and be different which will change your morals and ethics. This is the sliding scale of ethics that leads to so much acceptance of verbal and physical violence in today's world against people who simply disagree with you. The world would be a much better place if there was universal cultural embarrassment at physical and verbal violence. Much more impact than banning guns.
I watched half of episodes 2 and 3 in the first season, but couldn't get through either of them. I heard this show was supposed to be scary, which is why I tried to get into it. If there there is something scary, then they need to move some of the scary parts to the beginning of the episodes to give me a reason to care about the characters and endure the slow parts. As far as I can tell, this show is just about a lot of dumb technology ideas. Some every day people do ordinary things, and interact with the technology. How is that a show? How is that interesting? I just don't get it. Is it to warn about bad technology ideas? If so, I don't really see why that is interesting either. Maybe if the characters were interesting, and did something interesting and unusual, then maybe that could be a show. The high ratings for this genuinely perplexes me.


                
Disturbing that people have rated this TV series so highly. I watched the 1st episode. The problem isn't that it's bent, but that it's so unrealistically bent and yet the entertainment world thinks this is some kind of commentary on the lengths to which social media/modern technology have eroded the moral fabric of society. For one, you can't blame technology for your willingness to be a voyeur of bestiality. Furthermore, gossip/morbid curiosity/spreading misinformation is not a modern phenomenon and it's simply an expression vile & debased morality. You can't blame any of this on technology, but rather on the self-serving/expedient abandonment of faith in God and the scorning of Biblical values & morals. Episode 1 simply illustrated how the British have absolutely NOTHING that they believe in as being sacred, that they have NO commitment in doing the right thing, that they have no compassion for the suffering of others, and that they are willing participant voyeurs to the most degrading & unnatural acts of bestiality.Sorry, BBC, but I for one don't buy your bullshit. This simply reminded me of how absolutely VACUOUS, ODIOUS & REPULSIVE the programming you offer is. Unfortunately, IMDb doesn't allow negative scoring, because otherwise I would have scored this a -10 - absolute worst on the scale.


                
Really? Gave this up almost immediately.
Depressing, unimaginable, unexciting and slow paced.
I've got better things to do with my time...


                
This is the first review I have written for IMDb, but I was so shocked, so very very shocked at how utterly utterly bad this was in the face of such a high rating, I felt I had to voice my opinion as a public service, to prevent others from going through what I just went through. I feel conned after looking at this particular IMDb rating. I find IMDb ratings are usually quite reliable, but not this time. I am not going to give ANY spoilers, I am just going to say that if it was someone's intention to make something as dire as possible, then then this was achieved. Everything about this was bad. I cannot believe how this got the ratings it did. How on earth could anyone rate this higher than awful. If you decided to try this, and a third of the way through you think to yourself 'surly it can't be this bad, it has to get better' then I am sorry to say you will be sorely disappointed. It doesn't get better. When you start to think to yourself that this story is unrealistic, un-ironic, and beyond awful believe me when I say you that that's the best it's gonna get, & trust me when I say it won't ever get that good again, just worse, much much worse. Give up with it, and find something else to watch. My best advice will be, please, don't bother with this at all. You've been warned!!!


                
...only for the very, very, very, and I hate to repeat myself, very faint of mind.


                
I thought I would give the British a chance, but the show was of course garbage. I do not understand why the UK finds certain concepts like this entertaining. I watched the first episode, and it was the most extremely unrealistic thing I have ever seen. I don't believe the writers of this show actually put any thought to what is plausible in the real world or stopped to ask themselves questions like, "Would this happen in real life? Is this believable? Is the British government actually this stupid or are we just writing them this way?" I continue to have little to no faith in the UK film industry, and will be shocked if I am ever presented with a good UK series. The dark humor was not funny and the concept of the show had little to no thought. Overall, I would rather have sex with a pig than watch this show.


                
I couldn't watch farther than about half way through the first episode. They kept calling it "sex with..." when animals cannot give their consent. A man who is forcing himself sexually on a pig who cannot volunteer or consent is raping that animal. I was shocked and disappointed that they didn't write in an animal rights group to speak up in advocacy for this pig, who is the ultimate victim and a being with no legal rights. Due to this complete lack of awareness and compassion, I couldn't feel one ounce of sympathy for these human characters. Also, in this and future worlds, there could not be this kind of situation in the news without a huge swell of millions of people to call for this pig not to be exploited in this horrible way.


                
This show is appalling. Absolutely disgusting. I watched the first episode only and will never again watch this disgusting display of filth. I can handle a lot of stuff but I draw the line at beastiality. Whoever made this needs serious help. It makes me ashamed to be a part of the human race.


                
** This review contains spoilers **I was trying to find a new series to watch on Netflix, and, missing the amazing (but deceptive) Jinni, browsed 'similarshows'. This show came up as one of one of four 'Mind Boggling Shows Like The X-Files'. I never really got into X-Files, but quite liked the bits I saw. IMDb's score (for BM) was 8.9, so I thought it was well worth checking out.. Big mistake. similarshows certainly got the 'mind boggling' aspect right, but they missed the word 'awful'. If only I'd checked the reviews here first, as some share my view and would've warned me. Not only was the main theme of the first episode repulsive, it was completely ridiculous. I guess I'm one of those who 'missed the messages... ' '...the relationship between technology and psychology'.. Well the tech. fell down for me when they didn't realise a dismembered finger was actually a man's; and as for the psychology: man kidnaps girl, man makes fantastically ridiculous demands, PM says no, one of his staff makes incredibly stupid mistake, his subordinates say he must comply, his wife cries, he decides he will (or more accurately, he's bullied into it), evidence is available to show the man is unlikely to kill the girl but they ignore it, everyone, including the kids, watches 'the act' on national TV, at tea time. 'It' apparently goes on for over an hour, then afterwards they find out that the guy released the girl before the act had begun, then topped himself. Maybe I am missing something, but I really can't see much depth to it at all. I found the psychology of 'The Fall' deep, immersive and disturbing. Not this.I'm not a big fan of watching more of something that's rubbish (imo) just to see if it gets better.. If that's what floats the creators' boats (and a multitude of viewers who thought it was 'outstanding' (as did the Emmy's it seems), 'brilliant' and 'the best show ever', I'll jump ship.


                
I'm pi***d beyond words, so much that I made this account solely to review what I just wasted my time on. I'm not here for trolling purposes, if I give this show 1 out of 10 it's not because I'm a troll or because I didn't understand it, but because this show does not deserve a rating of anything above 5. Now let me tell you about my bad experience with this show. After reading tonnes of good reviews about this show I decided to watch it, but now I can say I can never trust show reviews again. Majority of people have really bad taste in shows and they screw up the rest of the people with a working brain. There is nothing decent about this show, it is not unique, it does not force you to think about things deeply(unless you have an IQ in double digits) and it might be the most boring show you'll ever come across that's rated close to 9 on IMDb. Every episode has a different story and the episodes aren't interconnected, all episodes are bad and kill your time in the worst possible way. What's worth noticing is that the second episode managed to get worse than the first one and I almost slept midway, but I didn't miss anything because there was nothing worth watching about it. Please don't take this show's ratings seriously and give it a miss.


                
I know this is probably thought of, by some, as an amazing piece of modern work but I am clearly not one of them. I never write reviews but I hated this so much I couldn't stop myself. If this stops only one person from sitting through this awful programme then I have done a good job.I sat through most of the first episode, screaming at my husband to turn it off before I was sick ended our experience of Black Mirror. I can honestly say I am ashamed I lasted as long as I did. It is a piece of the worst television I have ever seen. This is supposed to be disturbing and thought provoking but what it does is depicts people as sick, voyeuristic individuals who all, without exception, take pleasure out of watching people destroy their lives (even the hospital staff who all appeared to not have any work to do so were sat watching tv for hours). I am disturbed that people even think up this type of tat, let alone are allowed to record it for viewers pleasure. It is disgusting, deeply upsetting and something that no-one should watch. I would say I am offended by it but that makes me sound like a prude and that I certainly am not. I am just someone who wants to watch tv for pleasure at the end of the day. This does not bring pleasure, it is not kind, well told or well written and all I am left with is that I can't believe there are people out there who think these sort of stories up. This is a horrible, horrible, horrible piece of television. Please avoid it if at all possible. It will leave you with such a negative opinion of the world and human nature. I am not sure who would like this but it needs to come with a warning. Yuk!


                
I can't understand why this show has such a high rating. I've long come to not be able to trust IMDb review ratings. I noticed that most of the 8-9 star reviews are from outside of my home country of the U.S. Many things don't always translate across borders, so I can say those reviews are wrong or bad. I can only speak from my perspective of being an older American male who grew up on the original Twilight Zone TV series. From my perspective, Black Mirror is slow, boring, and it is an insult to the original TZ show to have this show compared to it. The TZ made clear points by usually having a discovery twist at the end of the episode. I don't believe this show comes anywhere close to that. Black Mirror is not something I'm going to do what I consider to be wasting my time watching. I tried to watch a few episodes from the different seasons, but It's just not a very good show in my opinion.
This show is the definition of the kind of thinking I disapprove. It is known that human is afraid of change. Although, every time something new is invented in our society, a group of pessimist have the awful tendency to see new as bad. When cinema was invented, society was afraid movies were going to mess with the reality in people's head. When the pill was invented, everyone thought it was going to ruin relationship between men and women, saying goodbye to monogamy. Society thought women were going to become "sluts" and that sex would become this unhealthy, devalued thing. So know there's social network, dating apps, augmented reality and TV shows. Guess what people think about this new stuff ? Black Mirror. What an easy thinking way. Black mirror is the opposite of forward thinking. It just shows the pessimist's view of new inventions when there is a lot of up sides to them. Plus, the fact that thinking that people are not capable of choosing the impact of technology on them is just like saying free will doesn't exist. What a great vision of humans.


                
Just finished the second episode, and I have to say that this probably is the worst series I have ever seen. It is the first series I have watched that got me SERIOUSLY frustrated. It is extremely incoherent, the episodes has nothing to do with each other. Also the events and situations are so far fetched, it is as if the writer were retarded or something. The different episodes are also uneventful, numb and has quite poor effects/acting. Do not watch this piece of crap, use your time on something else please.DO NOT WATCH!/Alex


                
Don't waste your time! My husband and I just watched the first episode of Black Mirror. It caught my attention as it was described as "in the vein of 'The Twilight Zone'" on Netflix. This show should in NO way be compared to the creative talent of Rod Serling. The show was extremely cruel and crude and did not show any signs of the creative talent displayed in the series "The Twilight Zone". This is 43 minutes of my life that I will never get back. I will not be back to view any further episodes of this series. AVOID AVOID AVOID AVOID.....apparently reviews must be 10 lines in length to be published......hence the reason for this last line. I hope this review saves others from a terrible show.


                
"At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this room is now dumber for having listened to it. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul." -credits to Billy Madison. They really hit the nail on the head with this. I tried two episodes and doing literally anything else would have been better. Scratching my ass for an hour would have been a better use of time. It fathoms me how this show received so many high reviews and ratings. By all means just save yourself the anguish and just take a pass on this one. You've been warned!


                
There is nothing new or shocking about this show. If it were truly that original and the man had that much of a imagination, there would be a season of 21 plus episodes like any show worth its salt out there. But no. There is a reason there are only three episodes in the first series. Yep, three boring, over long episodes.Episode 1 A future prime minister is forced to have sex with a pig.Epispde 2 People ride indoor cycle machines in exchange for credit to "live"Episode 3 We have devices in out heads that record all events as we live them, and can play them back.To be honest i was so bored by the end of each episode i knew that the only reason i was watching them, was to write a review here!.
Watched first episode of the series and found it to be one of the most vile, disgusting and disturbing things I've ever seen. As bad as "Caligula" and "Salo" w/o being explicit.To what end? We don't already know that the collision of 24/7 media and fickle public opinion leads to terrible situations and political chaos? That we can't turn away from watching horrifying world events? Who doesn't know that already? I embrace plenty of "disturbing" movies and TV shows when the ideas and themes enlighten on some level; but this was just the worst!! Maybe the other episodes are better, but I don't intend to find out.


                
Incredible- I mean I simply couldn't believe it at all. How come this lame TV series gets this much rating that I don't understand because I couldn't watch more than one episode of the show.Granted I only watched the first episode but what an episode! It was an insult to my intelligent. The prime minister was manipulated in this episode. But the way he get manipulated was lame beyond explanation. Probably writer never saw a president or how he works, have no idea how the operations goes around him; he just used his weak imagination. There so many things that are wrong with the episode, it will take at least ten pages to write it all. So I will not go into all that. All I want to let the people know who are thinking of watching the series are that; the acting was unconvincing (actors and actresses completely failed to grasp the gravity of the scenes), there was no logic in the story(this is not how the government deals with blackmailers) and it will be a utter waste of your valuable time.HIGHLY NOT RECOMMENDED.


                
really a 4/10 but had to give it 1/10 because its getting overrated.The series tries, keyword TRIES to be like twilight zone. Granted twilight zone feels a bit dated.the reboot of twilight zone had episodes that were better than this. It's always funny how Television will take an old idea and introduce again and people will gawk and praise as "some revolutionary idea!"the show puts a new techno spin on the old twilight stories. Some of the episodes are good but most are mediocre. None and I mean NONE of the Black mirror episodes are as good as Twilight Zone's "Nothing in Dark".If you expect the caliber of "Time enough at Last" you will be deeply disappointed.


                
