Brilliant.Absolutely brilliant.This is NOT anti-utopian, it is an actual mirror of a utopian idea gone terribly wrong.I've only watched 3 episodes so far and each one has made me think, made me go back and look again, made me ask myself why this had never occurred to me before.I would call this sci-fi in the richest sense of the genre.... it is not about science, but how science affects human beings. The one thing that never seems to change is us. Technology evolves, mutates, advances and declines, but human beings, our feelings, our courage, fears, and desires remain within us.I love this show. I hope you will love it too. And I hope you will think.


                
This is the biggest surprise i came across these last couple of years. This series is one of the best i've seen. Every episode is unique yet criticizes the same absurd society we're living in. I was shocked at the great filming/acting/directing and of course writing of these different stories. My personal favorite would be episode 2. The most futuristic but also the most accurate representation of what most of our lives look like right now. Just saw in a review that a guy stopped watching after 20 minutes at the second episode. That's the biggest mistake he could do. Definitely the best episode. I wont miss anything else Charlie Brooker does and i'm patiently waiting for the DVD to come out. I hope this also gets a Blu-Ray version and maybe some new episodes after wards?


                
Watching it was disturbing and shocking at the same time. Depressive in a way, but also genius and defying! The way it makes you question and think about reality and our modern technological ages it's brilliant!And although being fictional and mostly sci-fi, it's so realistic in the scariest way! It's not about tech... it's about us and our "human nature", the good and the bad, our best and worst as humans and that is definitely the most disturbing aspect of it all. Worth seeing it all with detailed attention cause it's probably one of the most intelligent and critical TV series done recently!! Thank you Mr Brooker and all the team!P.S.: the first two episodes are probably the most disturbing ones and it's curious that all the bad reviews focus only in the first one... Reading those bad reviews only make more sense to the all series idea... Shocking uh? But wouldn't we be all in the pub watching it?


                
The creativity is the main problem, especially in modern culture product till 2000's. We always seen main concepts, same approaches and same faces on our TV's, and cinemas. Even trying something different and genius, has become very commonplace. But Black Mirror is totally different and witty. You need only five minute watching to understand this. Different point of view, different stories, different but natural talented faces... Some ideas in this artwork could be disturb you, but this makes it consummate. It questions your life, routines, choices you made, the basic code of ethics you have... At the end, you only feel the happiness of awareness. Thank you for showing me something different than usual, thank you for make me more aware.


                
My Rating : 10/10 <U+2660> MASTERPIECE <U+2660>How can anyone rate Black Mirror less than 10?! It's one of the most fascinating TV shows ever.Favourite Episodes : Be Right Back, San Junipero, Hang the DJ, The Entire History of You, Nosedive and Fifteen Million Merits.Bring on Season 5!


                
Every episode is suprising and makes you feel small when the clue has been released during the time you are watching it as you think: this is not totally unreal.... it could be true....One of my favorite!


                
Because "Black Mirror" is an anthology series, it is, by nature, uneven. That said, there are more good episodes than bad. There is not a single episode that doesn't make you think. This series has some of the best episodes I have ever seen on TV. Some will make you uncomfortable, others are more upbeat, but none disappoint. I have my favorites, but will just say to watch the entire series.


                
This show is the most interesting series I have come across. Black mirror presents scenarios which seem like a natural progression for the trends in the world, and also for potential trends which our society is already gravitating toward, in a way that shows you the benefits but focuses more on the potential negatives which seem to elude us. I applaud the foresight of the writers who present these issues in a way that seems obvious while were watching each episode but probably have not pondered in our every day lives. This show overall seems to have the underlying message that we want all these things which we believe will better out lives but comes with a set of problems which ultimately doesn't change anything. I believe this show is meant to help us appreciate the simpler things in life or at the very least challenge the wants we believe are the most important. Either way, a very interesting show and I would recommend everyone to watch it.


                
This is must watch sci fi series n full of surprises n thrill


                
This is truly an amazing show. At this point I have watched the first three episodes and have been brought to tears by each one. The issues that the show grapples with and illuminates in each episode are timely and significant. To say that this show deals with the dark side of technology and human nature is to make to simple of a comparison.


                
I have to say, that I am very, very impressed with this show, or better said ... masterpiece. Every part has its own story, but all of them are showing the negative consequences of technology and consequently people turning into "sheep". It is a unique show, and I don't think everybody will find it bearable. Some of the scenes are slightly perverted and quite radical. Second part is my favorite in each season. All stories are very deep and hold a lot of meanings. They are often futuristic, with some very great, advanced ideas. They criticize modern society, where technology has a big part in an everyday life. Also, I liked very much, that some stories often reveal their true meaning toward the end, so you get this "mind blown" effect. I urge you to watch this brilliant show and then think deeper about our society and the future, that awaits us.
I found this series extraordinary. It made me feel like I did very young when seeing The Twilight Zone for the first time...a world like ours, but tilted slightly, an engaging story and often a twist at the end. Should you find the subject matter the first episode to be a bit too much, I would suggest skipping it. However, it is a terrific episode and well worth viewing. All of the stories include a tweak in the current world, often in the nature of technology. Be Back Soon has elements of romance to it, while other episodes are more thriller or political in nature. They all belong together but each have their own feel. There are cameos by characters in one episode in others, but it's done as a fun thing to spot, not meant to illuminate the stores, which is why this is definitely episodic in nature. Highly recommended.


                
best show i've ever seenSo funny to read reviews of people who Hated it... all of them say something like "I watched the 1st episode and...bla bla"...indeed the 1st episode is the most scandalous of them all...maybe that's why they made it episode 1? If you don't like this, this show isn't for you...go watch breaking bad or something


                
Well, I have to admit, I've swallowed it, alright... But when I've got through those two seasons, I felt something odd - why do I have the feeling that this artsy, independently presented thing seems to have a hell of a budget for the special effects department, and why do 90% of the episodes ramble about TV shows or the likes ? Hm. And then I watched the credits - what a surprise !!! Pure, black mirrory irony: the producer of this show is Endemol - pretty much THE production company worldwide who entertains or should I say renders people completely stupid in front of their TV set with exactly the type of shows criticized along the Black Mirror Episodes. Wow. Now you can call me paranoid or a conspiracy addict, but that seems like a perfect marketing strategy to me: Depict those shows, which would eventually come up next, a little irony here, a bit of voyeurism there, see which one pays off in the audience and the forums and here we go for the next-gen batch of stupid game and reality shows. I must say, the best scenario definitely goes to Endemol's think tank. Bravo.


                
I'll keep this review short and simple. Black Mirror is horror that we live on a daily basis. I feel like me typing out this review could be made into a Black Mirror episode that would scare the crap out of me. There are no cheap jump scares, no things that go bump in the night. This is pure psychological warfare. This is questioning your reality. The scariest part? We're always one second away from being a Black Mirror episode...or maybe we're already living in one right now. Black Mirror is one big glitch in the Matrix and I'm living for it. No matter what device you're reading this review on right now, once the screen times out, there's only you, and your reflection in that Black Mirror.


                
Great show. Honestly. It messes with your mind. But someone who knows how to get in contact with the creators or a producer - tell them they need to do an episode based off of 1984 by George Orwell.


                
Episode two is the most profound artistic statement I've ever seen on any medium. The monologue by the dude at the end is probably the best bit of acting I've ever seen. Next level S#!t. I was going to leave this review at that but IMDb says it must be a minimum of 10 lines. All I can say is this show is truly visionary and probably too far ahead of it's time for a lot of people to really appreciate. People who are looking for something new, unique, interesting, thought provoking, disturbing, intelligent, spectacular, sensational, prophetic, well executed, superbly written, directed, and performed, will enjoy this program. The first episode was one of the most disturbing things I've ever seen on film, but was so well done and engaging I couldn't look away... or sleep afterward. The second episode just takes filmmaking to a whole new level. The third episode doesn't let up and is brilliant in it's own way. I haven't gotten to the second season yet, but I've seen enough to easily give it ten stars.


                
There's not much to say about this show other than its a really unique masterpiece, showing the decay of society covered by pretended smile and ignorance. How even morale persons under the influence of rotten society rules go on the dark path of egoism. The incredible accuracy of how people with different characters will behave in certain situation is what stands out most in this series. Stand alone episodes about the consequences and the power of technology. Quite possibly situations that will happen in the future. The acting in this show is superb!I highly recommend it to people who enjoy understanding todays society and are worried of the direction this world is taking. And the acting in this show is superb!


                
I am not finished all seasons and episodes but it is enough to see first season to write some good review about this article. This extraordinary serial shows you if you are so deep into the technology how its affect you. The best of the serial is the episodes are not linked to each other. Each episodes gives you a short movie taste.


                
Can't remember any other show left me so speechless like this one. There are many great shows, but this one...every single episode left me overwhelmed with various emotions, every episode in it's unique way with unique story. I really can not describe content, story, hidden message or characters with just words, I can only scream PLEASE WATCH THIS! Sometimes beginning of episodes may seem boring or dull, with slow developing story, but in the end every single episode gives you sucker punch that leaves you speechless.WATCH! WATCH! WATCH!


                
One of the best tv series which has complete new story in every episode. All episodes ends with an open ending which is the best part of the series.


                
Charlie Brooker is the Albert Einstein in scifi story writing, the Jules Verne of our time. The series is dark, ingenious and thought-provoking. Typically a series can stretch for years on a single storyline that works. The genius of Charlie Brooker is that he can come up with so many stories that are all unique and interesting. Now this replaced Mind Hunter as my favorite show on Netflix.


                
I request the makers to please make more episodes. What the hell how come they think like that. Such a original thinking. Just hands off to you guys. 
Every episode is a journey starting slowly and then getting pace. 
No living person should miss it. 
Thanks 
Rahul Lakra


                
Upon viewing the first episode I wasn't sure how the show was going to progress. Alas, the second episode is a completely different story. "Black Mirror" repeatedly and perfectly depicts what the future may hold for us as people of the world if we continue to increase our dependence and reliance on technology and social media respectively. As I believe the title is intended to foreshadow, it shows us a dark reflection of ourselves. The show eloquently brings to light how future technologies can make our lives immensely better, but as history has shown us, and as is depicted in the show, immensely better can easily become immensely problematic.As for my taste in shows, I appreciate developed characters and plot randomness or unpredictability. Charlie Brooker I applaud thee because the characters are consistently fully developed and you can never pin down where the episodes are going to go. The character development leads you to easily empathize with the various situations the series puts them in, and by the end of the episodes you'll find yourself evaluating their decisions as if they were you're close friends.Brilliant execution, use of technology, and plot development - simply brilliant.


                
My favorite TV Show of all time. It's a series of science-fiction anthologies focusing on potential ugly outcomes of technology innovation, and many of them are already about to happen. Episodes are standalone with their own original story, but they all share the main theme of how technology might affect us and reveal the hideous side of our soul. Furthermore, their typical dark and ironic tone are so exceptional, it blends in perfectly with the main theme. Besides, the anthology approach was really a great choice because it keeps the audience focused on core concept of the series while enjoying various stories rather than be attached to some recurrent characters in a standard approach. Indeed, the show has never ceased to amaze us, either with unimaginable ideas of technology, or sometime with new plot development regarding similar tech innovations but from very different angles. Like its creator - Charlie Brooker said: "There was a signature tone to the stories, the same dark chocolate coating - but the filling was always a surprise." And all together, that's what has made Black Mirror stand out as an uniquely remarkable picture of our time.
* The series's title was inspired by the cold, shiny screen of a TV, a monitors, a smart-phone... when it's off - technology's "black mirror" that can reflect the darkness of humanity.* Some of you might decide to abandon the series after watching the 1st episode. That's a terrible mistake! In fact, I consider it as one of the weakest stories of the collection. In my opinion, as it was a pilot, Brooker didn't want to go too deep, therefore the shocking stayed in the shallow but not in the profound. However, don't give up on the show because of it! Otherwise you'll miss some extraordinary gem that'll make you regret.
So far, my 3 favorite stories are: 3rd - "The Entire History of You" (season 1); 2nd - "Black Museum" (season 4); and especially the 2014 Christmas special, "White Christmas", has been my number one ever since.


                
