So far I am zero for 4 with these episodes. This series of episodes are nothing more that the Lifetime channel being either the victim channel or stupid criminals. Very disappointing and piss poor storylines..


                
I don't know what too make of Black Mirror. I know I don't like it, but I don't know if it's because the show is bad, or if it's because it's tapping in to something that's going on in the world right now that I don't see, or can't relate too. It makes me feel kind of stupid. I've heard a lot of people praising the show. I keep hearing that it's satire, but I've watched the entire series and not one of the episode makes any sense too me, and I'm no stranger to weird science fiction. I'm a fan of J.G. Ballard, I read a lot of William S. Burroughs when I was a kid, I'm a huge fan of Rod Serling<U+0085> So I guess what I'm saying is that this is less of a review, and more of a message to anyone who feels the same way I do: you are not alone.


                
The show seems to try really hard to be thought provoking and unpredictable but the end result is exactly the opposite. Most episodes make their point within the first 10-15min and then they beat it into absurdity which makes the show a chore to watch.I don't understand what the hype is around this show, it's nothing revolutionary and most of the time it just comes across as pretentious, go watch the Outer Limits, it's much better written and the ending is almost always a surprise.


                
Nothing but an infantile exercise in satire. Dark mirror is for Satire what Facebook is for friendship. Here's the problem with Dark Mirror - The world they are satirising, Youth mass media/social media, doesn't need satirising. It's already satire!The pilot is beyond ludicrous and plausibility. Everybody in charge is an idiot and the filmmakers treat the viewers as such - conveniently glossing over glaring logic flaws and asking the viewer to suspend basic assumptions like cheating us into believing a cut off man's finger is that of a dainty princess. It's really lazy writing and the show continually asks us to suspend our disbelief beyond for even the most basic of plot points. It would be okay if they cut a few corners to get the message across but the whole thing is an exercise in cutting every corner just to get across a few insipid dark views on the modern world. Like I said, watching real life is more satirical than this. I did watch the 2nd episode in the hopes that it would get better, but unfortunately it didn't. It was just as silly. It's obvious that Charlie Brooker thinks young people into Talent Shows and Facebook are morons, but a good satire needs to be more than pointing out the obvious. It needs to be more than getting a giant brush and pairing it with random thoughts about the modern age. A good story and something more insightful than a twitter post by a professional sports player would be a good place to start for a show like this. As it stands now it's nothing more than a shallow observation by somebody who thinks they are being clever and nobody has the heart to tell them otherwise.UPDATE: Just watched the 3rd episode. It's actually interesting because it deals with human relationships and emotions in a grounded way. It does pull a few sneaky tricks, but overall it's much better than the 1st and 2nd episode. Although the resolution adds nothing and doesn't live up to the build up.
Knowing Charlie Brooker I expected cynical, dark and dare I say it mildly thought provoking.. Unfortunately 'Black Mirror: The National Anthem' is heinously cynical, dark and seriously trashy. Hence I feel this equally negative review should counteract Charlie Brooker's remorseless portrayal of humankind. From the off, the only character I sympathise with is the prime minister's aid, questioning the plausibility of the princess' unconvincing dramatics. The poor acting and constant spelling out of every potential nuance of the plot unearths the already questionable storyline as the short lived teenage horror film it is. Masquerading as a contemplative assessment of modern media, in reality only to be enjoyed by giggling fifteen year olds indulging themselves in the tasteless ridiculousness of this pretence of grandeur.


                
Black mirror failed to impress me. Firstly because its actually very average.
I had only seen the first two episodes of the series and the first was overrated but the better of the two. The second was plain boring and dragging. Series is based on old sci-fi concept that a lot of earlier people didnt give much of care to make anything out of so these people made something out of it and its horrible. Black mirror never made me think about it after watching it. Fail.English movies and TV are on a decline. Content, Character and innovation are on a decline. Cinematography is on an up, which makes the audience awe.


                
The first episode is just pointless. What is sad is how pathetically lovers of this thing come across. They read so much depth and intelligence into it. There's nothing there. It's clear that the ending was conceived first, and then a story (a truly weak one) was written to support it. My problem with it isn't THAT the PM would eff a pig to save someone's life (queue the "we don't negotiate with terrorists" people) or even that the princess could be so easily kidnapped, with no clues left behind.One, the thought that someone should have to pork a pig (to save a human life) is presented as a real dilemma for everyone involved. Really? This is the worst thing one can imagine? Seriously, just think about it for a minute-and-a-half. The idea of it is portrayed in such a way that the PM and everyone around him (including his stupidly unsupportive wife) act like it's so dire. All one has to do is imagine the captive is their own child<U+0085>and it's dilemma over in three seconds. The whole idea of doing it puts the characters in such fits of anguish, such outward displays of inner turmoil that you'd think the world was coming to an end.I could come up with a million things that might actually bring about the melodramatic anguish that the characters play out. It's incongruous. Or is this a British thing? Is this how British people would react (honestly) to such a scenario?Two, citizens tune in to watch together at sports pubs as if it's a World Cup final. The Nation looks excited and jazzed as if they think it will be funny and not demoralizing to anyone. Drinks all around! Then, when the act actually takes place, everyone looks surprised, like they expected it to be humorous but then were shocked when it turned out to be unwatchable. Really, they all couldn't imagine that in real life it wouldn't be funny?Three, the conversation about the approval rating is unnecessary. That such a conversation COULD or WOULD take place is just the writers proposing a conspiracy as if that territory is food for thought. Are politicians that horrid? Maybe. If they were, would it be news to anyone? Again, it's just a cheap shot, not a revelation. Four, the captor is SO amazingly advanced that he can fool the British government. He expects their every move, plans contingencies for them, and punishes them in real time when they act predictably. But, evil as he is, he cuts off his OWN finger instead of that of the princess. Why does he care? He's already kidnapped her, harmed her, scared her half-to-death, emotionally tortured her, brought her to the brink of insanity, but cutting off her finger is just what<U+0085>too far? Further, no one can seem to tell the difference between a female finger when it is delivered to them in real time. How did he arrange to get it delivered to them so fast? Who delivered the finger? Why did he bother to put it on ice??? How did he do it through the pain? Sure, he kills himself at the end. So, he's suicidal? Suicidal people don't plan extravagant terrorist acts (with no true consequences) and then kill themselves after. What would be the point?Five, the PM's wife acts like the PM is betraying her and their marriage somehow. She becomes distant and cold to him immediately as if he wasn't just forced to perform a demoralizing act to save someone's life-which appears to have worked. They act like nothing's wrong in public, but then behind closed doors, can't even get a hug from her. He was raped. Imagine the reverse. A woman is the PM, and she has to take it from a horse or a large dog or something. Then after the act, the husband treats her insensitively, and without empathy?Lastly, the writers feel the need to add an extra shot of cheap, predictable nonsense by staging a phone call during which the PM's aid is told she was released 30 minutes prior to the act with the pig. It's another cheap shot that is below the creativity belt of any self-respecting artist. We're also supposed to believe that someone went through the trouble of time-lining the whole thing precisely enough to discover the 30 minute window in the first place. It would be after the fact, because, the news of the princess being found couldn't have been kept mum for 30 minutes. Word would have gotten to someone and it would have halted the pig scene. But, someone (who knows who) time-lined it right away, cause THAT's what was on everybody's mind at the time?Why am I writing this to slam one episode? Because the real tragedy here is that so many people are taken in by it. Production values are all that matters. People are so easily entertained and so boring that anything which filmed well, with decent actors will hypnotize them.I watched episode 2 anyway. I watched it because of the decent acting and production values, hoping that the first episode was just a mistake. I should have known better. Anyone who would lead a series with an episode this poor, doesn't advertise much promise. The second episode, "Fifteen Million Merits" is less cheap, but just as pointless. It is also excruciatingly dull. Mind you, I watched it with bated breath the whole time, expecting something meaningful to happen. I wasn't bored, but it was dull. Don't know if that makes sense to anyone. In the end, it was as the first. It's just that we live in this world where everything is dire, cynical, pointless, meaningless<U+0085>just add water (plot). This seems to be the flavor of the show, so two is enough. Go ahead; tell me I'm really missing out. I'll take my chances and watch reruns of "As Time Goes By" instead.
Before watching, I read a handful of reviews for this series and wowed at the high overall rating of 8.8.Now, let's get this in perspective...A higher rating than: <U+0095> Halt and Catch Fire (2014)...?! <U+0095> Hand of God (2014)...?! <U+0095> Bates Motel (2013)...?! <U+0095> Manhattan (2014)...?!NO WAY! ...and this is the problem!I watched the first two episodes of "Black Mirror". I was horrified and stupefied by the first "The National Anthem" and bored senseless with the second "Fifteen Million Merits".Whoever wrote "The National Anthem" needs his head examined. Apart from the fact that I'm not keen on Rory Kinnear, I say this for two reasons:i. It was a totally unnecessary, disgusting and vile piece of writing. The writer must have been seriously short of idea to resort to something like this. Now, I'm not a prude but this could easily have been focused on a 'safer' topic that would get the same 'point' across (whatever that point was supposed to be).ii. It was completely and utterly unbelievable. Does anyone REALLY believe that a Prime Minister would resort to 'obeying' the demands of a kidnapper in such a way??? It wouldn't happen. I repeat: IT... WOULD... NOT...HAPPEN...! The repercussions of this would affect the country considerably more than the loss of one life (and by saying this I'm not trivialising life). Over the years, the knock-on negative effect for ANY subsequent Government would be phenomenal. Politics would be changed forever and the general population would have such a deep loss of self-respect that I believe the people would resort to some form of anarchic behaviour including, in some cases, self-destruction. There is no Government on Earth that would submissively resort to such action.As for "Fifteen Million Merits", it was a very nice idea, a great concept but... Alfred Hitchcock could have gotten the point across in a 20 minutes AND make a better job of it.I'll give this one more chance by watching the episode "White Christmas" which, I notice, has specifically been given wonderful reviews.However, judging by my first and second incursions into this series, I would recommend staying well away. Instead, try watching "The Outer Limits"... same idea but HUGELY better!
The show is a good thriller if you don't mind keeping your brain to rest while you watch this show. I think they should make an episode about how people are hooked up to this show. This perfectly fit their type of content, people like this show because they want to sound smart, they want to be called an audience that watches "dark" or "satirical-drama". While in a real sense this show is nonsense, so many plot-holes. If you have any real idea of watching TV, you would know. If you have any sense of science of technology, if you ever paid attention to your high school science class, you would know that this is all as fiction as a fiction can be. 3/10 because it can be a good pass time.


                
The tv show is basically a scam. The writers are writing a new plot per episode and what's the point? You never have characters that you can actually understand they're all twisted and the endings are always terrible. I don't understand how it could be so highly rated I barely got through the first 2 seasons I thought to myself it'd get better, it just didn't so I don't recommend to anyone to watch it, there's better things to do with your life.


                
The whole point of dystopia and sci-fi is to make it believable. The only dystopic thing about BlackMirror is it has a rating of 8,9 on this website which means our population is not getting any smarter.The writer is very creative, but knows way less about technology or politics or the world than the average teenager. And is probably a hopeless social struggle junkie who blames the problems of the world on consumerism.The only episode I enjoyed was the prime minister shagging a piggy, but it still lead nowhere. It was just a spark of creativity (the kind that emerges from getting high with your highschool friends), without any decent support.


                
Reminds me of some other show, wonder what it is. Oh, yeah ! STAR TREK!


                
The 1st ep put me off watching the rest of the show but ended up finishing season 1. In some episodes it is pretty disturbing. TBH I didn't like it


                
