To sum up this series for me is quite easy, It's a dark look at what could be, and a very deep look at the worst of human nature. The cast and set are different every time, but one theme I found recurring was that each episode was extremely haunting, and it definitely gets the viewer thinking about what could be if the world was just a little bit different. I don't think Black Mirror will appeal to everyone because some themes are a slightly uncomfortable especially in the pilot episode. So far the actors that have been cast have done an amazing job, and the writers have managed to make some far fetched ideas seem graspable. Basically this series is unlike anything else on TV and for that it gets a big thumbs up from me. I don't want to write any spoilers, but what I will say is this if you want a drama with dark twist or a series that is completely Original make it Black Mirror.


                
What I find joyfull about this serie is that you don't have to watch each episode in a specific order, they are all independent from eachother with different stories and characters. A common theme however throughout the serie is the inevitable demise of the main protagonist. Whether being killed, psychologically tortured or in some rare cases coming out on top there is always an element of tragedy and despair in each episode mixed with some dark humor.The first two episodes I watched where "Shut up and dance" and "The national anthem", both takes place in current times with the same technology we have access to today. I found these first episodes to be accelerating, alarming and somewhat disturbing. But what is truly frightful is the fact that these horror scenarios can happen to anyone anywhere(if precatutions are not taken) which I think is the genius of this show.With our technology moving forward at an increasing speed I do think that safty issuses and moral questions concering the use off new devices(and whether they shall exist or not)may become an issuse, Black mirror shows what "can" happen in some extreme cases.Writer Charlie Brooker really brings something new to the table which Is something I am highly fond off. My only concern with the show are a few episodes that i found somewhat exaggerated and way to unrealistic. The episodes that do it for me are those that infact are realistic with a twisted interpretation of modern technology. Some examples are white christmas and nosedive.If you like thrillers and horrors I think this serie is worth a go. It sometimes gives me an urge to disconnect from todays accessories.
Charlie Brooker is a great satirist: funny and clever, and, although often crude, in 'Black Mirror' he certainly isn't pandering to the lowest common denominator (in spite of the fact that the first film is about the prime minister having sex with a pig!). Indeed, he (and his collaborators) show themselves to be skilled film-makers: in this trio of short stories about how technology is changing our lives, two have a sci-fi feels and the understated way with which a future world, subtly different to our own, is conveyed, with a minimum of carefully deployed special effects, is a lesson to Hollywood with its obsession with spectacle and its inability to understand that less can be more. Yet while Brooker's films are delicately made, there's a certain obviousness to the points he is making; while he's extraordinarily skillful in imagining the details, there's less below the surface than you might hope for. I found the middle film the most convincing (and indeed moving), and exactly because it was most explicitly a fable; in the others, Brooker's merciless eye is also not a little heartless. But Brooker deserves credit for not standing still, and settling for making new series of 'Screenburn' ad infinitum; 'Black Mirror' may only be a partial success, but it's bold and fresh and worth watching, even if it's not so much deeper than the world it's taking apart.
absolutely gripping intelligent humorous insight into modern culture with a media savi team of writers.Well worth a watch for the will he won't he suspense of the first episode.make some time in your schedule to see this and look forward to discussing it with people afterwards.Looking forward to this writing team coming back with more funds to deliver bigger and better.the ten lines of text minimum is a real pain when you are in a hurry to watch the next episode.enjoy.


                
I am reminded that poignant and critical science fiction still holds a place in our society. No matter how advanced our world becomes I hope someone will always be holding a magnifying glass up to the people and technology that shape out daily lives. In the vein of Rod Serlings Twilight Zone, Black Mirror shows us a bleak impression of the future if we succumb to the immediate gratification of technology and cynicism. Each Black Mirror episode is it's own stand alone piece. I'm not going to do a breakdown of the episodes. They are all worth checking out. Just trust me when I say it's some of the best Sci-Fi I've seen in a long, long time. REAL Sci-Fi. There aren't any happy endings here. It's Beautiful, It's sad, and it's all probably going to happen.Watch it, enjoy it, and be wary of the future.


                
.............Waste of timeI wish I had read some of the other comments about this show earlier. I mean the ones that say it's awful and a waste of time. That's what it is.Never wrote a review before. But this is far too overrated. Please use your time for one of the many good productionsI am sure you can find a lot of movies of people "meeting" animals.. if you are into this stuff. But even if you like this show, please don't trick people into watching this with your rating.......


                
As an American I feel comfortable saying that this show needs to stay British. No one and I mean no one does television as well as the Brits and that goes for us Yanks...especially us actually. American TV is shallow, boring and worst of all highly predictable. Which is why I've turned to British drama! Its also fun to see every guest star or recurring actor on Game of Thrones has been recycled in literally every British TV show ever!But honestly with Brit TV, the acting is downright inspirational, the writing keeps me on the edge of my seat! Black Mirror is one of those series. I had no idea what it was about when i started it other than it was British drama and i was looking for another series to binge. From episode one National Anthem..my mind was completely blown. I was shocked, horrified, and terrified at how believable these outrageous stories were.My favorite brit actors of course wow'd me.Black Mirror feels like The Twilight Zone for now! At least the first two seasons do.So far im one episode in on the 3rd season and already I'm bummed out. They've gone American. and already its trash. for Godsake Rashida Jones is credited with writing the opening episode of season 3. And it was as boring and predictable as you would expect American TV to be. I had to force myself to get through the episode and not simply skip it altogether.Anyway KEEP British TV...British!!! Not everything needs to be Americanized.
I saw the adverts for this series, and it was after seeing that it was repeated that I noticed Charlie Brooker was the creator, and being a huge fan of his last drama Dead Set I was certainly going to watch the three episodes. Episode 1: The National Anthem, sees Princess Susannah (Lydia Wilson) kidnapped, and as ransom for her safe return the demands are that Prime Minister Michael Callow (Quantum of Solace's Rory Kinnear) must have sexual intercourse with a live pig and it must be broadcast on all news channels. After many attempts to solve the problem with alternatives, such as locating the kidnapper hideout, this disgusting act is forced to happen, but the Princess was released before the deadline, and even though Michael's career continues his social and home life is less good. Episode 2: Fifteen Million Merits, sees a bleak automated Britain where people are forced to live inside a place where to earn credits for food, and enjoy visual entertainment, e.g. pornography from Wraith Girls, they must constantly ride on exercise bikes, and they lose merits for buying food and skipping entertainment. Bingham 'Bing' Madsen (Psychoville's Daniel Kaluuya) decides to help out new friend Abi (Jessica Brown Findlay) get her chance to become a singing star on X Factor style talent show Hot Shot, with judges Judge Hope (Rupert Everett) and Judge Charity (Julia Davis) and Judge Wraith (Ashley 'Bashy' Thomas). This costs him 15,000,000 merits of his, but he is not bothered as he does not do luxuries, but in the end she ends up on Wraith Girls, and he only "gets out" by speaking his mind about the system, but he remains in near solitary. Episode 3: The Entire History of You, technology has allowed people to store all their memories, such as conversations and experiences, in their heads with the help of super chip placed near behind their ears, and they can look back and experience any of these again. Young lawyer Liam Foxwell (Toby Kebbell) starts suspecting his wife Ffion (Jodie Whittaker) is having an affair with a man called Jonas (Tom Cullen), and he is looking back on any memories he has that would suggest this, and obviously he forces her to show her memories and confirm the suspicions. The series is a great satirical play on the significance technology has played in the world, the first episode focusing on the Twitter age and news coverage, the second on the impact of applications and talent shows, and the third about image capturing, and obviously the title Black Mirror refers to ourselves being part of all this, it is a must see drama mini series. Very good!
Well, at first I'm delighted the series consists of single episodes. Every episode is totally different, though the main theme is the disadvantages of technologie in the nearby future. Some of these episodes are great, others a bit boring. But still, this is just my opinion. To find out which episode suits you, just watch it!


                
Just finished binge watching all 4 seasons. I will admit the first episode threw me a bit, like what the hell is this? Humiliation involving bestiality. All I could think of was, that poor pig. Watched the next one and thought I wouldn't watch anymore after that. Then I saw episode 3. The emotion was so raw, I was hooked. The husbands obsession and playing every memory back repeatedly looking for clues, I felt sorry for him. There were only a couple episodes that were just ok. It's scary to think this could be the future. Makes me think every time I use my phone or social media. How invasive to have someone legally see your memories. Black Mirror was not a let down. My advice keep watching, don't give up after the pig!
Egotistical maniac brings innocent people into his game. Brings them into his game to better 1 small part of his life. Not considering the torture and his reality theyd be stuck in. ..but in the end you almost feel bad for him. Impossible to wake up stuck in a non existent reality. At least it's not a true story or you'd really feel bad for the dude.But you can't torture people and just expect them to sit back and take it. Eventually someone has to over throw the sadistic programmer. :)
Black Mirror is a TV show that I missed when it originally aired on TV but I recently watched all 6 episodes to date on demand. It is a show that I found to be very different and unique in its own way. The episodes all have their own story lines and completely different casts. The episodes blew a little hot and cold for me but overall I found it to be quite entertaining. The 1st episode about the PM I found incredibly disturbing but it was riveting to watch. Episodes 2 and 3 seemed quite slow overall and not much actually happened but the cast done enough to make them watchable. The plots for these two episodes just sounded more interesting than I actually found them to be. Series 2 I thought was much better than Series 1. Episodes 1&2 had incredible story lines that both came with a twist towards the end. These two episodes kept me on the edge of my seat. Hayley Atwell was absolutely incredible in the Be Right Back episode, some of the finest acting I've seen. The White Bear episode was exceptional too. A lot of fast paced action and really makes you wonder what is going on. The twist at the end of this episode worked incredibly well. Episode 3, The Waldo Moment was also pretty good, this one was pretty basic. It was more of a comedy and was good in its own way.The National Anthem – 8/10. Fifteen Million Merits – 7/10. The Entire History of You – 6/10.Be Right Back – 9/10. White Bear – 9/10. The Waldo Moment – 7/10Overall Black Mirror is a very good watch but some episodes stand out from the others. 8/10.
Black Mirror is an anthology series that taps into our collective unease with the modern world, with each stand-alone episode a sharp, suspenseful tale exploring themes of contemporary techno-paranoia. The problem however, is that on some of the episodes, the writers desire to invocate twisted endings that convolute what starts out as a suspenseful tale, falls flat to any possible logic that would leave the viewer satisfied. Still, most of the episodes do succeed with a satisfying ending. 8/10 from me


                
** Some political correctness and some identity politcs, especially in later episodes **The first 3 1/2 seasons of Black Mirror are fairly consistently brilliant. Many of the other reviews here capture the cleverness of the series.However, the last 1 1/2 series have succumbed to identity politics. It's sad to see such a powerful writer and executive producer stumble and fall into post modernism. You will see a sudden influx of unrealistic, dislikeable female characters. In particular, the episode "Hated in the Nation" is doused in political correctness, nauseatingly so.Is this simply a case of being upset with female characters? Not at all. Prior to the political correctness dousing, the female characters were natural and realistic, capable and vulnerable. After this, I predicted that the "female hacker" in "Hates in the Nation" would outsmart every male hacker within seconds because "she's female". You will see a consistent theme of imasculation of male characters and hyper masculinisation of female characters. From a show that aims to reflect reality, it's such a disappointment that it falls into these shallow stereotypes.Let's hope the writers don't follow the path of Season 4 of Sherlock Holmes. Can the writers turn back to realistic, relatable female characters? Once you head down this path, writers rarely recover. Realism loses out. The edginess of season 1 is unlikely to be seen again, unless the show heads to extreme political correctness.
Hello,To those of you with an IQ over 120 and with an education, imagination and not enslaved in a unhealthy religion that warps your mind....you will love it. Episodes that force the viewer to think and accept what the future might bring (and its not very nice)!But to those of you giving this one star and wasting time with negativity and words pulled from your thesaurus, just give up and go away. Its obvious you don't have the imagination to follow this. Just a guess...how many novels (Sci_Fi, Speculative or classic) do you read a year? If the number is under 25 I weep for you. So much to learn before we die yet some waist time on sofa sports, drinking, and never traveling OUT of the US to see the world. Its sad that you praise a country that rates a movie "X" for kissing a breast and "R" for cutting it off with a chainsaw.So check this series, its a breath of fresh air.


                
Several of the episodes contain interesting and enthralling plots, many of which are cleverly displayed, and include great acting to go along with that. My only issue is the endings. For me, this show would be my absolute favorite if some of the endings were tweaked. Episodes like "Playtest," "Shut Up And Dance," and "Hated In The Nation" had some of the best story lines, and to me, had the potential to be incredible episodes. They were original, and had likable characters, yet the endings made me angry. In "Playtest," it was just annoying that he died. Same with "Shut Up and Dance." Hector was very likable, Kenny, eh, but it just infuriated me when that the anonymous guy leaked the video after he had obeyed everything he had said. That totally ruined the episode for me. As for "Hated In The Nation," the fact that the bees killed 375,000 people made me very angry. They worked so hard to save individual people for most of the episode, and then the bees end up killing thousands. It was just a waste of time for me. I suppose these bothersome endings are intentional, for there were other annoying ones in other episodes as well. The show is still good despite this and I hope season four contains episodes with not so annoying endings. The show is well thought out, well shot, and has great acting, so for that I give it and 8 out of 10
This anthology series is a great tribute to The Twilight Zone and The Outer Limits. I only started watching last week. My sister recommended it. And a great recommendation it was. This "Mini-seriesesque" show is from production companies Zeppotron and House of Tomorrow. The former, having many previous productions in British television.On to the episodes, since these episodes are so diverse I will give a quick review of my 3 fave episodes:Nosedive (S3 E1): Just because Dallas Price Howard is the lead (she is one of my favorite actresses) isn't the reason that this is one of my favorite episodes. One of my favorite things to do (as a past time) is to go through the massive amount of videos on Instagram. The premise of voting on people (or in Instagram's case liking things) is a power that while holds no substance can destroy a person's morale. We care more about what others think than what we think about ourselves. It's a little Psychology and a little philosophy. The acting in this was Awesome. The radical change of the lead character was real. The general idea of the tech was not something really futuristic but more like something that could actually happen in a few years, but like an app not mandatory in integrated into society. It was shot in South Africa and really made use of the rural S.A. locations.An Entire History of You (S1 E3): No to be morbid in a sense, but have you ever had a memory you wish you could forget? Ever have a green-eyed monster thought? Well, in this ep they really took on the mind of a jealous person and forged it with technology that I believe would make anyone go nuts. Both Tobey Kobbell and tom Cullen played well as adversaries. The whole interview he had in the beginning did not connect well to the rest of the plot; I felt the first 5 mins could have really did something to connect me to his anger. The settings of modern furniture and the dinner party had an allure to it. This might be turned into a movie; rumors are Robert Downey Junior is going to produce. Be Right Back (S2 E1): This ep takes us to the great obnoxious emotion of mourning. Hayley Atwell plays a grieving pregnant widow. She did a great job of relaying the intimate feeling of losing someone and then getting back just enough of them to not want them any more (if that makes sense.) This is a Strange place in the spectrum of sentiment and broke her at the end. Domhnall Gleasons portrayal as a composite reincarnation of him self was good but lacking some definiteness. I felt like the cake represented something. A relic mirage of pleasure.Honorable Mentions: Fifteen Million Merits (S1 E2) –Stationary biking all day is a terror in any dimension.San Junipero (S3 E4) – That music though<U+0085> Walk Like an Egyptian <U+0085> Heaven is a Place on Earth.
Black Mirror is a British anthology series created by Charlie Brooker. While each episode presents a different world with different characters, all of them have a common underlying theme - the dark side of technology. In this review, I am going to discuss aspects of this TV series that makes it my favorite of all time.
Firstly, the show has the ability of presenting a very depressing, dystopian world that could actually happen in present time. This aspect makes the viewing experience much more terrifying. The characters presented are also three-dimensional and have a lot of nuance on them. This makes the audiences care and feel invested on them. Moreover, the high production values adds an extra layer of realism to the world since it looks very realistic. Additionally, the stories teaches a lot of moral lessons that audiences can learn. Last but not least, the great cinematography presents a visceral experience as every shot is composed beautifully, with a slow creeping camera movement and many wide shots.
It is a revolutionary piece of television that will stand the test of time and be remembered years from now.


                
Although this show can definitely be corny/edgy, I think every episode of this show (minus the bear episode) catches my attention and makes me want to keep watching! I think they are enjoyable to watch and they have very nice cinematography as well as well performing actors. With the exception of (the masterpiece that is) San Junipero, they are all genuinely creepy to some degree too. My favorite episodes would be Fifteen Million Merits, White Bear, San Junipero and Playtest. The Banksy-esque technology themes can seem a little tiresome but not enough so that it affects my interest in the show! I'll Keep watching until they stop making them.


                
The tv show is great and very well constructed. Cool plot and originality but...
for people with anxiety like me it's quite hard. it intensifies and triggers anxiety a lot and there should be a warning.


                
The mind-boggling British science fiction "The Black Mirror" haunts the use of modern day technology through sharp and suspenseful episodes that present possible societal consequences.
Each episode contains a whole new story line and cast as it showcases a main character being challenged by "new age" technology, essentially going through a psychological crisis. With the use of dark satire, this tv series surrounds the audience with the "Twilight Zone" sensation of a dark and twisted nature. Black Mirror aims to display how advancements in technology will interfere with human nature. Daunting and wicked music aids to transitioning from scene to scene, as the audiences' anticipation grows with each heart beat.
Charlie Brooker, the writer and creator of Black Mirror projects the future side-effects of the overuse of technology; under;lying the subject of digital technology and potential within human development. The content of the series covers internal struggles that incorporate a major conflict between humans and nature. As the characters take on pressuring decisions, the audience begins an ongoing or repeated theme of ethics: what is considered wrong, right or honest, for humans to do.
Black mirror is an untraditional take on the common debate between the advantages and disadvantages of technology in society. Each individual story within an episode will keep you hooked on a thrilling experience of suspense and emotional trauma.


                
The first two seasons are captivating and original, I couldn't look away. They were also British (which the show is meant to be). Then something in the third season shifted, the writing of the episodes changed. I found myself bored, and they were American actors in very American episodes. Guns and army personnel, had me distracted and disoriented, forgetting that I was still watching Black Mirror. I am yet to watch the fourth season, but I am hoping they go back to original ideas and mind the bending episodes, fans love so much.


                
14 of the 19 episodes so far have been brilliant, in my opinion. It is a British high tech version of the Twilight Zone of the early 60's.


                
This review contains spoilers for the first season of Black Mirror.Black Mirror is an anthological television series that focuses on alternate presents, or near futures. The episodes are stand-alone and focus on science fiction concepts that talks about the a change in today's society or another dystopian future.The first season contains three episodes of about fifty minutes long. Each episode does not relate to one another. Each of the episodes have good production values. All of the episodes have different directors, and casts. The direction across all of the episodes is good with the mise en scene being well done to contribute to the story.The writing is the main draw in this series and season. The three episodes in the first season are drastically different from one another. The first episode focuses on the a a ransom with the most connection to contemporary society. The second episode's focus is on a dystopian society that uses merit points as currency. The third episode is a near-future where the inhabitants have recorded memories through an implanted device.I highly recommend the first season of Black Mirror. The season offers the same' thrills as the Twilight Zone in the past.The below review contains spoilers for the second season of Black Mirror.The second season of Black Mirror contains three episodes and a special episode. The second season it takes more of its episodes from the third episode of the first season. The second season explores alternate realities with more a science fiction twist. This second season is an incredibly strong season. the weakest episode is "The Waldo Moment" but even this is still a strong episode.Each of the episodes explores a separate theme related to its central point of people. The Christmas special episode in particular shows the effects of a block on people that exists in real-life. This season is not a happy season with much of its themes being derived from the more negative emotions of humanity.Like the first season, none of the episodes are linked in any way. Although this is fun to explore, I would have liked to know more about some of the worlds in this season's episodes.I highly recommend the second season of Black Mirror.Four stars out of four stars.
Some of Us, as Futurists, Scientists, Philosophers, Ethicians "Computer Enthusiasts" did think about the implications of Technology, as Sociology, Philosophy's Norms, Morals, Ethics, Mores.Scientist's is this possible of Theoretical Science becoming Applied Science and Applied Physics.Regretfully, the Masses of Humanity refused to listen, we watched Technology get perverted from Original Intent to make money, not to make Humanities Quality of Life any better. Everything was all about how much money could be made as profits.This TV Series does show the Black Mirror, the Evil Reflection of the Perverted Use of Technology, that has been readily accepted as "Normal" by most Millennials (ages up to 39), most have been conditioned to only write a 140 character Tweet, as British Term "Twits", and worst yet those are considered the smart ones, that don't even know how to Capitalize because the technology did not auto capitalize the words for them so they mistakenly think they are right.We see now a days a 100% lack of privacy, as just about everything is videoed, recorded.I have seen personally what happens to a "Modern" City when everything electrical has been permanently destroyed by Electro Magnetic Pulses and Electro Magnetic Radiation and took years to rebuild replace. First was the Denial, then Rage and Riots, Extreme Violence, Despair, and finally Acceptance, people actually interacted more with each other, held face to face intellectual conversations, their birth rates sky rocketed.We see now a days on the Internet Vidoes that were posted only for one purpose destroy somebody's life. - Black Mirror National Anthem or topple a Government.Today We have video recorders everywhere and Go Pro cameras, drones that can be bought and used to record things not previously recordable, next step implants - Black Mirror The Entire History of You.Many of Us thought about How to "Eternal Life". Cloning, Consciousness Transfers, Genetic Engineering, Social Engineering, and many others "That Would Change the World". We carefully thought of the consequences.
