Anyone wondering what Schindler's List might have looked like if performed by toys need look no further than "Toy Story 3." An ugly, dark, joyless movie, "Toy Story 3" will frighten children and send adults into therapy.The first "Toy Story" was a delight, capped off with a fun and exciting chase sequence, in which Buzz and Woody attempted to catch up to the moving van that held all of their friends. Sure, if they hadn't made it, it would have been sad. But the chase and the movie as a whole was a lot of fun, capped off by some fun Randy Newman songs."Toy Story 2" was an even better movie, because it added an interesting ingredient to the soup: An acknowledgment of death. The sequence where Jessie laments how her life lost its meaning when her owner grew up is truly heart breaking. And the final spoken lines of dialogue, referencing Buzz's catch phrase "To infinity and beyond," but placing the phrase in the context of death itself was a masterstroke. Adding these dark elements in select moments elevated the movie into something special."Toy Story 3" makes the mistake of taking those select moments and turning them into the WHOLE MOVIE. The stink of death, loss and alienation is as prevalent here as a Beckett play. The story of Lotso's grim rejection by his owner and his subsequent change to a dark, Nazi-like dictator poisons the fun. (What, no up tempo Randy Newman song about that?) And the depiction of Ken as a gay stereotype was offensive, and future generations will squirm at those moments, like they do today over the racist depiction of Asians in "Breakfast at Tiffanies." (The Pixar films would never take a black or Jewish toy and make them act in a stereotypical fashion, but I guess gays are fair game.) As with most sequels, character growth is mostly zero. The characters have done all their growing in the earlier segments, and so they spend the movie mostly running around, learning nothing, never growing. Woody comes off as absurdly delusional in his belief that the best thing for him and the others is to sit in a plastic bag in an attic for decades until such time as maybe Andy wants his children to play with them.But life at the daycare center is another form of hell. The film strives to depict the toy's plight as a parody of a prison film, but ends up evoking the holocaust and Nazi concentration camps. The tyranny, torture (yes, torture) and betrayals the toys face in the day care center are dark and awful, but still pale in comparison to the act three climax. Here, we have the pleasure of watching our heroes in a trash compactor, facing an almost certain death in an oven, to be burned alive. Again, one can't help but think of the holocaust and how the victims there were burned in ovens.But it all ends happily. The characters are saved and live happily ever after.Or do they? For a film that shows such craft in its writing and such subtlety in its characterizations, the final fifteen minutes of the film are mind boggling inconsistent with what has come before. It begins with the claw, that rescues its characters, God-like, from their peril. Up until now, God-like interventions had been non-existent. These characters always had the ingenuity to get themselves out of jams, but suddenly not here.In the scenes that follow, Andy suddenly loves his toys. And life at the daycare is a toy utopia. (Remember that the only change is that Lotso is gone. I guess he took all the evil with him when he left.) The final image of the film is the sky, with a series of similar looking clouds. Seem familiar? It's the same clouds as the wallpaper in Andy's room. The characters have found themselves, post-fire, in a happy but manufactured world. Conclusion: They died in the fire and this is heaven. I'm happy for them, because sitting through this movie, I felt like I was in hell.
Although there were some funny parts in this film, I was terribly disappointed. This movie was very scary for young children - and it was excessive. I can handle a scary scene here and there, but for young children to endure half an hour of perilous scenes where the toys are almost crushed, incinerated and the like is just too much. Probably the most disappointing part in the film, was the fact that Pixar has now placed the idea into the heads of millions of children, that one day a mother might choose to not love their child anymore, and perhaps never did. Thanks for that one Pixar - brilliant move.It is very obvious that whoever developed the concept for this film and carried out the writing of it was not interested in how it might affect young children - their target audience. I have been quite the fan of Pixar, but have lost trust in their film-making. I am sure my son will be having nightmares. I wish we had never gone to see it, and if I had known it would be so far from the brilliant mark of the first two, I would not have.


                
This movie is overflown with grim/gloom/scary messages and situations, not suitable for kids till at least age of 10-12, when they may actually start appreciating some of the dark humor. I would estimate it at least 75% being like that, with couple of characters - direct candidates for younger kids nightmares. I'm merely astonished by glorious reviews!.. I can accept the fact that it might be somewhat amusing for older (even adults) audience, but why would it be rated G then?! Sorry, this was not fun, neither for me nor for my seven year old. Not even for the most people at the theater, who were watching it with us. Makes me wonder if (obviously adult) reviewers even asked their kids opinions, as it's supposed to be kids movie, isn't it?


                
Dark story of Andy going to college and the toys in danger of being thrown out or given away.I won't go into the details of the plot because odds are you already know it. Basically all thats left is for me to take a stand on the small side of people who don't like the film. Beautifully animated with several nice set pieces, the film emotionally and character wise didn't work for me. The film, for what ever reason just seems terribly wrong. Its not the dark tone of the film that bothers me, except perhaps that the people at Pixar seem intent on making this black and bittersweet. I know part of th problem is that several of the characters, especially Woody, seem to have been shipped in from another film. How did Woody end up so psycho? I don't know.I don't see the point of ripping the film apart since odds are you're going to love this. Personally I think this is probably Pixars biggest mistake, but then again thats just my opinion.
I am pretty surprised by all these glowing reviews. I saw the film with a bunch of 7 year old, two of them screamed and cried through the second half of the movie. While a little dark side may be OK, this was completely overdone, any chance of redemption was lost, it was not only dramatic, but got worse and worse and worse. I would absolutely NOT recommend this movie to children. While there were some funny scenes, overall the story line was pretty bad.There was an option for redemption, but it did not materialize. In the end everybody came super close to being burned. Where in the world does anybody come up with a story like this, unless the whole movie is intended for adults who believe in a battle between good and evil.
I was really looking forward to this movie because of all the great reviews. I was seriously disappointed. The plot was boring and stupid in my opinion. Not suitable for kids and definitely not satisfying for adults. I had read reviews saying that new characters were really funny such as the "gay" ken but i don't think there was any emphasis on characteristics of the new toys. Also I couldn't feel any sympathy towards a bunch of toys which were feeling vulnerable because their human is going to college. Not cute. I really didn't enjoy the whole movie and was waiting for it to be over. Its a shame because i like all other Pixar movies and am a big fan of cartoons in general.
The third movie of the Toy Story trilogy is the one most recommended. It suppose to be very emotional and probably the best movie of that year. I confess, it took me a long time to finally get to watch it, and I was excited to. But I think that I was expecting too much of the movie. It was entertaining and at some pints very funny, but it's not as good as the first movie. The film centres around the rescue of the toys from their new home and the ups and downs are all over Toy Story 3. The twists aren't that good, but I suppose they are okay. The one sided story line was sprinkled with some nostalgia over Andy's childhood and growing up. However if the growing up and becoming an adult scenes were more and the ups and downs on the rescue were less, than probably it would have been better for me.
