I know, I know... I'm sure I'm going to get destroyed over this review. Anything under eight stars for a Pixar movie is blasphemy! While I thought TS3 was an entertaining two hours... it just wasn't quite up to par with the first two entries from the trilogy.The opening and ending dealing with Andy growing up and the toys outliving their usefulness to their owner was well done Pixar heartstring tugging... no complaints there. The middle act, which boiled down to a prison break movie, was a bit dull despite all the Pixar eye-candy trying to convince me otherwise. There were some gags to be had, a funny turn by Potato Head needing to use real vegetables, some thin and obvious (but still humorous) banter between Barbie and Ken and the now required shtick of Buzz Lightyear getting reset to various memory-wiped settings... but in general the middle 60 minutes of the film just seemed oddly disconnected from the rest. The end result was an odd sandwich effect, with the bread on either end actually being much more enjoyable then the meat in the middle.While I'm certainly not trying to slag the movie, I don't think 7/10 is anything approaching a hatchet job, I found this one to be clearly a level below the two films that preceded it. Pixar didn't waste the magic they built up with TS1 / TS2... but they certainly didn't expand on it either.


                
You go to hear Steve Jobs at one of his Keynote addresses not because you worship the man. It is because you want to be a part of history. You want to be present at the moment that in the future people will say that the world changed. Jobs is a revolutionary; always was. Always will be.His whole approach is based on advancing, advancing, even if he ends up cannibalizing his own market. This is why no one can really compete, because there has to be a fearlessness to do the new. Pixar was like that, and it is why I cherished their projects. Oh, they used good old story engineering. And they were quite happy to pander to simple established emotional responses. But in every film they did two things which kept me coming back. You might call it the Orson Welles model:— advance the cinematic vocabulary so that the narrative has fresh power.— support a narrative that itself is new, that does not rely on genre conventions, so that it can hook to the cinema rather than the memory.Well, folks, Pixar might be dead as a force in film. This movie is a disaster. Oh, it is polished enough. It has that Pixar sheen. It is profoundly effective in making you cry at the endearing new character, Daisy. But it has no new visual ideas in it. None. None at all, the first Pixar project of which this can be said. I will point you to the texture of the shredded garbage toward the end and its luminescence which is novel. But this is merely a software advance that isn't leveraged. No. After giving us a new set of camera conventions every bit as influential as Hitchcock's, they have stopped. Disney? The "just a manufactured product" mentality? I guess.Oh, and the story. I will grant you that this story is superficially like the others. But look more closely. In the past, they have been scrupulously original. They would never, never have sullied a story by asking you to refer to another movie — excepting other Pixar movies of course. Let other, lessor studios do that, seemed to be their stance. So while it is okay for "Madagascar: Escape 2 Afric" to be made entirely of references to other films, Pixar stories connected because they connected with your emotions without a film memory as intermediary.But what do we have here? The central element is the big escape, and a half dozen movies are trotted out. Sure, we get it and it is even a fun thing. But it is not pure storytelling, not of the kind we expected. Don't go to this if you do not want your heart broken. They have grown up and gone to college, and have left their imagination at home.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
I liked the new Toy Story 3 fairly well although it's not quite up to par to many of the newer Pixar releases, and not as involving as the original Toy Story or as entertaining as the Toy Story 2. I'd rank it a little behind "Up" in terms of entertainment. It was a fun outing worth catching in the theater. Most (if not all) the original voice actors are back in action and do a satisfactory job of voice work. The underlying story is somewhat slow moving at times while there are a couple standout funny parts, and a good beginning and touching ending. I think it's about time to put this particular movie series to bed although it's original predecessor helped usher in the era for Pixar Movies for which I always have quite high expectations.
If there are parent reading this that want to take their very young ones to see Toy Story 3 , then I feel obliged to warn you that this movie may not be suitable for children four years of age and younger. Why? Because there are a couple of characters in this movie that are cutesy at times, but frighteningly creepy at other times. If you choose to take your small ones to see the film anyways, just be wary when Lotso and Big Baby are on the screen. Be especially wary of Big Baby. The way Disney uses that character can give nightmares for years.I saw the first Toy Story movie and enjoyed it. I have not yet seen the second one. I do remember the first one missing that Disney darkness that all Disney productions seem to have. In most Disney movies you are left emotionally drained from the very high ups you are exposed to that lead to the very low downs. Characters die, people cry and the movie can be quite depressing.But the first Toy Story movie lacked that darkness, and that may be why I was able to enjoy that movie. In Toy Story 3 the darkness is back, and this is one wild roller coaster ride of emotions. The overall theme of the movie is depressing, the action makes you feel helpless and the ending is less than satisfying. I will say that Tom Hanks is a great actor even when you cannot see him acting. The combination of Hanks and Tim Allen still has that magic and that helps bring the movie back around at the end. The problem is the two characters spend most of the movie apart, and the story misses out on that interaction.I wish I could tell you that Toy Story 3 is a fun movie to just let the kids watch, but that isn't even true. The bad guys are creepy evil, and the sad scenes are drawn out to the point of making anyone depressed. Lighting is used to perfection here, but all it really does is cause a chill to go up your spine.As an adult I enjoyed this movie. I can handle the emotional roller coaster it puts you on, and the nightmares went away for me within a day or two of seeing the movie. I worry about the kids that will flock to this movie and how long it will take them to recover. It is pretty obvious that Disney is using 3D to try and make the movie interesting rather that relying on the story itself. I don't see movies in 3D because I don't want to get sucked in by the novelty. In the case of this production, I am glad I missed out on the creepy 3D effects.


                
I note that most of these reviews (so far) have been from people who enjoyed the original Toy Story movies when kids, and who are now adults. For that group I completely agree that this is a great movie. It has grown along with them, and offers a deeper, darker and more emotional story. As an adult, I loved it.For exactly the same reasons though, as a father of young children I was a bit disappointed. My 5 year old son has watched the first two Toy Story movies countless times, and adores the characters. They are as relevant to him now as they were to others when they first came out. That being said, it's clear that Toy Story 3 was not made for him.First of all, it's scary. Not haw haw scary, but really scary. Be prepared to comfort a young child often. Secondly, a lot of the humour will go over a kid's head. It still has some great moments, but fewer than the first two films. There's a fairly long scene that involves subtitles, so kids who can't read yet are out of luck. Thirdly, it's long. At almost two hours there will likely be at least one bathroom break required.I would say the overriding emotion is pathos. It's basically a farewell to much loved characters, but young kids who have just discovered them recently may not be ready to say farewell.So it's a great movie, but possibly a misleading one for parents with young children. It's not as innocent as the first two, and may leave your kids more sad than happy. It's still worth taking your kids to, but maybe budget some ice cream for afterwards.


                
I just got back from a midnight showing and knew I must write my review, so here it is ladies, gentlemen and children of all ages...Toy Story 3 has brought together all of our favorite characters once again in the last installment of the childhood film most of us have grown up on. While the 3-D effects are better than what I have seen in previous 3D movies this year, there was something a lot different about this film than the other.It was dark, and lacked its 'gift' that Pixar always used to bring to us, which is the feeling of being a child again and smiling as we remember those days then when sometimes we wondered if our toys really did come alive. There are a few scenes (actually half the movie) is dark and definitely scary for a 4 year old. The humor is dry and I only laughed outloud 3 times, though everyone else was cracking up because of some drunk in the front row who constantly screamed.I felt something was missing a well. Buzz Lightyear. No, he was in the movie. But he really did not make a "Last"ing impression on me and wished there was more to see. Also, same with the alien guys, "The claaaaaaaw!" The ending was good though, aside from some scary bits and highly disturbing images for small children, it rounded off nicely and finally lightened up much like a depressed person taking a prozac. I also kept wondering whatever happened to Sid, the demonic kid down the street...In all honestly, I don't think this film deserves the super high rating it has gotten because it lacks the spark its previous two films had. I give it a 7/10. It was decent, but not the best out of the 3. That would have to go to the original Toy Story.


                
It is refreshing to see a third movie in a trilogy that's just as good if not better than the previous ones.Such is the case with Toy Story 3 that continues the story of Woody and Buzz and all their friends. Time has come for Andy to go to college and the toys are yet again faced with the crisis of abandonment. It amazes me that Pixar has managed to tell pretty much the exact same story three times now yet it always feels fresh. Because the story really is always the same. Something happens to the toys that makes them fear they're going to be cast aside or forgotten, this fear leads them to overreact, which causes complications, adventures happen and in the end they've learned a lesson and everything turns for the better. It's like clockwork, it's that predictable, but strangely I don't mind. The circumstances do change and the story always changes a little bit, but I still think it would have been annoying if not for the iron tight storytelling of Pixar's finest.A large part of it is also the fact that Toy Story is a very heavily character-driven franchise. And the characters do evolve. From Buzz and Woody becoming friends to the addition of new characters to the loss of old ones, the characters grow up along with us. And that doesn't change here. This movie has some of the best character moments in the whole trilogy and it's a fitting conclusion to their saga. Pretty much all the voice actors reprise their roles and they're as great as always.My only real gripe about this film is the ending. I know a lot of people love it, but I think most of those people are a bit younger than I am. I'm a 90s kid and I grew up with Disney. I only started watching these movies as an adult. Whereas those kids that grew up in the 00s and with Pixar have a much more nostalgic relationship with the Toy Story characters. So for them the ending is a real tearjerker. For me it's one of the corniest things I've ever seen. I know what they were going for and for their target audience it very well might have been the exact right call, but it still doesn't remove the fact that my jaw literally dropped when I saw Andy acting the way he did. No 17-year-old I have ever met, seen or heard of would act that way in real life. Yes, it's a movie and allowed to take liberties, but you see the problem I'm having, right?Nevertheless, it's a great movie. At times it's surprisingly dark, but never in a way that feels threatening or unnecessary. And it's always warmhearted, gentle, mature and uplifting. It's the perfect way to end this story.


                
I'm a fan of Toy Story. I loved it from the moment I first saw it. When I first heard there will be a third movie (I wasn't surprised that there will be), I wasn't expecting it to be as good as the previous two, but I was totally wrong about that; in fact, many could argue to say that the third movie was the best one. Matter of opinion, really, and I disagree to that, as I think Toy Story 2 was the best one. By how much? Who knows? because that's how good the Toy Story series actually was. Maybe, you could have a vote to decide which one - it will be interesting to see the outcome of that. Toy Story 3 was very fun and entertaining to watch. You couldn't go much wrong with the plot, and I don't know what better of a script you could've come up with other than that. Also, the time it has taken to make a third one was astonishing, but it was worth it I guess otherwise the plot would not only have resulted differently, but also would've been a bad one too. The great thing about Toy Story 3 was just how much it sets itself apart from Toy Story 1 and 2. If Toy Story was mainly surrounding Buzz, and Toy Story 2 mainly surrounding Woody, then you could say that Toy Story 3 was surrounding all of the characters. I say that because the movie was about every one of them, and they don't know where they may be heading to next because Andy is going to college soon, and he's grown out of these "toys". That's why the plot was very good, and what makes Toy Story 3 an epic conclusion to the trilogy. I'm not entirely sure if a third one was in the works after Toy Story 2. If it wasn't, it would've made no sense considering the success and popularity of the Toy Story franchise. Toy Story was meant to be a "trilogy", and not just a "trilogy", but one of the great "trilogies" out there now. This is what Toy Story 3 has done. Unlike most movie trilogies, where the third usually under performs, this can't be said with Toy Story, and is something the creators of Toy Story can be very proud. I know there will a 4th movie, and possibly more, but the original will always hold true no matter how good the 4th one or more is. Whether Toy Story 3 should've been the end of the story or not, only time will tell because it's very hard to say until we see the next one.


                
This movie was really good! Well done job, but I don't think this a movie for every age. I would give this a PG not a G to warn parents. I would put the age limit at 8 or older. Yes this movie was scary at times. My four year old niece was very scared at times. A bit of a change from the typical Disney / toy story movies which are all so happy, jolly and positive. not so much in this one. The movie was good, but way different than what I thought it would be and way different than a Toy Story movie so not a 8/10, but 7/10. Different is usually good, but not for this one.


                
I love animation and get a kick out of the vast amount of difference between the films. And I enjoyed myself at Toy Story 3 but I felt it was one of the weakest of the trilogy mainly for how much it relied on Pixar's past success. It begins with now a seemingly new Pixar staple. A quick intro and then a "heart-felt" montage ala Up. I am not arguing that it wasn't touching but rather that it started me feeling like I have seen this movie before. This happened again numerous times throughout the movie. Most notably when Buzz is set to "Demo mode". I like Ham sighed because they yet again went to the same barrel as BOTH the other Toy Stories. That being said it was a great movie with some good laughs (though a lot more targeted at adults only then I am used to in a Pixar movie)and some touching scenes. The tone of the movie is much darker than the first two, probably with the realization that the series original target audience is now much older. The movie is definitely worth seeing but I am not clamoring out to go see it again. Great movie but not a instant classic masterpiece in my opinion.
Toy Story was fantastic, as was Toy Story 2. The third was brilliant as well. The first two however were more original and quite frankly, "Better" Some of the characters including Lotso and Ken were Unlikable to me. But Tom Hanks and Tim Allen are great. And all the original characters are still lovable and fun. The story can be Sad at times or depressing. It can be a bit disappointing at times though. All and all, it was a good film. But Pixar has done better. Want a REALLY good Pixar film? Wall-e, Ratatouille, Finding Nemo, or The first two Toy Stories! I hope you enjoyed my review. Go ahead and watch this Original Fun story! :)Pixar has done it again! Well Done!
Well, I've seen that most of the criticism towards this film is that it might be too scary for young children. This of course are made by people who see these children as the movie's target audience. WELL, IT'S NOT! Toy story one came out in 1995 and it was marketed for young children (ages 4 or 5 to 12 I would say), and this movie, released 15 years later, I think it tries to appeal the same audiences that grew up with the original Toy Story. I saw it today, and most of the people at the cinema were in their 20s and over. -yes there were some children.Anyway, beside this, the movie is worth it... I don't think the 3D was necessary, except for a few scenes, but it kept me very entertained the whole time... I got very emotional by the end (someone a little more sensitive than I might cry) and there are some very lovable new characters. Yes, the bad guy is REALLY bad, there's not even the slightest hint of humanity in him... in that way I think this is kind of a western movie, with a truly unselfish and extremely brave hero and a terribly mean bad guy, it's a little square in that sense but the context makes up for it.Good job Disney/Pixar


                
This movie is one of the best for analyzing interpersonal communication.


                
I absolutely love the animation toy story movies been watching them all while ive grown up its sad to see the last one andy leaves woody and moves on in life but it sort of shows you that life does go on i cant wait for toy story 4 they are diffently the best movies.


                
The hardest part of donating your toys to charity is the knowledge that some less-fortunate kid will now be playing with your favourite nipple clamps.Oops! Apparently, you're not supposed to donate sex toys to charity. Furthermore, the toys in this Pixar animated picture are not being donated to charity, nor were they purchased at a XXX store.When their owner is packing for college, Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz Lightyear, (Tim Allen) and the rest of the toys are mistakenly dropped off at a daycare where they not only have to cope with unruly preschoolers, but also a posse of perturbed playthings led by a tyrannical teddy bear (Ned Beatty).Constructed with the same care, clowning, and craftsmanship as its predecessors, Toy Story 3 will amuse both mature and immature fans alike.And while giving up your toys is tough, as an adult you finally get to play with matches. (Green Light)


                
Woody et al. are back for a final(?) installment in the immensely popular Toy Story franchise.While not up to the original's technical and narrative impact fifteen years ago, this pic's an improvement on the second part. The day care center dictatorship offers a welcome sinister subtext, that was missing in part two, and the by now well-embraced characters are still able to carry enough emotional heft. And technically, this one's a marvel to behold.Unfortunately, the emotional moments - the ending in particular - are not as effective as they ought to be, and the story's structure is all too similar to its predecessor's.Still, a fitting swan song to the trilogy.7 out of 10 Ken and Barbie love stories


                
Wow. I was really disappointed, and I'm shocked that the fanboys having pumped this film up to #6 on IMDb at this time. That's sheer lunacy.I loved Toy Story & Toy Story 2 (which I saw again last year). The focus in those two films actually WAS on the story, and Pixar is noted for putting the story first, ahead of the animation.But this time around, they REALLY missed the mark. Halfway through, I was wondering if I was watching Toy Story 2 all over again. It was all so very repetitive and boring.Last, one of the notable new characters, Ken, is a closet case and it's strongly hinted at more and more as the film progresses, but Ken is never allowed to grow beyond that denial, and Barbie falls victim to his lies. How is that appropriate for a kids' film? The character should be who he is proudly, not closety. This is what we tell our kids, so why wouldn't it be the same for toys? (Focus groups, probably)Of all the Pixar films, this one has the least story, the least heart, and the least fun.This is not to say it doesn't have some wonderful moments. A bad Pixar film is still better than most other things out there. But this is a new low for them.
This is a kid's movies for adults. To me, Toy Story 1 is my favorite Toy Story of them all (which is three). It was a film about the relationship between Andy and his toys, much like Toy Story 2's plot. This story focuses on the relationships but in an abstract way, the toys end up going through an evil, cuddly teddy bear and a garbage incinerator to try return to Andy, who in turns hands over his beloved toys to another young human who he knows will take care of them like he did. For me, the film lacked the humanity that the previous two films had, and tried to make up with through action and humor, though it took away from the characters and emotions. Overall I found it a befitting end to an awesome and potential genre defining animated trilogy. I love this film and hope you will too.


                
I'm one of the rare few that really disliked the second Toy Story film. Mostly because of the annoying bitch Jessie. She's here again, but she's sidelined quite a bit. The third entry into the franchise has Woody as the focus, and the story naturally progresses as Andy is getting ready to leave for college. It sets up some familiar and some new themes, involving abandonment, friendship, and moving on in life. It's these themes that allow this to be a mature film without disappointing the kids. Plenty of action, lots of laughs, and some great humor, kick this way past the 2nd installment. I didn't feel it was as complete as many have said, nor was the intensity matched by real sacrifice. The film realises that the best thing about the original was Buzz's delusions. So naturally they reintroduce it here as he is "reset". I guess I'm not that emotionally attached to this movie because I never gave up my most favourite toys. I believe people crying over this just feel guilty for giving up on their childhood. Entertaining, and wonderful, but lacking what I truly loved about the first film.
To start off my 9 year old loved this movie. I thought it good for a kids movie. The action and the story kept me interested the chartists are endearing, and the message is a good one. Being blind in one eye makes it impossible to experience the 3d effect so for me the story has to hold me. The only down part is the dark moments in the movie while dramatic and moving still might be a little to frightening for the real little ones. For this and a rather pedestrian story I've seen before I downgrade it a bit.This is the first Toy Story movie I have seen and it endears me to the franchise. I really like the toy chartists I thought they were all done extremely well makes this movie a keeper. B+


                
I wouldn't agree with many of the reviews when they say this is the best in the series. The first in the series is by far the best and will always be a classic.While the film is pretty good it will never beat the first time you meet the main characters and there lies the problem. The new characters are mostly secondary to the ones we already know so it is business as usual as far as I am concerned.I think most people reviewing this film forgot how good #1 was when they first watched it and hence saying it is the best one.However saying all that, this is a good film and worth seeing as long as you don't expect too much from it. The story is basic but the characters are still funny enough to make it worthwhile.A good ending to a great series.


                
We've all been craving for a third and final hurrah with Woody and Buzz and all of their plastic friends for eleven years now and at last we've been delivered what we've been asking for, to a certain degree. Now, don't start getting worried, folks. I am most certainly *not* trying to warn you off of seeing "Toy Story 3." On the contrary, I am *insisting* that you go to see this marvelously-animated, refreshingly fun, and surprisingly moving little gem not just because it is the third and final installment of one of the most beloved sagas of all time, but because it's simply a great movie. All I am saying is that it does not sit on the same tier to the original 1995 "Toy Story" or the even greater "Toy Story 2" released in 1999. But again, how many films do? Very few.Some time has passed since "Toy Story 2" and things are vastly changing for Woody (voice of Tom Hanks), Buzz (voice of Tim Allen) and their friends. Their owner, Andy is all grown up and heading off to college. Many of their friends have since been sold away or broken and the toys are fearing the same outcome for themselves. By mishap, they end up being whisked away to a daycare center, that is, when the humans are not around, run by a purple stuffed bear (voice of Ned Beatty) who later turns out to not be so cute and cuddly. Once again Woody is the hero trying to set things right as he not only strives to return to Andy before he heads off to college, but save his friends from torture and, possibly, destruction.There is a lot to praise about "Toy Story 3." Starting with the ostensive elements, it is a great-looking movie. The animators, because of a computer glitch, had to rebuild their characters and settings from scratch and you wouldn't know the difference. The animation is marvelous and inventive with a vast array of colors. The movie is fun to look at and is most certainly fun to watch.The real strength of the "Toy Story" trilogy has been in its story. So many movies these days look great, but the visual appeal is badly welded around stories that aren't worth a dime. The trilogy has stood out because of strong stories and characterizations that make you really feel for some individuals are really nothing more than just animated plastic, even in their own world and universe. We go to the level of these toys instead of going with the cliché of staying on the human level and look down upon them. And they have gotten more mature as they have gone along. The first movie's story was about a toy fearing being replaced or forgotten. The sequel dealt with the anticipation that such a thing could happen soon and the third resolves with the actual event of a toy being abandoned by its owner. I don't want to give too much away, because this story starts out strong when we learn that some of the recurring characters from before will not be featured this time around, and it works out to one of the most poignant and genuinely moving culminations of recent years. I was tearing up at the end and I guarantee you many others in the theater I was in were too.If "Toy Story 3" does have anything countering against it, it is the inevitable fact that people will compare and contrast it to the first two movies, which are more complete on a psychological level, and superior as motion pictures and storytelling. By itself, it is a more than fine movie, but we do have a certain tendency to expect the best because Pixar made the lightning strike the top of the tower twice before. And not only with the other two movies in this saga, but with gems such as the recent spellbinder "Up."Despite a few complaints, I immensely enjoyed "Toy Story 3" and I more than happily recommend it to everybody. Although it does not have the same level of heart and awe that the first two movies had, it is a more than satisfactory conclusion to this trilogy and without a doubt the best movie that I have seen in a theater this year. The "Toy Story" movies are three genuinely enthralling motion pictures. They are the Mount Everest of modern-day animation because they not only look good, but have strong characters and strong stories. And once again, I must reflect upon how my heartstrings were tugged at without remorse when that beautiful ending came along. It's been a long time since a movie has done that to me.


                
First things first, this is a film obviously aimed at children ages 3-10, so I am not exactly the target audience for this. That being said, if I was a kid in that age range I would have a blast at this movie, as it is great fun for the very young, undeveloped mind. However, as an adult reviewer I give this film a mixed review overall, for it does some things well, yet fails in other aspects.Overall, the film is quite a bit of fun, with plenty of gags and silly comedic moments. If escapism and comedy is all you are looking for in a summer film, then this film will serve you just fine. It is an entertaining summer film, so I would recommend it on that level alone. However, let's look at some of this flaws, which certainly don't make it deserving of a 9 or 10.Flaw 1 - lack of heart or character growth. Unlike Pixar's 3 masterpieces, UP, Wall-E and Nemo, this film just lacks any kind of emotion, wonder, or heart. It feels more like an Ice Age film that is simply focused on comedy and action, but feels very hollow emotionally. It feels like the team at Pixar was just going through the motions of churning out another cutesy film, without trying very hard to make it a good one. It is true that the last 5 minutes have some heart, but the 85 minutes before that don't have much at all. Certainly far less than what we would expect in a Pixar film.Flaw 2 - the 2nd half of the film really drags. After about 30-35 minutes into the film, the script suddenly becomes cliché-ridden as the toys get captured and have to be rescued/escape back home. Literally nothing interesting or mentally engaging happens in the 2nd half, other than the toys trying to escape, with a few gags thrown in. This becomes tedious after a while, so the film feels about 15 minutes longer than necessary.Pros - Top notch animation, some funny gags, Latso the Bear character, and a great opening scene Cons - Story is too simple and drags during the 2nd half, too many Ken/ Barbie scenes becomes repetitive.


                
Pixar is back at it again, with a film that fans have been waiting for over 11 years, Toy Story 3. All of the great toys are back, Buzz Lightyear, Woody, and so fourth. (There are serious spoilers in this review so beware!)The first and ending parts are the best, but I felt that the middle story was really weak, and this series is really starting to show it's age.The first film, which was released back in the mid 1990s, was the first CGI animated film in history was was another great milestone in Disney animation, and Toy Story 2 was released four years later, and is considered by many, including myself, to be the best film of the series.Now 11 years later, Disney and Pixar are back with Toy Story 3. This time, Andy, the owner of the toys is now 17 years old and about to depart for college. He hasn't played with his toys for a long time, and they are starting to miss their interactions with him. After a very imaginative opening, which takes the opening of the first film to a new level, the very long mid-section begins, which takes the characters from Andy's house to a daycare center called Sunnyside, to a landfill, and this section is very long and prodding. Aside from a few humorous moments such as Buzz speaking in Spanish, the story lags in this section. Woody finds a young girl named Bonnie who is a child who attends Sunnyside, and goes to her home. I also seriously missed BoBeep's interactions with Woody from the first two films.Some of the middle sections are extremely cheesy to watch, such as Ken and Barbie, and a bad fashion show set to the tune of 70's disco hit "Le Freak", which has got to be the low point of the series. After the high note of Toy Story 2, which doesn't have a weak moment in it at all, I found quite a few low notes in Toy Story 3. Sure, many will disagree with my points here, but as a fan of this series, I felt that the middle section needed a lot of work.The end brings it all home as Andy is reunited with Buzz and Woody and the last time he plays with them and says goodbye to his beloved toys is easily the best part of the film. With that being said, when Pixar makes a fourth Toy Story, I say that they start from scratch and focus on the central characters as the third film had far too many characters interacting in a very weak mid section which was nothing more than an animated prison escape film. I loved the first two Toy Story films, as well as other Pixar classics like Up, Monsters Inc, and The Incredibles, but I didn't enjoy Toy Story 3 as much as the first two Toy Story films. It's great seeing Buzz Lightyear and Woody back on the big screen, but next time, hopefully Pixar will focus on the central characters rather than adding too many characters next time around in the inevitable fourth Toy Story movie. I would give this three stars or a 7 rating. However these characters are timeless so we'll see them on the big screen again guaranteed.
As entertaining and fun as it was, I liked Toy Story 3 less than its predecessors. It simply lacked the sweetly poetic and soulful touch that made the first two instant classics.The artwork, animation, music, and voice acting are all superb, as we've come to expect. Toy Story 3 is much darker, even downright creepy at times, a welcome change from the first two. Like Up, Toy Story 3 does not adhere as tightly to a central theme as prior Pixar movies. However, unlike my experience with Up, I did not come away inspired and moved by the adventure and the characters. Instead, the movie felt like it bounced all over, sampling from themes already explored in Toy Story 1 and 2, nibbling on a few new ideas, but never really delving too deeply in any one direction.My bigger issue is that Toy Story 3 relies more heavily on visual slapstick, referential gags, and audience familiarity with the first two movies. In short, it feels much more like a Dreamworks movie. True, Dreamworks movies are fun, but Pixar has always made superior films by sticking to bold and fresh characterization, clever jokes, and sincere, masterfully woven messages.But the end result is still a 7 out of 10. Even when stumbling, Pixar still makes very good movies.


                
