The only Disney movie I cried in was Lion King. The other Disney film that came close was Pixar's WALL E. I did not cry during Toy Story 3. I went home walked into my room a realized that my Optimus Prime is not at the foot of my door, my Sylvester the Cat stuffed toy was not on my bed, and my McDonald's Sonic the Hedgehog toy was not on my shelf. My conner only housed my stack of video games. I asked myself why did my mother give away my toys without my permission? At THAT moment is when I thought about the last 30 minutes of Toy Story 3 I started to cry. This film was a carelessly thoughtful stoke of genius! It keeps both children and adults entertained. Lots of drama, lots suspense, and lots of toys! Disney and Pixar outdid themselves with this one. Toy Story was a smash hit when it first hit the screens. Toy Story 2, in my opinion, was not as good as its first installment but it was a film that almost never hit theaters so I'll give them the benefit of doubt. But Toy Story 3 set the bar "to infinity and beyond!" The VA cast was pheNOMenal. The visuals were stunning! The script was enjoyable! This movie reached all corners of film greatness (and its a kid's movie). I have no idea how Disney and Pixar knock out great movies like this (they make it look easy). I related to Andy in this film just as I did in Toy Story 3. The ending was so tough to watch without sniffling because if you watched Toy Story at around Andy's age during the time and you watch Toy Story 3 around Andy's age now (he was 17 and I am 22 and went through roughly the same hassle as he did when he was moving out for college), you would feel a wallop of emotion. Toy Story 3 is a MUST SEE. If you don't have children to take to go see this film then take friends who saw the first two films.


                
I just attended a free screening and, without having seen the ending (it was a "cliffhanger" screening), I believe this is the best Toy Story yet. I didn't know if they'd be able to keep the magic going but this story is extremely clever and, as per usual, beautifully animated. From the beginning I found myself happily smiling in my seat. The new characters are funny and support the old cast, some of whom are reinvented in their own ways, wonderfully. This movie had a college crowd laughing hysterically, showing that Disney Pixar movies can truly be for all ages. Although I was afraid the plot would become too stretched by having Andy head off to college it still manages to be very heartfelt. I'll be excitedly going to see the rest of it in June.


                
I am a 21 year old male. I watched the first Toy Story in theaters when I was 7 years old and the second Toy Story when I was 11. These films are a part of my childhood and I can assure you anyone between the ages of 18-30 have a special connection like I do for them. I personally have been waiting for this movie for 10 years now, since the ending sequences in Toy Story 2. Ten long years later, I finally received my wish.Toy Story 3 is the story of our classic and new favorite characters Woody, Buzz, Slinky, Ham, Rex and friends as they try to cope with the fact that Andy is going off to college. They haven't been played with in years and they're becoming restless. As much as they want to believe Andy will save them and keep them in the attic as Woody predicts, our beloved toys start to question his motives as college day is coming and Andy's old room is starting to deteriorate into a trash hold. Which will Andy decide upon? The plot for this movie at first glance made me very satisfied, seeing as Pixar and the writers are trying to follow the time frame we are accustomed to. Back in 1999 when Andy found his new toys Jesse and Bullseye, he was still a child with imagination and joy to play with these toys. Ten years later, he is no longer a child but grown into a graduating senior who is ready to venture off the college for the first time. This plot is a classic scenario that new-bound college teens deal with on their moving date: whether or not to give up hold on our childish bonds. It's time to grow up sometime. This plot grabbed me in easily.As the rest of the movie continued, Pixar led us on a classic Toy Story adventure, much like the opening scene in Toy Story where the Army men move downstairs to find what Andy receives in his birthday presents, or the scene in Toy Story 2 where the gang try to manage their way to the toy store across the highway. These very simple and drawn out scenes are what grab our attention because of the detail with every move, every instant that our friends are in peril. They also help a child who is watching to use their mind to follow along, from one frame to another, as Woody jumps from floor to toilet seat to toilet paper roll and nearly falls creating applause, up to the stall to the ledge and out the window for freedom. These actions take a lot from a child to stay along, which helps develop brain activity in problem solving. Step 1 to Step 6 leads to success, and this is a positive attribute to teach to our children.This movie is a little longer than most child films, close to 2 hours, which is a perfectly acceptable time frame for a movie so anticipated. Having it be under 90 minutes would have been a little selfish for the animators seeing as they knew how long we waited for this. If you are seeing this in 3D (which I believe is a must) you will be drawn in very easily and your attention will be kept throughout. With introductions of new characters and vigorous imagery, it is hard to lose track of what's going on. The animation was flawless as usual, storyline close to perfection, characters are lovable... I truly see no reason to dislike this film.Overall I gave it an 8 out of 10. This movie lives up to the first 2 in the series, not so sure about being better than the original. Close but undecided. You can make your own judgment call. If you are between the ages of 18-30 or you have children of your own, this film is one of the better ones you will see all year. Be a kid again, it won't hurt for 2 hours.


                
You should by all means see this film--it is quite enjoyable and Pixar should be proud. And, a week after its debut, the film has earned $2138123413713471035 dollars (more or less)--so it's obviously a huge hit. And, I did enjoy the film....BUT. There's that nagging 'but'...a certain odd something that I felt was lacking in the film. Personally, I STILL prefer "Toy Story 2" and "Up". I also am a bit concerned whether this is the best film for the youngest members of the audience.Technically speaking, this is probably the best looking CG movie made to this point--though I am sure in the next few years they'll manage to exceed this one--that's the nature of things. There are so many scenes where you just marvel at all the elements--there is just so much to see and your eyes just delight in this. One of the examples are the amazing daycare scenes--with so many toys, kids and knick-knacks about the rooms, you can't believe the Pixar folks could do it! The other is is the scene at Bonnie's yard at the end of the film--the colors, textures and depth were just mind-blowing. It was first-rate in just about every way technically, though the 3-D aspects were very good but not great. Yes, they looked nice but they weren't 100% necessary to the film and didn't seem to use e 3-D to its fullest (like they did in "How To Train Your Dragon"--a film that did manage to use the 3-D as more than just a nice novelty).As for the plot, I really don't want to recapitulate what's in the film. There have already been a ton of IMDb reviews that have done a very good job of detailing the plot. Instead, let's talk about I think this was actually a bit weak. Sure, the old characters were mostly back and I loved a few of the new ones (Ken was great), but the film had a dark and slightly unsavory element to it that bothered me. A lot of families would naturally bring kids to see it--kids too young not to be terrified. While another recent CG movie was terrifying ("Coraline"), as least it was not rated G and did not have the family-friendly aura about it. In this films, the problems were not like they were in "Toy Story 2"--whether or not the toys could make it home. Here in "3", they not only struggled with this but also were often in jeopardy of being completely destroyed--either shredded or incinerated!! Also, while they didn't bother me at all, a couple of the new characters were downright creepy--such as the baby and the crazed monkey! Yikes--imagining a 3 or 4 year-old seeing this makes my skin crawl! Aside from these concerns, I have to hand it to the film. It was highly manipulative and will make you shed a tear--even if they are only toys! And, it certainly was lovely--real eye-candy!UPDATE: This film just won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature. In addition, it's now #31 on IMDb's Top 250. Considering it's a sequel, I just don't get this....


                
As Andy prepares to go away to college, Woody, Buzz, and co, face an uncertain future. It seems that their options will be to either be thrown in the trash or stored away in the attic. When a mix up occurs, the toys find themselves at the Sunnyside Daycare Centre and think they have struck lucky after being welcomed by kindly Lotso Bear. However, as Woody frantically tries to convince the others that Andy has not deserted them, it comes to light that Sunnyside is far from the toy paradise they thought it was.Already Toy Story 3 is breaking records left, right and centre. Boosted by a well earned reputation from the previous two film's in the series, and released in the now popular 3D format, Pixar's daddy was never going to struggle to get the punters into the cinema to see it. That fans have had to wait 11 years for this latest, and almost certainly the final, instalment, has also whetted the appetite considerably. Put simply, the film was guaranteed to rake in the cash before the ink was dry on the first critical reviews for it. The big question is if the Pixar team have managed to triumphantly close down this remarkable trilogy with a film to justify the record breaking.The answer is yes, tho in truth it probably wasn't really in doubt. However, part 3 has endeared itself to most on account of the emotional pull of the story itself. There's certainly nothing new in the structure of the characters, the same themes exist; toys fret about being left, toys need rescuing, the same neuroses are again evident. Only this time its constructed around a prison-break plot; Toy Story does The Great Escape with a bit of Cool Hand Luke thrown in for good measure. Why Pixar gets away with the familiarity is due to the smooth introduction of new characters, and the afore mentioned emotional weight that pulls away at the old heart strings. The need to move on, retirement, acceptance and casting off ones bitterness are all given the "adult" touch as the "kiddie" friendly caper unfolds.With that, part 3 is not as funny as what went before it. Yes it has its moments (Ken & Latino Buzz are high points), naturally, but they are never overtly hilarious moments. This is more about characters that we have grown up with, their humorous traits we already know about, its safe humour, Toy Story 3 is comfortable in more ways than one. But again Pixar get away with it (and we are happy to let them) because they have the balance right with the trilogy. Never too dark to alienate the youngsters (tho one sequence in the finale here brings mortality into question) and never too childish to send the adults to sleep, Pixar remain the governors of commercial family entertainment. The technical aspects remain first class, the animation is crisp and the action sequences continue to bounce off the screen. As for the 3D, this is not about flinging things at the audience, where the 3D works well for Toy Story 3 is that it lets the audience be on the same level as the toys. We are in their world, every nook and cranny enhanced, it's a fine world and one that further shows the genius at work by the Pixar mob.Inducing tears of pleasure and sadness, Toy Story 3 is undoubtedly a lovely movie. The closure to one of the finest trilogies to have graced the screen. But its record breaking performances should not lend one to think that it's Pixar's masterpiece, because it's not even the masterpiece of its own trilogy. It is, however, one of the highlights of 2010 so far and sure to entertain for many years to come. 8/10


                
My hands, no, my whole body is trembling with delight as I try to tap out my simple, jumbled excitement. TS3 has so thoroughly entertained me, it's seems kinda wrong to call it a sequel. While the majority of the fabulous characters are familiar returnees from the previous installments, it stands completely on its own as a triumph of artful, inspired story telling. I haven't sat in a theater in nearly a decade - the hassle, the cost, and the hype all turned me off from movie going. But remembering how magical and deeply moving were TS1 & TS2, I didn't hesitate when I was invited along with some friends.If live action films could manage to express even half of the wonder and joy that this trilogy possesses, I might consider returning to the multiplex, but it's just not too likely. Today I'm more a fan of mature, serious films, that provoke thought and doubt and self reflection, but this remarkable franchise somehow manages to recharge my draining supply of patience with my fellow world citizens. At my age, 48, it's absurd to find such consolation and inspiration in an animated children's movie, but I'll take it wherever I can get it. (Wall-E, which I watched on cable, comes damn close with it's bittersweet comment on our seriously misdirected society.) John Lassiter and company have again succeeded at a level that even Steven Spielberg must envy. Bravo! WOW! Encore!


                
Toy Story 3 (1:42, G, Imax, 3-D) — Fantasy: Fairy Tales, biggie, sequel"When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things." (1 Corinthians 13:11)But did the childish things want to be put away? That's the question at the heart of Toy Story 3, in which Sheriff Woody (Tom Hanks), space ranger Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen), cowgirl Jessie (Joan Cusack), and the rest of the toy menagerie face an uncertain fate after years of being neglected while Andy (John Morris) went thru adolescence and graduated from high school. Now he's preparing to head off to college, and mom (Laurie Metcalf) has come up with her own form of triage: take the toys to college, store them in the attic, or dump 'em in a trash bag for disposal.There's been a change in the cast of characters since last time. Bo Peep is gone (and we guess from a fleeting expression on Woody's face that there's an untold story there), but Andy's little sister has contributed her Barbie (Jodi Benson, whom I sure hope you all remember as the voice of The Little Mermaid) to the collection that Andy has, reluctantly, decided to donate to the Sunnyside Day Care Center. (The only one he's keeping is his old pal Woody, and this causes some conflicting emotions among the toys.)There are already a lot of toys at Sunnyside, and they're all under the sway of Lotso (Ned Beatty), short for Lots o'Hugging Bear, a big, pink, furry, strawberry-scented mass of folksy joviality and (it turns out) cynicism. Lotso welcomes the newbies, but they soon discover that it's because he needs cannon fodder for the Caterpillar Room, where the manic toddlers abuse them horribly, so that he and his favored minions can remain safely in the Butterfly Room, where they're treated kindly by the slightly older kids. (The filmmakers at Pixar researched toy treatment at real day-care centers to provide verisimilitude to these scenes.) At night, when the humans are gone, Lotso and his enforcers — Big Baby, Ken, sparkly purple octopus, and the grinning monkey with the cymbals — turn the school into a literal prison, complete with guard towers, spotlights, and roving spotter vehicles.After a series of misunderstandings and mishaps, Woody has reconnected with his old pals, and they determine to re-enact The Great Escape before they're all ripped to shreds. As always, the main reason a movie goes into detail over a plan of any kind is so you can see where it went wrong when it inevitably does.I will say no more about the plot other than that there's lots of it, it's all consistent (given the initial premise), and it all works well. While there are some scary moments in the movie, and a few sad ones as well, it deserves its G rating as completely suitable for small children. The dominant feelings you're left with are positive. Loyalty is rewarded; friendship is celebrated; there are lots of laffs, chuckles, and grins; it has a splendid voice cast; the 25th most important character in the movie is as exquisitely rendered as the main ones; and it is a visually sumptuous delight from beginning to end. (I was particularly fond of the cameo appearance by a stuffed Totoro doll in a non-speaking role, a hat-tip to Hiyao Miyazaki from the creative team at Pixar, who are better qualified than anyone else on Earth to know animation genius when they see it.)I saw Toy Story 3 in Imax and 3-D, because as a movie junkie I crave the most immersive movie-going experience I can get. Both were effective, neither was essential.I gave Toy Story 2 a 9 (my highest rating), because it contained a couple of scenes that left me so choked up I literally couldn't speak, and that's the mark of a job done to near perfection. Toy Story 3 falls just a skosh short of that standard, but it left me both misty- eyed and smiling. A worthy conclusion to the trilogy. A dandy film. For my money, the best SF&F movie of 2010 so far.


                
Long ago in the middle of the crazy 90's, a totally unknown animation studio announced that an animated feature film named "Toy Story" would be released to the public. It was expected to fail, and the world didn't know much about Pixar at the time. But this film would lead on to become a full blown phenomenon, making toys based on it, video games, and a sequel that would be released 4 years later. That sequel would go on to be one of the most successful and greatest sequels of all time. Both received an almost impossible feat with 100% scores on a critic's website entitled Rotten Tomatoes. People were curious to whether the third would be a success, and they were shown as it itself received a 100% on the website as well."Toy Story 3" is the second follow up to the widely successful series of films. It shows Andy all grown up, heading out for college. The toys are frantic and worried, not knowing what to do. Andy plans to put all of the toys in the attic, but they accidentally get thrown into the trash. Luckily, they escape, but to the wrong box and are given to donations for the Sunnyside Dare Care. A seemingly happy, caring place for the loving toys. But as they discover there are a few things going on that could destroy them all, they plan to escape to get back to Andy.Many things happen in "Toy Story 3" that make me proud to be a fan of the trilogy, such as Buzz turning to the Spanish language and theme, the toys planning to escape as if it were a prison, and a special cameo from the evil Sid from the first film (It's very small, look out for it, he's a garbage man).The film and trilogy concludes with a nice, peaceful closing of the toy's adventures after a loud, intense, hilarious, and spastic series of events from the beloved toys. I will not tell you the ending, but I will warn you, bring a box of tissues. Those very sensitive in movies will choke up. (No, it isn't sad)."Toy Story 3" brings all that a Pixar lover would suspect. An original, funny, emotional, beautiful story about the travels of some of the funnest and loving characters ever written. The voice talents of Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles, John Ratzenburger and everyone else return to their original characters, as well as some new actors featuring Michael Keaton as Ken, Barbie's longtime lover. Screenwriters do it again as they deliver a quite good, but not quite as clever as the first film, screenplay and still deliver the laughs. But what quite caught me more than anything was the beautiful animation. Never has Pixar done better with their wonderful team to deliver the cleanest looking Pixar world ever. Every detail is filled. Wonderful.In conclusion, "Toy Story 3" was an astounding film. Pixar has truly delivered the greatest trilogy of all time. After the exciting wait of over 11 years for the finale of the beloved series, it was definitely worth it as I emotionally watched the words "Toy Story 3" appear on the screen and as the camera showed the final shot of the beautiful clouds in the sky. 11 years is an extremely long wait, but it was worth it.Pixar has done it again. And succeeded.10/10
Beginning part was a bit boring but when you almost get to near the end of the movies, I swear I actually started sobbing. No movie has ever made me sob besides this one. This is the movie guaranteed to make you cry, and I'm not the kind of person to cry during movies, but this one did! It's a must see movie,watch it by yourself, watch it with your family, watch it with your dog,watch it with your neighbor!!! You just need to see it!This is a must see movie! But first watch the first two movies before you watch Toy Story 3 because you'll pretty much be very very VERY disappointed if you don't know the plot of the first and second movies. And then you'll feel like you're finally up to date with everyone who's already watched them and when you tell them you haven't they look at you like you're crazy lol.


                
'TOY STORY 3': Four Stars (Out of Five) Woody (once again voiced by Tom Hanks), Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) and all of the rest of the gang are back for this third 'TOY STORY' adventure, eleven years after the last film. It once again rehashes the story of Woody and the others feeling threatened and unwanted by their owner Andy (once again voiced by John Morris) as he turns 17 and leaves for college. They're mistakenly dropped off at a daycare where tired older toys want them to be the sole victims of the wild and obnoxious children there. Only Woody knows they're truly wanted back home and does his best to rescue them and get them back to Andy.The film is only co-written by the original two films' creator John Lasseter and is directed by Lee Unkrich, who served as a co-director on 'TOY STORY 2'. It does seem a little old and drawn out at times, early on, but then it really builds to a somewhat seriously suspenseful and emotional conclusion. Some of the drama and humor seems forced but some of it feels really genuine and funny as well, especially as the film goes on. I don't agree that this is the masterpiece that some are describing it but it's definitely a lot better than most other kids' films out there (as most Pixar films are).The 'TOY STORY' movies aren't my favorites of the Pixar films; I really like 'THE INCREDIBLES' and 'WALL-E' the best, but they're definitely better than stuff like 'MONSTERS, INC.' and 'A BUG'S LIFE'. The thing you have to really admire about all of the Pixar films though is the effort and passion of the entire team of filmmakers that went into making them; this is definitely obvious on the screen. The greatest example of this is 'AVATAR' but all film really is the most collaborative art form there is and therefor, in my opinion, the most impressive one. You've got to admire the heart that goes into making these movies and it's especially obvious in films like this.Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYbw_OZUFso


                
After a slightly slow and perhaps over-familiar opening sequence, Toy Story 3 develops into something more involving and complex than its predecessor - albeit one that lacks the jaw-dropping novelty of the original.Typically, Toy Story 3 doesn't skimp on the grown-up themes: neglect, isolation, as well as growing up itself, of course. There are also bubbling subtexts, like Ned Beatty's Lotso coming across as some kind of manipulative Southern slave-owner, with a patriarchal ferocity born of the trauma of disempowerment. Then there's Jesse (Joan Cusack) - far from being the obedient monogamist of Old Disney, her affections aren't so much torn as shared equally. She was made to love Woody, but why not Buzz too? (Jeez, that's some sentence.) The sophistication doesn't stop there. At one point, the narrative breaks into three strands. And when Buzz breaks into 'Spanish Mode' (one of the film's funniest extended jokes), we're offered another rarity for a mainstream children's film: subtitles.Equally successful - and the real draw for the target audience - is the slapstick. The action in part 3 is a step up from its predecessors. The escape from the sinister Sunnyside kindergarten is worthy of the greatest prison breakout movies. There is a brilliant visual gag involving Mr Potato Head and a pigeon. And finally, the ending feels like Lord of the Rings' Mount Doom, except with a less feathery deus ex machina.There is a sneaking sense of overkill in terms of the sheer wealth of characters. But then for every underdeveloped Mr Pricklepants (Timothy Dalton) there's a hilariously conflicted Ken (Michael Keaton), so it's churlish to complain. And there are some truly weird creations amongst the cast: Chuckles (Bud Luckey) sidesteps the creepy clown cliché to come across as a wellspring of pathos, while Baby, with his superhuman strength and his lazy eye, is probably the most horrifying henchman since Richard Kiel opened his gleaming jaws.Pixar may have made better films during their extraordinary existence; but this film, and the franchise as a whole, will always be their best toy box.


                
Toy Story 3, the third movie in the trilogy, is still filled with magic, love, and all that good stuff that you would expect from a Pixar film. If you ask me I think thats amazing! When I went to go see Toy Story 3 I was afraid that it was going to lag and be pretty bad, cause of my experience with past third movies, but oh was I wrong.The movie starts with a very imaginative and impressive beginning. Andy is still a kid playing with his toys and we see what he is imagining, that comes out to look like a movie all itself with amazing effects. But thats not what the movie is about, so we travel through Andy's life with his toys (a very touching moment) and we stop at a time in his life where he is all grown up and going to college. With Woody, Buzz, and the whole gang (exept for Bo Peep and Wheezey, who were sold, how sad) trying to get Andy to play with them again or at least have him look at them. Because he hasn't played with them for years. The choice comes down to Andy to what he wants to do with his old pals; he chooses to bring Woody with him and put everybody else in the attic, but that didn't happen. He put them in a garbage bag and his mother mistakes it for trash, oh my god! Woody goes after them, they save themselves and the heartbroken toys jump into a box set to go to Sunnyside daycare in the back of Andy's mother's van with Woody, who tries to talk them out of it, but it was to late the mother closed the door and drove off. When the toys get to Sunnyside it looked beautiful, a toys dream, but everything that they thought would happen was totally the opposite. they get put into the smaller kids' side where they abuse their toys. Thats just the beginning! There's so much more adventure, twists, and love to be seen in this movie. Its just amazing. A wonderful movie for the whole family! I don't care what your age is, 4 to 102 you'll love Toy Story 3.Pixar are artists and I will be seeing their artwork on display each year (hopefully) for years to come! *** I will be editing this review later so stick around****I rated this film 9/10 stars (I never rate a movie 10 stars because no movie is that perfect)* Help me help you, you can email me at jagmarkyreviews@yahoo.com to give me advice for further reviews or you can give me a movie suggestion for me to review next. *If you don't see this under my review then its not apart of my official reviews.
There's a law in moiveology, much like Isaac Newton's laws of motion. Well call this the law of sequels. It is stated: As a franchise accumulates sequels the value of each successive film approaches crap. However, as in all fields of science, when a movie arises that contradicts our laws and theories, no matter how well founded they may appear to be, we must revise our old ways of thinking in exchange for the new. This is one of those times.Go see Toy Story 3.Toy Story 3 contains some of the most powerful and emotionally resonate scenes of the Toy Story franchise, yet is also so funny that you may need to bring an extra pair of pants (and not just for the little ones). It has its flaws, although they detract little from the film. This rare sequel ties in so organically with the first two films that you'd be amazed to realize that the Toy Story franchise was never intended to be a trilogy.


                
The Toy Story series shows no sign of running out of steam. Quite the opposite - it is getting better. Great, sweet, funny, fun movie. Innovative plot and direction. Great CGI.Casting and voices are spot-on.Superb.


                
Toy Story is one of my favorite Disney movies and was thrilled to see this in theaters. I wasn't born when the first came out and the 2nd released when I was a year old, but before this released a double feature came out and we went to see it even though we had the movies on VHS. So when the 3rd movie came out, I was pumped. I loved it. Then I re-watched it with a friend when I was about 16(I was almost 12 when this released) and realized it was not as appealing. looking back, it was mainly for the potty humor."Watch out for puddles." "I don't think those were Lincoln Logs." The escape from the bathroom scene. So that's why I give it an 8. But it still is a good movie and it is definitely worth watching!Fun Fact: This was nominated for Best Picture. The only other animated films to get BP nominations are Beauty and the Beast(1991) and Up(2009).


                
I was so happy when I heard there was going to be a third Toy Story film. It's basically the final chapter (or so we thought until recently) that ties everything together and gives us some happy and sad moments. More new characters plus a prison camp plot that could give The Great Escape a run for its money. While some trilogies' third chapters got a little silly (look at Return of the Jedi), this makes for a better threequel, right up there with the third Lord of the Rings film. Most threequels come up wanting but this didn't. It's nice as a conclusion to the Toy Story saga.


                
i'm probably the only Disney fan on the planet who thinks the Disney computer animated films are somewhat over-rated. don't get me totally wrong, i think they're still great films and definitely the leader in current CGI animation and the top in the craft. i just always have happened to like hand drawn cartoons better than CGI. hand drawing always feels funnier and more spontaneous than CGImy favorites of the CGI Disney/Pixar films are 'Finding Nemo' and 'Cars', but i've always liked the 'Toy Story' films despite all the hype and marketing tie-ins that always drive clever and original ideas into the ground and make them seem less original and makes them seem so common.the 'Toy Story' trilogy of films has survived so much mindless marketing and over-exposure that i probably should have expected the third sequel to come through. but i didn't. i kind of thought it would be dull and predictable and all the spark of originality bull dozered out by commercialism. not at all. in fact it was one of the most consistently funny of all the 'Toy' movies. maybe not the curtest or the best, but i thought it was the funniest. and the plot with the Sunnyside Daycare was really subtle and hilarious in a cute-sinister way. the idea of toys selling out other toys in order to gain advantage seemed all too real and indicative of the sad state of human affairs.even though this film was very family oriented mostly, i thought it a little strange that a lot of this was kind of dark and scary. this is probably the most suspenseful and disturbing of all the 'Toy' movies. it wasn't just the chilling concept of the toys selling out other toys, but a lot of the situations the toys faced were dangerous and frightening. i mean the whole scene with the garbage dump furnace made the horror scenes in Sid's bedroom seem gentle.so far at number "3", the 'Toy Story' animated films still earn their charming legacy and place in Disney fan's hearts. all you have to do is read the overwhelming amount of positive reviews this film has received from reviewers online. the 'Toy Story' movies are amongst the very few commercial products Hollywood turns out that are truly worthy of the love and praise they receive. something Disney has always managed to do from the beginning, manufacture good movies that have cleverness and heart in a mostly cold, commercial Hollywood market.
Here's a wonderful completion to Pixar's flagship. The film does exactly what it aims to do and is strong enough on it's own to be recognized outside of the pack. However, the lying problems to me were two fold. The use of 3D hindered my enjoyment. The tool is useful when applied properly and perhaps for limited viewing. But I couldn't help but feel a wall between me and the film. The final moments with Andy could have been richer for me without this distraction. I wanted to well up inside. I wanted to shed tears for a story a cared very deeply about, but I couldn't move past the awkwardness. Still, a great fitting end to a wonderful series.


                
My Score: 8.3/10 Toy story, what a big name for the kids who grew up in the 80s and 90s. Indeed I haven't watched Toy Story 1 and 2 previously, but I had a little book of Toy Story 1 in which my mom bought me when I was small (and the book was in Chinese!). The 3D technology at that time was such a break through for animation story telling on a public wide screen.So back to this movie, now our little Andy has grown up after all those years and ready to go to college. It was time for him to decide how to deal with his toys: to keep them, donate them or throw them all away? After some incidents, Andy's toys were accidentally donated to a Daycare center called Sunnyside and welcomed by a deceptive hugging bear "Lotso" and his companions. The story went on with the toys' adventure to go back to their master before he departed for college.Personally this movie is brilliantly produced, with a simple plot but many funny and touching moments. Toy Story 1 was launched on the theaters in 1995, after 15 years the once kids have already become mature grown-ups. We have grown up along with Andy, and this created much sentimentals as we watch the movie. What have we done over the past 15 years? Pixar might have given us a little reminder on that.Also after watching the movie, you may want to reconsider throwing away your old toys! Highly recommended movie.
Possible Spoilers This movie follows much in the formula that Pixar laid out in the Toy Story 2. If you saw that movie, you've seen much of this movie. That said, Toy Story 3 was more intense, which will appeal to some of the audience, but not to all. It has a more pronounced set of bad guys, than any other Toy Stories and some might feel they were not good for the target audience, but they served to make the movie more intense. It presents some of the same themes that were introduced in the prior Toy Stories, but the movie also answers a nagging question that has come up throughout all of these Toy Story movies - What happens when Andy (The Toys' owner) grows up? All in All it was a good movie experience.


                
The problem with three-quals, in particular the more recent three-quals, is that they usually run out of steam halfway through Part 2. One can also understand how an audience could grow to be ever so slightly cynical, that studios make these films for the sake of big bucks alone.That has never been a criticism one can throw at Pixar. Throughout their history they have kept on redefining what it is to be a truly fantastic movie for every single person, save for one or two slight hiccoughs along the way ("Cars" in particular). The fact that they were able to not only pull off a worthy sequel to "Toy Story" back in 2000 but to also make it an infinitely more superior film to its predecessor, in a way already fills you with confidence that they know what they're doing. This isn't going to be one of the Shrek films. This is going to have a message and, more importantly, a heart.Though the beginning is perhaps slightly hampered by a rather lacklustre pre-film short, you're very quickly thrown back into the world of Woody, Buzz and co as if it were only yesterday. A fantastic voyage into the imagination of young Andy develops into a sweet little montage, the familiar strains of Randy Newman's "You've Got A Friend In Me" backing it. But then the music fades away, and so does the warmth. We're thrown into the present day - for the toys, it's a time of uncertainty and loneliness, stuffed away in a toy chest in the teenage Andy's room, anxious about their future with his impending journey to college.This is truly where the film sweeps the rug from under your feet. It proves to be a somewhat different film than anyone really expects. There are some immensely dark moments peppered throughout, be they provided by the sense of loss and fear of being forgotten or the rather scary baby doll who patrols the floors of the Day Care Centre that the toys mistakenly end up in. A word of warning here; this is NOT a film for the very young. If the baby doesn't freak you out, the security cymbal-playing monkey almost certainly will.The script is excellent, and the darkness is broken up by moments of great light and laugh-out-loud humour, most of which is provided by the hilarious John Ratzenberger as Hamm. Two other stand out parts include a jailbreak where Mr Potato Head (Don Rickles) becomes an altogether different vegetable, and a reset button on Buzz that gives director Lee Unkrich the chance to make this film probably the first animated film to ever have subtitles.New characters that are introduced don't feel crowded, the handy plot device of Andy's growing up meaning several familiar faces don't appear in this movie. Barbie finally gets her Ken (a very funny Michael Keaton), and the main antagonist, a purple bear who is wonderfully played by Ned Beatty, helps to add to the film's sense of melancholy. Despite these new characters, and the fact that technology has moved on a lot in ten years, our old toys still look and sound the same, and kudos to Tom Hanks and Tim Allen for taking the film as seriously as any other dramatic part, the only way it could possibly work.The final third of the film is full of twists and turns, and several moments that had me choking up and blubbering like a baby. You don't feel cheated at all - you really get a sense that this is the last part of a fantastic three-qual. One certainly hopes so, though one cannot help but be a little nervous as to what the Disney executives could do in Direct-To-DVD mode when all they see is big dollar signs. This is the best ending anyone could ever give the toys. They are redeemed and, in a way, reborn.Strange short aside, and even though it's perhaps not a patch on Number 2 (nor on "Wall-E" or "Up"), this is certainly a brilliant film, and is guaranteed to win at least one Oscar next year.8/10
Pixar has never failed to deliver a worthwhile movie-going experience. Everything Pixar has done is better than anything Dreamworks has done, and that includes Shrek, because Pixar movies have story, and heart, and a respect for the audience. All this said, I was afraid to see Toy Story 3, because it is a sequel to a sequel, something Hollywood has never done well. Take the Godfather saga—Godfathers 1 and 2 are the iconic American story; Godfather 3 is mess made long after the others and starring the director's daughter. Or take the blatant case of "I have no ideas left, but can still make some money"—Back to the Future 3. Like Godfather 2, Back to the Future 2 worked hard to explain the cause and effect behind the original. In Back to the Future 3, they had Michael J. Fox for a couple extra months, so they put a cowboy hat on him and waited for the money to roll in. To their great credit, Pixar has created a Toy Story 3 that is true to the original, but that has its own story, one that expands on the earlier films with a new message of not living in the past. I knew Pixar had not failed when the opening scene—a spectacular action sequence reminiscent of Back to the Future 3—was quickly left behind and supplanted with a real human story.


                
Pixar, it seems, have seriously become a force to reckon with. It all started with Toy Story in 1995 and since then, they've consecutively delivered masterpieces after another as if to virtually remove all doubt that Toy Story was a fluke (and no, it wasn't one). The next in line is Toy Story 3 which, quite easily, joins the ranks of Pixar's finest movies (though I'm now struggling to recollect which one wasn't).In Toy Story 3, we see that Andy is about to move to college. He has to pack up his toys in the attic, donate them, or trash them (that's the choices he has). While he decides to go to the first option, the toys, through a series of misadventures land up in Sunnyside - a place where they'll have plenty of kids to play with them. But all is not as well as it seems since the kids are far from what Andy was when he played with the toys - they thrash them, mercilessly pound them and mess the toys up - enough to make the toys decide to go home.The best thing about Pixar movies (despite the fact that they're animated movies) has been the characters - something which other movie makers need to learn. Although Toy Story 3 excels in almost every department, the characters are never lost in the background. We still care about the likes of Woody, Buzz and Jessie which is surprising considering that we know they're just pieces of toys. And the voice acting is just incredible. I thought Tom Hanks would have lost his form after all these years and was wondering whether, despite aging 10 years, he'd be able to voice Woody with the same enthusiasm he did back in the previous two Toy Story movies. However, he does a brilliant job at it and so does the rest of the voice cast. It'll make you feel as if the voice recording for the movie was done 10 years ago.Technically, the film features CGI which is amazingly impressive. There are times when you simply forget that this is an animation movie you're watching. In fact, just like in WALL·E, the only times the CGI looks CGI is when humans show up (which is perfectly understandable given that it's incredibly difficult to make human CGI). Watch the opening sequence to get what I say, it alone is enough to convince anyone of the visual superiority of this movie. Cinematography and Editing are also flawless, the movie never slows down and it feels that there's something constantly happening in the movie. Humor is again good - especially the scene in which Buzz turns into Spanish mode. Hilarious !!Just like it's predecessors, the most amazing feat of Toy Story 3 according to me is how it makes you emotional and sad towards it's end. It's a perfect example of directorial triumph. And this happens at a time when the characters in the movie just exchange glances at each other, they don't even speak much in that portion of the movie. It's strange to realize you'd become sad by just looking at toys without they saying anything. Without revealing anything all I can say is that the first thing you're likely to do after watching this movie is go home and check out your old toys. You're surely going to miss them - at least I did.My only gripes with the movie - I'd have loved to see more of Rex, Hamm and Slinky Dog. Rex's lack of confidence is something which came across as wonderfully in the first two movies. That is something that I missed. Also, the humor is less stronger as compared to the first two movies and so are the dialogues. Those are my thoughts. These tiny nitpicks shouldn't deter anyone from watching this movie. And yes, the 3D was simply pointless. I actually wanted to watch the movie in 2D but couldn't since all major movie screens are showing it in 3D. That made it clear that the 3D was more for the purposes of generating revenue than for anything else.And yes, it's time we accepted that these movies are NOT movies for Kids. They can be enjoyed equally by Adults as well - in fact more so. It's high time people stopped slamming these movies as movies for the kids and skipped them. If you're one of them, you're missing out on something really important here - something you'll regret 10 years from now for sure. Watch this Pixar !!!Score: 8.5 / 10


                
First and foremost Toy Story 3 is about toys, as deftly explained in the title. However, Pixar has managed to create a movie that can offer humor and emotion, and I mean honest and heartfelt emotion and witty humor, to a person of any age.In Toy Story 3 toys are used as metaphors for loss and inevitability, but also redemption, and of course, being toys, for humor. Andy, our half-protagonist, has grown up and is leaving for college. Andy's childhood toys are becoming more uncertain of the future, and what will happen to them after Andy is gone.Something that has always bugged me about Pixar movies is that the main problem that is overcome is always created by an accident that leaves mistaken assumptions within the main characters who then act to return to the way things were on those assumptions. I'm happy that Toy Story 3 has managed to have that same occurrence without it being the motivation behind the whole story.The evil villain is a teddy bear suffering from rejection. The evil in Toy Story 3 is the result of a toy's loss and rejection by replacement. Without being preachy Toy Story 3 shows that most evil isn't because a person, or toy, is evil at heart, it's because someone is suffering from rejection or loss, and that suffering has led to darker and more hateful actions.Toy Story 3 is one of the not so rare but rarely wonderful movies that attempts to pull off being both comical and serious, with neither one overshadowing the other. Toy Story 3 pulls this of fantastically. Humor is there, and it's always funny without being cheesy and without being one-sided, which is something I've always admired about Pixar's films. The humor is humorous for people of all ages without loss to one age demographic or another.I have to mention the way Pixar crafted the unique personality of each and every toy. There aren't any stereotypes here, and if there are they were meant to be stereotypical. Each toy that speaks is a deep and complex character, and that character is suited to how the toy is apparent in real life. Ken and Barbie are hilarious, the villain's Henchmen aren't just evil figures but have personalities, and the villainous teddy bear himself isn't just straight evil for the purpose of having a villain. All the characters seem like real thinking people, real thinking toys.In the end, Toy Story 3 manages to be entertaining, heartfelt, deep, and hilarious, all from a story about kids toys. However Pixar does what it does, it's done very, very well.
It would be easy to say that once again Pixar has proved they are the best at what they do and other animation companies pale in comparison, because, well frankly, it's true. There's an unfussiness in how they make their movies, an effortlessness that allows the story to drive the visuals and not the other way around. Toy Story 3 is no exception. At its heart is a delightful tale that touches children and adults alike, utilising humour, drama and action to take us on an emotional, but by no means heavy-handed, roller-coaster ride that started way back in 1995.Whereas a lot of family flicks can be simply defined into the broader genres – comedy, adventure, etc – this trilogy closer isn't such a neat fit; it'll have you laughing, crying, scared, adrenaline-pumped and all without feeling uneven or unnatural. Pixar's expert balance between gags for the kids – the Spanish Buzz is downright hilarious – and knowing winks to the adults – the Cool Hand Luke homage is superb – is once again a highlight whilst the opening scene is a wonderfully clever one. A minor blip: the penultimate finale is a touch too frightening, the consequences are more malevolent than the rocket-blasting in Story 1 and the airplane-escaping in Story 2 earning an unwanted atmosphere of dread.These characters have affected audiences like so few can achieve. They've endeared themselves to us at such a high level that even in 2010, when the youngest fans of the first Story would be at least 20 y.o. today, there's still an enthusiasm and excitement to see old friends that is rarely encountered in the cinematic world. To the screenwriters' and filmmaker's credit, they don't just rely on the iconicity of Woody and Buzz to hold the picture together, instead taking the bold route of introducing new players – Lots-o-Hugs Bear, Barbie's Ken, Mr Pricklepants to name but a few – and not featuring previous characters such as Mr Wheezy, Zurg, Bo Peep and Etch-a-Sketch. The mix-up of focus and priority – Woody and Buzz share their majority portion of screen time with Lotso, Barbie arguably features more prominently than Jessie the Cowgirl – keeps the audience guessing whilst adding another level of freshness to the franchise.Not quite as flawless as the first film, this convivial instalment is still a must-see thanks to its winning screenplay, pin-sharp 3D animation and a tremendous voice cast that drive their highly-watchable characters.4 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 - Classic)


                
