Is there Life after playtime? Can you handle a film in which the toys are playing with us, the audience? The third chapter of the Toy Story saga asks some tough questions of viewers, but the rewards of seeing this remarkable film outweigh the emotional toll.It's the last week of summer before Andy heads off to college, and Woody (Tom Hanks) and the other remaining toys in Andy's bedroom find themselves in fear of what's to become of them. It looks like the attic, but events conspire to throw them a day-care center called Sunnyside. It looks swell enough, at first..."You'll never be outgrown, or neglected," the toys are informed by the chuckily plush play bear Lots-O (Ned Beatty). "Never abandoned or forgotten. No owners means - no heartbreak!"It's odd to see a film series that started out as an animated lark turn into "Watership Down", but there's always been some existential angst at the heart of the enterprise, c.f. the fragile buddy system employed in the first "Toy Story", Sid's hapless victims, and talk of rummage sales. The second film pushed these buttons a bit harder, to the point of losing the humor.This time the drama is stronger than ever, yet the film amazingly manages to stay refreshingly clever and hilarious. We meet Ken (Michael Keaton), who introduces himself to Barbie saying "We were made for each other". Ken must deal with wisecracks about being a girl's toy, or as Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles) puts it, "an accessory, a purse with legs." The daycare center is also fabulously realized, a cacophony of misfit toys all showing signs of wear from constant play. Every now and again we break away to see Woody in his new situation, being played with by a girl named Bonnie who is very nice but has a left-field imagination. "We do a lot of improv here," another toy tells him.All this is very funny, and director Lee Unkrich and the Pixar writers and artists find brilliant ways to keep humor close to the center of things throughout. Yet this movie is no lark. One of the funniest scenes the first time I saw this movie three weeks ago, involving a cutaway to a clown staring at a window, got hardly a laugh when I saw it again tonight. I think it was because the rest of the audience, like me, knew what was coming; a sad story about cosmic indifference and cold-hearted abandonment which sets in motion the real emotional undertow of the film.Set against this is Woody's firm if shaken resolution to "be there for Andy", even when it seems he and the other toys are no longer wanted by their owner. It's a message of faith you relate to, yet it also brings out another point, the notion of change, even painful change, as needful. The toys know they'll be neglected, perhaps forever, if exiled to the attic, but prefer it to the unknown. This actually makes sense. What can happen out there isn't very nice, but even in the face of extinction the film suggests a certain nobility through acceptance can be still possible. It's a pretty heavy message to take away from watching a G-rated comedy.The film doesn't leave you on a down note, but it's a funny thing. In the past, I always looked forward to the post-credit goof scenes as something to laugh at on my way out of the theater. This time, I appreciated it just as much as a chance to wipe my eyes before I got out of my chair. It still felt good, though.


                
I've said this before, but I'll say it again: Pixar has shown with their initial ten films that they haven't the faintest clue how to make a bad movie. And yet, somehow, I always find myself feeling doubtful whenever a trailer for one of their new films is released. With Toy Story 3, I got the impression that it would be just another adventure with Woody and the gang for the sake of having one. So, with this, and a movie year that has been relatively lacking so far, would Toy Story 3 disappoint? The answer: absolutely not.Probably the most surprising aspect about this film is that, even after eleven years since the release of Toy Story 2, the material that has made this series so damn enjoyable hasn't been lost one bit here. All of the old characters are just endearing as ever, if not more so, and all of the new ones feel right at home here. Ken (voiced by Michael Keaton) is especially hilarious, to the point where even the mention of him got me laughing.To touch briefly on the visual front, the characters themselves are just as expressive as they've always been. However, like Wall-E, the world that they inhabit looks much more photorealistic this time around. Also, this is one of the few instances when the 3D aspect actually enhances the film. It's by no means as crucial to the experience in the same way that it was for Avatar, but it gives the film a little extra something.The action sequences, too, are spectacular. These are toys that we're talking about, and somehow, Pixar's managed to provide these scenes with one hell of a punch. Not much else to say about 'em other than that the climax in particular feels as epic as anything from The Lord of the Rings trilogy.What really puts Toy Story 3 above most films out there, though, is how it deals with the themes of loss and growing up. Even after getting to know these characters over the course of two films, I was still surprised by just how much I got sucked into their despair. Without giving anything away, there were two scenes that caused me to tear up, and even more that had me on the verge of doing so.Toy Story 3 is not only a worthy conclusion to a fantastic trilogy, but also the one third installment (other than Return of the King) that I feel is better than its predecessors. For all of the reasons already mentioned and more, it's one of the studio's best entries. Sorry for doubting you, Pixar, even if it was just for a bit.


                
When I saw Toy Sotry 3 last week I was astonished! I thought that it would be one of those movies where the first movie was great and would sink to the ground in a matter of time. Not with Toy Story 3! Ever since the beginning I was a fan of Toy Story. The characters in this movie were lively as ever.Tom Hanks and Tim Allen did it again with their excellent chemistry as Woddy and Buzz. Of course Pixar increased the quality of the characters making them look more surreal. The movie would've been better if Jim Varney was around but I know he died in 2005 and got replaced.If you're a Toy Story fan like me, go see it! As an 18 year old I found this movie thrilling and enjoyable.To infinity and beyond!


                
Those guys at Pixar know how to tell a story! These characters will live in our hearts forever! They really know how to tug at our hearts.This is more ramblings about the movie then a review.There are so many movies that can't get me emotionally involved, movies in which I don't care at all about the people whom I'm supposed to be rooting for.But Pixar knows how to get me. And it's not just a rooting interest, it's a love for characters, a love that hurts. I know I'm not the only one who's fallen in love in Monsters Inc, Finding Nemo, Up and most of all in the Toy Story movies.It's been so long since the first one that the special effects don't distract me in awe of them. The first two movies were so good that the story kept you from being distracted, but I couldn't help but stop and look at how beautiful the animation was. But now that I'm used to it, I was able to just watch the movie.The first half of the movie wasn't that great. It seemed like rehashed themes from the first two, but the second half of that movie made up for it and much more.The key to the puzzle of this movie, for me, as a father, was that moment when the mother sees Andy's room empty and realizes that her baby has grown up and he's moving away. That moment captured that whole movie's spirit.It was time to let go and say goodbye.Thank you Pixar. I watched 'The Pixar Story' on the Disney Channel this week and after watching Toy Story 3 it makes me so grateful for them. They tell great stories, they make great movies.Please forgive my spelling and grammar. I am a product of the Miami-Dade Public School System.


                
For 16 years the Toy Story franchise has captivated a whole sleuth of generations with two amazing films. In almost two decades, there have been millions of kids rushing back from their schools or quickly opening their bedroom doors after they are gone to double check that their toys are not alive. Toy Story has stood the test of time and has become one of the greatest children films of all time and spurned a fantastic sequel. But how do you top that? Can Toy Story 3 make this one of the most brilliant trilogies? Toy Story 3 sets off 11 years after Toy Story 2 with Andy, Woody and Buzz's owner, all grown up and heading for college. The Toy's fate lies in his hands; trash, attic or donated? After a series of bumbling mistakes, the Toys wind up heading for the seemingly perfect Day-care centre, Sunnyside. Sunnyside is ruled by the lovable bear Lots-o. However, all is not what they seem and the toys suffer a terrifying play time with children way below the appropriate age. What seems like a dream quickly turns into a nightmare for the toys as they head the great escape. Pixar, by now, has learnt each trick into hooking the adults as well as the children and not by turning to subtle dirty humour. What is so wonderful about Toy Story 3 is the experience of childhood that you remember or you are living right now. While we are introduced to so many new characters each one comes with its own quirk that is easily lovable and easily memorable. The quick fire lines don't just appeal to every age; it makes them laugh and chortle. Ken, the doll who has never met a Barbie, is a wonderful inclusion to the Toy Story cast with his vanity, self image but also having a big heart. The villain, without giving anything away, is also reminiscent of Sid and Stinky Pete of the previous films. Not only this but the action is every bit edge of your seat entertainment that left the audience gasping and jumping at every moment. I, for one, will never look at a baby doll in the same way.The most triumphant part of this piece of cinema is how your heartstrings are tugged in each and every way. From the opening sequence to the credits, I have not wept so much in a movie since Up; another Pixar classic. The story and the sadness is told so beautifully that it probably made a few people think twice about throwing away old toys or replacing those who are lost. I'm not saying that Toy Story 3 is without flaws. There are times watching where you feel like you had seen it all before with it's predecessors and at some parts the film does becomes predictable. But that is where the classic Pixar genius enters giving enough twists to keep you hooked on till the end. The Toy Store elite films are delightful and to dismiss them as children's films would be an outrage. I found more shock, love, terror, comedy and intrigue that most "art" and "sophisticated" films are missing. The greatest trilogy of all time? It would be foolish for me to say. But this is definitely up in the big leagues and will last from infinity and beyond.


                
I've decided to watch toy story 3 because i was a fan of the previous two toy stories and I thought those were really well done and had great stories. Toy Story 3 proves that the third film of a series does not have to be the weakest and that it can sometimes even be the strongest. Toy Story 3 is just as magical as the first two offerings and the quality of the animation is second to none. Now I don't necessarily remember exactly what happens in the previous two toy stories but I remember liking them a lot and how the stories were great. I feel that Toy Story 3 is the best out of the 3. Toy Story was great but the third one does it the best, in my opinion.All the same toys are back but this time their are new toys (some good, some bad). Unlike the previous toy stories, this one is filled with more frightening scenes and more mature themes. This one is also more darker and some scenes can scare little kids slightly, but that's what makes it great. I was surprised that their were some scenes like that, after reading some comments from critics and reviews. This movie isn't really for young children but it all depends on their views. The finals scene was a great way to end the series and movie Overall Toy Story 3 is a fantastic film filled with magic moments, strong characters and visuals that only Pixar can produce. Amazing job


                
I was the ripe demographic for the original 'Toy Story' when it came out. I remember seeing it as a kid for the first time and it was a magnificent experience. The animation was of course stellar but the film had heart. In some ways I feel the 3rd entry of this brilliant trilogy is more for me than it is for younger viewers. In many ways it is the perfect conclusion to this story. What I loved about the film was that it acknowledges the journey our characters went on. In many ways I did emotionally invest myself with Buzz and Woody more so than I'd like to admit. I have to hand it to Pixar, their films really deal with classic themes. Sure films like 'Toy Story' and 'Up' look pretty and colorful to kids but they deal with emotions that adults have trouble grasping.The setting of the movie is brilliant and is able to add a lot of great humor. The toys are given an opportunity to go to a Day care center and be played with. They are ecstatic but soon find out that their new home isn't all that it is cracked up to be. Lotso, a stuffed bear, runs the center like a dictator. The lesser toys are left to the mercy of the toddlers. In many ways Lotso is the best villain in the series. He is a toy who was replaced. The character is fleshed out and at times has moments where he is very intimidating, although the punishments are very comical to the viewer. The debate about age approriateness had me in stitches.'Toy Story 3' is about the loss of innocence and the end of childhood. Dark stuff for a Disney film. Our pals Woody and Buzz have laid in a toy box as Andy has grown up with out them. The toys fear their fate, either a trip to the attic or worse the dump. I like the fact that the film begins on a bleak note. We are already given reason to fear this fate. The memories of Toy Story 2's subplot are fresh in our head. Kids are fickle as they turn into teens. Woody is especially in turmoil, his love for Andy is as strong as it ever was. Woody is the personification of that innocence and childhood. The scenes Andy has with Woody are brilliant.Woody is forced with a dilemma, rescue his friends or miss out on Andy taking his next step in life. The finale of the film is one of the most powerful moments in Disney's long history and really ranks up there with some of their best films. The kids may not appreciate it but the adults will be in tears.
At the end of my review of Toy Story 2 (1999), I challenged Pixar to "convince us (with Toy Story 3)<U+0085>that we have been frozen in carbonite all these years, that we haven't really aged at all." I am extremely delighted to say that Pixar has done it again. Director Lee Unkrich takes rein and flies the Pixar flag with confidence and conviction. The co-director of Toy Story 2, Monsters, Inc. (2001) and Finding Nemo (2003), Unkrich finally proves that he has what it takes to be fully in charge of a Pixar picture.Toy Story 3, I would guess, is the last installment of a very remarkable trilogy, which in modern cinema, is perhaps only bettered by Peter Jackson's action-fantasy epic The Lord of the Rings (2001-2003). Its success also breaks the "curse of the third film" that has plagued popular series such as Spiderman, The Matrix, Pirates of the Caribbean, and maybe even Shrek. Pixar's eleventh straight box-office hit, Toy Story 3 is the epitome of consistency, not only for the famed animation studio, but for animation cinema as well.If there is a minor blip, Toy Story 3 is the least original in the series. Visually, it is arguably the most creative. But plot-wise, it copies the structure of its direct prequel. An action-packed prologue in which the toy character(s) live out their (or their owner's) fantasy? Check. Meeting of new toys in which one of them appears to be kind but is actually wicked? Check. A flashback sequence that details the fate of a toy? Check. Indiana Jonesque action and adventure in another great escape? Check.Nevertheless, it is still very entertaining to see Woody and co. pick up from where they left off eleven years ago. They have not lost any character trait, nor our love for them diminished over the years. The story goes like this: Andy is all grown up and going to college soon. The toys fear that they will become unwanted and unloved. They are then accidentally donated to a day-care center, to their delight of course, where children could play with them. Their enjoyment turns into horror when they realize that at night, the center becomes a prison controlled by a gang of "veteran toys".Toy Story 3 is less funny (dialogue-wise), has less film references, but hits the jackpot with great character interplay, of which the most memorable ones include that of Buzz and Jessie, and Barbie and Ken, most of them of a romantic nature. Many of the action set-pieces are thrilling (and sometimes frightening) including one involving a garbage incinerator in which the fear of death brings a collective sense of identity that has never been exhibited to such a heart-wrenching extent in a Pixar film.Unkrich leaves the very best for the last. The final act is touching, with enough emotional resonance to warm even the coldest heart. The younger viewers in which the film is targeted at may not be old enough to appreciate the nuances. But adults who tag along with them, and children who grew up with Toy Story (many of whom are now slightly older than Andy) will find tears in their eyes as they recollect memories of childhood that now look like a distant afterthought. Suffice to say, Toy Story 3 is a definite shoo-in for one of the top ten films of 2010.SCORE: 9/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved!


                
Just come back from a preview screening in Auckland, New Zealand. This movie is quite simply perfect. From the opening sequence to the end credits this movie delivers in spades! There is something for everyone - those who have grown up with Toy Story, to those who've never seen the film before.Their really is nothing negative to say, other than don't bother spending the extra to see it in 3D - it offers nothing that you wouldn't have got in 2D, in fact the group I went to see the film with actually all agreed in someway it actually detracted from the enjoyment of the film, but you decide!Anyway, great film and wonderful ending to one history's truly great trilogies. 8.9/10


                
Toy story is without a doubt one of the best animated trilogies. Toy story 3 ends the trilogy with improved graphics and lots of new characters. Although, this movie still brings back all the original characters and their classic voices such as Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, and Joan Cusack. These familiar actors and actresses take on a new role as they use only their voices to bring personality to their characters. The idea of using toys as the main characters in this Disney Pixar trilogy opened the door for endless creativity as to the characters. This gives the trilogy a distinction that sets it apart from all other animated movies. Toy Story 3 brings the long journey that the toys have had with Andy to a bittersweet end. Andy is leaving for college and must decide what to do with his cherished toys. After a brief scare, all of his toys end up together at Sunnyside Daycare. What seems like a great solution to their departure with long time playmate, Andy, turns into a call for action. The toy soon learn that the young kids don't play with them like Andy did so they seek out Lotso, a stuffed bear who is the leader of the toys, to be moved to the older kid's room. Lotso denies them and Andy's toys begin to learn about who Lotso really is. His hidden evil intentions leads the toys to plan their escape. Just as their escape plan seems to successfully conclude, they are stopped by Lotso and his followers. At the end of their brawl, both Lotso and Andy's toys end up on their way to an incinerator. As the toys are feet away from the incinerator and begin thinking it may be the end, the Aliens pull them out using an industrial claw. The toys make it safely back to Andy's where Woody plans to go to college while to rest will go in the attic. At the last minute Woody writes a note on their box. In the end, all the toys end up going to Bonnies's house, even Woody. Andy realizes he must let go of his toys and pass them along to someone who can enjoy them as he had. Toy Story 3 takes its viewer on an incredible adventure in which he or she will experience both feelings of bliss and fear in the same movie. The toys must come together one last time in order to conduct their greatest escape. Toy Story 3 contains an interesting plot with tons of laughs. It is a bittersweet movie which ends in a theme that everyone can relate to. Truly one of the best endings to a trilogy.
Disney characters often face death, and yet death itself is usually an anomaly for them, a breach made by villainy in their happy worlds. Toy Story 3, however, might be the first major Hollywood animated feature more or less explicitly *about* death. The premise has the protagonists terrified by the prospect of their now seventeen-year-old owner Andy going to college and getting rid of them. They know they are running out of time: even when they end up as gifts in a daycare run by a dictator-like teddy bear and attempt to escape, the specter of the garbage bin looms over them. It's no coincidence the last act features escathological imagery like the hellish fire of the incinerator or the heavenly sky of the last shot.Not that Toy Story 3 is bleak; it's a good-natured roller-coaster ride with quirky characters, creative set-pieces, witty dialogues - a funny tale of flamenco-dancing toy astronauts, self-absorbed Ken dolls and happy endings. Still, this unique perspective lends it a special pathos; good movies can simply be well-crafted, but great movies need to be ABOUT something. Pixar has been tackling with serious themes (diversity, paternity, senility, abandonment) ever since the first Toy Story: this is one of their boldest projects yet. Let's hope they keep pushing the envelope - to infinity and beyond.8,5/10
this movie still hits deep into our emotions. and it really shows how shallow our culture and society has become to some extent. the love of our childhood given to these objects, how easily we can dismiss and replace them and change with little thought. i still remember many of my fav toys from my days. and still have some, granted in a box in garage. but they can so easily bring back wonder memories. sure there are billions of Barbies out there, but it is not the one you had.the end scene, still brings a tear to my eye. i've done once, pass on something of emotional value to a younger generation. one can only hope the gift is continued in some way.of course the dump scene, showing how strong friendship can be. truly story telling at it's best.


                
watching Toys come alive was a innovative attempt to make audience ride along.......... its made us sense their feelings ,their perspective and their importance.............. i think every character was effective and innovative Artists had put their best to make this miracle happen.............. over all the movie was very entertaining. got inspired .. and wished that i was the part of this movie..........its one of the movie that i felt and will cherish along...........i am happy to be a part of animation industry have been a part of move named PLANES .....it was an experience of a lifetime..... keep these coming ............cheers !


                
This was a fantastic finish to a wonderful series. I may be almost 20, but I enjoyed the movie as if I was a kid again. All of the characters were great and true to the original. Barbie & Ken have become some of my new favorite characters. They add great comic relief to this film. The imagination behind Disney and Pixar is one of the most important elements in this trilogy. If a toy was ever made, they find a use for it! It's incredible. If you loved the other two films, definitely check this one out. The 3D doesn't really change the film or make it extraordinary, so don't worry about that! This film is great for people of all ages so bring the whole family. No one will be bored.


                
What troubled me the most about this film was it felt like it was the same story (Andy leaves the room, Toys get lost or in trouble, Toys need to work together to get home, Antagonist makes life tough for Toys, etc), but as the film unravels you remember the real reason you are here. To see Pixar animation come to life, beautifully I might add, and to be entertained for an hour and a half. All our returning friends are back, minus a few, but now Andy is 17 and moving onto college and the fates of the Toys are sealed. The characters who are gone are replaced by some new and exciting characters. The film also opens up with a new adventure in the beginning that is exciting too. This part was never done in the other two films either and gave a new dimension to this film. It obviously is an adventure that is generated by the ideas found in Andy's head but the Pixar team gives it to you like it was totally real. The interesting thing about the story is the parallel lines between Andy's situation and the mood the film will eventually take that catapults it into being one of the best films of this summer. As Andy grows up so does the Toy Story franchise. This film takes a startling, but welcoming turn towards the mature side of things and dishes out a dark side and a violent side that tells us that the Toy Story world has grown up. I don't want to say what happens, but it is jarring. Some highlights are Potato Head as a tortilla shell, Barbie & Ken, Michael Keaton expertly handling the voice of Ken and an homage to the now classic theme song "You Got a Friend in Me" in Spanish. In my opinion it still isn't as good as the original, but damn close. It is a fond farewell (hopefully not the last).


                
11 years later, Toy Story 3 still manages to stay true to the original concept and blows us away. Directed by Lee Unkrich (co-director of Toy Story 2), it manages to induce plenty of laughs and few tears from the adults who as kids had drooled over the first two movies. I wouldn't claim to be a huge Toy Story fan but the third installment just made me realize how much in love with the characters I was.Andy Davis (voiced by John Morris), now 17 years old and heading off to college, needs to decide what he wants to do with the few toys he still holds on to. This predicament leaves him in some angst and in the end decides to take Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks) with him while leaving the rest of the toys in the Attic. But due to various mishaps, all the toys end up in a day care centre called Sunnyside that is run by the huggable, strawberry scented Losto Bear (voiced by Ned Beatty). This is where most of the action takes place i.e. from Buzz Lightyear (voiced by Tim Allen) being reset, Woody leaving the others to go back to Andy, Ken (voiced by Michael Keaten) and Barbie (voiced Jodi Benson) falling in love, being played/tortured by infants, Woody and gang saving the other toys from the evil Losto etc.The process by which the movie builds up is just plain eye candy for us viewers because it makes us fall in love with each of the characters all over again. The opening scenes showing Andy as a kid playing with the toys takes us back to the original movies which in my opinion was the best way to get the viewers nostalgic and hooked from the start. Even though a lot of the toys/characters from the first two movies didn't make it to this movie, all the remaining ones were handled in an ideal way making sure we didn't miss the ones that were lost. Jessie (voiced by Joan Cusack) was the perfect cow girl, Mr & Mr Potato (voiced by Don Rickles and Estelle Harris) head were adorable, Rex (voiced by Wallace Shawn) was his scary best and Slinky Dog (voiced by Blake Clark) the faithful sidekick irrespective of his age.Somewhere in the middle of the movie, I did get slightly bored but as the ending unraveled, the whole thing made complete sense and this is where the movie blew me away. The likelihood of an emotional ending going bad is usually high but the way the writers handled it was just mind bogglingly faultless. I won't go into details but in all honesty, I'd watch this movie over and over again just for the ending. Loved it...well done Lee Unkrich.
Toy Story 3 opens in a similar vein to the previous film, but this time Woody (Tom Hanks) is the hero of the imaginary adventure. Watch the three films back to back and you'll see the progression in the quality of the animation. In this film the people are still stylized, but the level of detail and expression is far beyond what was in the previous film; it's really beautiful and helps you connect to the human characters more than ever. Having said that, I did see it in 3D and frankly the film would have been just as good without it.As with everything Pixar does, the attention to detail here is incredible. How the slide in the playground becomes a watchtower at night. How marker smudges become prison stats. The level of detail, in things like Woody's rounded-down hairline, is astounding. And yes, that's the voice of John Morris, now 23, playing Andy once again. Why get the same actor when only a few might notice? Because everything is everything here.And talking about the emotional part of the film; it starts tugging at you a little bit early on, then gives way for a lot of the fun stuff. If you don't shed a tear at some point you might just be made of stone. There's just one scene after another, going from touching, to heartbreaking, back to touching and melancholy. There are few live action films that can reach your heart the way this one did in the last 15 minutes or so. And the jail-break sequence was so exciting, you forget that you are watching an animated movie and get totally involved with the characters.The relationship that the toys have with their owners in the Toy Story-movies has always been a curious thing. In order for toys to truly feel wanted, their owners need to really use their imaginations while playing with them. There almost needs to be a heightened sense of wonder involved in order for the toys to feel complete. This is what drives them to find a place where the kids would connect to them and enjoy playing with them. Thats when all hell breaks loose and everything seems to go wrong. You can't help but notice the small values of life that these toys teach us in almost every juncture. No matter what we have around us, be it living or not, its special. Its special 'cause it serves a purpose that no one else can !Go see Toy Story 3 and take the whole family. It might just end up being your all time favorite Pixar film. The three movies have now shown us that the story of a toy is, overall, a sad one. But not one without pride. And not one without joy.


                
I must start this review by saying a few things about the Toy Story franchise. When I was a kid I didn't saw Toy Story in '95 nor the sequel in '99. I remember I saw Toy Story in 2003 and I thought it was okay. Now with all the surrounding hype of the third installment I decided to go through the first 2 movies before I'll watch Toy Story 3 so few days ago I saw them and I was amazed what I lost when I was at a very young age. The first 2 parts are amazing, the first deserving an honestly 8,9 and the second a better 9,1, but because of the hype of Toy Story 3 I was a little bit skeptic about how good it would be. Today I saw it and it was awesome! Not only awesome but I think one of the top animations ever made.The story is perfect because it has real funny standout moments, it has no major flaws, it has action sequences which are executed by the finest hands from Pixar Studios. Besides that it has a great way of developing the characters and providing the necessary amount of suspense or thrill at times. Along the movie you feel happy, sad, scared, terrified, amazed, "WOWed" and more than anything entertained. All that not only because of the great comeback of the toys but also because of the incredible soundtrack provided by the talented Randy Newman.Toy Story 3 ain't just an animation movie, it's more than that. Adults and children could be entertained at the same time. Who doesn't remember how much passion and how much we loved our toys when we were kids? Who doesn't remember how it's to feel something for a bunch of plastic things? But the strongest part in the movie isn't the beginning with the great introduction, nor the action sequences but the ending which was this close to make my tears drop down. I had a feeling that I remember I got when I was a kid and I watched "Lion King" which was a great emotional journey. Toy Story it's the same having by far one of the greatest endings animation movies have ever seen and I'm sure that if I saw Toy Story as a kid I would definitely could not have controlled myself today.As far as a franchise Toy Story is by far the best animation trilogy. Talking about technical aspects I would say that the sound editing was top notch, integrating very well the score, audio effects and dialogue into the movie. Cinematography was good but had some times were it could have been better. The 3D was rendered perfect in my theater so I had nothing against it though there were not so many actual stunning 3D effects.In the end I don't know, go see the movie and see for yourself how good this is. Till now it's the best movie out this year and I think the next one that could top it might be Inception.


                
It's astonishing to think of the impressively high standard Pixar has set for animated films. It's astonishing to think of any animated movie - including Pixar - equaling, much less surpassing, that standard set by Pixar previously. It's even more astonishing to realize that Pixar never fails to reach and/or surpass that standard. See, part of me hoped this film would disappoint. Having heard rumors of a series of sequels from Pixar - this, Cars 2, Monsters, Inc. 2, and a potential Finding Nemo sequel - I feared Pixar may start falling victim to the seemingly severe case of sequelitis that is plaguing Hollywood. Alas, I realize that Pixar is not a victim of sequelitis, but rather the antidote; the definition of what a sequel needs to be.Earlier this year, I watched How To Train Your Dragon and for the first time believed I had witnessed a film that had finally matched Pixar quality. Then Toy Story 3 came along, and reminded just how high that standard had been set. At times feeling like an animated Shawshank Redemption and other times a profound existential commentary, TS3 may eventually prove to be the best of the trilogy, which is one of the strongest trilogies ever made.In this, we see the toys accidentally donated to a day care facility days before Andy sets off for college. Immediately we are greeted with a conflict of loyalty as Andy chooses Woody as the only toy he will take to college. The bond between the toy and his owner has really been the core of the trilogy, and it drives this film even further. It is what makes the realization of Woody's future and existence so profound, and what makes the ending the humbling farewell this trilogy deserves.Determined to keep the gang together and - after hearing of the truth behind the day care - concerned for his friends, Woody embarks on a journey to save his friends from a very bleak future. Throughout this journey, Woody comes to perhaps the most profound realization a toy could encounter: that his purpose is to be the character of imagination, an imagination which Andy can no longer fully provide. And in a bittersweet conclusion, a new future for the toys is realized. Beautifully crafted and enduringly realized, Toy Story 3 works its way near the top of the list of the greatest animated films ever made. Pixar has done it yet again.
There are movies from our childhood that continues to make an impact on us, even when we're adults. This movie directed by Lee Unkrich is one of those. Unlike the 'Shrek' franchise that became a shell of its former self. The 'Toy Story' is a movie series that continues to get better with each film added to it. Yet, I really, hope this is the end of 'Toy Story' trilogy, because any fourth movie will not live up to this. Debuting in 1995, Pixar's 'Toy Story' introduce us to the world of 3D computer animation. Most 90's children will remember where they were when Toy Story came out. Some of us were like Andy playing with mixed match toys, making our own adventures with them. When Toy Story 2 came out,(1999) some of us were in middle school or high school and slowly the toys were become less and less interesting to us similar to Jesse (Joan Cusack) retelling of Emily in Toy Story 2. Fast further to 2010, and we watch Toy Story 3. The movie series that we saw during our childhood has gotten better since then. Surprising, when I got there, I thought I would be swamped by little kids who knew little about Toy Story, but it wasn't like that. I saw many of young and mid 20's years old who grew up watching this movie there watching this movie and every moment of the film made us remember our own childhoods. If you haven't watch Toy Story 1 or 2, you might want to watch them, before entering into this movie. The start of the movie was very interesting, and it's really pit the nostalgia feeling in this movie, as it remind us of the beginning of Toy Story 1. It made us seems like we were there growing up with Andy. Andy doesn't play with most of his toys anymore since he has grown up and move on to better things like college. His sister, Molly seems to be more... let's just say she was nicer when she was a baby. Most of the gang can't get that through their plastic skulls that both are out of that stage of play. Well, at less, Woody (Tom Hanks) and Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) are still there with the normal supporting cast minus a few characters. I don't care about Weezy, but why Bo-Peep? Plus, no explaining why she isn't there. The gang felt abandoned and when they were mistaken for trash. They wanted out and move out of Andy's house and into in a daycare center lead by Lotso (Ned Betty). His present on film remind me of a mixed character between Cool Hand Luke's Warden (1967), Dr. Moreau from Island of Dr. Moreau (1977), and Jabba the Hut from Star Wars: Return of the Jedi (1983). He is a very great actor and he really gives this character depth, and made us feel pity for the character when a flashback of his past came to view. Lotso's second in command is a Ken-doll (Michael Keaton) tries to make the new toys feel welcome in their new home. This character will become a gay icon similar to Cher. Big Baby was creepy, but he did have a great role in the film as the enforcer. His presence in the film might scare little children, so do warn. From all the new characters, Dolly (Bonnie Hunt) is my favorite. Soon, they find out that the day-care is not the ideal place they think it is, and more like a prison. Now it's on, as Andy's toys must find a way to escape. There were a lot of good jokes. Look out for a lot of Hispanios jokes. The action scenes in the film were great as well, most likely the last action scene in the film. I forgot it was a Disney movie at that point, and totally forgot I was watching a cartoon in that scene. It was really heart pounding.There is a lot of tear jerking moments in this film. Without giving much away, just note the ending of the film is heart breaking that will leave you crying. Overall review: it seems to be the darkest of all the films, audience seems to like the gritty darkest to films as of late, but the running theme of abandonment, concentration camp like places and near incineration might turn off others as depressing. Still, a good movie. Overall, an great movie 9 out of 10.
The first Toy Story movie was a milestone in the history of film, being the first ever full-length CG film ever made. And with it's intriguing plot and terrific comedic delivery, coupled with all the elements needed for a great adventure, it was a box-office smash, as was it's sequel. Today, fifteen years later, Woody and co. have come back to the silver screen for one last hurray.Toy Story 3 is set a few years after the events of the second film. Andy, the owner of the toys, is now a young man entering college and hasn't played with his old pals for years. After numerous attempts of getting his attention came to no avail, Woody, Buzz, and the remaining of the toys are resigned to the fact that they aren't going to be played with anymore. When only Woody is picked to follow Andy to college, the rest of the toys seek refuge as donations to Sunnyside Daycare, only to realize that there is more to the place than it seems. Now, Woody must help them escape and convince them that they still have a place in Andy's heart.As with any other Pixar animated films so far, Toy Story 3 carries the same ingenious amount of slapstick comedy which leaves you in laughter and also in awe of it's creativity. The story progresses as a true adventure, as Woody, Buzz and friends maneuver past the countless obstacles with wit and hilarity. Lee Unkrich masterfully displays the imaginative appeal of the first two movies, taking the adventure from a vending machine to within a garbage truck.TS3 boasts one of Pixar's most daring and laudable aspect in making family movies, in the way they shift the story into a darker tone. And this time, they have raised the stakes to unprecedented heights. While The Incredibles and Up play out the dark tones in a way less obvious to children, the theme of the toys being forsaken and forgotten here forgoes the subtlety, and we are shown the tragic back stories of the toys, and fear for their impending doom. There are a few scenes where the toys were faced with certain destruction. Immensely intense and gripping, it left me at the edge of my seat, having invested so much feelings in it.Last but definitely not least is how this movie can affect any individual emotionally. Up till the end, the whole movie had been about having to let go of things, and by the final act, it was about learning to do it. Without revealing too much, let me say that the ending not only offers closure for Andy's emotional attachment, but is also a fitting send off for the icons we have come to know fifteen years ago. It brilliantly evokes a sense of nostalgia not only to the films, but to our very own childhood, where we had so much fun exploring the powers of the imagination to not just our toys, but the unventured world out there.Toy Story 3 maintains the form of the first two films, being a wonderful mix of comedy, adventure, and a message about life. It is an excellent and heartfelt tribute to a franchise that has not only earned a place in history, but a special place in the hearts of so many people. And wherever we go in life, when we look back at these movies, it will be with a smile, rekindling our very own childhood memories. To Infinity and Beyond.


                
Just under a year ago, Disney re-released Toy Story and Toy Story 2 as a 3D double bill in theatres. I had not seen either film in years despite owning them both on video and DVD, and never had the opportunity to see the sequel theatrically. So I jumped at the chance of seeing both films again. As the films progressed, I felt the nostalgia kicking in at every turn. Both were films that were released when I was still playing with toys, and both still managed to resonate with me now that I was grown up. They made me crave Toy Story 3 unlike any other film this summer, and after seeing Pixar's creative output in the past few years, is there any reason to why I should not have been hyped? Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen) and the gang (less a few members) are still in Andy's (John Morris) room despite having not been played with for years. Andy has gotten older, and has matured beyond his time playing with toys. They attempt to coax him into playing with them, but he has no time. He is moving away to college, and his mother wants him to pack what he is taking and get rid of the rest. She encourages donating the toys to a local daycare. While Woody is against the idea, everyone else is enthusiastic about being played with again. But after arriving at daycare (without Andy's knowledge), they change their minds quite quickly.Toy Story 3 is just as simplistic as the previous two films, and has the same main goal (return to Andy), but it feels like a much more mature and accomplished work on the part of the filmmakers. It was a wise choice to set the film so many years after Toy Story 2, not just because it has been that long since the film came out, but because it resonates with the audience on a level so much greater than anyone could expect. I mentioned my initial nostalgia when I re-watched the first two films a few months back. All those emotions and feelings came flooding back the moment Toy Story 3 began, and never faded away once. It only became greater as the film went on. And having seen the film in a packed theatre of young adults who were old enough to have seen the original two films when they were kids, I doubt I was the only one who felt this way.The film, much like last year's fantastically brilliant Up, is an adventure unlike any other. Pixar truly has the most creative minds working behind the scenes, and it shows in how wacky and imaginative this film is. It may play on similar themes from the past, but everything old manages to feel new again here. The film may not be as unique or wildly original as Up or WALL-E, but it still has the heart and charm these other Pixar films have. They really are the most consistent company currently making films, and it shows in their increasingly fascinating creative output.What takes away from the greatness and legacy of Toy Story 3 are the jumping tones. This was a problem Up handled quite well in how immediate and focused it was. But with Toy Story 3's increasingly expanding stable of characters and development of new characters like Lots-O'-Huggin' Bear (Ned Beatty) and Ken (Michael Keaton), it becomes a little troublesome for the film's direction and tonal structure. It never becomes a distraction for the most part, but it comes off at times like Pixar is trying to cram too much into the film. I understand it is the last hurrah and the film that brings closure to this legendary series, but there could have been significantly more focus in some scenes. I have heard complaints about the nightmarish direction parts of the film takes, but this easily would not have been a problem had not begun weaving around in sections.But any problems the film has are forgiven by one of the most beautiful and bittersweet endings ever put to the format. It is so emotionally charged and so wonderful that you instantly forget anything you had against the film. If we had to suffer through some less than great scenes, they are all made up for in the ending. It speaks volumes for the franchise, and is almost heartbreaking to watch. I want to say more, but I fear for spoiling it for anyone who has yet to see the film. It is hard to not forge an emotional response to the finale, and you may need to sit through the wildly entertaining credits to regain your composure afterwards.As with every Pixar film, the voice acting and animation are incredible across the board. Listening to the likes of Hanks and Allen chatting again is like being in a room with old friends you have not seen in awhile, but have not changed at all since. New additions like Beatty, Keaton, Jeff Garlin and especially Timothy Dalton are all excellent as well. The animation is so precise and detailed to a level of perfection that only Pixar can give. The years away have only made these characters look even better than they ever have, and has given the backgrounds and human characters an even greater depth of realism. Not once does Pixar skimp on any detail in any instance.It is not the perfect picture on the whole that I wanted it to be, but Toy Story 3 is a great finale to the series and another great entry in the Pixar canon. What disappointment there is is immediately taken away by a touchingly beautiful finale. This is not Pixar at its finest hour, but it only further cements their status as the best studio in the business of animation, and film-making in general.9/10.


                
With Cars and Wall-E, I saw a declination in the narrative quality of the studio Pixar.Do not misunderstand me...I liked them both, but I did not feel in them the charm from films like Monsters, Inc., Finding Nemo or The Incredibles.After Wall-E, Pixar made the brilliant Up, which is in my humble opinion, one of the best movies made by the studio so far (I think the only ones which surpass it are Ratatouille and the previously mentioned The Incredibles).So, I did not know what to exactly expect from Toy Story 3...was it going to be made by the magic Pixar or the solid, but not highly memorable Pixar? Now, after having watched the movie, the answer is definitely the first one.Toy Story 3 is a wonderful, very satisfactory and hugely entertaining film which is ideal to be watched by the whole family...and the best thing of all is that, at the difference of many contemporary animation films (like Madagascar or Planet 51), it never insults the audience's intelligence.Toy Story 3's brilliant screenplay is enriched by deep subjects which are hidden behind the characters' adventures, jokes and rescues, which are the key element which distinguish it (along with all the other Pixar movies) from many hollow animation films.The voice acting is very solid, and the members who most stand out are Michael Keaton, Timothy Dalton and the great Ned Beatty.Another thing I liked very much is the animation, which respects the style from Toy Story 1 and 2.In films like Wall-E and Up, Pixar showed it can achieve extraordinary levels of realism on that field, but not because of that they felt obliged to take Toy Story 3 to those levels.Sure, the elements and the illumination feel more natural, and there are many visually impressive scenes; but the general look from the movie keeps the same tone and style from the first two parts from the trilogy.The only fail I found on this movie is that a few narrative elements feel a bit out of place.But that is a minor fail which not in any way tarnished the great experience I had while watching this film.Needless to say I enthusiastically recommend it.


                
The story background is that Andy is going to college and is too big to play with toys but this is only the beginning of the journey for Woody and company to see what will be their destiny, do they move on or stay with Andy? Along the way, they meet interesting characters such as the cute, strawberry smelling bear that is not what he seems to be or the hilarious Ken or Big Baby. The story is specially hilarious in the first 40 minutes before it humanizes the toys and gives them a human story. There are funny moments throughout but they are mostly replaced in the latter part by poignant story and decisions that have to be made. The ending is particularly poignant and bittersweet since it is the end of an era and the beginning of a new one.I went with extremely high expectations and Pixar delivered. I'm undecided if this movie is better than the first one but it is definitely better than the second one. The 3D effects didn't really add anything to the story so if I were you, I would skip it and save some money. This is a movie that the whole family can enjoy


                
For my money Toy Story could be as close to a perfect Trilogy as you will ever get. This third outing is on par with the brilliant last movie which I adored.Plot In A Paragraph: Set several years after the events of "Toy Story 2" Andy is now 17 and ready to head off to college, leaving Woody, Buzz, Jessie, and the rest of the toy-box gang to ponder their uncertain futures. He decides to take Woody with him, but Buzz and the gang are put in a black bag to go in the attic. When the toys are accidentally donated to the Sunnyside Daycare Center they're overjoyed to once again be played with, but their joy quickly gives way to horror as they learn the true nature of the establishment under the rule of the deceptively welcoming "Lotso" Huggin Bear. Now, all of the toys must band together in one final, crazy mission to escape their confines and return home before Andy leaves. All the cast are again brilliant with Ned Beatty and Michael Keaton joining the fun this time around.This is fantastic, funny, action packed, tension filled and heartbreaking all in equal measure. I'm not going to lie I shed a tear or twenty at the end. It's not giving too much away when I say, as the gang sat holding hands accepting their fate towards the finale, I had tears streaming down my face, and they remained till the final credits rolled.


                
