Mr. Rogers did what few artists have done in the history of mankind - strengthened and supported his audience so profoundly and so generously that he became a transformative force in their lives. I feel fortunate to have learned from him. In all too many homes, Mr. Rogers was and is the only voice of understanding, gentleness and positive reinforcement. Imagine how different our world would be if more young people could be exposed to his philosophy of acceptance and love.There are so many children who never hear their parents say the words "I love you" - not once, not ever. And then they hear Mr. Rogers sing of all the ways people say "I love you," like "the cooking way" and "the eating way," and it's a comfort and reassurance beyond words. No other public figure provides this kind of life-changing insight to the people most in need.On behalf of everyone you helped, of all the souls you touched in a badly damaged world, Mr. Rogers - we thank you, and we love you.


                
The Mr. Rogers you saw pay a television visit to your house was the same Mr. Rogers in real life should you ever have run into him.  On the night of writing this we lost Fred Rogers who passed away at the age of 74 years of age.  His show took the basics of 1950's TV production and stayed with it even since.  It was all about having a conversation with his TV friend.  In broadcasting you may speak to many people, but speak as only one person was talking to you.    His first show was the Children's Corner (1953-61) which featured a woman by the name of Josie Carry.  Although he got hosting credit, he never appeared in front of the camera, but rather was the puppeteer.  The Children's Corner developed most of his puppet characters including Daniel Stripped Tiger, Henrietta Pussycat, X the Owl, and King Friday XIII.  The Children's Corner was done live at Non-Commercial TV station WQED in Pittsburgh.  It was a fun show if anything, and Josie and the puppets talk about Mr. Rogers a lot. 
After Children's Corner he moved to Canada and did a show simply called Mister Rogers (1962-64), and it was first time he was on camera.  The show was 15 minutes but it developed something which we know now as the Neighborhood of Make-believe.  This Neighborhood was the majority of this short show, but Fred Rogers would appear at the beginning and ending of the program, and he would show off a few things before he had "make-believe" with the viewers.  Usually it was some kind of vehicle that takes us to the Make-believe world.In 1966 Fred returned to WQED and all that he developed would come together and Mister Rogers Neighborhood signs on the air for the first time.  Fred wrote and sang shows for the show, and he showed fun things to the audience. His trips to the Neighborhood of Make Believe incorporated storylines about how people (and puppets) no matter how hard they try they should just try to be themselves and deal with live life issues in the fantasy world.  Mr. Rogers also took us around the TV neighborhood on soundstages at first but the post 1979 shows took us to actual places in the real world.Fred Rogers never liked TV for himself, but he knew how to use it to make an impact on people, and impact he did.  He did most of the writhing on the show, nobody would dare tell him what to do, not saying they would.  I would have loved to meet him myself, but I will never get that chance.  He didn't care about being a celebrity.  Just someone who cared about people and try to a "neighbor" to them.Rest In Peace.


                
I highly resent the way many people talk about this show. Many of the things Fred Rogers does may seem ridiculous to us adults, but this is the best show ever to teach little children valuable skills for their futures. Fred Rogers is a wonderful man and really cares about kids. He hosts a show that is very educational for kids all the way up to age 7 or 8 and teaches good manners, what goes on in life, and introduces young children to the world they live in.Personally, I grew up watching this show. I watched it until the age of seven. I learned a lot from Mr. Rogers and have great respect for the man. His show is very good at teaching little kids important things, and explaining things to them. It is also good for parents to watch with their kids. Many kids these days lack the skills which Mr. Rogers teaches. It is also very entertaining for kids. I highly recommend every little kid to watch this show. Kids and even some adults can learn skills which every body needs. Judging this show from watching it as a kid: On a scale of 1-10, I give this show a 10 in the way of kid shows, and a letter grade of A+! It may seem dull for adults, but it is very educational, and valuable for the future of kids who will one day be grown ups like us.


                
Like many kids of the early 70's, I used to watch the PBS trinity. Sesame Street taught us about letters and numbers while The Electric Company taught us about reading. Mr. Rogers had the hardest job of all though; he taught us about feelings, socialization and the adult world.Everything about the show was crafted to be warm and friendly without being boring or patronizing. Mr. Roger's tools were puppets, videos and original music, all of which were used to great effect. Even so, the show was about how people feel and relate, and for that it needed a Human element. Mr. Rogers and his neighbors were that element, and they were expert teachers.As the focal-point of the show ("star" just doesn't seem right), Mr. Rogers always spoke directly to the camera, as if speaking directly to the children who were watching. His manner was always calm and inviting, unlike a certain purple dinosaur whose hyperactive manner almost demands that you like him. More importantly, Mr. Rogers always conveyed an air of dignity. Contrast that with many modern shows that tend to portray adults as fools. That may be good for a cheap laugh, but kids know that adults are in charge. Who wants a fool to be in charge? Kids shows will come and go, but there will never be another Mr. Rogers. He didn't want to sell the kids things, he didn't expect them to be "cool," and he didn't want to replace their parents. he just wanted to be their neighbor.


                
Never underestimate the power of Public Television. Fred Rogers makes children feel comfortable and loved, even if their home life isn't perfect. They don't really show the oldest episodes on PBS, but even back in 1968, Mr. Rogers was having episodes about difficult topics, one episode from the aforementioned year about the assassination of Bobby Kennedy. One might jeer at Mr. Rogers' style of taking his fancy jacket off and changing into a sweater, or changing from his business shoes into tennis shoes, but it gives the feeling comfort in a weary world.


                
Mr. Rogers was and is a huge positive influence in the lives of small children. His passing away leaves a huge emptiness in the hearts of those who grew up watching him.In what is all to often a violent and unsure world, Mr. Rogers was the voice of stability and kindness that children could rely on. He always stressed the importance of learning, responsibility, and caring for yourself and others. His kind and gentle demeanor and slow, pronounced way of speaking were absolutely perfect for small kids, making them feel as if they were in the presence of another parent. In fact, Mr. Rogers WAS a kind of third parent to many children, particularly for many during the late 1970s and 1980s, when former at-home mothers were increasingly working outside the home and had less time for them.Mr. Rogers' greatest legacy was his continuous reminder that he "likes you just the way you are" or "thinks you're great just for being you". This is such an important message for small children who are still forming their ideas about who they are and how they fit into a society that is very often not as kind (and too often, horribly cruel). Individuality and imagination were celebrated gifts.To this day, I don't have the slightest idea how Fred Rogers came to know children so well, where he got this gift to communicate with them and speak to them on their level. I do know that he is a national treasure who will never be forgotten by millions of people. Mr. Rogers was the ultimate combination of a teacher and a best friend, and is utterly irreplaceable.


                
I was born in 1986 and one of the first shows I ever watched was Mr. Rogers Neighborhood. Looking back at it now, it is truly amazing how simple the concept was yet the show sent such powerful messages seldom seen in today's kids programing. From the time I was maybe one or two until maybe around first grade, I had watched the show Monday through Friday at 10:30am. It was a comforting show and it felt as if Fred Rogers welcomed you into his own world for that half hour and that you were the only one there. From the traffic lights, to picture picture, to the fish tank, to the opening of the show, it will always remain close to my heart. The show was timeless and it is a tragic loss that Fred Rogers is no longer alive but his legacy in children's programing will live on forever. The show taught simple life lessons that are really the fundamentals of what makes up an honest, genuine person. From the puppet world and the trolley a new lesson would be taught each day. How I long for those care free days when time stood still and Mr. Rogers, and Sesame street ruled my day. Today's kids, with all the channels now, will simply go past PBS in favor of a cartoon, or special effect show that has little or no substance and who's main purpose is to sell a product. The values taught about tolerance and manners are priceless and long lasting. Early on that show had a big impact on my life and I am thankful that my parents introduced it to me. The show was basic and got the messages across with such great conviction. One of the most influential shows in television history lasted for four decades and touched millions of hearts. Television just isn't like that anymore and will probably never again be so pure and innocent, thank god for syndication. Raising you kids on this could make a big impact on their lives. This is one treasure from my childhood that I will treasure and hold close to forever.
One thing that always bothered many people about Mr. Rogers is that he was not believable. Well, the wild thing is that what you see on TV is what you get in real life.Fred Rogers is the most soft spoken and kindest person you would ever want to meet. What you get is not fake love like in many of today's kid's shows (Barney, to name the most evil one), but true heart from a man who cares.Mr Rogers is married, has a son, and his son was a bit of a rebel, but you can't deny the man's love for people. I grew up with him. I'm glad I did.If you don't believe me, just look at the bloopers from his show (Him setting up the tent is the most famous - all he does is laugh).


                
At age 52, I have fond memories of watching Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood when public television was in its infancy. Fred Rogers not only talked about feelings, but he also addressed young people in a way that respected us as intelligent people in our own right. Sure, he had the Neighborhood of Make Believe, and the entity he referred to as his "television house." The best part is that on one episode he addressed us and said, "Here's why you won't see me in the neighborhood of make believe" and went on to describe how he works with the puppets behind the scenes. In another episode, he shows the studio and how they put the show together.One memorable episode dealt with Mr. Rogers getting a traffic ticket and going before the judge - he's human, too.Mr. Rogers always made it clear that it is good to play and to pretend. I strive to be the kind person that Mr. Rogers was - I want to have that same calm demeanor.Long live Fred Rogers in our hearts. I wish I could have met the man.


                
Fred McFeely Rogers.  A brilliant man.  In a time when children were largely ignored (and even feared at times by adults) this man had the good sense to realize one simple fact: children are people too! I am 20 years old and I am PROUD to claim that I watched Mr. Rogers every day growing up.  All I watched when I was little was Mr. Rogers, Sesame Street, and Today's Special.  Those were children's shows that made a child feel good.  Unlike the wave of horrible children's shows that came in a few years ago (any show ending with -mon comes to mind), these shows were real. Mr. Rogers was real.  You could almost believe that he really was your neighbor.  He seemed like the kind of man you would see every day.  But there was a huge difference: he loved and cared about children. Mr. Rogers has taken a lot of flack for his feelings towards children.  How sad is it that feelings such as kindness, love, and sympathy are regarded with suspicion?  Despite hundreds of attacks, despite cries of "pedophile" or "child raper", this man never wavered in his beliefs.  He never backed down from what he felt was right. Some people (including 1 person on here) have wondered about the origin of the name McFeely.  Well, I will tell you.  It's not a hidden reference to a supposed desire to "feel" children.  McFeely is his middle name, his mother's maiden name, and his maternal grandfather's name.  His grandfather was responsible for some of Mr. Rogers' trademark lines: "I like you just the way you are", among others. Some people may know the song "Mr. Rogers" by Korn.  Jonathan Winters, the lead singer and songwriter, screams at him "I hate you!" "I wish I never would have watched you" and "child f----r" to name a few.  The reason Winters had so much hostility towards him is that as a child when he heard Mr. Rogers' kind words, he thought it meant that if you were nice to people, they would be nice to you.  He thought everyone in the world was like Mr. Rogers.  Unfortunately, he was wrong, and Winters was molested on many different occasions by a neighbor.  Very sad, yes, but he was only projecting his anger onto this kind man.  I think even Winters realizes that he really doesn't blame Fred Rogers for what happened to him. In conclusion, I'd just like to say thank you to Fred Rogers for giving so much of yourself to us and asking so very little in return.  God bless you, Mr. Rogers, and my prayers go out to his family and friends.


                
Never have I seen something that sincere. Never have I thought there's something that could make me cry so hard. Never have I felt so much love from the other side of the TV screen.A pure kindness.


                
I really do not know how your start loving someone you never met in person.I would watch his show on and off all through the years. I loved his trips to the factory they were my favorite. I loved his smile and the way he spoke to you like he cared. My parents raised me and my brother and sisters the best way they knew how, at the time, but they raised us like we were plants, Children are seen and not heard. Mr.Rodgers was different. It took me awhile to really know he was for real. I never knew someone that caring and concerned for kids. Through the years he never changed. He was genuine and truly cared for children. I always wanted him to update his puppet shows, they were boring to me. I tried to like it. Mr. Rodgers I'm sorry I was so hard on you. Thank you for being so loving and kind and for caring about US kids. Thank you for listening to us. For showing the world that we need kind words,loving words,instruction and fun things to do. We need someone to help us out in this world. You did a great job. Thank you for loving us.Thank your for caring about our feelings and views.Somehow, Mr Rodgers you grew on me. You made a difference in my life and heart. When you died I cried. It hurts to feel the loss of someone you love.I know I'll see you in Heaven Mr. Rodgers you knew the key, loving God means loving your neighbor. You remind me of Jesus how He liked kids too. You welcomed us just like He did. I love you Mr. Rodgers. You were a good and faithful servant. Much love and affection. I am 45 years old and I am proud to say I love Mr. Rodgers. I guess I was the one who changed.


                
I used to watch this show when I was a little girl. When I think about it, I remember it pretty well, though. However, I remember the opening sequence and theme song pretty well. If you ask me, it was a good show which is very educational. In addition to that, everyone was ideally cast. The puppet shows and songs were good, too. My favorite songs were the opening and closing themes. I hope it stays on PBS for years to come. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that I'll always remember this show in my memory forever, even though I don't think I've seen every episode. Now, in conclusion, I hope that you catch it one day before it goes off the air for good.


                
Are you kidding I Love Mr Rogers Neighoberhood and i will say it to this very Day. Throughout My life i Watched Mr. Rogers Neighoberhood but i watched it the most when i was a child. when i was a child i would go to my grandma's house and watch Mr. Roger's Neighoberhood along with sesame street. and mr rogers taught me many different lessons, He not only entertained me but he did what most children's television nowadays doesn't's he made me feel good about myself. i'm 19 now but when i was a young kid a was short and would sometimes feel like i was all alone, but watching Mr Rogers taught me that if everybody was the same then the world would be a lot worse off. and another thing that i really liked about Mr Rogers was that for as long as he was on TV and for as many people that watched his show the show was always about the kids. i know that sounds cliché but there never was a Mr Rogers T-Shirt or a Mr Rogers Doll ever. Not Like Barney or Sesame Street (i have nothing about sesame street that show taught me to count to 10 in Spanish before i ever knew it in English).I hope Mr Rogers is on till the day i die


                
I have read of a celebrity's passing and said, "That's a shame"; but, there have been two deaths that have really saddened me.  The first was Jim Henson; the other was Mr. Fred Rogers.  These two men did more to make my childhood wonderful than all of the toy manufacturers in the world.  They also helped educate me and teach me values.Mr Rogers was our favorite neighbor.  We waited anxiously for him to come home, take off his coat, and put on his sneakers and sweater.  Then we would visit with him and his friends for the most wonderful thirty minutes.  We were enchanted by the Land of Makebelieve and loved making crafts with him. We could always count on a new surprise, delivered with speed by Mr. McFeely.  At the end of that thirty minutes, we would bid a sad farewell to Mr Rogers; but, we know we would see him again.  He told us so.Now, we have said goodbye to Mr Rogers; but, this time he's not coming back. We have lost our neighbor and we are sad.  But, we will always remember him and the lessons he taught us.  He taught us that we were special, that makebelieve was wonderful, and that kindness is the greatest gift you can give.  We can still revisit Mr Rogers on TV, but we will miss him.  The world could use more men like Fred Rogers right now.  There were no wars in his neighborhood.By the way; I always wondered where he was coming home from, what kind of work he did?  Silly me; he was a teacher.  The best one of all.  Goodbye, neighbor.


                
February 27, 2003-I have just now heard the sad news of Fred Rogers' death from stomach cancer at age 74. It came as more of a blow than I would have expected.I can add nothing new to the accolades heaped on his program. While some would draw divisive contrasts between his show and other children's educational programming, I can only say that "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood" was as important to my development at a certain age as any others. Sandwiched (in my PBS market) between "Sesame Street" and "The Electric Company" (both of which I also adored) on weekday afternoons, it was the first television show I responded to, and the first of the three I outgrew. For very young children, there was no more valuable an introduction to the use of one's imagination.His shows are in the vault, and his work will live on, for now, but I know that as time wears on, he will gradually fade from public consciousness, as reruns of the show fail to get scheduled. Sad but perhaps inevitable.Mr. Rogers helped raise me. My childrens' upbringing will be the poorer for lack of that nurturing.


                
A pioneer in children's entertainment, Fred Rogers brought us cognitive and entertaining Television. The minister and puppeteer was not satisfied with the TV landscape of his day, especially when it concerned productions aimed at children, and he knew it could be so much more.Mr Rogers Neighborhood was a place where being creative and using our imaginations was mandatory.Before the history channel, and shows like "Hands on History", Mr Rogers was bringing children into factory's and other guided tours that educated and entertained. Not only did his brand of Television attract children, but adults could appreciate his productions too.He invited us into his home, taught us many lessons, and most important challenged our imaginations. We were introduced to a bevy of interesting, and unique characters, some of whom would become legends.I fear that the current array of children's entertainment, discourages the aforementioned, as fast paced vacuous imagery and sound, are what is being primarily presented to the youth of today.Fred Rogers expected more, and held the intellect of his audience in a higher regard. He, and his program will be missed, and the absence of this creative and entertaining production, will leave a void in the current Television landscape.


                
Mister Rogers' Neighborhood in my opinion has been the best children's TV show on earth! I watch it sometimes on PBS during summer and holidays. My brothers like the show, too. The neighborhood of make-believe is fantastic in this awesome show. Mister Rogers' Neighborhood has been of the best excuses of this children's TV show. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars overall.


                
I always caught this show on television every now and then. Some of the things were good but mostly what I liked was Mister Rogers talking to people about things and such. I really wasn't interested in the puppet stuff simply because those type of puppets are not the kind that I like. They are not funny like the Muppets and the Sesame Street Muppets. The show was put together and written well however and the people that was on show was good. I am surprised that this show aired in TV for such and great length of time. Along with Sesame Street this was one of the most watch by the youngsters. I would only recommend this television show to young kids unless the adults are interested in seeing the actors and the special segments or if you want watch something you haven't seen as young boy or girl then this can bring memories back from the past make you feel like your a kid again. If that is the case then I recommend you watch this show!


                
I learn lots from watching Mister Rogers it was always so good. Wish they would have re runs so the little kids of today could watch them.


                
Mister Rogers was a lot of things to me as a child. Reassuring. Calming. Most of all, I felt safe in the midst of abuse. I would wish to be magically swept away and placed into Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.As an adult, watching the show brings back so many bittersweet memories and moments I cannot help but break down and cry. That man and his show meant that much to me, and still does.Thank you so much Mister Rogers for "being there" when I felt alone and scared. Most of all, thank you for giving me the inspiration to love, care, and be there for my own children.Mister Rogers will never be replaced. Many miss him, but his legacy is legendary.


                
THOUGHTFUL AND GENTLE, the main theme of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood was reminding all, both young and old alike, that we are all creatures of value. Although his name was never mentioned, GOD is very much in evidence here. There certainly could be no reference to the Almighty over the Public Broadcasting System (or PBS); which seems to act more like the "Pollit Bureau System". (our opinion) WE DO KNOW that the Creator/Host, Fred McFeely Rogers was an ordained Presbyterian Minister; as well as being a teacher, author, children's' advocate and even an (very) amateur singer. His getting involved in the creation of meaningful programming for the toddler crowd started in his native Greater Pittsburgh's WQED TV, a PBS affiliate. This followed a stint with NBC TV in New York.THE ESSENTIAL PARTS of the show were simply constructed, yet brilliantly assembled into a most comprehensible and pleasingly rendered overall effect. It is a great example of the sum of the parts equaling much more than the individuals considered separately or something like that).MUSIC, Miniature TOWN scenes and the set of an imaginary house in the imaginary TV neighborhood. Easy on the eyes, yet bright and attractive to young intellects, the show was a total success in captivating a youngsters loyalty.ONE OF THE truly genius innovations was the use of a "Neighborhood of Make Believe". In it the emphasis is on serialized story as performed by puppet players; such as, King Friday XIII, Daniel Tiger and Lady somebody or other. A most brilliant segue-way was introduced in the use of a miniature electric train that would travel one direction to bring us to this make believe land. At puppet segment's end, the train reversed its course.AS FOR OUR own experience with the show, we well recall our young daughters' being faithful viewers. As a fine, unsolicited endorsement of Fred Rogers' abilities as a communicator, we offer this observation. When "Mr.Rogers" asked a question of his audience, young Jennifer and Michelle Ryan would respond with a nod of the head,or some such other appropriate gesture.NOW SCHULTZ, CAN you say "interactive?"


                
It has been ten years since Mr Rodgers left us from earth and went straight into TV heaven. As he has such a great legacy from the past, present, and even future generations to come.For he shows us kindness and how to treat others. Rather than the other way around. Also he did not explain things on tech style or with CGI stuff as he did it the old fashioned way.Love the make believe stories but rather it just being a make believe story. It was stories with moral to the stories and done with it compassion. You just do not see that on TV these days.Mr Rodgers we need you and wished that you will still here. Ten years later can't believe you are still gone.RIP Fred Rodgers!
There are an awful lot of shows with the message "look at me look at me look at me" and with the purpose of making money.Amongst all of programming, there are very few shows with a Real Message, serving a Real Purpose. But Mister Roger's Neighborhood is definitely one.The purpose and message of the show was to be an integral part of the upbringing of people. The FACT that so many teenagers and adults were so drawn to it shows how basic and necessary it was.Add to that the fact that the target audience includes each and every small child that comes along, and the show would, and did, continually regenerate itself and abide with us.The show kept it real. It was a "television visit" with a normal, nice grownup, who called the viewer a "television neighbor" or "television friend". When the time came for some puppets and make believe, Rogers would refer to it as "make believe". Sometimes he would show the puppets without the hands in them, and explain and show how the real people would work the puppets and make the voices.Even with the puppets and make believe and costumes and purple pandas, Fred managed to keep it more real and more grounded than you'd guess -- the themes were such that, when you saw what he was getting at, you wouldn't -think- "hey that's interesting!" ... instead, you would -feel- the recognition down in your stomach.On one show a goat was stealing, stealing food. Later, Mr. Rogers asked the viewer "Did you ever think about doing something bad, something that would hurt the ones you love? That is a lonely feeling, isn't it?" And by asking the audience to search for that, deep inside, he made the connection. Not a 'suspension of disbelief'. Instead, an examination of what's real.Mr. Rogers ALWAYS kept it real.


                
Loved this show as a child, love it more now. Why I love it now? Because I now understand what he is saying since when I was a baby, I couldn't understand very much. I just liked it because I liked it. I found out that I still loved this show while staying up watching television and changing channels, then sticking to this show.This show is very relaxing to watch, even for teenagers and adults. His voice is comfortable to listen to and it's fun to rewatch what you used to watch when you were younger and see what used to entertain you can still entertain you now! I recommend this show for everyone. Especially toddlers and younger. It's educational, and fun to watch.
