I used to watch this show when I was a little girl. When I think about it, I remember it pretty well, though. However, I remember the opening sequence and theme song pretty well. If you ask me, it was a good show which is very educational. In addition to that, everyone was ideally cast. The puppet shows and songs were good, too. My favorite songs were the opening and closing themes. I hope it stays on PBS for years to come. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that I'll always remember this show in my memory forever, even though I don't think I've seen every episode. Now, in conclusion, I hope that you catch it one day before it goes off the air for good.


                
A pioneer in children's entertainment, Fred Rogers brought us cognitive and entertaining Television. The minister and puppeteer was not satisfied with the TV landscape of his day, especially when it concerned productions aimed at children, and he knew it could be so much more.Mr Rogers Neighborhood was a place where being creative and using our imaginations was mandatory.Before the history channel, and shows like "Hands on History", Mr Rogers was bringing children into factory's and other guided tours that educated and entertained. Not only did his brand of Television attract children, but adults could appreciate his productions too.He invited us into his home, taught us many lessons, and most important challenged our imaginations. We were introduced to a bevy of interesting, and unique characters, some of whom would become legends.I fear that the current array of children's entertainment, discourages the aforementioned, as fast paced vacuous imagery and sound, are what is being primarily presented to the youth of today.Fred Rogers expected more, and held the intellect of his audience in a higher regard. He, and his program will be missed, and the absence of this creative and entertaining production, will leave a void in the current Television landscape.


                
Loved this show as a child, love it more now. Why I love it now? Because I now understand what he is saying since when I was a baby, I couldn't understand very much. I just liked it because I liked it. I found out that I still loved this show while staying up watching television and changing channels, then sticking to this show.This show is very relaxing to watch, even for teenagers and adults. His voice is comfortable to listen to and it's fun to rewatch what you used to watch when you were younger and see what used to entertain you can still entertain you now! I recommend this show for everyone. Especially toddlers and younger. It's educational, and fun to watch.
Yes, this program has been parodied to infinity. Yes, there were people who hated Mr. Rogers even as children because of his effeminate voice. Yes, a lot of children (including me) liked how he said "Mr. Rogers likes you just the way you are." (Hence my title.) Yet this show worked despite being different from all the other kids' television shows. It wasn't frenetically paced or loud or garishly colored or featuring costumed characters or weird settings or magic or simple solutions to all your problems. The only fantasy element was a puppet land that was conservatively decorated, and even that was called "The Land Of Make Believe" and kept a separate section from the other part of the show. (Fred Rogers did start off his television career as a behind-the-scenes puppeteer.) The rest of the show featured trips to places like a hardware store, where you could watch paint being mixed to color (and which you would be expected to encounter yourself once you got older yourself.) If nothing else, this show worked by not following the formula of being a sound or light show, or even being a laugh a minute comedy. It is still widely remembered even as Barney the Dinosaur has been forgotten.


                
