A stinker. An immaculately crafted stinker but a stinker all the same. People talk about the period detail and historical accuracy as if that equals good TV. For those of you that didn't know, this isn't a documentary or a recreation. Boardwalk Empire is a work of fiction. Those irrelevancies aren't what makes me dislike this show though. Although it is amusing that a series which puts such a high value on realism contains such unrealistic violence and melodrama. My problem is that the storyline is mind numbingly slow paced and dull. Hardly anything happens and when it finally does it carries little to no impact because I have been bored into a waking sleep waiting for it to happen. Everybody's screwing everybody, everybody's down each others pants and up each others skirts, oh it's so ambiguous. Get over it, it's been done, before and better and cos this is TV and something worked once lets do it until everyone's so sick of it we'll never do it again...until we run out of ideas that is. Just check Kelsey Grammar in Boss and a plethora of others for this 'he's not good or bad he just is' characterisation. Darmody is the only character I care about and he's not in it enough. Ambiguity is good, people make mistakes, shades of grey blah blah but can you seriously say you are rooting for Nucky?Lead characters have to be at least kinda likable. The lead character in this piece is a villain operating for money and power with no redeeming qualities. Tony Soprano was a dedicated family man. Bill Adama fervently cared for the survival of his fleet. Why doesn't Nucky take his money and retire somewhere good instead of staying in that damp, drab, grey wasteland he calls home. What's his motivation? Why should I want him to succeed? I would rather a show shot on a sound stage with cardboard sets and a great story than a show with a $500m budget and a boring one. I think the praise and accolades Boardwalk Empire has gained are based on the name power of Scorsese, Buscemi and HBO. Over time this series will not be mentioned in the same breath as The Sopranos or Deadwood. Don't believe the hype. Get off the bandwagon.


                
I think my sense of betrayal, by the creators of Boardwalk Empire, is the greater part of my anger and crushing disappointment in the season finale.I had invested so much time and emotion and caring in the characters and concepts and lessons of this show that I was totally beaten down and broken by Terence Winter's willingness to put "shock" ahead of the purity of theme - hope and redemption. For surely, that's what this show was all about.No matter how low the characters could sink into depravity, there was always that glimmer that our ability to love and forgive - each other and ourselves - would ultimately allow our humanity to survive.No more.Now there is no humanity, no redemption, no hope left for Nucky Thompson. And, hopefully, no audience. I no longer care what happens to Nucky and the show ended with James Darmody. HE was Nucky's hope for redemption. HE was the heart and soul of the Empire. And, perhaps, the most interesting character in the series.As a writer, I learned so much from this show. But they crossed a line (they flirted with it earlier when Nucky refused to forgive Eli and made him crawl, etc.) but now I learned the biggest lesson of all - don't betray your audience. There's no redemption.
I am very disappointed in this show. I don't want to give away spoilers for those who haven't seen it.I like to watch guy shows because there are very few mainstream shows out there that actually are guy shows if any at all. I hoped that boardwalk empire was a guy's show but I keep seeing them pander to the needs of people who want everything their way even if it wasn't intended for them.This show pulls a lot of punches and it compromises the integrity of the show. Please keep it realistic to the time period and do not change it because you are afraid of ratings dropping from thin skinned people.They Give a few females a lot more power than they would ever be capable of possessing in the show to gain female views. There are many moments that you find yourself asking did that just happen because it doesn't reflect the time period.They also gave into women and the gave mafia jumping on the penis band wagon. I would love to watch a show these days that doesn't show a penis, in fact show a vulva for once because that NEVER happens. Pubic hair is not female nudity and neither are breasts. If you want to be radical show vulva but then you might go off the air quickly for crossing women and the gay mafia.Overall they had a good idea but ruined it by writing out unrealistic reactions only for more viewers.


                
This started well enough, but unfortunately rotted fast. So much so that hubby and I canceled the rental from Netflix. The characters are so very unlikeable it became impossible for me to give a rap whether they lived or died.The full ambiance of the series is either unbearably gloomy, or tawdry, no middle ground. The violence is grotesque. The sex ham-handed and about as "enticing" as watching barnyard animals copulate. I mean, come on. Should I really believe that some people are actually turned on by such silly, undignified performances? Seriously? What a pity. I was hoping that with the advent of the 21st century humans would have developed a more sophisticated and refined attitude towards sex. Oh, well.By the way, am I the only one who noticed the chain-smoking that goes in the series on all the time? No, don't get me wrong. I DO NOT approve of politically correct do-gooders demonizing and outlawing cigarette smoking, nor am I in any way advocating for the suppression of smoking in films. But I get a real kick out of watching those same pharisees froth at the mouth when an actress shows up at an event smoking an e-cigarette, and then slobber in admiration for stuff like Boardwalk, in which people smoke incessantly ... oh, wait ... I suppose said do-gooders will stumble over themselves to tell me that "it's just fiction" (or is it "everybody does it"?). Dear me. And these people vote? Explains a lot.Unfortunately, it seems that the only thing that badly needs to be outlawed (vulgarity) will still be with us for a long time, courtesy of our beloved freedom of speech, and of the entertainment industry. IMHO, the entertainment industry does a great disfavor to freedom of speech.


                
Extremely booooring.Really nothing interesting happens there.All the roles are mis-cast.Be honest: do you really like to watch Steve Buscemi as a lead in a series all the time? And the supporting actors are even worse.A show you can only endure with a good bottle of booze - or even better: not at all.What a waste of time.The makers should have watched a few episodes of Mad Men to see how good television is being done.


                
