I'm always amazed when some people like things I find really lame and visa versa. Well, Broadway Empire aka "Jersey shore circa 1920" is my latest example of the visa versa thing. For me, this period piece is close to perfect. Steve Buscemi in the role of the sympathetic gangster Nucky Thompson is the perfect foil to weave a number of characters and plot lines around. The writing was tight and the casting represented a rich mix which has always been a hallmark of any drama worth it's salt based in The Garden State.As a Jersey boy who grew up in beautiful Newark during the 40's and 50's this costume drama ticks all the boxes. For those who found fault, you are a mystery to me.


                
i first read about this series going into production about 4 years ago. at the time, there was little mention of how central prohibition is to the narrative of the series. if i knew more about history, i might have made that connection right away. but i didn't, and i'm sure that i am not alone.there has been little reason for me to learn about prohibition, and few people in my life who could teach me about it. until this year when the issue of prohibition came up regarding the taxation and control of another substance. it's remarkably timely that this particular series is released this year.the 18th amendment prohibited the manufacture, sales, transportation, importation, and exportation of alcohol; consumption of the substance is not mentioned. this meant that the substance itself was not illegal. in the very first episode, this is shown in the plot: the internal revenue agents busts a manufacturing operation; this was shown simultaneously to hijacking of a Canadian alcohol shipment, where the hijackers were markedly afraid that agents would appear. the shipment itself was to be consumed at a judge's daughter's wedding, implicit that the judge would understand that this is legal as long as no one asked where the alcohol came from. the series also clearly points out that it is the bureau of internal revenue which enforced prohibition.this series is relevant to its time. i haven't been able to watch *anything* for a good 2 years now. i sat through the entire pilot engaged. as other reviewers have pointed out, the historical accuracy and production values are both high. i am impressed at the foresight and skill of the production; i recommend this series and will continue to watch.
I watched Boardwalk Empire last year and overall was a little disappointed. Having said that there was some good stuff in there. Some very good acting from Michael Pitt and Kelly McDonald and of course Steve Buscemi. I will look forward to watching the series again soon when it comes to DVD. I think the second season may end up being better than the first. I am a huge fan of the gangster genre and I loved The Sopranos which was truly one of the great drama shows of all time. I love that Scorsese was involved in this and his direction in the Pilot was great.I do recommend this show to all fans of the gangster genre
The moment I read that Martin Scorsese had written the pilot of this show, I gave it a chance the moment It aired on Sky Atlantic here in the UK. It wasn't just the fact it was written by Scorsese, or that the show centered around the underworld of 1920's Atlantic City, but also that it starred the amazing Steve Buscemi as the lead Nucky Thomspon who ran the city, and its bootlegging operations. The premiere of the pilot I sat back and prepared to be taken by storm, and I was. As new characters that would populate the show for the coming episodes, were introduced to me I got the feeling of a true gangster epic on the scale of The Sopranos. The fact also that Boardwalk Empire was also written by one of the writers of The Sopranos, made me trench myself in for the full 90 minute pilot.Straight away I was taken to an epic gangster scene, a hijacking of a truckload of illegal booze. We meet a young Al Capone in his element of violence, soon we meet Nucky Thompson who we understand has tentacles everywhere in Atlantic City. From the local politicians, to his own younger brother in the city's police force. He has people on every echelon of the infrastructure of the city, he can order murders and orchestrate shipments of alcohol into the city after Prohibition begins. Steve Buscemi is immaculate as Thompson, a man who is prepared to kill to keep control of the city's underworld. From mingling with the likes of Lucky Luciano, gangster legends like Arnold Rothstein and even John Torrio we see his connections in the mob are well placed. Even though this was only the 90 minute pilot, I already know this show is gonna take up a lot of my time in watching.However, the show is keeping me interested as Scottish actress Kelly Macdonald is becoming a central character in Nucky Thomspon's life. We see how it worked for Nucky, having his connections paid off as he secured shipments of booze to keep Atlantic City afloat and even order murders to defend his territory. However he is not alone, and hes one of a few big fish in this pool of characters. Others intent on taking his throne from him. We also however sees he has a good side, or at least for moment appears good hearted in caring for MacDonald's character. Finally finishing this epic, all 12 episodes I cannot now wait for the second season coming to television, the urge to see how Nucky Thompson will form further, who else will fall into his web of crime and deceit. I also want to see how Kelly MacDonald's character will develop. The soundtrack for Boardwalk Empire incorporates the music of the 1920's and earlier, the stand up comedians who sang classics on stage with a twinge of comedy to the old classics that would develop through from the 1920's onto the late 1960's. A clear homage to what HBO can really do with drama.The epic scale of Boardwalk Empire brings to mind the likes of The Sopranos, The Wire, even Brotherhood. I can only hope the remainder of the series is just as strong and entertaining as the pilot was.
This show has such a great mix of fiction and non-fiction. Although some of the characters are not real, it ties in with the facts really well. The attention to detail for transforming everything on set to almost 100 years back is incredible.I think the show can be a tad draggy at times but all in all I think it a really well written and all the actors have a lot of substance.It's worth the time!


                
I like the storyline and especially the role of Steve Buscemi as Nucky Thompson.
The era where it all takes place, I don't like. That's why I first doubted to watch it. I really HATE the music!! I know it's part of the 1920's. But I hate it anyhow.
The storyline is GREAT however


                
I really like this series, but am confused about the music under the opening credits. Since the series is set in the 20s why do we have very modern rock music playing. The music used at the end of each episode is always a wonderful period piece, which usually has some connection to what has taken place. Excellent choices, all. Also, the gratuitous nudity, and it is, really annoys me. I like it t and a as well as anybody, but c'mon folks, have it fit into the story line or at least have some value other than what it is being used as. Those two elements keep me from fully enjoying the show, and from 'not being able to wait' for the next episode. This whole subject matter is fascinating, and for the most part, handled in a well made way. Good writing, good performances, and photography.


                
As a lover of jazz of the 20's I really enjoyed Boardwalk Empire.I do not like hooligans and gangsters but You can not resist to like Nucky Thompson. .I really liked how it was staged and how authentic they have made it. But most of all I liked how well they had integrated the music and made this almost 100 year old jazz so full of life.


                
If i was giving an option to choose runner up, after The Sopranos, it would most likely be Boardwalk Empire. From the costume design to the authenticity of the characters, Boardwalk Empire reveals a web of stories that is only loyal to the style of Martin Scorsese. Full of Intense but thoughtful scenes, you really try not to be left behind.This is going to be a show that runs for many years, everybody brace themselves. This is thanks, in part, to the brilliance of Steve Buscemi. Whose relationship with his father very much reminds us of Tony's with his mother. Boardwalk Empire, may be Steve Buscemi's masterpiece. However, from the amount of different stories, you may find yourself forgetting the importance of ¨Nucky¨. I really hope the show doesn't loose its momentum, if so, it may find itself in the elite.
"Boardwalk Empire" is an exquisitely produced HBO series starring Steve Buscemi, Kelly Macdonald, Michael Shannon, Shea Whigham, Michael Stuhlberg, Steven Graham, Gretchen Mol, Michael Pitt, and Jack Huston.The series takes us back to the old days of Atlantic City, immaculately and lavishly recreated. Most interesting to me were the incubator stores, which I had to look up. Indeed, there were actual storefronts were one could see babies in incubators.Steve Buscemi is Nucky Thompson, a major politician/bootlegger whose brother Eli (Whigham) is the sheriff. Nucky's protégé is a young man who's just returned from the war, Jimmy Darmody (Pitt), who brings with him Richard (Huston), who's had half of his face blown off and wears the equivalent of a Phantom of the Opera mask on one side of his face.Darmody starts out in the business meeting a young Al Capone (Graham) who then is a driver. Gradually we meet all the big players in Prohibition, some real, some not: Meyer Lansky, Lucky Luciano, Arnold Rothstein, and the fictional Gyp Rosetti; along with personalities of the day, including Eddie Cantor (Stephen DeRosa) and Jack Dempsey (Devin Harjes). The mix between real and fictional is seamless.I have a few problems with this show. The first one is that HBO likes to fill in time with graphic sex which includes frontal nudity from only the women, of course. I'm sure I sound like a big prude. It's not that I mind it (though I prefer romance with sex), but it's too much. There's also a scene of incest that you can see coming from a mile away, and the ubiquitous lesbian scenes. Why the lesbian scenes and female frontal nudity? Easy. This is produced and written by men pandering to the male viewers.The violence is extremely graphic which is sickening, but it goes with the story. The swearing isn't as much as I've heard. However, it's incorrect for the time period. Gangsters, even today, pride themselves on having class - I've heard thugs with the open shirts and the malocchia necklaces talking about how classy they are. Swearing back then was a sign of low class.All but a couple of the characters are particularly likable, so it's hard to relate to anyone. One can pity Capone and his deaf son, Richard's half face and loneliness, and appreciate that Nucky mourns his dead wife and adores his stepchildren. But the bottom line is, they're all cold-blooded killers. Like Tony in The Sopranos, Nucky gets meaner as he goes along, too. Buscemi is giving a bravura performance.The cast, as you might expect, is mainly men, but there are some marvelous women. The lovely Kelly MacDonald is Margaret Schroeder, a young woman being abused by her husband in the first episodes; she becomes a major character. Gretchen Mol plays Jimmy's young mother, and the beautiful Aleksa Palladino plays Jimmy's wife Angela, one of the few sympathetic characters.All in all, Boardwalk Empire is a magnificent undertaking, with wonderful acting and the feeling and atmosphere of the period. It has slow sections like any series, as well as incredible action. If you can put up with the nudity, the sex, the violence, and the language, you'll enjoy it.


                
One of the more interesting opportunities in viewing programs such as "Boardwalk Empire" is to become acquainted with the actors who play the parts. Most of these actors would appear to be unknown to American audiences apart from the major stars. Such is the case with Stephen Graham who plays Al Capone. Surprise! Graham is from England and can be seen in the HBO miniseries "Parade's End" in which he plays McMaster, a Scot. The only reason I recognized this was because he looked a lot like Al Capone even though McMaster has a beard. I confirmed his identity as both characters through the IMDb. It's an indication of the enormous range of Graham that he can so convincingly play characters so divergent in accent and personality. I look forward to seeing Graham in other films and TV work. And the same could be said of many other actors in HBO programs such as "Treme" and "Game of Thrones."


                
What's next after the Sopranos? You have Boardwalk Empire. A series set in the early 1920s who's main character portrayed by Steve Buscemi as Enoch "Nucky" Thompson.Thompson character is based off a real life depiction of Enoch "Nucky" Johnson, former sheriff turned into a powerful corrupt political boss of Atlantic City. His illegitimate affairs included control of the liquor business during Prohibition, as well as prostitution. Popular associates as depicted in the show included the likes of a young Alphonse Capone, young Charles "Lucky" Luciano, and Arnold Rothstein (fixer of 1919 World Series).As far as the series, Terrence Winter does an awesome job being the lead writer for this show. Also, should be noted that Mark Wahlberg, and Steve Buscemi are Executive Producers in some of the episodes. Portrayals by the cast such as Kelly McDonald (Margaret Schroeder), Michael Kenneth Williams (Chalky White, former Omar in "The Wire"), Michael Pitt (James "Jimmy" Darmody) was fantastic, and many more.This series centers on the political corruption side of the gangster world, but could be considered as the birth of the Italian, Jewish, and Irish mafia stories we grow to love to hear about in the future.My dislikes about this film would be the physical appearances of the portrayed characters. It's not intriguing to see Capone, Luciano, Johnny Torrio, and even Thompson look nothing like the original men. Those who are detailed picky on film biopics will dislike the facial comparisons, but the fails of the appearances are overshadowed by the well-written, smoothness of the tale. If you like gangster movies or shows, I consider this a must see!


                
Boardwalk Empire, to me, is the unsung hero of current TV, and is rather underrated. While it's not exactly panned, it doesn't get near the buzz that Mad Men and Breaking Bad do, and I don't see why. It's every bit the equal of those shows. It's probably the first HBO show since the "Golden Age" shows stopped airing to really live up to its predecessors. (Sopranos, Wire, Six Feet Under, etc.)Distinguishing it from any current TV (and arguably placing it very highly all-time) is its phenomenal ensemble cast. They say it for a lot of shows, but there really is no weak link in this cast. Every single actor pulls their weight, and no one looks bad. Everyone just embodies their role perfectly. The plot is deep and engaging, and despite having a huge number of supporting characters involved, it never feels too crowded, and it's always easy to keep track of who's who. Plot occurrences are also easy to keep track of; early, simple actions reverberate throughout the series, but it never feels as though ancient history is being dragged out. Every time a past action comes up, it feels logical and natural, the way past occurrences come up in real life.Every character, no matter how minor, has a distinct personality. The characterization in general is probably my favorite aspect of the show. While many great shows have maybe 2 or 3 really prominent, deep characters, Boardwalk has at least 5, between Nucky, Jimmy, Eli, Margaret, and Nelson van Alden, each equally layered and fascinating. On the wings we have real-life figures like Al Capone and Lucky Luciano, who are already strong characters and sure to gradually take more prominent roles as they grow into their infamy. Even characters like Chalky White, who seems to be almost comic relief at times, routinely demonstrate real depth and are acted just as well as the primary cast. Despite the scope, it never feels as though one is being neglected. The pacing and distribution of time is top notch.In addition, the period music is extremely well done, and greatly helps the immersion; it's one area where it clearly beats Mad Men, in my opinion. Better music, better use of it. It shares Mad Men's meticulous, beautiful art direction.Most of all, various themes and concepts are clearly brought to bear through the intricate plots and machinations. Its thematic depth is at least the equal of any other show on television right now. Despite the distance of the setting from the current era, it is remarkably easy to draw parallels to the present day.Boardwalk is in the very top tier of current television. Fans of The Sopranos, Breaking Bad, and others are sure to love it.


                
