With production values that are mind-boggling, cast, and a budget to die for HBO is now what film studios were in the 1930s, they have the clout and the ability to go way further than most films can - and you get episode after episode.the detailing is beyond accurate and lavish - every stitch, every furnishing, every telegraph wire looks and feels authentic and it is all shot and lit to the highest standards of film not TV. The story of prohibition and Atlantic City is fully detailed, complex, with Steve Buscemi heading up a great cast. I have a gripe that the F-word was not ubiquitous at the time and strikes a jarring note in an otherwise near perfect production. Where this shines is in the details - I just hope the story lines and acting live up to the promise - they certainly have so far.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.What a wonderful pilot!First i read some reviews before watching pilot, and they where saying how "boooring" this episode was. Hell no! That was one of the best pilots in a ... ever! When you have screenwriter of "Sopranos" and Mr. M.Scorsese in a director chair - nothing can go wrong! A pilot of "Boardwalk Empire" reminded my of "Goodfellas", "Sopranos" (i read that behind this show is a writer of "Sopranos" after watching pilot) and ... "Departed" - it's was THAT good.If this show will live up to the pilot - we have a new Emmy winner in all possible categories.Watch it and don't wary about negative reviews - this is a really great show.


                
HBO has once again done it, they are simply the best at putting out provocative, and compelling interesting original series and this time period piece drama "Boardwalk Empire" is clearly a big knockout winner. It's filled with enough drama, intrigue, suspense and complex emotions to make a viewer hooked and addicted to me it's like an early version of "The Sopranos" as producer and creator Terence Winter does a crafty and great job with this new work just the way he did when he wrote for "The Sopranos".As long before the days of slot machines, Donald Trump, Chinese massage places, street walking hookers, and rundown buildings this period piece shows the real and early days of Atlantic City. Set in 1920's Atlantic City, NJ when Prohibition has just gone into effect this series shows how the city's kings became outlaws. Dealing with the real life Nucky Johnson, yet the series changes the name to Nucky Thompson(played brilliant by veteran Steve Buscemi)who is A.C.'s treasurer and as with any central character Nucky is a complex man. He's a good politician standing for what he believes in, still he's quickly amoral by doing favors and bribes overseeing criminal enterprises and money from booze that's imported with the help of his brother the sheriff. Still Nucky has a soft heart for people in need especially for that of a local lady Margaret Schroeder(played wonderful by Kelly MacDonald)who captures Nucky's fancy with her loving care, a big difference from the hot steamy passion that Nucky has with hot spirited flame Lucy(Paz De la Huerta).Aside from that a good supporting turn for the series and Nucky is that of hot young buck sidekick and want to be leader Jimmy Darmody(Michael Pitt)who's an aggressive loose cannon kick butt kind of guy. As he skates in the business of battling rivals while trying to impress Nucky with scores and he even brushes in business for Nucky in Chicago and New York as this series even shows the early start of legends Al Capone and Lucky Luciano. As Jimmy's the great wild card of the series a hot headed war war I vet who couldn't be tamed at home by his sexy wife Angela(Aleksa Palladino)as this boy is just a little complex from having a showgirl for a mom Gillian(Gretchen Mol).And with any early mob drama it's only fitting to have a good guy trying to sort out the mess and bring corruption down well enter federal agent Nelson Van Alden(played with toughness and zeal from Michael Shannon)an intense by the book lawman who's determined as it's always interesting to watch him follow Nucky's dealings and travels.Overall this now is the best show on TV and only the best in the business HBO could have done it. "Boardwalk Empire" shows the roaring twenties as vibrant and classic meanwhile the life of this place is a violent underworld that had to be in a time of social prosperity and progress that was upstaged by corruption and booze debauchery in the Prohibition era. It's such a historical drama that it's educational really as it shows with it's central character Nucky Thompson life is complex and always temptation will override playing by the book as easy money is the way to live, still when dealing with money, booze, and sex it's tough and violent. Still "Boardwalk Empire" does all of this in such a classic way that's exciting and exhilarating as it's dazzling make it a must see for yourself and toast up and drink up to this it should last a little bit.


                
Boasting only a pilot episode (for now), Boardwalk Empire proved to be highly entertaining, at least for me. I never once thought it was slow, although if I recall correctly, the premiere lasted for more than an hour, and I didn't think it was overstuffed or overly dramatic, as many have taken the time to notice. Well, okay, maybe it was a little high-strung towards the end, but it managed to restrain itself nicely on that account. I mean, it could've been much worse.But that's not the kind of sentence I'd like to employ with this series. I can tell this is going to be a good one. Not because we have as backdrop the fiery, blood-fuelled mob wars between two powerful cities, or the facetious, slippery trade of liquor during the Prohibition era. While all these are very interesting to watch in their own respect, especially the accurate depiction of the violence and crimes of the time, what I like best about this show, so far anyways, are the characters. I am not saying the plot isn't fairly fascinating itself, but I am more drawn to the protagonist, rather than the actual story. Nucky Thompson is fascinating to watch simply because he is a lonely man with too many people around him. He is like an island (cleverly depicted in the opening theme), standing in the midst of a raging era. He is a strong man with a strong head, but when it comes to his heart, well - he tends to show a much more vulnerable side. He looks like a cold bastard and acts like a pragmatic, self-complacent, crafty and almost cruel business man. At the same time, however, he's a warm fellow, with a heart made of tiny sheets of gold, that likes to protect all things pristine and innocent in the world. He is almost too aware of the fact that he can't accomplish that. He knows that his principles, while set in stone, are morally wrong and that he can't do his job and also do what he thinks is right. He can't be half a gangster, as Jimmy tells him. So he compromises and tries doing both, with somewhat peculiar consequences. Here is man who can seem completely accustomed to the world he lives in, while, simultaneously, finding a hard time adjusting to it. When Steve Buscemi's character (who, by the way, was perfectly cast in my opinion - opinion which is not shared by many apparently) gives his touching, over-the-top, speech at the beginning of the episode, narrating how he procured some rats as dinner for his family on a cold winter night, we know it's a ruse and we as audience can already guess he is using it as a ploy to earn the trust and admiration of the ladies gathered there. And yet, we kind of hope and believe that part of his story is true. And that, although he lied about it, in his heart, he would actually do that. And that, a bit of that little boy resembles this grown weary man. You almost start thinking, towards the end of the episode, that maybe he wasn't lying to them at all,that maybe he was actually telling a real story. And that's when the character becomes fascinating to watch. And Nucky isn't the only character to watch. There are many well-rounded characters here that surprised me in many good ways. I never expected this much depth from these supporting characters. At least at first, Jimmy's character did not seem so complex to me. It's only when the story progresses, that we do see how twisted the little fellow really is. Same goes for Arnold Rothstein's character, played by the grossly underrated Michael Stuhlbarg, as a cool, stoic mobster with a charming and affable personality. His poised elegance appears almost sinister at times. Especially after his gambling success, when he explains to Nucky how in actuality, he's the one who owes him money. Another good one for me is Margaret's character, the abused Irish wife that Nucky takes a peculiar interest in. Her quiet innocence and deliberate, unaffected candour make for a refreshing change from the sensual femme fatale of the jazz era, portrayed by Nucky's girlfriend. Many critics complained that she is a stale stereotype of the victimised woman portrayed as a saint, as opposed to the promiscuous vain, self-absorbed tart. So this would be the reason why Nucky's interested in her. But I disagree, she brings a lot more to the screen than a stereotype of an abused wife. Yes, she is placed there to show a contrast between different women at the time, but she has something of her own, her expressions, her mannerisms, her actions that speak louder than her role and position in society. For me at least, she was riveting to watch. The weak characters of the show (like Van Alden, Lucy or Lucky Luciano) I suppose have not yet been developed after only one episode and I look forward to seeing more of them.However, all in all, the cast is a delight to watch. And for me, the characters make this show better than it actually is. The plot is elegantly handled (I speak as an amateur of this particular genre) and it swerves and turns enough times to distract us from any loose ends, making sure we focus on some key moments of the story, but the characters really do bring out the best of it, for me at least. I give it a nine, because I have a feeling this show will grow into something worthwhile.
Excellent film depicting the Atlantic City area during the beginning of Prohibition in 1920.Am wondering if Steve Buscemi will be up to playing suave gangster Nukki Thompson in this series.It appears that director Martin Scorsese and others associated with this production have all totally captured the period. The set decorations seem to be excellent.We see that Nukki can actually have a heart in his treatment of Mrs. Schroeder, of course the fact that he has had Mr. Schroeder killed is something else.The film is very interesting in that it takes us to the beginnings of the illustrious careers of Arnold Rothstein and Al Capone.Corruption is wide-spread throughout Atlantic City. Even Thompson addresses a meeting of the Lady's Temperance Society at the film's beginning.As this part ends, we see the linking of Atlantic City to Chicago for violating the Volstead Act. The film is immediately showing that the latter act was so much more trouble than what it was worth.
Boardwalk Empire started as a very ambitious show, one that I did admire, but I never truly thought the Pilot or the first couple of episodes really intrigued me enough. Of course, I had a feeling this would be one of 'those' shows, one of the shows that start rather slow and just OK but get really great as they go along. Another example of this was the just-cancelled Rubicon, which was the same way. By the end of the first season, I was intrigued, I was hypnotized, and I was definitely grateful for this television show.The times are the 1920s in the time of Prohibition, so we know there will be a lot of crime going on. Yes, it is true crime is a big part of entertainment these times, but it is not just done to entertain us, but to inform us of our country at that time, not to mention it has completely interesting characters. I was mixed about Steve Buscemi at first, but I have come to realize just how amazing he is in the role of Nucky Thompson. He has really grown into him and he IS the character now. Kelly Macdonald is amazing in everything she is in, this being no exception, and she is also grabbing hold of probably the most sympathetic character, but still hiddenly no different than the others. Michael Pitt is very impressive, seeing as he is probably the least known. Michael Shannon is amazing in this, with perhaps the best character in the show. There is a scene he is in in the penultimate episode of the first season, he is simply masterful, as is Michael Stuhlbarg, who is severely underused. There is also great talent in actors like Aleksa Palladino and Shea Whigham. Ultimately, this is a show to be celebrated and admired greatly, and embraced in it's mix of story lines and characters. I did have issues with it at first, but time is what matters in a show like this. This and Mad Men prove just how great history television can be.


                
Having just gotten round to watching all five seasons on a binge (which is the best way to view this drama)- it has had the same effect as Game of Thrones, for much the same reasons. Strengths of cast, writing, production design and the capability to draw from literary and real reference points with seamless ease. It follows the period of the Prohibition Era but in doing so, covers also the rise of the Jazz Era, the emergence of black influence in art and artistry, the Suffragettes, the religious movements of the time (black and white)with the atmospherics of speakeasies correctly and wonderfully depicted. One particular attractive theme is the status given to the war hero turned gangster, where the hero has a weary 'seen it all before but far worse' state of mind.There are obvious nods to The Godfather, though the character of Nucky is the continuity point, being at the centre of all power bases and interactions. The Godfather II, is definitely a strong influence on the fifth season which acts as both prequel and finale. The ultra violence is acceptable given the context and is very strong throughout, as is the sex and nudity. The series is on the whole not for the squeamish - though food and drink for those that need great television.


                
The only reason I didn't give this new drama series a 10 was a fluttering belief that as each artfully written and directed episode unfolds the viewer will become more and more hooked. Therefore, I believe without a doubt by the end of series 1 ,I would give the show a 10 without a doubt. Right from the onset the characters have been drawn perfectly. Although numbering around 10, by episode 4, you are already feeling their trials and tribulations. Nuchy Thompson unfortunately named 'Eunuch' at birth is a corrupt degraded politician with a small heart of gold, helping out an unfortunate widow, whose husband was killed on Nuchy's orders. The other supporting actors are are superb, the story itself insinuates itself into your mind, rarely have I been so quickly drawn in to a drama. I have to admit that HBO are really doing a great job these days. Sex, violence, debauchery, dreams, power, aren't these the stuff of human history from the outset? I recently reviewed another new drama series The Event, oh boy could those writers learn a lot from this story.This reminds me of Deadwood for obvious reasons, both quite simply sublime. Great to see Claire Macdonald in a good role, she still gives me goosebumps when I think of her role in Trainspotting, and she is still an exceptionally attractive lady. Can't wait for Seasons 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,. It is the year 1920, we got a lot of years to document !


                
Season 5 offered a really creative and entertaining narrative for the one final ride in our favorite(and not so favorite) characters' life. The story is being told on two different timelines.
It's probably the best series ever made, or among top 5. No dobut about it.
Solid, consistent, coherent writing gives the plot credibility throught the whole series without diminishing quality of storytelling like normally happens. Characters are credible, situations are realistic and plausible. Realism and plausibility don't prevent the series from building the right tension. No plotholes or stupid narrative expedients to adjust implausible situations to the plot.
All this means first and foremost a great respect for the intelligence of the audience.
Superb and still unmatched series.


                
The first season is a a slow-burner, the 2nd to 4th seasons get close to peak television and at times get there. The Capone last minute rescue is one of the highlights, alongside Jimmy Darmody's au revoir. The last season is, by far, the worst one, the structure turns out not to be a good idea, and the protagonists farewell is quite tasteless. Peak HBO is Game of Thrones, on the next level comes The Sopranos, and only then Terence Winter's Boardwalk Empire.
Why is it that all the best shows are on HBO? Apart from Mad Men, I can't recall a recent drama worthwhile watching on the networks or the non-premium cable channels. In my mind, it mostly comes down to viewers' perceived realness of the show. In other words, could this have happened in real life? Is the dialogue honest? Are the characters real? 99% of the shows out there today feel phony. I don't know if it's because of FCC guidelines (no swearing, violence OK, sex not OK) or the need to interject irrelevant political and societal proclamations or simply a lack of talent--whatever it is (I suspect it's all three), I avoid them even more than 'pop music'.Boardwalk Empire, like The Wire and Sopranos, feels genuine. Great script, casting, acting, production... all of it. At the end of each episode, I can't wait to see the next one and for me that's the best barometer of a show's success.P.S. The last two episodes of the second season, particularly the next-to-last one, blew me away. WOW!


                
When i first learned that Steve Buscemi would be the leading man in a TV show i almost felt sorry for anyone who would have to play alongside side him and trail in his shadow. Now 1.5 seasons into Boardwalk Empire i'm continually amazed how every single one of the actors and actresses, from the smallest bit part up to Buscemi's Mr. Thompson, are absolutely spectacular. Whether this rubs off from Mr. Buscemi, whether the director brings (wrings?) it out of them, or whether they are all truly that talented, i have no idea. But this show certainly has an amazing cast of characters, each of them flawlessly played and interesting in their own ways. Even viewers not particularly interested in dramas in general (a group to which i admittedly belong) should be able to appreciate the level of skill and talent which goes into every episode of Boardwalk Empire.


                
A well written show, Enoch " nucky" Thompson (Steve buscemi) plays a powerful gangster-bootlegging sort of boss, controlling Atlantic City in it early years of its board walk. Filled with many ways to make a buck illegally back then.all kinds of corruption,along with many different divisions of gangs all around the USA.also introduces real life criminals such as the notorious al Capone,lucky Luciano,waxed Gordon.with new opportunities and suprises around every corner,definitely recommend
Boardwalk Empire REVIEWBoardwalk Empire is a period drama about America in the roaring 20's. The TV Show includes some characters based on real historical people and some fictional characters. When alcohol becomes illegal in 1920 it means the rise of many crime organizations in the USA. The story focuses on one particular character Enoch "Nucky" Thompson who is the treasurer of Atlantic City, but in effect controls the region ( Atlantic County , New Jersey) as a political boss. He leads a double life as a gangster. Nucky acts with historical characters in both his personal and political life including mobsters , politicians , government agents and the Common folk who look up to him. As I am researching Al Capone since 2012 I was very interested in this TV show and actually started to watch it not earlier than 2014. Very late , and that was mainly because of my fear that Al would be portrayed not the way I hoped it would be. In my opinion Al has to be portrayed as human and not a monster. Al loved his family – his son , his wife , his brother and sisters and his parents. He was a really family man but was also a gangsters who killed all his enemies and rose to power. Stephen Graham is fantastic as Al and I loved watching him play that part. I think Stephen Graham really shows how the real Al Capone was like ,without all the rumors and myths. I don't think there is one actor who could have played Al better than Stephen Graham. The whole casting did such an impressive job by getting to live the 1920's again. Their outstanding performance really helped to bring the audience to the 1920's and see this time realistically on screen. Their performances also helped to make the characters likable over the seasons. When the series comes to a close in season 5 you really develop a liking for the characters on the show , and that is all thanks to the great casting. I personally loved Steve Buscemi , Stephen Graham & Vincent Piazza the most. The script of the story was beautiful, you really see the characters develop and also the story itself. It is beautiful to watch as an audience. It is like the script is written in the 1920's because it is so realistic. You really get a good view on how things were going in those days. This TV Series I give a 9 out of 10.
This series currently broadcasted on HBO is set in Prohibition Atlantic City and follows political figure and Atlantic City treasurer Enoch 'Nucky' Thompson's bootlegging business. Enoch Thompson is based on the real life Enoch Johnson. The series is based on the Book ' Boardwalk Empire: The Birth, High Times, and Corruption of Atlantic City' and produced by Martin Scorsese and Mark Wahlberg among others.Enoch Thompson played by Steve Buscemi sees how profitable bootlegging would be and immediately when prohibition becomes law sets out on his quest to bring booze to Atlantic City. There are many other real life characters who appear in Boardwalk Empire such as Arnold Rothstein, Al Capone Johnny Torrio and Charles Luciano. From time to time Nucky calls on them for help or goes to war with them. The show is loosely based on real events and brings the viewer into the Prohibition era and shows the corruptness and greed of the criminals and indeed the officials charged with stopping them. Cast members such as Michael Shannon, Kelly McDonald Stephen Graham among others contribute greatly to this show and they play their characters with such realism.From what you would expect in a crime drama TV show and the involvement of Martin Scorsese this show has it all, The violence, great story telling, and drama makes this show brilliant, also with the involvement of real life characters such as Al Capone has the viewer just wanting more.www.hardasstv.com
This series is mindblowing - no question about that. For me as a native German speaker it is a little funny to see mrs.Schroeder (i love Kelly since Gosford Park, her autodidactical approach is marvelous)which is Schröder and a genuine German name(like our former chancelor)being called Schroder with an "o" all the time, even by Nucky's supposedly German chauffeur with the funny polish or something accent. ;-) Other than that, perfect in every detail. :-) The city, the clothes, the actors (o my god those PEOPLE!!! ^^), the suspese, the all-present subtext, all more twentyish than anything i ever saw before (being born in 1980) :-) So, other than those little details: this is entertainment at its best! Wise*ss over and out. :-)


                
It was a really good series with outstanding attention to the details and the overall vibe of the prohibition era. I must say the final season didn't feel on quite up to par for me compared to the other preceding seasons. That said, the last season wasn't horrible, but it didn't feel as good as the others. I think Michael Stuhlbarg doing Rothstein over the years was my favorite acting job and I think the second best acting job would go to Bobby Cannavale who absolutely nailed it with the abbreviated Gyp Rosetti run. So many excellent performances by so many great actors will leave me with good memories of Boardwalk Empire. HBO did another great series.


                
This is one of the best mini-series that I have seen in a long time. The cast is the best I have seen. Each character compliments each other and gives the audience a full ride. If you have second thoughts about watching this series, put them aside and just go with the flow. Steve Buscemi as Enoch 'Nucky' Thompson is a character that will go down in history as being one of the best and well known. He equally matches Tony Soprano and Stringer Bell. TV shows should be made like this more often because the public will love it. This is true art, and a beautiful way to deliver it. This show was put together with excellent and talented people who know their craft. I loved it, just loved it.


                
The part of Boardwalk Empire I enjoyed most are the backgrounds. They recreate whole cities including skyline, boardwalk, city streets. I presume this must be green screen and models, but it is all completely convincing. Interiors remind be of the more Spartan existence I enjoyed as a child. Somebody took tremendous care to reproduce the fine details. The costumes look like real lived-in believable clothes.The music is wonderful, zippy fun -- toe tapping brilliant rearrangements of old standards. It is almost a musical the music is so prominent and wonderful.My problem was telling the characters apart. Nucky and Capone are distinct, but rest all look very much alike. They should have done something to make each one visually distinctive. He's the one with one kid, and he's the one with two is hardly the best way to tell characters apart.Nucky wants people to like him and respect him. He is generous and kind hearted. He just extorts a little from darn near everyone to finance his Cadillac life style. It is a different sort of gangster movie, lighter on the violence.


                
Review of Season One:There aren't many undiscovered TV shows out there that get me salivating at the thought of watching the next episode, but BOARDWALK EMPIRE is one such show. It's a kind of ROME or GAME OF THRONES transplanted to the 1920s Prohibition era, an era of gangsters and smuggling where violent crime is just around the corner. And the story is populated by vicious, vibrant characters who are every bit the equal of their historical counterparts.The lynchpin of the show is Steve Buscemi as Nucky Thompson, the ruler of Atlantic City and a man who seemingly has his fingers in all the pies. Buscemi has long been a cult favourite actor and it's great to see him finally given the leading role he deserves, because he's splendid in the role. That's not to say that supporting cast aren't good, because they're equally excellent; Michael Shannon's kooky agent Van Alden is a highlight, as is Kelly Macdonald as Margaret Schroeder, a truly sympathetic female lead for once. Watch out for newcomer Michael Pitt, whose ambitious Jimmy Darmody burns up the screen with energy and repressed emotion, and Jack Huston playing my favourite character, the war-scarred Richard Harrow.The first series lasts for twelve episodes and as per usual it takes a couple of episodes for it to really sink in and for the viewer to figure out who's who and what's going on. From that point in, though, it's unmissable entertainment, packed with all of the explicit sex and violence that a show made for adults should have these days. Don't let the fashion, the hats or the seemingly "genteel" facade put you off - BOARDWALK EMPIRE is full of all the excitement, back-stabbing, plotting and political machinations as historical rivals like THE BORGIAS.Review of Season Two:It's more of the same in BOARDWALK EMPIRE's season two, which proves to be just as effective - and just as good - as the first one. The writing is top quality and so are the performances. The crux of this season is all about Jimmy and his desire to get revenge on Nucky, and it proves unmissable viewing. There's a perfect blend of the slow build with the sudden, stark moments of gory violence that mean the viewer's always left feeling unsettled, unsure of what's going to happen next.This season isn't entirely perfect, with a couple of the sub-plots dragging; the characters of Margaret and Van Alden seem to have become less interesting this time around. Still, there are things to offset these deficiencies, like William Forsythe's larger-than-life character who adds a lot. And things end on a very dark note indeed, perfectly setting up the third season to come. I thoroughly recommend it.Review of Season Three:For me, Season 3 of BOARDWALK EMPIRE has been the best yet. It's been the most "gangstery" of the show so far, full of assassinations, horrible murders, shoot-outs, bombings and all manner of violence. This contributes to a high level of tension where both the viewer and the characters are never sure what's coming around the corner.Cast-wise, Bobby Cannavale is a real delight as the larger-than-life villain, Gyp Rosetti; his character is the best thing in the show. Buscemi shines as ever, although certain characters remain unlikeable (I'm looking at you, Margaret) and others get far too little screen time (like Stephen Graham's Al Capone). Nevertheless, Season 3 makes for splendid TV, something I had to be careful not to rush through in my eagerness to see it out. Bring on Season 4...Review of Season Four:Season 4 of BOARDWALK EMPIRE is a slight comedown from the previous season, but it's still one of the top shows on television. This time around, Steve Buscemi's Nucky takes a back seat as the writers allow some of the supporting characters to shine. In particular, Eli, Chalky, and Richard all get major sub-plots and watching the interactions of their characters is as immersive as ever.BOARDWALK EMPIRE continues to boast excellent production values and a wonderful combination of violent action, sudden character deaths, and plenty of plotting and intrigue in the background. Nobody can be trusted in this show any longer, and some of the sub-plots are truly surprising. I particularly enjoyed Eli's son's scenes at college which are seemingly unconnected to the rest of the story lines at first, plus the introduction of a new character, an excellent Jeffrey Wright as the smooth-talking Dr Narcisse. An excellent final episode closes things nicely, and I look forward to the final season of the show with continued interest.Review of Season Five:As expected, the eight-episode final season of BOARDWALK is a real letdown. For the first time the writing feels rushed, the character arcs and plotting unsatisfactory, and the whole thing fumbled. I can understand that the showrunners didn't want to repeat the same ground, but to have an entire season where characters hold rather dull conversations in between random and brutal death is a bit of a cheat. There are flashes of the old magic here and there, but overall it's an unsatisfactory viewing experience.The biggest problem with this series are the endless flashbacks. Why somebody thought it would be a good idea to have half the running time made up of flashbacks showing Nucky as a kid and young man, I don't know. Put together, all the flashbacks add up to very little that we didn't already know. A key twist could have been revealed in a single conversation instead of this laboured stuff. When I rewatch the show in the future, I think I might skip all of this dull flashback stuff. It's a shame, because the BOARDWALK characters deserved better than this.


                
I didn't even realize Martin Scorcese had anything to do with this series until I was almost done watching the first season, but it doesn't surprise me. He is a great filmmaker and this is an amazing series. Steve Buscemi is fantastic as the lead (Nucky Thompson), a mob boss in Atlantic City who imports booze during prohibition on ships and deals it to other mobsters in New York and other cities. The cast is very good all across the board. Scorcese even directed the pilot. There's nothing not to like about this show. It's very realistic in its depiction of the roaring twenties (at least as far as I can tell), visually it's stunning. Highly recommended.


                
This show started a little slow for me, but by the end of the first season it quickly proved itself to me, at least, to be the best series on TV by far. And upon rewatching the first season, I realized it was good all along. This series is definitely worthy of watching twice, because there is a lot of foreshadowing and other stuff you will miss the first time. So the second viewing is just as enjoyable as the first.One of the things that makes this show so enjoyable is the amazing set designs. This show takes place during prohibition and HBO captures the look and the feel of that time period very nicely. The writing, acting and directing is also top notch. The show is a great balance of action, humor, suspense, drama, etc and the characters wonderfully complex and real.This show to me is of the same quality of the Sopranos or better, except the time period and settings make it a lot more entertaining.


                
...was the opening credit sequence. Watch, for example of an excellent primer, the way "Boss" (Starz) opens up - compelling, sets the tone, captures the essence, and is respectably artistic; whereas the opening for Boardwalk Empire is boring, annoying, and the music doesn't fit. Now that my -1 star is out of the way, I can rave!My 20yo son told me about this HBO series and he is an excellent film critic. From S1 Ep1, it's captivating. We watched back to back episodes and couldn't wait to watch the next. Now we have to find something else to watch while we wait for S4 to begin, and I'm still laughing about Barney (Gyp's reaction to his dilemma - APPLAUSE! APPLAUSE! - the writers chose beautifully and I bet they racked their brains to come up with that moment, or else it was one of those 4am strokes of genius!) Margaret's reaction to Nucky at the end of S3 is completely understandable and the performances all around are unforgettable; all around outstanding cast and crew! I can understand why "Homeland" took the honors at Golden Globes - yes, that was my favorite series and remains so - but this one, Boardwalk Empire, because of Margaret and Richard (the only two characters I care about what happens, and the writers better not kill them!), is right up there in my all-time favorites, on the memory shelf next to "Dexter" and "Being Human" and "Lilyhammer". Dabney Coleman is outstanding as the Commodore - I didn't recognize him for quite some time and this memorable godfather figure is unique and really showed off his range as a dramatic actor. Really, the entire cast is stellar!I'm really not a fan of gangster movies, I'm rather sick of them and couldn't make myself watch more of "Sopranos", though it was all the rave (to me, it seemed like an extension of "Analyze This"), but this gangster story charmed me, probably due to the 1920s era and Irish immigrant Cinderella story (Margaret) and WWI veterans; these are the characters that made me want to watch every episode, and now I am eager to see what becomes of Margaret and Richard.


                
I was extremely thrilled to see Boardwalk Empire rock the 68th Annual Golden Globes by clinching awards for the best television drama, and best performance by an actor in the category. Steve Buscemi who played the promising Nucky Thompson, providing true verse of politics, gang war, corruption and eloquent speeches, did a commendable job to bestow creator Terence Winter with the gift of highly rated 1920 plot.It was indeed the best new series which depicted perfectly the world of 1920 as we would have hoped. The writers are just exceptional for the words are the essence to all the story, all the heart-throbbing, engaging, captivating speeches. Steve Buscemi sure demands another mention for his umpteen, highly persuasive act, equally complemented by Michael Pitt, Kelly Macdonald, Michael Shannon who played Jimmy, Mrs. Schroeder and the crazy, adamant Agent respectively. A responsive title, highlighting the obvious medium of trade as seas during that period, and hence an empire of politics, corruption, liquor cascaded around the boardwalk making Atlantic City a hub, to play the symphonies of mind-games and hence, control the eventual trade, to robust one's strength. The music is great too, love the music on the onset of the episode, loved the Carricfergus song at the end of episode 5.I love the flavor to such old-world tales, for some other in the similar genre such as Mad Men, the current Borgias, similar to movies such as recent True Grit, the old Pianist etc have kept me on toes. They might be little slow, but that's the best part, for its not modern, its traditional, the assuasive dialogs, slow yet so rich in context and perception, is ingenious and precious, to relive through the old times, is like growing old again, the carefree nature, the corrupt politics, the authoritarian command, showing their wit to keep abreast of all the latest, for had no Google, and mending ways to ascertain their ends.If you have not seen Boardwalk Empire empire, go see it now, its an epic tale, portraying the life of Nucky Thompson, the treasurer of the Atlantic City, controlling the trade, flow of money, manipulating system. It's a real treasure. I do suspect, may be Michael Pitt would certainly be in a more commanding role for the next season, for the character Jimmy in his associations with his father, seemed to have converged on an understanding against Nucky. Really cool, can't wait for the next season, fingers crossed.
