Music is banned in Miguel's household after his musical great-grandfather abandoned his great-grandmother and her young daughter. On Mexico's Day Of The Dead festival, a convoluted series of events sees Miguel transported to the Land of the Dead, where he discovers that the dead disappear when no-one remembers them. He also discovers that unless he returns to the land of the living by dawn, he will join the dead. And there are problems ahead!The story here is very artificially structured, with all sorts of bits and pieces present s that a predetermined trail of events can be created. But you never notice that, so natural is the narrative flow. This film is highly original, full of truly gorgeous visuals, lovely songs, delightful characters, and touching resolutions to several individual story threads. And yet it appeared in the UK with no publicity, trailers, or warnings whatsoever, and my local multiscreen didn't even get it in 3D despite the fact that it is clear that the 3D would be dazzling.This is as good as any Pixar film over the last several years, and better than most.
Im Mexican and all i can say is Thanks you Pizax,I just saw this movie and i just remembered all my childhood with my grandparents, Mexico was represented beautifully,the music, the colors. This movie touched me in my soul and i cried a lot, i created an account just to say how good pixar made everything, again gracias pixar por tan hermosa pelicula.


                
I knew absolutely nothing about this movie walking in, the only reason I was there was to take my daughter to see it is strictly because my wife said there was a short Frozen film that played along with the movie and my daughter just so happens to be the biggest Frozen fan on the face of the planet.Not only was I surprised by Coco, it might be the most in depth best story line I've ever seen in an animated movie. It was also educational and shed an entirely new light on the background of the Mexican holiday Dia De Los Muertos.Wonderful movie, can't say enough good things about it!


                
Pixar has come a long way. To them their creations have become a science into human emotion and I don't know any better company that has nearly perfected the craft. Soon they'll have 10's across the board from music to picture and from story to the characters. Never have I seen that more than in the movie WALL-E. This movie is up there. More than just its basic elements it dared to dive into a culture that very few in the world know about. It went above and beyond in research in getting those in Mexicos stamp of approval. It touches a deeper recess of the heart where the soul lies dormant and awakens it with hope and optimism. It takes the differences we often critique and judge upon another group only for Pixar to place a mirror right in front of us and stare at our own reflection. It takes the common elements so as to identify with the characters and stir a feeling of commonality. It's brilliant and ingenious. These things alone give it an 8. The 10 is because it was bold and dared to go places other won't. In this I found originality. Something you don't see often these days. Best part of all it unified. It takes ones thick skull (pun intended) and supplies human emotion as the medium to communicate the message so as to reach the heart. One may call that manipulation but due to its sincere true message and goodness I humbly give it a 10.


                
I have always been a fan of Pixar. They are really good at what they do. These guys set the bar for quality animated movies. Back then, animated movies were pretty much made for kids only. They were just your usual Sunday morning cartoons. Large eyeballs, goofy voice, exaggerated slapsticks. Disney had its classics like Bambi, Fox and The Hound, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty. However, it felt more like fairy tales. Bedtime stories your parents give as they tuck you in. In this day and age, it wouldn't work that well. Then came Pixar with it's revolutionary debut, Toy Story. Funny, sweet, modern, relatable and plus, completely 3D animated, which marks the first time a feature film was completely 3D animated. And Pixar has been doing just this ever since.Though the movies they released were still a quality entertainment, I haven't felt like this since Toy Story 3. Toy Story 3 made me bawl like a baby. And their newest feature film, Coco, finally made me weep like a baby again. Coco is a heart-warming experience, filled with outstanding animation, wonderful music, brilliant writing, and creative models which brings out the best of Mexican culture. The movie took on themes like family, aspirations, and music. And they merged it marvelously with the Day of the Dead culture in Mexico. I also feel that this movie sends a strong message towards those that had lost their loved ones at some point. The way this movie talks about possessions and the inevitable loss that comes will, I hope, comfort you.Coco is a great movie. Definitely the best animated movie this year (The Emoji Movie? Yeah, don't think so). Could possibly be a nominee for Best Picture this year. The way it tugs our heartstrings and the emotionally satisfying end will definitely please everyone. And it's definitely up there among Pixar's finest. If Justice League annoys you, just see this movie. I definitely recommend you. Bring your families, kids to grandparents, whoever you like. I'm sure they'll like it and I'm sure you'll hug 'em all as soon as the credits roll.


                
Coco is about Dias de las Muerte (Day of the Dead), family, family crises and musical passion. The posters have a boy and an adult skeleton capering through the afterlife. So you can know that upfront, Pixar is going to fully deal with the subject of death that it touched upon I UP and hinted at in the death of childhood innocence in Inside Out.We were subtly forewarned that tissues would be needed. :)It surpasses the other aforementioned masterpieces by being more relatable, drawing on family restrictions and prohibitions (e.g. "there will be no X in this family!" X being "instead whatever has caused pain to a family member in the past". Pick your poison my reader). It surpasses them in making death tolerable. It reminds us that we should be mindful and respectful of all those who went before us. Most of all it taps on the shoulder and whispers that the temporal, the world we live in, in just as important as the next one and we should strive to keep family bonds strong. For when we're at the end of our rope, who else is there to pull us up?Did I mention bring Kleenex? A full box. Even hard core macho men are driven to quiet sobs and immediate phone calls to mothers and fathers telling them "mama, I miss you."Beautiful.


                
I may be biased, since this movie portrayed perfectly what life is all about in a small Mexican town. Or, perhaps I wanted to see Pixar really get back on the game. Go beyond Up, and make a complete movie that was as beautiful as the first 20 minutes of Wall-E.I got my wish. This is the movie I wanted Pixar to make, once again. A movie about what family means. A movie about the choices we make, and the roads not taken. This is a stunning work of art. It'll move you from happiness to tears, from memories of the past to the joy of the future. To understanding, to remembrance. To the joys and pains of being alive.I can't even begin to imagine how Pixar made a movie about life and death that is so colorful, so absorbing, so poignant, and so approachable for kids, and with so many layers upon layers upon layers of meaning and significance for adults.To watch Coco is to love Coco, and to remember the Cocos in your life that are no longer among us.Thank you, Pixar.


                
As a Mexican born child I cried when I saw this movie and my son who is American born with Mexican parents loves it too.. love to teach him about our roots


                
Yes, Pixar Animation Studios has done it again -- their latest release, Coco (2017), is not only a return to form, but also manages to be their best feature yet. From 1995 all the way up until 2010, Pixar knocked it out of the park with every release, save for Cars (2006) and maybe A Bug's Life (1998). However, after Cars 2 (2011), it seems every release of theirs has been bad or mediocre, except of course for 2015's extraordinary Inside Out (2015). Luckily, Coco (2017) manages to be the second great Pixar movie since Toy Story 3 (2010), and hopefully a return to form for good this time. All I will divulge about the plot is that it follows a boy named Miguel and his dog traveling into the Land of the Dead. From there, the story takes you to startling visual, entertainment, and emotional heights that no Pixar movie, no kids' movie, and very few "adult" movies have ever taken you. Yes, this is even more emotional than Up (2009) and Inside Out (2015) -- both of those films moved me to tears, but never hit me as hard as this one did. It touched something deep within my soul, and unlike most emotional films where my eyes will water a bit, in this one I began to openly weep. It was an emotional catharsis like I've never experienced before. Aside from the poignant elements, the film also manages to be enormously entertaining, with exhilarating sequences that reaches levels of fun Pixar hasn't reached since Monsters, Inc (2001) and The Incredibles (2004). They use the visually gorgeous Land of the Dead they have created to their full advantage, to provide a rollicking adventure that combines imagination and entertainment brilliantly. The other thing I should mention is the score, which is, by far, the best Pixar score I have ever had the pleasure of listening to -- yes, even better than Finding Nemo's (2003), Up's (2009), and Inside Out's (2015). I suppose that shouldn't come as a surprise, considering this is the most musical movie Pixar has ever created, but nevertheless was one of the many, many memorable aspects. In Conclusion, my favorite Pixar movies up until this point have been Toy Story (1995), Finding Nemo (2003), The Incredibles (2004), WALL-E (2008), and Up (2009), with Monsters, Inc. (2001), Ratatouille (2007), Toy Story 3 (2010), and Inside Out (2015) not far behind. I have been disappointed by their seemingly endless sequels this decade, and by the fact that even their originals (Brave (2012) and The Good Dinosaur (2015)) have been okay at best. Even Inside Out (2015), though I love it, is still better at delivering an important message to children than it is being its own story. But with Coco (2017), Pixar has nailed it. It brought me back to childhood nostalgia of watching Pixar classics like Finding Nemo (2003) and Toy Story (1995); the fun, the adventure, the laughs, and the tears. This is what a Pixar movie should be, this is what a kids' movie should me, this is what any movie should be, and it is truly one of my favorite movies of all time.RATING: 10.0/10.0


                
We came across with the movie when flipping the channels. No idea what it was and ended up watching one of the best movies ever


                
I'm a 24 year old student who sometimes tends to overthink about the values of life and how one, including myself, expresses these kinds of thoughts through every form of art that tells a story. So as a person that really puts his soul to a movie he watches I have to say that this film is one of the most beautiful things I've ever had the pleasure of witnessing.Coco does a fantastic job of capturing the viewer from the first moment. It cleverly captures the beauty of the "Day of the Dead" tradition, by unfolding one of the most heartwarming stories I've ever seen in a movie, around it. The film features a young Musician called Miguel and the pursuit of his dream of being a musician against his family's approval. Throughout the movie while Miguel engages in an adventurous journey through the land of the dead, he is caught between the love he has for music and the importance of family bonds. 
Quiet a simple and pretty well covered subject. Somehow, Coco manages to so simply and beatifully capture the essence of what it means to be human. What it means to love and what it means to have passion for the things and the people you love. The story was told in such an elegant way that it didn't make me think about the values it represented, but instead it made me feel them, without me even analysing what I was watching. It did it so gradually that at some point near the end I was so overwhelmed by a scene, which definetely goes to my "top 10 best movie scenes" list, that I caught myself crying. Not tearing up like I usually do when a scene touches me. Actually crying.I could go on and on about Coco, but I'll leave with saying that this is a fantastic movie and I honestly feel grateful that I had the chance to watch it.A must see!!!


                
A Pixar's masterpiece, impeccably done in terms of research (about the Mexican culture), animation, script, musicalization, direction and production. A subtle yet charming and inspiring story; with a quality of animation worthy of an Academy Award (I wouldn't be surprised if it was one of the great winners of 2018); with an extremely powerful soundtrack; an excellent script; likable, well-developed and relatable characters; and extremely respectful of the cultural component in which the story is inspired. In short, one of the best landings of Pixar - perhaps repeating a bit its known formula, hence you can feel a "back to basics" in terms of the narrative, history and character development, but at the same time managing to stand out as a fresh and purposeful product that will undoubtedly give a lot to talk about.


                
The children movie Coco, was a very heartwarming movie. It showed what the real meaning to family should be. It showed that even though your family might disappoint you there are always there and will be remembered.


                
There is absolutely everything in this for everyone. Laughs, life lessons, crying. Its all there. This is what happens when Disney get it so right. I cry every single time. The music is amazing throughout. Just perfect.


                
I've been trying to get my kids to watch this for a year. They were never interested. Finally, it was my turn to pick. The whole family was in awe. It was colorful, imaginative, and the story was beautiful. That kid who boxes Miguel is amazing. It got me thinking we should start celebrating Dia de los Muertos.


                
Heart touching, mind blowing, forever unforgettable movie. thank you for producing and bringing life to such a cute story.


                
This movie was so great it made me laugh and cry (kinda) im not surprised it got 2 Oscars. the story was amazing ,the animation wonderful and the songs beautiful. That's why I gave this movie a 10/10


                
Honestly, this movie made me so emotional! I loved it, really felt it with my heart! I'm really happy to see that in the end of 2017 we can still see such quality movies, with great story and feeling in it! Even though I admit, Mexican culture is not so familiar with me, neither I am a fan of this type of music, the movie grabbed me so much!!! Really, it's something I will remember for the rest of my life and will always give me a special feeling once I think of it! Thank you Pixar!!!!


                
Three words... WOW, what an amazing movie, the story starts getting better and better, such a beautiful story, with so much touching moments, amazing soundtrack, congratulations to pixar, total respect to you guys, Mexico is amazing!!! you learn so much about the Mexican culture, incredible.


                
Absolutely beautiful film. It touched my heart and soul like no other film ever has. Visually gorgeous. The acting was wonderful. That little boy, Miguel, was such a lovely, likable character. I wanted to reach on the screen and hug him. The songs? Wow, just amazing. Where there clichés? Sure, maybe but it didn't matter since the characters were original. The negative and so so reviews.....sorry but you have no heart. I don't think I can trust anyone who doesn't love this film. You are not human.


                
In the begining I want expecting the movie will be OK, but Pixar done a great great work. Funny moments, tears, laugh all combined in this movie. Plus this is not for kids, adults can find something from this movie. Dont think twice and watch. You can thank yourself later to spend your free time. Go pixar go!


                
Well Disney and pixar really make such a great movies this year, kinda classic, but you know i love all the character, the color of the picture , and of course the story line , story twist. It was kind of tribute to Mexico culture. I think its a good movie, we learn about Mexican culture of death too in this movie. I think it suits for family, kiddo's will like it very much. well, so far every Disney animation never disappoint me ever, not this time too. Keep a good work Pixar!!PS: i really fascinating with the playful mind blowing color in this movie
Pixar and Disney, managed to cover in the most masterful way the Mexican custom of the Day of the Dead, a cinematic experience that the world deserves to see to better understand one of the most famous Mexican traditions of this planet. This film is an offering to the Mexican people and a sort of reconciliation between Mexico and the United States.


                
I am very glad I saw "Coco" and understand exactly why it won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature, as it's terrifically entertaining, fun to watch...and quite touching as well.The story is set around Día de Muertos, the Mexican Day of the Dead. Miguel is a nice little boy whose family, inexplicably, HATE music and insist he never can grow up to become a musician. And, wouldn't you know it, but that's EXACTLY what the boy wants to become one day. But after destroying his homemade guitar, he is unable to enter a music contest...so he decides to take one from the local cemetery. Not surprisingly, this creates all sorts of problems...and Miguel is transported to the land of the dead. What's next? Just see the film!The CGI for this film is simply the best you'll currently find...putting it well above the quality of competing studios, such as Universal and Fox. In addition, the scope of the images is just breathtaking....and a treat to see on the big screen. Additionally, the songs, story and characters are all lovely. One warning, however, is that this film will very likely start you crying now and again...be sure to have some tissues nearby, just in case. A must-see film.


                
Once every few years Disney manages to prove me wrong that they are running out of ideas for producing wondeful anime movies based on new concepts / ideas. This movie is trully a masterpiece, unquestionably one of their best ever. I think this film is much better than my favorite of the last few years "Inside Out". The quality of the movie is going beyond any expectations as it is brilliantly funny, extremely emotional, and the music is fantastic. Overall, thumbs up for what I personally think is the best anime Disney has delivered in the last 20 years to say the least. 10/10


                
