Honestly, I wasn't amazed or fantacised by 'Coco'. It's nowhere even near the same level as Toy Story 3, Inside Out, Up and WALL<U+0095>E. It went on for too long, some scenes dragged and weren't that entertaining. The first half especially was extremely dull, I literally just didn't know why I was watching the film. But the day of the dead scenes were kinda entertaining and quite a bit of fun. That was really when the film started to pick itself up a bit. The animation is spectacular and I'm glad that Pixar satisfied me with their stunning visuals, like they always do. The characters are good-fun and are people you can definitely relate to. Miguel is a great lead and when he's stuck with these skeleton-like people (I don't know what to call them, sorry!), it really is a lot of fun and entertaining. Although I didn't even enjoy Coco that much, I'm pretty sure you will, I'm pretty sure you'd like to watch it.I enjoyed this one less then Cars 3 but give it a watch, and if you don't want to, don't. The first 40-50 minutes you may not be entertained or satisfied like I was, but you will be surprised and amazed and the second half. My overall review of the film is that it's not bad, watch it if you want to.


                
There was once a time when Pixar movies were guaranteed to bring something new, fresh and exciting to the CG animation game. You just knew it, Pixar was going to raise the bar again with every new movie, not only animation wise but also regarding story telling and characters. Even after Disney completely took over Pixar in 2006 they still created very special movies like "Ratatouille" and "Wall-E" and I had hopes that Disney would let them do their thing and keep out of the stories and the way they tell them to the audience... but when "Merida" came I knew it was going downhill from here... it had such a typical Disney vibe. Now with "Coco" the "Disneyfication" has been completed. Don´t get me wrong - technically and animation wise everything is still top notch - but the story telling and characters are 100% Disney. The story you´re going to see has been told to us a hundered times already, they just changed the setting. Of course they added the unavoidable schmaltzy musical songs (this time in mexican style flavor, but you know the melodies... oh yes, you know ´em... ), the funny sidekicks, the unresolved father - son conflict, the "first you´re a hero to me and then not so much" turn, the predictable teared up happy ending ... this might appeal a very young audience, but me as an adult who loves a good animation movie (Pixars "The Incredibles" being my all time favorite) this made me cringe.


                
It amazes me how many people claim this to be ORIGINAL and FRESH. I really liked Guillermo Del Toro's BOOK OF LIFE. And this film steals the look, the musical style and even some of the character designs from that film. Just really disappointed. The worst part is no one notices. People are so self-absorbed and pre-occupied with other things that they have no attention spans. So BOOK OF LIFE was forgotten within a year. I even had some people tell me this was a sequel! Disney seems to be able to do anything they want these days and to say anything negative gets you censored or shut down. But a fact is a fact. And Pixar is much better than this.


                
An average movie at best. But since it has some "culture" in it..


                
I really feel at times the hype certain movies gets on IMDb is mind boggling. Coco is overly praised is my take.The plot isn't something you have never heard or seen before. The worst part is the lack of logic. There are parts in movie where you just want to hit the fast forward button. The ending has some character to it, but it cannot still undo the boredom.I want to highlight a few reasons why this movie has no logic without exposing the plot.Most of the story is around mexicano lingo, when no way it has any impact to the plot.
The story has too many sideline characters who add no value to the plot.
The movie can be built as a 10 minute footage with proper editing. The rest is only fillerI felt this was a déjà vu of Wall-E which was equally boring excrpt the latest 30 mins


                
All I have to say is the music was dreadfully out of tune, the concept is pretty new although ridiculous about a kid running away from the land of the living to meet up with his great ancestor who was a beloved musician. Seems cool sounding at first but the movie is so dull and for me unentertaining. This was one of the most hardest to sit still through animated movies I have ever seen. I was so unpleased with the unsatisfying taste I still have in my mouth from watching this. All I can say is I do like the color scheme this movie was showing off but altogether visuals aren't everything, you have to have a likable cast and somebody who can actually sing to back it up, this film has neither. Overall with the high rating I am astounded. The movie only had a cool story and interesting visuals which deserve a rating of no higher than a four which is my rating.


                
If I was Hispanic, I probably would have liked it more. It was a bit of a lesson in Mexican culture. About 20% of is in Spanish, one of the song is completely in Spanish. I would recommend skipping this if you are not interested in learning about the Mexican festival of the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos). Though the story is fictional, it probably based on many truths and beliefs.


                
This movie is the second worst pixar movie. It is basically the book of life but with better animation and better characters but apart from that it is the same.


                
