If you agree with the 'family comes first" motto, but are tired of it being linked solely to the muscular bald guys and fast cars, then Coco will become a pleasant refreshment for you. A lush and lovingly made animation film based on the Dia de los Muertos theme from the Mexican culture, it is a touching experience and a joy to watch.However, after all the praise Coco received from all around, the actual viewing experience has left me slightly disappointed. Maybe because I did watch The Book of Life, another animation inspired by the Dia de los Muertos lore and featuring the similar "family wishes vs personal destination" conflict, a film some consider Coco to be a rip-off of. Or maybe it's because, despite all its pretty visuals, cute characters and singing solid enough, Coco clearly doesn't invest too much into having more than a single layer of meaning.You see, here we have a painted prettily and with lots of fizzy buoyant quirks, but still a rather simplistic take on the eternal topic of love's duality and generations' conflict. A kid who loves music, but hatred for it is a family trait for several generations, so he embarks on an unexpected journey through the world of the dead to find a way to unite again what has once been separated and to mend what was once broken. And to sing a few songs and to battle some personal fears while he's at it. There are some nice and emotional scenes along the way, and some lessons learned for some characters, but it's still more or less a linear journey from A to B where good is mostly good (although not without a typical feminine touch of a raging maelstrom of emotionality), and bad is, well, at least clearly selfish from the get-go, and then it's plain outright evil.What is missing in my opinion is the multi-facet delivery, or at least a deeper morals of the story. Sure, "love your relatives and do what you believe in" is cool, but ain't it what every single animated film is eventually about? And you could reach the ending inevitable for such genre with some more convoluted and morally difficult effort than just being a boisterous music prodigy with tons of luck to his aid.It's not a good idea to criticize art for not meeting your expectations. After all, nobody does it just for you, so why what you think must matter at all? Still, if you are not too fond of stories being rather straightforward, then Coco might feel somewhat shallow. And if you're not a kid who loves everything shiny and moving, then the second half of the film might feel kinda random, slapstick'y and, at times, on seriously heavy drugs (the color-changing monkey burping blue flames or multiple Frida Kahlos crawling out of a giant papaya to drink an even more giant cactus' tears being some examples). For you, I might recommend watching The Book of Life instead, which, albeit arguably less glossy and vibrant visually, has a story much more complex and not stamping "good" and "evil" labels on things, thus showing the duality of people and of the life itself.For everyone else, go ahead and watch this film. For its loving care for the Mexican traditions, sharing not just the language but also the passion for something outside the typical Western outlook. And clearly for the multiple Frida Kahlos crawling out of a giant papaya - that was hilarious beyond all sane measure!


                
Coco (2017) is an animated film co-directed by Lee Unkrich and Adrian Molina. It is a story set in the fictitious Mexican town of Santa Cecilia, where young Miguel (Anthony Gonzalez) embarks on a journey when his passion in life and dreams are called into question by his family. All Miguel wants from this life is emulating the great and famous singer Ernesto de la Cruz (Benjamin Bratt) but his abuela and relatives oppose. Miguel must come to terms with his family and return back home after he disrespects the "dia de los muertos" tradition and a curse falls upon him, trapping him with the dead. He finds help from the deceased Hector (Gael Garcia) and members of his family like Mama Imelda (Alana Ubach) as he finds a way to express his talents and learns family history. At its core Coco is a story about passion, memory and family. Miguel follows a story arch where he must learn self value, bravery and the value of being true to one's self while remaining loyal to family, respecting tradition and remembering one's past in the form of family history. With a reputation for great storytelling, juggernauts Disney and Pixar have found a way to tell a story with such a worn arch with a new and authentic style. A lesson is learned by almost every main character as they grow and develop. Passion is pitted against tradition (and perhaps stubborn customs) and the outcome produces strong emotions on the viewer. At times the story felt carried itself with the drama and flair of a Mexican "Telenovela". These are some rich themes for what may be considered a "kid's film" but they develop organically and are never forced. However the film doesn't lack that slapstick humour or easy and quirky kid's comedy (Especially present in the playfulness of the dead characters' bones). The production team made a respectable effort preparing for the production of this film, and the results were worthwhile and evident. The film is brilliantly set in Mexico, showcasing a wide range of customs and cultural icons that made the film feel authentic. Everything from Mexican cuisine (Like tacos, tamales or "pan de muerto") to celebrities (Like Frida Kahlo, El Santo, Pedro Infante or Cantinflas) make an appearance. Traditional "Mariachi" or "Charro" suits and elaborate woman hairstyles are accurately represented. Mexican family culture is accurately represented from the respect towards our loving, stern and kiss filling abuelas, to that spicy and sassy personality characteristic of Mexican and Latin women. Even the idolization of popular musical icons, similar to Ernesto de la Cruz in the film, resembles the decades old fascination with the likes of actual celebrities like Pedro Infante or Jose Alfredo Jimenez. I authentically felt the story was set in a real, picturesque Mexican pueblo. Every small detail felt in place and that enhanced the story. The film understands and respects the traditions of "dia de los muertos" while giving it a modern twist. Despite the difficulties, and risks, that come with portraying such a rich and complex culture the film makes a much appreciated effort in introducing a side of Mexican culture that is at times neglected in favour of easy-to-go stereotypes.The film felt beautifully animated with intricate finger movements while playing a worn-out guitar or the miniscule pores and imperfections of the bones. Visually gorgeous and impressive the film makes use of a brightly coloured pallet, like with the rich orange used for the "cempazuchitl" flowers or the "papel picado" banners. The music fit perfectly with the tone used for the story and never stopped having a particularly Mexican flavour from the use of the guitar or trumpets to the "marimba". The score continued to set the story appropriately. Coco is carried by memorable fun moments, like Miguel's encounter with exotic Frida Kahlo, and beautiful and emotionally filled ones, such as that of the last act which grounded the story's themes of love for music and family during a scene that is sure to invoke a tear or two. Despite a few moments where it felt that the plot was driven by the oversimplified and unexplained mechanics of the curse, the film in general doesn't stop being the memorable and enjoyable experience of a familiar story executed with fresh and authentic style.


                
Review:
I quite enjoyed this emotional animation movie, which really does have something for everyone but I must admit, I didn't really find it that funny. I know that it wasn't supposed to be that amusing but I missed the usual Pixar humour, which I have grown to love over the years. Don't get me wrong, the movie is certainly entertaining and the animation is truly remarkable but it's not the type of film that you can watch time and time again, like the earlier Pixar movies. With that aside, the attention to detail was great and the storyline was well written but I was still expecting more from this reputable company. Anyway, the movie is about a little boy, Miguel, who has a secret love of music, even though his family has banned it from there home. When he sees that there is going to be a local music competition, he escapes from home to show off his talents, but he is caught by another family member, who destroys his guitar. Failing to find another guitar to enter the competition, he decides to steal the guitar from the famous Ernesto de la Cruz mausoleum, who turns out to be his great-great-grandfather. Whilst stealing the guitar, Miguel becomes invisible to everyone in the village plaza, and he enters the mysterious world of the Land of the Dead, were he meets his skeletal dead relatives. Miguel soon realises that he is cursed for trying to steal the guitar, and he can only return to the Land of the Living, if he is blessed by one of his relatives before sunrise. One of his relatives, Imelda, offers to give him a blessing but on the condition that he abandons his musical pursuits, which Miguel refuses and attempts to seek Ernesto's blessings instead. Miguel then escapes from his family, to seek his great-great-grandfather but he's unable to get far because of his human looks. He then gets the help from Hector, who needs Miguels help to get his picture back to his daughter, so she doesn't forget him, so they go on there mysterious journey to find Ernesto, before Hector disappears, and Miguel gets banished to the Land of the Dead. It's quite an unusual but original storyline, which took 6 years to bring to the big screen, due to the importance of getting the authenticity of the project completely correct, and I'm sure that the animation took ages to perfect as well. I appreciate the work behind the scenes, that it takes to make a Pixar movie but I personally think that they have lost there touch since they have gone to Disney. That's not to say that this movie wasn't a great watch but there is too much competition out there at the moment. With movies like Ferdinand to compete with, Pixar need to up there game to claim back the top spot that they have owned for many years. Anyway, this movie is definitely worth a watch, and I'm sure that people will shed a tear, and jump for joy whilst watching it but I personally was hoping for more in the humour department. Enjoyable!Round-Up:
This movie was directed by Lee Unkrich, who brought you Toy Story 3, and co-directed Toy Story 2, Monsters Inc. and Finding Nemo. He also produced The Good Dinosaur and Monsters University, so he has certainly earned his stripes with Pixar. After watching hours of bonus material, Unkrich and his team spent a lot of time in Mexico, with various families, to get the whole look and feel of this film spot on, and he done a terrific job in that department. The vibrant colours throughout the movie, along with the close family element, really did work well but I did find Ferdinand slightly more funny. It didn't actually hit the billion dollar mark but it was still a hit with filmgoers around the world, and I haven't heard a bad word said about it. With Incredibles 2 and Toy Story 4 in the pipeline, I'm sure that Pixar will be smashing the box office this year but I personally think that Toy Story should have been left alone.Budget: $200million
Worldwide Gross: $805millionGenre: Animation, Adventure, Comedy
Cast: Anthony Gonzalez, Gael Garcia Bernal, Benjamin Bratt, Alanna Ubach, Renee Victor, Jaime Camil, Alfonso Arau, Edward James Olmos, Carla Medina, Cheech Marin, John Ratzenberger and Herbert Siguenza. 7/10
I originally thought I would catch this on HBO but seems like they're playing fewer movies. So after like a year, sister and I finally decided to Redbox it, she fell asleep after an hr (started the movie @ 11, she's usually asleep by then!) I lovvvveee Pixar movies with the strongest passion. Even movies that I might not love wholeheartedly, like this and Ralph breaks internet, I still find myself tearing up some point! Well worth a view.
The last 15 mins will make u cry


                
The movie has a good voice actors and all the animation is very good.


                
I really enjoyed the characters, especially the spirit creatures. The story line was very easy to follow and i really liked the twist at the end. I would absolutely watch this again. The only thing i wish i had seen more of are the spirit animals of the rest of the family.


                
Coco is the 19th feature movie produced under the banner of the trailblazing Pixar Animation Studios and is another resounding triumph for critics and audiences alike. The four reasons that makes it so are the setting of the story, the use of original songs, the quality of the animation itself, and for telling a story with morals.The story takes place in Mexico during the celebration of the Day of the Dead when people commemorate and pay their respects to their departed ones. There are a lot of points in Mexico's culture that the writers could have chosen but choosing this colorful setting for the story really gives the movie a strong base for something fresh and original to build on with the other aspects. 
A significant aspect of the movie that is predetermined by the setting are the songs used. For the lot of movies produced by Pixar, you can note their use of original songs and how they impact much of the storytelling. With Coco, the songs feature a Mexican style for sound which adds to the movie's cultural flair. The one entitled "Remember Me" which won for the film the Academy Award for Best Original Song is one that will stay with you long after watching the film for sheer emotion.Coco is also an exhibition of Pixar's finest work in animation yet. Each part is a testament of the effort to capture the essence of Mexico's culture and to strike balance between expressionist artistry and capturing real life. The move manages to give a feeling of other-wordliness and at the same time almost a fluid realism.Last but not the least, if people won't buy the movie's achievements in the technical department, it would still be a triumph for the story it tells, a cross section of a vast culture that's seldom fleshed out entirely which focus on music and family. You may have caught a glimpse of the Day of the Dead in the opening sequence of the last Bond movie, Spectre and you may have thought that George Romero's zombie film of the same name is about it. But it is in this movie that the Mexican Celebration gets into spotlight on its own for the world to see. As one from another country, I applaud the makers for telling the story in the most artistic way they can without compromising the importance of the story's morals thus, continuing the Pixar tradition of responsible entertainment. Truly, it is a story that can deeply affect the audience and make the world a better place.Given that Coco excels in a lot of departments, it has downside. Despite telling a story in a unique setting, venturing to another country and showcasing another culture, some of the plot devices that drove the story have already been used in the previous Pixar Movies, that if you are one that follows closely their output you would immediately notice some scenes are play out very similar to the ones in Monsters Inc, Inside Out, Up, and Toy Story 2. Now, the makers could argue that this could be a form of Homage or a technique to imprint their signature but one can't help being alarmed about a possible diminishing of original ideas from the company that brought us out-of-the box, revolutionary animated tales such as Wall-E, Up, and the Toy Story Trilogy that captured our imagination. Though at this point Pixar seemed to have set the bar too high for itself with its latest effort, their recent outputs all together are beginning to show a formulaic approach to storytelling with frequent self-referencing and also resorting to release sequels to their originals which is not bad at all but as a moviegoer you crave something new especially with the talents and resources Pixar has. With the many accomplishments the creators have garnered with this noteworthy movie, it is good to hope that they will be able to create more imaginative, original, culturally diverse movies in the future.


                
Coco (2017) 
This is an animated fantasy adventure film produced by Pixar. It follows a 12-year-old boy named Miguel Rivera, who is accidentally transported to the land of the dead, where he seeks the help of his deceased musician great-great-grandfather to return him to his family among the living. It became the highest-grossing film of all-time in the country. It has grossed over $714 million worldwide. The film received praise for its animation, vocal performances, musical score, songs, emotional story and respect to Mexican culture. It has earned numerous accolades. This is an enjoyable animated film for younger children. Still, it's a little lacking in hidden adult comedy you expect.


                
"Coco" is Pixar's latest entry to the canon of memorable animation and centers on young Miguel and his quest to find someone in the land of the dead. Passionate about music, he discovers his fire and learns who he is and where he comes from amidst this creative and fascinating world. With stunning visuals and a heartwarming story, this film stands as the year's best in animation (which stands pretty far from the rest of the year's mediocre attempts). Despite an abysmal accompanying short film, "Olaf's Frozen Adventure," "Coco" does indeed leave its audience feeling optimistic and emotionally touched. The story is engaging form start to finish and takes many unexpected turns that deviate from a preconceived notion of the story from the limited trailers available. This makes the film overall feel fresh and original, despite the themes being repeatedly used before. As expected from Pixar, animation quality is top notch with breathtaking and intricate layers of meticulous detail and attention. It's no wonder this was a massive animated undertaking which feels like a real treat considering much of the animation released this year has been subpar at best. Every frame is delicately cared for which makes the experience that much richer.Another element many will be pleased with is the film's balance of subject matter and themes. This however, was a part lacking in my view. Its themes handle one's relationship to family contrasted with one's passion and desire which make conflict with the former. By asking a strong question from the beginning, "Which takes precedence, family, or career?" we are given something powerful to think and ponder throughout the film. However, this is answered but never truly explored during the second act. This felt like not only a missed opportunity but a steal away from the themes being fully explored and consequently, the payoff feeling justified. "Coco" through and through is quite enjoyable with a positive message for younger viewers. Despite my personal problems with the film, I would easily see it again and recommend it to practically everyone I know. It's memorable, fun, and very sincere in it's execution.


                
I was looking forward to seeing this movie since I had seen Book of Life which I really liked. After seeing Coco, I thought it had a good and touching story, but very similar to Book of Life and therefore very easy to end up comparing one to the other.In general I liked Book of life better since it had more humor and found songs and music to be better. Still a good movie worth watching.


                
Coco is a fun family movie. Miguel a boy in love with music even though his family hates music. Miguel finds himself in the land of the Dead. Miguel has to get home before sunrise or hes stuck in the land of the dead forever.
The movie coco was directed by Lee Unrich is a fictional movie about a Mexican family that has banned music in any form from their lives. The youngest boy in the family loves music and travels to the land of the dead to find his great great grandfather that use to play guitar.
This movie is the best, except when Miguel's family hate music. But Hector is my favorite character in this movie.


                
Basically what the headline says. The animation for this was beautiful. This was graphically appealing. However, the plotline was a bit predictable. This is not necessarily a negative thing, but possibly would have made for a better movie had there been more plot twists.


                
Definitely a kids movie, SUPER predictable, but I had a good time appreciating the fluid and fun animation of the skeleton people. And if it was true to Hispanic dia de los muertos lore, then I also learned a lot about that. Overall a Good time.


                
I'm not really too knowledgeable on the Day of the Dead Mexican tradition. Nevertheless, I don't think one should have to be to enjoy this film. Coco is a fun watch, especially because of it's main characters Miguel and Hector, as well as it's unique art style. However, I wouldn't go as far as calling it the best Pixar movie ever, yet, it's certainly up there in my opinion. Coco is an overrated film for sure. Too often are above-average films like this blown out of proportion by critics. The film sort of lacks adventure, being as the whole movie takes place over the course of one night. Miguel does travel to another realm, yet, I feel still very little of the Land of the Dead is actually explored. The story is cliché, yes, but it still manages to engage the viewer and keep them interested just enough. The families ban on music seems a little silly to me, talk about overreacting. Staying on the topic of music, I wasn't really impressed with the soundtrack for this film. I usually find myself with the songs from the movie stuck in my head but not with this one. I didn't really enjoy the songs while I was listening to them either to be honest. All in all, Coco was a positive experience. I don't watch a lot of animated films but this one looked good enough to check out and I'm glad that I did. This is a really good movie for the whole family and I praise the films ability to function as such.


                
I have to admit that "Coco" left me a little bit cold.It's got dazzling and colorful animation, and it brilliantly brings to life the land of the dead. It's also refreshing to see a high-profile animated film focused on a people and a culture (in this case Mexico and specifically its celebration of the Day of the Dead) that aren't traditionally represented in mainstream movies. But the story just didn't connect with me the way the best Pixar movies (like "Wall-E" and "Toy Story 3") do. I knew when I was supposed to cry, but I wasn't sad enough to. I'm not at all religious and I don't believe in an afterlife or think about the dead in the same way this film obviously does, so maybe that explains my rather indifferent reaction to it when others seem to be responding so strongly to it.Grade: B


                
Day of the Dead has long been an important part of Mexican culture. On that day, people commemorate their deceased relatives. People would probably not expect Disney to release a movie focusing on this, but that's just what "Coco" is. It's about a boy who visits the City of the Dead, where his ancestors live. The movie has some of the most impressive animation that I've seen.One could make the argument that it's not appropriate to use an important part of another culture for a movie, but this movie makes sure to be respectful about it. We even get a depiction of a certain painter. I'd say that "Coco" makes up for "The Three Caballeros" (which was basically a big excuse to stereotype Latin America). Worth seeing.


                
In my personal opinion, I don't think Coco deserves #71 on the Top 250 of all time (as of 1/14/2018). The movie's storyline was quite boring. It's about a boy named Coco who loves to play his guitar. He has a grandfather who was famous for his songs, who was later killed by a bell in 1942. A problem is that Coco's family doesn't like music. So Coco's grandmaother destroys his guitar. Coco later goes to his grandfathers grave and takes his grandfather's guitar. Next thing you know, he gets trapped in a different dimension (Idk what it's called, but it's where all the dead people's souls go to).The good is the animation. The flags, characters were well done.I think the movie deserves a lower rating on the Top 250, not that high. 9/10
The Computer animation was really good. I felt like I was in the film. I also like how they explained the name of film by the end.
 The story was a hit and miss. What I mean by that is that the story was ver confusing at time and the plot did not flow really well. I think they were trying to fit too much in film. I did not like it when saying things in Spanish since do not understand Spanish t all.
I think it would be confusing for kids.
I think it would best for kids 10+
 I think its only good enough for a rental but not to own.


                
When I saw the trailers I wondered why Disney would do a movie that is so close to another The Book of Life. It does have pretty colors as you would expect of Disney and a moral to the story. Good music, although I am not signing it over and over like other Disney songs. Just mediocre for Disney, not impressed. More disappointed. Glad I didn't waste my money seeing in the theater and rented the CD instead.


                
The movie is OK is pretty colourfull but it lacks on orginality at the end of the plot because they recycled the same plot/scenes from monster inc of zootopia at the end, very disappointing with that They should called pueblito maxico or cempasúchil(the flowers displayed on the film are called), coco is a stupid name, not a common


                
To be honest, I'd expected something more. This is the film which is very pretty visually, very emotional but... empty. For a child it might be something special (or scary according to some kid after screening), seeing the colours of Mexican afterlife and that brave little protagonist. 90% of Disney animations are like that. And what bothered me the most was the wrong picture of death. "I can't wait when you die" is not funny, even if said by a dead man. Also you can die after death. First you die, then - if noone remembers you - you die again and noone knows where you go. For me it was the easy screenwriting. Even after death you're scared of death.I shed a tear though. The story was touching however simple it was. And grandma Coco was the cutest. Unfortunatelly apart from her nothing really stuck in my mind and I am not a fan of it. It is the worst Disney at Oscars in years.
Coco is a new pixar film that talks about a boy whose dream is to play music but his family believes that music has a curse on their family then the boy enters the land of the dead to find the real story behind all that.I didn't hear anything thing if the film I've only known the film about two weeks later and I was a little surprised that it got released already.I guess I enjoyed the film for the most parts at least, the story was soo original and I seriously don't recall any film as same as Coco but was it great ? Or by most critics who said it was "best pixar film" absolutely NOT the film was very enjoyable and original as I said but it really don't deserve all the praise it got I mean I could easily name at least 10 better pixar films !The music/songs were original and good well it has to be that's what the film is about right ? I actually liked one or two songs that I don't know the name of but they were good.Speaking as for the story as I said it was very special one you from the start really feel the boy's love for music and you want him to accomplish his dream and of course in every Disney <U+25CB> Pixar film there should be an emotional moment but for that one I really couldn't feel it maybe I expected a bit more I don't know but it's wasn't a very emotional ending as most said maybe it's just me !Coco was an OK pixar film the main thing I liked about it is the original story and maybe some of the songs, I don't think that I'm going to see it again thus the main thing that I do every time after I watch a good film that I liked is to wait until the film got release to watch again or just watch some scenes on YouTube, but sadly not for Coco, don't get me wrong as I said I liked the film but it's only good at a first watch that about it for me.And there's also an unnecessary, waste of time 21 MINUTES introduction to Olaf's Frozen Adventure film.


                
12 year old Miguel comes from a family with a longstanding ban on any kind of music due to his musician great-great grandfather walking out on the family. Naturally, Miguel's passion is music which he pursues hidden from his family. After he gets transported to the land of the dead on Day of the Dead he must obtain his ancestors' blessing to return to the world of the living. When they won't give him the blessing without him swearing off music, he embarks on a quest to find his great-great grandfather and get his blessing.Coco may be the most visually beautiful of all the Pixar movies. The stellar animation is filled with color and brings the land of the dead to life. Excellent voice work helps to make Coco one of Pixar's better works.Coco is a great movie for kids and adults alike, though it may be a little heavy for the youngest children due to the importance of death to the story. At its core, Coco is a great story about the importance of family and honoring your ancestors.


                
