I have just finished reading an interview with Vittorio Storaro, cinematographer for Apocalypse Now, and I am in a state of shock. Apparently, the plan, when preparing Apocalypse Now Redux, was to keep the original negative intact, and to edit the new material into a freshly struck inter positive. Unfortunately, the negative, 25 years old, was starting to fade, and Storaro was concerned that new prints would not be up to his, or the audience's, high standards. He suggested to Coppola that they re-edit directly into the original negative. This, of course, would eliminate the need for an inter positive, and allow for beautiful new prints to be struck. On the other hand, the original negative in its "classic" incarnation would be gone forever. Storaro asked Coppola, "Let me know one single thing, in the future, in 10, 20, 50, 100 years from now, which version would you want the audience to see?" And he said, "This one."I remember asking myself why the additional footage couldn't have been relegated to the "Extras" section of a DVD. My guess had been that the entire affair was a cynical attempt stir up interest in a theatrical re-release in order to make a few more bucks for the perennially cash- hungry Coppola. Would that he had been so cynical. Now we will never have the chance to see a beautiful new Technicolor dye transfer print of the original Apocalypse, a genuine classic, because Coppola actually thinks that the god-awful Redux, a bloated, ponderous, amateurish mess, is the version for which he should be remembered.I have seen the original Apocalypse dozens of times, and each time it has felt fresh, vital, visionary. I almost walked out of the theater during Redux. Like mold, the new footage had corrupted the old, making the whole film dank and dreary. Most of the new footage was hasty, improvised, and pointless, and integrated badly into the whole. The performances resembled juvenile acting class exercises. The legendary French Plantation scenes were so over the top and silly that I thought an unused sequence from Monty Python's The Meaning of Life had been dropped into the film.As Paulette Goddard once said of Chaplin, "(Coppola) sometimes thinks he thinks." Despite his reputation as a rebellious visionary, Coppola has always done his best work for hire. When he has been allowed to go off the rails, he has produced crap fests like One From the Heart (which I actually saw in a theater) and Redux. Looks like it was only the pressure to deliver that prevented box office disaster and bankruptcy in 1979. I, like many others, have spent the last 25 years waiting for another Coppola masterpiece. From the evidence in the Storaro interview, we have all waited in vain. The man's judgment is faulty. Maybe if he can get back together with Bob Evans...


                
If there has ever been an overrated director, Francis Ford Coppola is the one. Apocalypse Now is nearly universally praised as one of the greatest war films of all time. I consider it to be one of the most overrated movies of all time; far from a masterpiece, it merely cashes in on the American anti-war sentiment of the time.Let's begin with the film's story itself, shall we? Well, although adapted from fantastic source material (Conrad's Heart of Darkness), Apocalypse Now has a very vague plot joining the film. As I have learned, the film was plagued with production problems, which may be why this is so. Either way, the film is comprised of a few interesting scenarios (I particularly liked the boat massacre) tied together in an extremely convoluted way. The story makes no sense, because it's practically irrelevant— too much side material takes away from a promising plot.I've said time and time again that Coppola has a very feeble grasp of suspense. During the duration of Apocalypse Now, what does the hero, Willard, do? He watches. What does the audience, therefore, do? We watch Willard watching. The increasing chaos downriver is not a magnificent suspense builder. To be honest, it's sheer boredom.And what of the characters? Willard is a character made out of cardboard. All he does is frown and think about his mission. I couldn't empathize with him at all, and frankly didn't care whether he was successful in his mission or not. His crew is a ragtag bunch of sketched-in, half realized, uninteresting characters. Robert Duvall's character has fantastic potential, but emerges as uninteresting: he appears, demonstrates Coppola's point that the military is a bunch of hypocrites, and disappears, all without contributing much to the plotAnother thing: a novelist's approach does not work in films. The drama should be performed, and not narrated. Although voice-over proves effective at times, Apocalypse Now is one great big, long voice-over that quickly becomes stale, boring and ineffective.Another thing: the film supposedly "truly captures" the insanity of war. No. What it does is "subtly" point out the hypocrisy of the American army. They eat meals that the guys in the field would die for. They were planning to punish Kurtz for his murder of four civilians, but praised him once the press got a hold of the story. They send Willard out to kill Kurtz because he's half insane already. There's no leadership at the bridge. The soldiers go absolutely insane over the Playboy "playmates" instead of concentrating on the war (that was one of the film's most disturbing scenes-- not in a good way). A man indiscriminately shoots down innocent Vietnamese peasants. Robert Duvall's character attacks a village because the beach has "the best waves" for surfing. Far from subtle, it points out exactly what Apocalypse Now is: a cash cow for Hollywood after the anti-war movement.And now for the good bits: After over two hours of insane boredom, Marlon Brando appears AT LAST. After two hours of watching Willard watching the "insanity" of the war, I was glad for a character of interest. Most of Brando's dialogue was, apparently, ad-libbed, and you can tell. His dialogue does not reek of Coppola's mediocre (or just plain bad) screen writing. That is the film's one redeeming quality: only due to Brando (whom I, ironically, consider the most overrated actor ever) is the last 20 minutes of any interest whatsoever. There is one other redeeming quality, and that is the boat massacre. Truly the film's strongest scene, it is sadly followed by a trail of disappointments that all but drown it out.The Verdict: Far from a masterpiece, Apocalypse Now is barely coherent. Coppola apparently described the film as "not about Vietnam, it is Vietnam". Incorrect. It is Hollywood raking in profits after Vietnam. It's no use accusing me of simply not understanding the movie's point, or of having to watch it again. (I'll live quite comfortably if I never hear of the film again.) As a matter of fact, I've seen it three times: the first in my film class, where I despised it, and had to study it and its "messages"; the second on my own, where I appreciated it a little more, but not by much; the third prior to writing this review, where I returned to my original position. To be blunt, I don't like Apocalypse Now at all.Overall Rating: 2/10 (Brando's segment alone guarantees the 2)
The biggest problem watching this film is that I am a Vietnam Veteran and I am aware of the movie's outlandish plot. For pure entertainment I guess, even for a Vietnam Vet, the helicopter assault with Robert Duvall was outstanding.....full of garbage but entertaining. As a MACV/SOG operative Sheen is quite good, but his lonesome mission is, again, pure garbage. People who are totally unaware of Vietnam will most probably like this movie, after all it was done for pure entertainment not truthfulness.


                
I just saw the film for the first time and the opening scene with Martin Sheen in the bedroom I thought was promising. But I think that was the only part of the film that made me think this was worthy of an Oscar. I can understand all the hype about this film back in the day way before CGI came along – the logistics and the scale of the film set were all real. But that's all I could possibly like about it. It was too long and wasn't engaging enough to keep me awake. This couldn't possibly get any nominations by today's standards. I was struggling to stay awake only because my good friend who highly recommended it was watching with me. Otherwise, I would have stopped watching and gone to bed half-way through the movie. I was lost every time a long scene came along with lengthy, boring dialogues. Overrated, bad-acting, tried-to-be-arty snooze-fest, I reckon.
What possessed Coppola to add all this silly footage back?  The movie was unwieldy to begin with, but now it's a rambling, often pointless everything-and-the-kitchen-sink art film.  And the music.  Oh, the cheesy sounds-like-John-Carpenter-wrote-it electronic organ music!  Not only bad, and badly produced, but occasionally laughably inappropriate. 
Bring back the studio cut!


                
I bought a ticket to this move to help save a good director from financial ruin. I remember I checked my watch A LOT! This movie moved as slow as the Machong River and rambled about as long. When it was all over, I just remember thinking that this was one long boat ride that was definitely not worth the trip. So in the universe of great movies, this is definitely a black hole that will only suck up several hours of your time. The ONLY good thing about movie was that ticket prices were a lot cheaper then when it came out. This movie was so dismal that I can't even remember enough to find ten lines to write. This movie is a very solid two. Pass on this one. Just remember, you have been warned.


                
Never before has a film been spoken of in such high regard, but been so disappointing to view. Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" is the most highly acclaimed film to explore the dark underside of the war in Vietnam. It takes the viewer on a mythological journey through the war torn jungles of southeast Asia, but fails miserably to deliver what it sets into motion. The film promises good performances from its actors, and it delivers in that regard. The cast is loaded with talent, most notably that of Robert Duvall. His characters' presence in the film is short in duration, but very moving. In the beginning (like "Platoon"), "Apocalypse Now" seems to provide a glimpse into the psychological impact of an anarchic Vietnam on its wartime inhabitants. The film moves along nicely as Sheen journeys to find his imposter (Brando) who has concocted a dangerous cult following in the jungles of Cambodia. Several incidents along the way (again, like "Platoon") give the viewer insight into how unstable wartime conditions manipulate every mans psyche.Up until this point, I thought the film was quite good. However, it takes a horrific turn for the worse when Sheens men stumble upon a family of French aristocracy still residing in Cambodia. At this point, the film jumps into a scene of pretentious political and social discourse about American involvement in the war. This miserably long scene broke the continuity of the film, as well as my interest. Trying desperately to recover from this editing atrocity, I try to stay optimistic about the films' direction. Unfortunately, its continuity is further interrupted by another unnecessary scene involving fuel exchange for sex. Still thinking it would revive itself, I tried to stay as optimistic as possible.Finally, Sheen and his patrol boat reach the site of Brando's cult followers, and the film plunges into absolute absurdity. It now takes the form of a cheesy pseudo sci-fi thriller, and plummets past the point of anything remotely reasonable. Disappointed by direction and exhausted from unnecessary extended footage, I had to finish the film. Brando's mythical character is enveloped in stereotypical, horroresque camera shots. The film now basks in all that is predictable and unreasonable. For filmgoers who wish to have your experience handed to you on a silver platter, this is a must see. "Apocalypse Now" is ruined by blatant disregard for fluidity and reason. Any philosophical implications the film wishes to provide are drastically overshadowed by a painfully cheesy and predictable story. At the end, it seems as if Coppola had no direction for his story. The ending seems forced and unnatural. If you must view, please find the original cut, not the Redux version. Oh the horror...


                
I watched this movie with my dad because he said it was one of the best movies he has ever seen, naturally i had high expectations because he usually has good taste in movies.By the end of the movie i felt so sick and depressed i don't think i could ever watch it again. It was extremely violent, extremely long, extremely boring, and extremely weird. It could almost be classified as a horror film, and its supposed to be a realistic war movie. But i suppose it's message is to show how horrible the Vietnam war was and how people can really do horrible things, so i will give it credit for that.It drags out for ages and never seems to have any storyline, just a few marines on a mission to find a crazy marine who thinks he is a god to a tribe. It is almost too violent but not in a gory way, but just horrible images of sacrifice and execution and brainwash. This film made me feel like crap. I don't know why so many people love it.I'm giving it 2/10 because it is not a very nice film to watch but it does manage to put across its message. I can only recommend it to war movie fans who like depressing films.


                
Artsy, boring movie: the men sail at the river in the midst of the Vietnam war and search the independently lethal Kurtz. The story and all the characters bore me to tears, including Marlon Brando as Kurtz - yes, he is an independent killer in the midst of the war, ah, the irony! Joseph Conrad's early 20th century novella Heart of the Darkness, set in the brutally exploited, Belgian-ruled concentration camp called Kongo, is now a study of the Vietnam War. No, I have not read the original, so I don't know how faithful adaptation of the original and it's themes this is. But why a real movie has a real-life animal killing a'la -10 exploitation excrement?


                
What the !@#$ did I just saw?! This movie is one of the most overrated movies I have ever seen. I just wasted over 3hrs of my life on this?! I did kinda wanted to stop watching it but I kept convincing myself that something interesting is gonna happen. Well it doesn't!!! And when people protect this movie with the following - "You don't understand it". People, there is nothing to understand! There is no connection, no logic. Somehow I got to the end of the movie because I just wanted to see Marlon Brando. Unfortunately he does nothing. And the end was even pointless than the hole movie. How can people rate this with 8.6 is beyond me.
Apocalypse Now started off with a confusion which made it hard to become interested, but the use of loud noises and action did manage to keep me somewhat involved. However, I was impressed with the film work and effects due to the time period, but it was still hard to pay attention. As the movie went on it continued getting strange which made it difficult to pay attention; the movie lacked interest and depth so did not see the point to try to understand what was going on when I was not the least bit interested, if anything I did not like it one bit. Besides the strange plot and actions the message in the movie itself is disappointing. It puts down the war veterans of the Vietnam War making it seem as if they were more interested doing drugs and being crazy that fighting for their country. This movie may have had a slightly intriguing plot, but it was nothing special. I was in no way impressed by this film and I would not recommend it on any circumstances.
Wow. I just don't even know where to begin. Have you ever had one of those dreams where you are attacked by a grizzly bear while on an African safari so you swim to the surface and turn into a pterodactyl in order to fly away to safety? Yeah, Apocalypse Now is a little bit like that. It starts off as a Vietnam War movie, and looks great all the way to the end, but the story – the story – it is insane! The film would have been more aptly titled, "Captain Benjamin Willard's Expedition to the Temple of Nonsense".The further up the river they get, the more drugged out the movie starts to feel, which at first I thought was going to be a reference to post-traumatic stress<U+0085>nope, just good old fashion lunacy. It starts with the impossible behavior of Lt. Col. Kilgore, but I just wrote that off as a strange & misplaced attempt at humor, but then we get to the bridge battle and the movie begins to become mind-numbingly odd. I can't even describe how this movie descends swirling around the toilet bowl of absurdity before it flushes down to the sewer of utter madness. My head began to hurt the last half an hour; it was so supremely bizarre. It is hard to imagine how it gradually changes gears from a normal enough war movie to a drugged out nonsensical waste of time in the jungle! I'm not being facetious, I am serious, literally, my head actually hurts from my exercise in futility in trying to weave together this mess of loose ends.Film critics can be such sheep. Sure you can be black sheep if you want, but you are every bit as much cowardly conformists as your more numerous mainstream counterparts; mindless cowardly conformity to a subgroup is still conformity. To argue this film a masterpiece requires a desperate search for figurative meaning, a smothering of common sense, and is a sad attempt at acceptance into a group of pseudo-intellectuals. This films reputation is because of who made it, when he made it, and groupthink<U+0085>period. Colonel Kurtz was not some great free thinker (there have been many about whom films have been and could be made), nor was anyone in his outrageously improbable personality cult. How did he persuade this brutally savage & primitive people to exalt him by the way? How did he even communicate with them? I suppose he learned their language<U+0085>right.This is not a matter of taste. This movie is simply terrible, the story is crazily incongruent, and anyone with eyes to see and a mind to think will agree. The film itself is very well made, but that is not even close to enough to make the movie as a whole worthwhile. If you want a film about humanity's imperfections, if you want a film about the horrors, consequences, or idiocy of war, if you want a film about thinking for yourself and doing your own thing, if you want a film about political hypocrisy – whatever you want, please, just do yourself a favor and watch another movie. In fact, Apocalypse Now is so long you can watch two.
