Spoilers herein.Much has been made of the personal risks taken by this filmmaker and crew, and the mapping to the metaphor of war:Coppola, already rich and famous for the lush but pointless `Godfather' films, reaches into his soul and decides to risk it to do something important. He deliberately chooses Conrad's metaphor of personal journey, and creates a multi-layered structure: the sense of Man in society; the `reason' of War, colonial wars and the specifics of Vietnam; the meeting of darkness of self at the end of the hero's journey; and at the lowest layer, Coppola's own quest for import as an artist.When I saw this over a couple decades back, I thought it a failure: earnestness does not equal art; commitment does not deliver skill; Italian passion outraces German nihilism.But now, with the `restored' footage, I have a completely different take. I still think it a failure overall, but with some powerful images. As with the Doors, its aspirations were too large for the ability, the vision too grand for the reach. But now with the passage of time, the metaphor has had a polar switch.Twenty years ago, the War was a simple affair: confusing at the bristles, jaded selfishness at the handle. With the passage of time as we learn more, the War has `become' incredibly more complex and unfathomable. Now with the film: it started life as huge, unfocused mess. Over a long period, with radical paring and the addition of a very competent framework of sound, something resulted. Unfocused still, but powerful enough to engage. Over time and repeated viewings, this work has been overgrown by personal probings, and integrated into the imaginative landscape like an incompetent building becoming a fond element of the cityscape. So as the war becomes less pegged in our minds, this film becomes more comprehensible, more whole.With repeated personal handling, this film has become `true.' Think of this: it now has such a clear center that the filmmaker can `enhance' that message. It is now so coherent, it begs for addition. And the three main additions are so, so very apt and self-referential:-- The French plantation takes its reason to be from the mere fact that it has been. That is precisely what this film has become: a colonizer of our minds that now makes its own sense to be there.-- The playmates. Sex -- even exploitative sex -- domesticates.
-- The extra exposure of Brando. Here was a tiger, a man whose presence tore through our minds, who changed the world, who mesmerized. He went down his own personal river before this film and was defeated. Here he shows up in a character who is precisely the actor (with a wildeyed acolyte Hopper similarly spanning fiction and reality). Wasn't clear when the film was new, but is now. These are not the winners we see, but the losers. The horror.To prepare for this redux, I watched the three `Wallace and Gromit' films. Here also was a personal vision, explored at first with extreme commitment, at high cost in the face of detractors. Working by himself for 7 years produced the first film. It was shockingly weird. The second (and probably the best) was a low-budget collaboration with one other monk. As with `Apocalypse,' this film invented itself, by charm insinuated itself into the familiar as if God had put it there all along. Then by the third film, with scores of people, the magic is transformed to cultural momentum.But there is hope: `Apocalypse' hangs on the War, and though that metaphoric connection is severed, it still stays on the shelf we first placed it: as a war movie. And there are other war movies. And since films are seldom about reality and instead about other films, we can rely on others to give us distance from this foreign invader. Two very much more skilled filmmakers in particular: Kubrick and Malick. Rely on them.
Francis Ford Coppola, once the most praised and powerful director in Hollywood, entered the Southeast Asian jungle to make a movie. Armed with Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness", a small army of technicians, and a 15 million dollar budget, he emerged ten months later with thousands of hours of footage, two nearly dead actors and a nervous breakdown.The cause of all this personal trauma was "Apocalypse Now", a film in which Martin Sheen is sent up a river and into the jungles of Vietnam to find Colonel Walter Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a Special Forces officer who has gone insane.Conrad's message was that savagery and apathy can wipe out the fragile gains of civilization within a single generation. A thin line stands between civilization and total collapse. Inject a little bit of barbarism, a little bit of chaos, and everything falls apart. Coppola's film tries to build on this, and states that America's inability to relinquish the trappings of civilization (ie- to get out of the boat), ensured its defeat. We lost because we weren't, as a nation, prepared to commit genocide. We committed horrors, but we weren't prepared to go all the way.The biggest problem with "Apocalypse Now" is that it was written by John Milius, the pro-war, gun toting ultra conservative whom the Coen Brother's based their character Walter Sobchak (from "The Big Lebowski") on. At the end of Milius' script, Kurtz and Willard team up to fight America. They represent the warrior savage, free from hypocrisy but lost in the darkness.Coppola, of course, found Milius' script largely silly. He removed Milius' violent ending and went in search of something more powerful. For some grand statement on war and human nature. But he found none. How could he? You can't paddle down a straight line for 10 months and then suddenly expect to reach a new destination.Throughout the film, "Apocalypse Now" tells us one thing, but shows us something else. The Colonel Kilgores of the picture actually fight the war, whilst the powerful warrior God, Col Kurtz, does little beside chopping the limbs off natives or hiding in the shadows. Milius' script saw Kurtz as the hero. A wise and seasoned rebel warrior who sticks his fingers up to the hypocritical veneer of civilization, but Coppola seems unwilling to go down that route. Coppola's "redux" cut of the film, though badly paced, is more interesting. It adds a French plantation scene which attempts to contrast the French period of colonial rule with America's war in Vietnam. The problem with this is that US involvement in Vietnam and the Colonial mindset of nineteenth century Europe, as seen in "Heart of Darkness", are completely different. American policy wasn't inspired by colonial aims but by ideological ones. The American experience in Vietnam was the opposite of Conrad's colonial experience. No wonder Coppola couldn't find a suitable ending. There isn't one. Late in the film, Kurtz accuses his country of hypocrisy. They are unwilling to fully embrace the darkness. If he were given a small army of savages, he says, then the war would be over tomorrow. The implication is that the Vietnamese were nothing more than barbaric savages who should be dealt with, not civility, but primal brutality.Worse yet, Coppola's "war" is one of gorgeous cinematography and exciting spectacle. When a Vietnamese village is raided, it feels more like the Death Star trench run than a savage massacre. Killgore himself is a figure of fun rather than the monster he should be. Milius' script painted a much darker character (hence kill and gore).Still, "Apocalypse Now" may contain no truths about Vietnam or war in general, but it is a film absolutely dripping with passion. Like "Aguirre, the Wrath of God", "Apocalypse Now" is very much a Werner Herzog film. Herzog was a mad artist who wanted to lift a boat over a mountain. Why lift the boat over the mountain? No reason. He simply wanted to do it in the name of art!Same thing with Coppola. He wanted to do "somthing" great. He went into the jungle, went insane and came out with a couple thousand hours of mad footage. What is the merit of this footage? The merit is in surviving the journey. In making it down the river and back out again.And so what we have is a film about its creators. A film about the madness of the white man. The madness of the director. The madness of the crew. Ironically, the film's madness is all a result of indulgence. The indulgence of a staggering budget, studio leeway, accessible drugs, limitless resources and a giant ego. It's the shallowest kind of insanity. The insanity of unlimited power and a lack of boundaries.8/10 - "Apocalypse Now" ultimately amounts to nothing more than a series of memorable set-pieces. These set pieces don't enrich one another or gel in any way. It's an incomplete film, and even Coppola admits that he didn't quite know what he was doing or tying to say. The film goes up the river but doesn't know why.Far more interesting is "Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse", a documentary shot in tandem with the film. As a study in ego-maniacal madness it's far more powerful than Coppola's film. Narrated by Coppola's wife, it's also very intimate and perceptive. It's also interesting to see how much Coppola relied on Brando's improvisational skills, hoping desperately that the great actor would whip up some kind of climax out of thin air. Brando, of course, was just in it for the huge pay cheque.Though a failure, this film is worth multiple viewings.


                
''Apocalypse now'' has two versions. The original, which was out in 1979 and the Redux version from 2001, which extends the whole picture by approximately 49 minutes of cut out footage. So let it make it perfectly clear. I am reviewing the REDUX version and NOT the original, which, in my opinion, is outstanding and MUCH better than this pointless waste of effort. Now. Every technical element from the picture such as sound effects, original soundtracks, camera quality IS actually as decent as from the original, perhaps even better. But this is not actually important, is it now. I mean, you most certainly do not want to watch an extended version of ''Apocalypse Now'' just for a 'smoother' result, now do you. The main point of this new version was to get to see the movie completely uncut, to view the original with all it's cut out footage. And that, dear friends, is an absolute let down. The majority of the new footage is mostly simply pointless and boring to watch. In fact these missing scenes are SO dull, that they actually cast a sort of a shadow on the original movie in this version, thus making the whole 3 hours and 16 minutes of this film look weak and frustrating to sit through. Never have I been so disappointed in an extended version of a great film. NOT Recommended. It's pointless, TOO LONG, and boring. And if you already saw the original, you can just see it once more. It is definitely better than watching this extended version, which, in conclusion, is A WASTE OF OVER 3 HOURS.


                
I started watching Apocalypse Now with all the acclaim it has received over the years in the back of my mind. I learned a long time ago with 2001: A Space Odyssey that just because a movie is regarded as a classic doesn't mean i will like it at all. I sat down to watch the Redux (it was the only version i could get but i'm sure the overall film is the same) and fortunately, Apocalypse Now is better than 2001, but it is not a great movie.The film stars Martin Sheen as an Army captain who is sent into deep into the jungles of Vietnam to take down a decorated general (Marlon Brando) who went mad and barricaded himself. He rides on a boat with a squad of desensitized soldiers down a river. Along for the ride is a barely legal youngster (Laurence Fishburne), a would-be chef (Frederick Forrest) and a stern driver (Albert Hall). Everybody in the cast does a great job, and the ride down the river is eerily calm with random spurts of violence which makes for a mostly exciting movie. There is also a great supporting role by Robert Duvall as a hard-ass commander who is a overzealous fan of surfing.The movie really slows down, however, when the squad comes across a French family living in a nice house in the middle of the jungle. It really doesn't do much for the story and it seems to get forgotten in the later parts of the movie. Also, the ending is slow and just strange. I heard there was originally supposed to be a huge battle, which i would have preferred.For movie fans, Apocalypse Now is a must-see, because most people like it a lot, but for some it is a pretty good war movie that's worth a look.---7/10


                
I have nothing but respect for Francis Ford Coppola. He is deservedly one of the greatest directors of all time and his style of film-making is pretty much inimitable. Yet I can't really say I enjoyed this movie. At least not the Redux version I saw.First the good parts. It's a damn beautiful film. The mood, as they slowly drift up the Vietnamese river, keeps building and building and you can smell the heat and wetness in the air, feel the sweat dripping down your back, hear the hollow echoing screaming around you. The script was heavily inspired by the classic novella Heart of Darkness and that's exactly the mood and atmosphere they achieved.The acting is also topnotch, with one glaring exception, and I've never seen Charlie Sheen do a more convincing role than here. You can almost see the cracks in their souls as the heaviness of the war settles around them as they are pulled from combat and send to face almost certain deaths as they hunt their elusive quarry.It's a well-made film. Everything from camera-work to sets to directing works, and works so well, but the fact remains that's it's just too long. At least the Redux version. You can only stretch the atmosphere and suspense for so long until you start to look at the clock. That's partly the purpose and to this film's credit, any other film would have crumbled way sooner, but crumble it does, eventually.I also have problems with Marlon Brando's performance. Apparently the man showed up hugely overweight, completely unprepared and pretty much being as unprofessional as you can be. And it shows. The final third of the film throws the suspense straight out of the window and pretty much the only question left is "Brando, what happened, man?" I can see why people love this film. It's a haunting take on war, has amazing atmosphere, vivid imagery, memorable characters and as a whole there are very few movies like it. Personally I lost interest after the halfway point, but that's just me.


                
If you're looking for a masterpiece, read the short novel this is based upon: Joseph Conrad's _Heart of Darkness_. The film is merely OK in comparison. I like the idea of translating Conrad's anti-imperialism from the Congo of 100 years ago to Vietnam in the '60s. The Idea is relevant, once we look through the alibi, the self-serving excuses, and the supposed idealism of the US taking up a former French colony after they cut and ran from the independence fighters there. But the film's ponderous ambition tends to become bombastic at times, rather than the bottomless ambiguity of Conrad's novella.


                
Tortuous anti-war epic that ultimately disappoints despite the fantastic cinematography and superb overall production. The performances by Robert Duvall (who won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor) and Marlon Brando, meant to be highlights, only reduce the picture's gritty realism and lose the viewer's interest with overly dramatized performances and, with Brando, at times unintelligible dialogue.What saves the film, and makes it great, is the narrated journey of Captain Willard up the Mekong and into the dark reaches of Indo-China. Martin Sheen gives a tremendous performance as the super-serious unofficial operative Willard whose mission is to seek out the mutinous Colonel Kurtz (Brando), creator of a dysfunctional Shangri-La deep in the jungle. Plenty of action and more than one bizarre sojourn (particularly in the less edited Redux version) greet Willard and his riverboat crew of war movie personalities--wonderfully performed by all including a very young Laurence Fishburne as the gunner's mate, "Mr. Clean."Together they traverse through all the ironies and confusing realities of warfare and keep you on the edge of your seat. Once on land, however, the movie bogs down into a badly scripted climax between Willard and Kurtz.Definitely worth watching only give yourself enough time to appreciate the pacing and by all means, don't worry if you never see the end!


                
This film could have been one of the best films ever made but Brando ruins it and is largely responsible for the weak ending. The film is a superbly photographed, surrealistic and dream-like odyssey of Captain Willard. Martin Sheen is outstanding. The bizarre, weird, horrible and morbidly funny intertwine themselves so skillfully that you almost feel like you are there. One of the quotes always remembered about this movie is "I love the smell of napalm in the morning". But when Duval says "Charlie can't surf!" That does it for me. When Willard gets to where Kurtz is it feels like one of those extremely bad dreams where you have been on a long search and you are dog tired and scared to death.But when we get to Kurtz he seems inadequate and not even close to what you are led to expect. The last words he utters are "The horror....The horror". The horror is Brando's weak personna and lacklustre performance. The ending is less than satisfactory even with Kurtz "terminated with extreme prejudice."


                
'Apocalypse Now (1979)' is a beast of a film. It's an odyssey unlike any other, one that's just as interesting and tumultuous behind-the-scenes as on the screen, and you can almost feel the blood, sweat and tears dripping from every frame, with our protagonist's sanity coming only as close to breaking as Coppola's must have been. The result of the entire ordeal is an experience that's difficult to describe. It has an impact but also lacks a certain something, that intangible connection, that would really make it 'pop', so to speak. It's much easier to appreciate from a technical stand-point than it is from a narrative, as the latter is loose and unfocused while also lacking a real resolution. It may be the lax structure, which doesn't place all that much outward emphasis on character growth or 'plot-points', that leads the ending to feel less like a completion of an arc and more like the fulfilment of an inevitability. Still, there is a compelling exploration of theme occurring here. The way the piece uses its central conflict of Willard and Kurtz, who aren't really at odds but are simply told to be 'enemies', as a way of exploring the wider conflict is subtle but inspired. The story is a very personal one, but moments of Vietnam War examination and commentary seep into the narrative in interesting and unconventional ways. It's these moments that work perhaps the best, with the genuine spectacle combining with the horrors of war to make a comment on the 'validity' of - or Coppola's general feeling towards - the whole situation. When the piece slows down, however, the contemplative tone and harsh, hard-boiled narration can't always keep up with the expectations that have been previously set by vivid montages and brilliant practicality. There is a palpable dread that builds up as we float along the river, though, and eking out the meeting of our hero and his supposed foe is a wise move. When they do meet, their clash is marred slightly by Brando's ill-prepared performance which, while occasionally commanding, is generally not up to par and doesn't meet the admittedly elusive standards set by all the flick's foreshadowing. There's also a sour note when the real slaughter of a water buffalo comes into play, something which Copolla has since tried to downplay. This is an uncomfortable moment that is unfortunately extended and interwoven with a key scene, making for a cringe-inducing finale that honestly plays in pretty poor-taste - even if the contrasting symbolism of the two in-universe events works well. Overall, the film is an engaging and strangely hypnotic one that works when it works but does suffer from slow segments and some areas of discomfort. It is built upon spectacular spectacle and clearly took a lot of time, effort and talent to make. 7/10


                
The first three quarters of 'Apocalypse Now' is excellent, a near flawless portrayal of the Vietnam War. The last quarter didn't do much for me at all, especially the butchering of the ox and the long, drawn out final scenes. I don't think either added much to the film overall.The film is brilliantly acted and directed with stunning visuals and cinematography, one of the most realistic and compelling portrayals of war I've seen. Martin Sheen delivers a memorable performance as Captain Willard. All in all, despite a final quarter that wasn't what I had hoped for, 'Apocalypse Now' is a technically great war film.


                
A cinematic reenactment of perpetuating the dystopian war; and "insanely heavy" is the first term that comes to my mind. Like a narcotic, the film floats through rugged memories and improbable realities about a rouge General (Marlon Brando). Whereas, a Captain (Martin Sheen) sent to assassinate him with "extreme prejudices", struggles with his own and his men.As I complete this 3.5 hour long film, I am a bit amazed by the art of creating such a prolonged, unrecognisable narrative of a war. At the same time, the imagery of gory Vietnam War is difficult to digest and so is watching the ferocious men, living the shell-shock amongst the war atrocities and the farce of making it. Nevertheless, anyone who is a junkie for war-genre and/or a fan of the likes of Brando and Coppola, won't be able to hold back watching it.Cringeworthy viewing experience. Rating - 7.5/10
Even I find it a bit remarkable that just this week I got around to seeing this movie. I was rummaging through the movies on the shelf at my local public library and found this one on Blu Ray. Of course the picture and sound are both remarkably good, and includes very deep bass in key scenes where it is appropriate.Two versions of this movie are on the disc, the original 2+ hour version with neither opening nor closing credits. Also the "redux" version released a few years ago, it is 3+ hours long. While the basic story is the same in each, the longer version includes a couple of scenes cut from the original. Neither of them affect the main story.The main story is about a rogue military leader in the late 1960s, in a good performance Marlon Brando is Colonel Walter E. Kurtz. He has ended up somewhere in Cambodia and off the radar. He is accused of killings that may or may not be justified in the context of the Vietnam war.In an equally good performance is Martin Sheen as expert assassin Captain Benjamin L. Willard. he is called in specifically to do a covert mission, if caught he was never sent, to find Kurtz and "terminate his command", which really meant to assassinate him.To do this a small crew with a small boat are assigned to him, and they head out not knowing for sure when and where they would end up.What makes this movie so striking are the makeup and cinematography which take the acting of Brando and Sheen up to another level. My only gripe with the movie is how they made so many of the military guys seem like frat boys using bad judgment and acting stupid. I am Vietnam war age, I knew several who went and served and to me it disrespects all the thousands who went and did not act like stupid frat boys.
I served with the Army during the Persian Gulf Conflict (1990) and find this movie interesting having seen it twice. This concerns more a moral and inward journey by an officer who is a loner and sees parts of himself in the man he is assigned to terminate. The movie can be dealt with in many areas. I have even allowed Ryann and Nathan (my kids) to view this movie with a sense of instilling them with the futility of so many wars. I am not a pacifist by any means, but I feel the underlying message here is still in the inner journey of a man torn apart by the insanity he sees surrounding his mission as well as the erosion of all values in humanity in each step along the way. Almost a sort of Dante's Inferno as he descends each step closer into Hell by moving upriver to his final destination. This is a very deep and complex movie. I do not recommend this for the faint of heart, but by all means complete the movie if you have started it. Be cautioned that this is intense and emotional in many areas.


                
Reagan just got elected, Jimmy Carter had to swollow that s___t eating grin of his, and the Vietnam Vets got their heads  rubbed in that quagmire one more time.  I think this was inevitable because as we all know history tends to repeat itself and fortunately at this time I wasn't draft bait and The End really wasn't the end.  For Martin Sheen this was his best role and he did a fairly good job of it.  The main umph of the picture is the music and the scenery.  Brando is awesome and Duval is hard to imagine as a surfer groupy but the movie does capture the insanity of that war and the apocalypse of those times.  Compared to todays standards the story is a bit far fetched.


                
This movie has some great parts to it, but when you put them all together the movie is just too slow.  I can handle slow movies, but this movie is soo slow you want to die yourself.  Overall this is a good movie worth seeing because it gives a good portrayal of how scary wars can be, but it sure as heck cant shake a stick at The Deer Hunter.  I have seen many scary movies, but I give this movie #1 for goryest scene because of a very realistic portrayal of the death of a cow (repeatedly).


                
This film is one of the more disappointing "great" films I've yet to see. Don't get me wrong, I think this is a _good_ movie.  The cinematography is excellent, I thought the Helicopter attack scene was magnificent, and the performances by Sheen, Duvall, and to an extent, Brando's as well, and I felt the pacing was great, if not just a bit slow, but was an excellent parallel to the nature of the war in Vietnam.  For the first 3/4ths of the film, I thought this was a great movie... And then I reached the ending.  This ending was so drawn out and mind-numbingly slow that I couldn't wait for the film to wrap up.  I heard that the reason behind this was that originally Brando's part was relatively short, but he wanted to get more screen time, so he stretched it out as far as humanly possible.  It certainly seems to be the case.  And as such, it is a detriment to what otherwise is a fantastic film.


                
Coppola couldn't leave well enough alone. Redux adds an embarrassing scene where the Suzy-Q Playboy Bunnies sell their bodies for chopper fuel. There is also a long, boring episode at a French plantation where Sheen ends up sacking a Frenchwoman with an accent so thick that nary a word from her is comprehensible. Other scenes have also been expanded, making the film as bloated as Brando. However, the spectacular imagery remains intact, along with the soundtrack of classic 1960s songs and, in that rousing attack on the village, Wagner. Rather than improving the film, this overindulgent director's cut cancels out some of the positive qualities of the 1979 version, reducing the rating from 8 to 7.


                
Francis Ford Coppola presented the world in 1979 a war epic about the insanity of Vietnam by telling us the story of much decorated Colonel Kurtz who, having lost his mind, had taken command of a motley crew of soldiers and natives and lead them across the border into Cambodia, leaving a trail of death and destruction behind him. Lieutenant Willard is assigned the unenviable mission of sailing up river through treacherous "Charlie" territory in order to locate Kurtz and terminate him.Willard (Martin Sheen) takes us on a powerful tour of what was a crazy war, as he comes across more and more frightening people and situations the further he journeys, until finally confronting the ultimate madman.Coppola's film, the first of it's kind to deal with Vietnam, is forceful and unrelenting in the extreme, and very much not for the faint hearted. Martin Sheen gives a very strong performance as the lieutenant whose own sanity is on a knife edge and whose heart may have already turned to darkness, while Marlon Brando delivers a typically memorable turn of commendable weight as the twisted Colonel. All other support players are impressive too, with Dennis Hopper, Robert Duvall, Sam Bottoms, Frederic Forrest, Albert Hall and Larry Fishburne all striking in the memory. The technical crew weren't ignored at the Oscars, with cinematography and sound taking out that year's awards, along with a best supporting actor Oscar for Duvall.Certainly "Apocalypse Now" achieves its objective, that is to show the true heart of an insane war and to disturb its audience in the process, though it probably never went a long way toward an in-depth and understanding overview. Rest assured however that Francis Coppola will never be forgotten for what is an astounding and shocking movie. I shouldn't neglect to mention that some of the cinematography is truly awesome, and is best appreciated at the movies.Sunday, July 10, 1994 - Video
Warning! Spoilers Ahead! This movie seems like the high-water mark for Francis Ford Copolla; nothing he has made since has been as favorably reviewed in the eyes of most critics. This is the third Copolla movie I've seen, and, while I admire Copolla's ambition, the film does not compare to his two classic Godfather movies. Simply put, the acting is not as excellent, and there are too many extraneous scenes.The movie is most definitely NOT a straight Vietnam war movie, or even a straight war movie, period. There is little attempt at realism here. It is, simply, an adaptation of Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" set in the Vietnam War. Kurtz, as he was in the novel, is an idealistic white man who is the best of the best in his own civilization but, when exposed to the other-worldliness of a non-Western tropical society beset with colonial exploitation and the white man's savagery while trying to "tame" this landscape, he himself becomes the most demonic of the savages. Conrad's protagonist in the framework story, Marlowe, is reinvented as an out-of-it army officer assigned to kill the savage Kurtz. While he moves toward's Kurtz's lair in the heart of the jungle, he encounters the madness of Vietnam, including the Americans' disregard for human life, a battle without a commanding officer, and crazed GIs, bereft of the veneer of civilization, assaulting a USO show featuring Playboy bunnies. The results are ultimately uneven, and this may be due in large part to the difficulties of adapting Conrad's novel to the screen, especially when set in the context of the Vietnam War.Conrad's novel was meant to highlight the horrors of white cruelty towards Africans in the Belgian Congo in their pursuit for ivory and rubber wealth. The Vietnam War is a bit more ambiguous with regards to similar colonial ambitions. Historians today still debate the reasons for the Americans entering Vietnam, but it seems a bit of a stretch to compare Vietnam with the blatant colonialism Conrad was describing. Copolla made a rather odd choice by selecting Vietnam as a proxy for the savagery of Belgian colonial rule, and this made his adaptation all the more difficult. Secondly, Copolla also had difficulty translating Conrad's symbols in a visual format. The savage whites are shown as helicopter pilots who spray bullets and fluorescent napalm on helpless victims below. It all seems like too much for the senses to take in. The massacre on the riverboat seems too quick and abrupt, and does not flow smoothly with the theme of savagery Copolla apparently had in mind.Copolla, unfortunately, did not have the perfect cast of actors he had in "The Godfather." Martin Sheen is very good as the Marlowe character, but, as he is the "narrator" of the story, his participation is mostly subdued. Marlon Brando has deteriorated greatly since his role as Don Corleone. His delivery is monotone and stiff, and his acting utterly lethargic. He clearly seems to be going through the motions as the Kurtz character. The actors on Marlowe's boat do well, but do not compare to the "Godfather" cast.In all, this was a highly ambitious and worthy film, but the difficulty of placing this vision on screen makes it flawed. The best scene is in the "redux" version, where Martin Sheen faces the last vestiges of desperate colonialism on a French rubber plantation. That alone is a classic movie scene, and much closer to Conrad's work than most of the film's frantic, chaotic scenes. I recommend "Apocalypse Now," but do not expect a masterpiece.


                
First of all, I would like to say that the Redux was very bad. The original was better and smaller in terms of time. Perhaps the movie overreacts and all the dialouges and stuff are pretty overrated but the average grunt in Vietnam experienced this. Like the main character who hated going back to the World(USA) because of all the war protesters who were cowards not to go to Vietnam. He came back to Vietnam and the first scene is awesome and the song The End by Doors is a amazing setting to all the choppers flying over the jungle and then the jungle explodes. The sound and lighting were amazing. One can say that the dialouges were pretty overrated and in the Redux it got boring but overall it was good movie. My grandpa was a LT. in a grunt outfit in Vietnam and he goes very depressed when someone brings up Vietnam. So I guess, they saw really bad things there but the movie could have gone faster and had, not so overrated, dialouges
APOCALYPSE NOW is a stunning movie, but it's not exactly a war movie. The cinematography was spectacular. The acting was mighty fine, with Sheen playing is part artfully and masterfully. The story was absorbing. My only major gripes with this movie are: 1.) it is a little confusing and takes a lot of mulling over to even approach some sort of explanation to the ending ( -- of course, the lack of logical thinking at the end is the point) and 2.) the movie is too surreal and unbelievable, and it exploits the Vietnam War as its backdrop.I liked PLATOON a lot more than this movie. While both movies examine the loss of innocence and lack of logic in the Vietnam war, PLATOON is more realistic, more touching, and more truthful. Watch PLATOON for a no-nonsense examination of the horrors of war, and watch APOCALYPSE NOW for its cinematic value.8/10


                
During the Vietnam war, a soldier is sent on a mission to assassinate a renegade commander that has established himself as a god among the local tribes.The directing of Francis Coppola is genius with beautiful cinematography. Martin Sheen was an excellent choice for the lead. The editing is very well done that one can feel the tension rising during the progress of the film while they go up the river searching for the renegade, every sound and music complement that tension rising, but when they reach their destination, that final part is a let down, for I was expecting to see the madness and monstrosity of that renegade so talked about throughout the movie, but Marlon Brando's performance for that role was weak and a bad choice, and it seems above all a flaw in the script about the characterization of his persona.About the Redux version, it was nothing more than a deceitful marketing strategy, because the almost 1 hour of new scenes add nothing worthwhile to the story, they cut the flow of the rising tension and ultimately make it a worse movie.Original: 7/10Redux: 5/10


                
