'Apocalypse Now Redux', Francis Ford Coppola's war opus is probably the most beautiful war film I have ever seen. Capt. Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen) is a Vietnam soldier who is tapped to head a very dangerous and highly classified mission into Cambodia to 'terminate the position' of Col. Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a highly ranked and highly regarded army man who seemingly has gone completely insane and defected from the army, setting up his own little society and helped by a cultish following of soldiers. Escorting him up the river to Cambodia is a handful of navy men, and along the way, they encounter several interesting people (most notably is Robert Duvall's Kilgore, a badass lieutenant colonel with a few screws loose) and some horrifying situations. 'Apocalypse' is less historical war film than a philosophical and psychological study. It is more 'Full Metal Jacket' than 'Platoon'. The running time of 'Apocalypse' is over three hours, but the film is so wonderfully paced and compelling that when the end of the film arrived, I was actually surprised at the amount of time that had passed. The beautiful cinematography is surely what stood out the most for me, however. After seeing this film, I am convinced that Coppola is one of the masters of light and photography in film history. The 'Godfather' films were all tinged with an almost sepia tone, and shadows created the feeling of a Baroque composition. With 'Apocalypse', there is an incredible usage of natural light, and the shadows, particularly in the scenes involving Brando and Sheen, almost become a living character, they are so pervasive and effective. Another gorgeous scene was when Cpt. Willard and Jay Hicks (Frederic Forrest) were in the jungle looking for mangoes, and come across a tiger. The sheer enormity of the surrounding foliage (leaves as big as a house) made the characters almost Lilliputian, but the colorization of the scene was incredible. While everything else was almost a muted grey, the leaves were an incredibly vibrant green, an effect that was particularly striking. Another really minor positive moment in the film was the great scene when the helicopters carrying Duvall and company attack the small village while playing Wagner. This could have just been an ultra-dramatic underlying soundtrack to the scene, but instead Coppola turns the song into an actual part of the scene, with Duvall mentioning that he likes to play it while they are approaching to 'scare the hell out of them'. The performances in 'Apocalypse' are first class. Much has been made of the amount of money Brando earned for the film, and the amount of trouble he caused. Regardless of this, he turned out a powerful performance for a relatively short amount of screen time. Sheen is completely outstanding - this is the first time I have seen him really unleash in a film <U+0096> and Duvall is a lot of fun to watch as the loony Kilgore. 'Apocalypse Now' is a film that is so pervasive in pop culture by now (most know several choice lines from the film, 'I love the smell of napalm in the morning' et al) but I knew little enough about it that there were plenty of surprises left to experience. I have not seen the original cut of 'Apocalypse Now' so I cannot compare it to this newer cut, but this is a film that should most certainly be experienced. 8/10--Shelly
The picture talks about the captain Willard (Martin Sheen) who tells the story , he is assigned for a special mission : Kill Kurtz (Marlon Brando) , American general highly decorated who the army officers (Harrison Ford , G.D. Spradlin) believe has gone murderer and nut . Willard joins to misfit crew (Albert Hall , Sam Bottons , Frederic Forest, Larry Fishburne) make a risked and dangerous journey up river towards Cambodia . They'll find a mad marine captain (Robert Duval) fond of surf , playboy bunnies and French military and a civil group (Christian Marquand and Aurore Clement) living lonely on a plantation since Dien Bien Phu defeat (1954) . The travel is dangerously developed until the fateful meeting with Kurtz .Its a stunning and absorbing story that is based on Joseph Conrad novel : ¨the heart of the darkness¨ . The travel is narrated as a surrealist odyssey leading to the dreadful and horrible final but when the protagonists find General Kurtz the scenarios are darkest and gloomiest . Martin Sheen had a heart attack during the filming and some shots of Willard's back are of doubles , including Sheen's brother Joe Estevez who was flown out specially . The storyline by John Milius tackles issues of ethics and morality and the horror war . In 2001 was realized a ¨redux¨ , a new reediting adding footage , the episode of the playmates and the French people encounters , where there are a lot of nudism and is a bit boring but is pretty dialog and little action . This new edition is today considered to be the official version . Originally scheduled to be shot over six weeks , ended up taking 16 months . The movie in spite of the passed time is still powerful and astounding . Colorful cinematography by Vittorio Storaro is spellbound and breathtaking , he won an Oscar , a very well deserved Academy Award . Carmine Coppola musical score and time songs are atmospheric and exceptional . The picture was perfectly directed by Francis Ford Coppola , pacing with great sensitivity and artistic ambition . Rating: Above average . Awesome.


                
I have to admit, the first and only six times I saw the original version of this film (not "Redux"), I fell asleep during the film. I was convinced that the original film was made catastrophically unwatchable by the muddled and misguided editing. Several of my friends were angry to the respect that I could actually fall asleep to the "best film ever", in their opinion. As a result, I was relieved when I found out that there was going to be a release of a new version to theatres, a "director's cut", if you will. I purposely waited until it was released on DVD to watch it, and turned the English subtitles on, and I was glad, because I remember lots of the dialog being lost in the original mix (as I think it is also in this as well), but I feel the subtitles help you get through it. You see, I am the kind of person who likes director's cuts, uncensored versions, restored with new footage films, and even letterbox versions, basically the best way a film is intended. There are some exceptions to the rules, like when different editing processes are used, such as "Star Wars: A New Hope", which I still think was a mistake that George Lucas didn't correct some of the very noticeable errors in digital vs. analog editing and prints (i.e. he really should have either re-filmed the original Jabba-the-Hut & Han Solo conversation, instead of a digital re-creation and insertion/replacement of an analog filming of someone different {Jabba}, or just kept the scene cut indefinitely), or when studios take control of films and try to make their own edit and commercial cuts, which is almost always monstrous, just as I've heard with Terry Gilliam's "Brazil". To summarize, it is possible for someone who has issues with this original film to like the "Redux" version, if it is for the reasons as I stated, because I feel that "Apocalypse Now Redux" actually is a better film than the original "Apocalypse Now". Yes, I am bold enough to say it. I am positive that this will offend people who think the original cut is the "best film ever", and I know it is even probable they won't like -this- version, but I don't care about that, just like I didn't rate this version 5-stars, or even think of it as the "best film ever". This film clearly travels the waters between pure evil and insane genius. This is the only version worth watching. 8/10


                
It's that film that loads of people hail as a classic - Apocalypse Now, now a re-cut, re-up, Redux 22 years after it's original release.The film is loosely based on Conrad's Heart of Darkness, it's main plot (if it has one) being Capt. Willard's journey on a naval boat through the Vietnam conflict on his way to terminate a rogue Colonel. (Colonel Kurtz) We see the characters and situations he meets, and he tells the Colonel's story along the way.My initial feelings towards the film is that it's not particularly gripping at times, especially early on, but at least a good dose of comedy is put in, in the form of surfing fanatic Col. Kilgore. As the film progresses however, a good deal of tension is built up with Willard's reading through various reports on Col. Kurtz until the end is in sight, when everything comes together and the atmosphere of the film reaches an incredible level and holds it there until the end.The usual aspects everyone looks for in a decent film are all of a good standard. Cinematography in particular stands out as exceptional, and I found the performances of Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall and Frederic Forrest to all be worthy of a special mention. The score I found initially sounded out of place, but as the film progressed... I'm not entirely sure if it did actually get better, or it fitted better, or if it had just grown on me, but by the end of the film I was thoroughly enjoying it.This is the second time I have seen the Redux version, (I have seen the original around four times) I'll say now that the first time I saw it I was disappointed. I was expecting a "classic" film, with lots of war. The fact that Willard got the mission at the beginning of the film and didn't carry it out until the end had me bored because all of the character interaction on the way that IS the film seemed unnecessary. This is due to the fact that the plot is not entirely defined (as the focus is more on the character and the journey more than the plot), in most cases a second viewing is needed to appreciate the film fully (as with all films that are more character than plot based), as the second time around, you know where the plot is going. I had a similar experience with It's A Wonderful Life, which is now one of my favourite films.With the big four Vietnam films, Apocalypse Now wins over the rest on atmosphere, but lacks the action and involvement of Platoon, the emotional intensity of The Deer Hunter, and cannot really be compared to Full Metal Jacket (probably my favourite of the four). Apocalypse Now is a great piece of work, especially towards the end where it becomes staggering, and is to be recommended for anyone who enjoys a good character based film and doesn't mind some casual violence.


                
You can find an anti-war statement here without looking too hard; that layer is hackneyed. Or you can find a value neutral comment on the madness of war (stripped of "judgement"); that layer is completely uninteresting.Or you can watch this for the darn good entertainment value of Duvall's one-liners, but that's just a coating for commercial mastication.You can try to view this as a 'realistic' Vietnam war film, but ask any veteran and he'll swat down that notion -- most vets will say it stinks.Or view it as a 'will he or won't he' morality play -- nothing rich there, either.Where I found the value was in the superb self-reference. Coppola needed a container with great enough dimensions (the war) to fit the greatness of the skilled multi-dimensional actor playing 'a great man'.Brando the man was as much of a maverick as the Kurtz character. The studios were uncomfortable with his acting 'method', yet he always excelled and won accolades; the 'generals' are uncomfortable with Kurtz's 'unsound methods', in spite of his strategic genius.So Coppola makes a movie all about Brando's greatness. To hammer on the point, he places himself in the movie (as Hopper, a manic photojournalist laden with multiple cameras) to spout his praises. Brando himself is only seen in half-light and silhouettes -- brilliant cinematography by Storaro that only increases the actor's power. And he goes out like the sacrificial bull to complete the narrative equation. Oh, yes: "the horror..." Other pieces of interest: the great use of point of view camera perspectives, including 'being in the firefight' long before "Private Ryan"; the ground breaking use of sound, notably the ominous flanging sweeps and the sonic depiction of an acid trip.Don't get caught in the outer layers; the rich part you should despoil from this is the brilliant core of sound, vision and self-reference.


                
Sometimes films are not what I would consider entertainment. Those films I usually avoid. I have watched this film about 5 times in the past few years and my interest in it has grown. To say this film is boring may be going too far, however the idea that you may find some parts seem to drag is understandable. I think watching it a few times gives the same effect as having traveled somewhere several times. That 1 hour commute doesn't seem too long after driving it a few times. If on the first viewing, you find it to be totally boring, then maybe you will not even give it the consideration of a second watch thought I hope you do.This movie would get 9/10 from me IF Dennis Hopper's character was omitted or at least replaced by more dialog from the green beret character that has zero lines.In my definition: Entertainment doesn't necessarily require you to become excited or happy. Entertainment is enjoying the passage of your time with minimal effort. This movie allows me to pass time, stimulates my thoughts and emotion, and all I have to do is stare at a screen and eat popcorn.


                
Two words: Cutting edge. The film remained quite different from its surroundings at the time. It was the first war film in a long time to receive good acting while many war films were about glory and pure action. It depicted war as a depressing era of death and insanity. While other Nam movies like The Killing Fields (although a great movie) just killed off soldiers, Apocalypse Now made you feel like you lost a member of your family when a soldier died. I felt that the film was to long but with all the information in the film, it couldn't have been shorter. For todays standards people of a younger generation will not appreciate the brilliancy of this film sheerly because from a war film they would expect more violence than dialogue. The Redux version does not compare to the original version and many people will seem impatient as they watch. I suggest eighteen or over not because of the violence, but because it will not appeal to someone younger than that age.


                
It has been called "Simply the best movie ever made!", while most viewers are just calling it the best war-movie ever made. After watching "Apocalypse Now! Redux" twice, I don't think the film earns any of those titles. But Francis Ford Coppola, the man behind one of our time's greatest movie-masterpieces: "The Godfather" (1972), has made a film about the Vietnam-war that's a pretty unique movie-experience. This is a must for everyone who like artistic cinema.Colonel Walter Kurtz (Marlon Brando) is a national hero with a career in the army which is full of merits of bravery and honour. But now he has gone insane, and has escaped from the army and into the jungle of Vietnam, where he is living as a king among an army of his own. Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen) is being given the mission of finding Kurtz and "terminate" him. Together with some young unexperienced soldiers, he starts the search. In a boat, through a river, the journey goes deep into the jungle. A slow journey into the insanity and madness of the war...a journey to hell on earth.Now, can this film really be called a war-movie? The reason I ask this question, is because I feel that this film has its focus on the people in the war, and their experiences and reflections, rather than the war itself. This is not about people fighting in the war, but a story that takes place in Vietnam DURING the war. But this is probably just one of many questions that Coppola wanted people to ask themselves after a weird, thought-provoking, shocking, "tormenting" and totally unique film-experience like this.The most notable thing about "Apocalypse Now! Redux", and probably the most impelling part is the cinematography...beautiful and perfect. And over all, I think this film has its definite strength in the visual part, but Coppola's directing and contribution to the score should also be mentioned. It all sets a very special mood for the film, and provides a unique movie-experience that it's hard to not be impressed by. I'm also convinced that this is the most artistic war-movie ever made...it even tops Terrence Mavelick's poetic "The Thin Red Line" (1998) when it comes to artistic expressions, in my opinion. So if you like challenging films with depth, I think you should see this film, no matter what you've read or heard about it."Apocalypse Now! Redux" has also a solid cast. Martin Sheen is doing very well in the exacting leading role as Captain Benjamin Willard. Actors such as Dennis Hopper, Frederic Forrest and Marlon Brando is also giving good performances in a film with characters that seems to have a total lack of "normal" persons. A young Lawrence Fishburne also shows up and gives a approved performance as Tyrone Miller. But the most memorable performance of the film is being delivered by Robert Duvall. His character Lt. Bill Kilgore is among the most famous in film-history, and the way Duvall portrays him is pure brilliance.I haven't seen the original "Apocolypse Now!" from 1979 with the running time of 2 hours and 30 minutes, but I feel that the running time of 3 hours and 15 minutes is the weakness of "Apocalypse Now! Redux". I know long-time admirers of "Apocalypse Now!" (1979) has embraced the added scenes in the Redux-version, but I personally found the film a bit long-winded when it approached 3 hours. I think the scenes where Cpt. Willard and his companions visit a French plantation in the middle of the jungle, is the film's lowest point, and there's also some other scenes that lacks consistency, and that's not strengthening the film.With "Apocalypse Now! Redux", Francis Ford Coppola has made a spectacular piece of cinema. Visually, it is perfect and over all this is a film that all film-enthusiasts should experience at least once. But I think the average movie-viewer should go for the original version from 1979. This is a very good film, but not exactly a Top-Rated masterpiece, in my opinion. And if you really want a film about the Vietnam-war, I think Oliver Stone's "Platoon" (1986) would be a better choice.8.5 out of 10


                
The cinematography is top notch, as is the sound, but the movie itself is uneven, dull at times and too long. Sheen is exciting as Willard. Brando is dull...dull...DULL! I wonder if he read the book "Heart of Darkness." Duvall is off the wall crazy, while Hopper...Hopper is just high!The film has moments of excitement, but they are all matters of cinematography, such as the beginning of the film. Other than that, this is a film that should have went to the editing room and stayed there.


                
I understand that they wanted to make a war movie, however the movie could have been a 10 if they had followed the book more closely. Something somebody else has tried, but failed. Marlon Brando is unforgettable as the colonel, that cannot be denied.


                
What a movie. Martin Sheen is an anguished Army captain in Vietnam in 1968, ordered to proceed up river to the Cambodian border on a Navy River Patrol Boat and assassinate a Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando) who has apparently gone berserk and established his own little, ruthless anti-communist empire in the jungle.It's a free transposition of Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" but that hardly matters. Nor does the overall plot. We already know most of it because some of its features have become integral to our vernacular culture. "I love the smell of napalm in the morning. It smells like -- victory." "The horror. The horror." (Well -- that last is lifted directly from Conrad's novel, but never mind.) What Stephen Spielberg did so miraculously with light in "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," Francis Ford Coppola does with smoke here. All kinds of smoke. Gray smoke from gunfire and explosions. Amber smoke from fires. Pink and lime and lavender smoke from flares and grenades. People stalk slowly through it like images from hell. Boats drift through clouds of it.The lighting (Vittorio Storaro) and special effects contribute to the impact of the film too. Brando's first appearance in unforgettable chiaroscuro. A burnt orange light illuminates his shaved head from the side and turns the naked scalp into a luminous crescent. Then Brando bows his head, dips his fingers into a bowl of water and flutters his fingertips along the skin as if playing a piano or celesta.Sheen's boat and its two-man crew glide very slowly into the tiny cove which serves as Brando's main port. The place looks like mannequin factory. There are bodies and body parts strewn about. Bodies that are more or less whole droop from the trees and from the gargoyle monuments that surround the entrance to Brando's dark and beckoning castle. Hundreds of half-naked natives with spears and guns have assembled in silence to greet the boat. Out of this unholy horde dances a crazed photographic journalist, the ever reliably crazed Dennis Hopper. He shouts greetings, shakes hands, welcomes them warmly, but adds in a wary tone, "They think you've come to kill him -- and I hope THAT'S not true." He leads the stunned Sheen through the throng that opens before them. Sheen is gaping at some of the body parts. "The heads -- you're lookin' at the heads! Y'know, sometimes he goes too far, but he'll be the first to admit it, man." Brando is a warrior and a poet. Near the end, one scene seems to be a T. S. Eliot study group gone awfully wrong. He's a philosopher. "Did you ever think that the middle word of LIFE is IF?" That whole climactic visit to Brando's fortress in the wilderness lifts the movie out of whatever sense of reality it had earlier carried and places it squarely into the surreal. It's just impossible. A viewer can't tell what consequences any given event will precipitate. There are two beheadings and a buffalo having its head half chopped off by the Bontoc Igorots among whom this film was shot. (Only three generations ago, they hunted heads. I was in graduate school with an Igorot whose grandfather had enjoyed such an enterprise.) It's about as arty a film as you're likely to see, if art means slowly and relentlessly digging beneath the civilized surface of human culture and uncovering the uncoverable nature of humanity itself, and that's not a pretty picture.
Americans have always won wars which involved great patriotism. World War I and II were global and fought in conjunction with our allies and were eventually brought to successful conclusions. After that, American wars were not successful as the goals and their ultimate purposes were hazy at best. The Viet-Nam war was a case in point. As the film "Apocalypse Now" tells it, a 'special opts' soldier, Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen) is selected to travel up-country in Viet-Nam to assassinate or as they put it, 'terminate' the command of Colonel Walter Kurtz (Marlon Brando) as he is doing something which the pentagon officials have promised the politicians they would not do. This determined American individual is winning the war and doing it with such field tactics and savage methods which in their mind boarder on the criminal. Williard is torn between admiration for his target and conviction for his mission. Along the way, the Captain sees just how insane the Viet-Nam war really is. One commander he meets Lt. Col Kilgore (Robert Duvall) borders on sheer lunacy with statements such as " I love the smell of Napalm in the morning." Another individual he meets is a photojournalist (Dennis Hopper) so impressed with Kurtz' ability to win the war, believes him to be not only mystical, but divine. The story is loosely based on Joseph Conrad's book 'Heart of Darkness' where the hero is sent not to kill him, but to save him. However in this adaptation Willard the assassin, who mimicking robot-like soldiers will follow orders regardless how insane those orders are. The great cast includes Frederic Forrest, Sam Bottoms, Laurence Fishburne, Harrison Ford and Scott Glenn as Lieutenant Colby make this film one of the truly memorable pictures of our time. Winning so many awards, its difficult to tell which aspect of the movie helped make this story a Classic. ****


                
I really didn't think it was possible to get through Apocalypse Now, over three and a half hours! Well, unfortunately, my sister gave me the Director's Cut to watch, so it was a bit of an ambush of a film. But still, now that I can take a breath, I can honestly say that was one of the most disturbing movies I have ever seen. Definitely one of a kind, to be honest, I didn't realize also that Marlon Brando really only has a cameo in the film, but it was so memorable that I can see why he is praised when it comes to this movie.It's about a captain played by Sheen, he is sent to Vietnam to capture and kill Captain William played by Brando. William has made himself into a God of a Vietnam tribe and you can tell by his appearance, he's been through Hell. But that's exactly what Sheen has also been through just trying to get to William, through the bloody jungles of Vietnam, he has seen the most horrific images and watch his friends/troop get killed off one by one.Truly an epic motion picture, I can see why this movie is praised. It's so incredibly haunting and disturbing, the soundtrack really does add so much. The sets are incredible but very scary to look at. Sheen and Brando are just amazing in this film, but it's great to see the "new" faces of the time, including Harrison Ford and Lawerence Fishbourne, not to mention we have Dennis Hopper and one of the most amazing directors of our time, Francis Ford Coppola.Although, I'm not sure if I could make it through this movie again, for the simple sake of my sanity, I really can't see how this movie could be anyone's favorite to be honest. It's so friggin' depressing! But I will never ever ever doubt what an incredibly moving and disturbing picture it was to watch. I'm going to have nightmares these next few nights! 8/10


                
The first time I saw this movie I was about 7 or 8 years old. Now I really could not understand what was happening for the most part back then but I remember loving it and to this day I still love it. The acting is really good, the plot line is great. With out a doubt on of the best war movies of all time.During the on-going Vietnam War, Captain Willard is sent on a dangerous mission into Cambodia to assassinate a renegade Green Beret who has set himself up as a god among a local tribeMost war movies these days are pretty much just action films. This one is something different it does have action and intense moment but it has solid writing as well. This is really a must see for war movie fans or just fans of great movies.


                
It carries the tone of voice that narrates the book into the jungle of Vietnam and into the wild-eyed look of Martin Sheen and Dennis Hopper and the mystical morbidity surrounding Colonel Kurtz.(I don't say Marlon Brando because after watching the documentary, "Hearts of Darkness," I am skeptical as to how much credit Brando is due for that quality). The tone of voice I'm talking about is brooding and dramatic without being overbearing: "Everybody gets what he wants. I wanted a mission, and for my sins they gave me one. They sent it up with room service." It is indulgent without being narrow and alienating. A good example of is Hopper's indulgence into aphoristic madness, generously installing lines written by T.S. Eliot and Rudyard Kipling into his stony monologues: "I mean, the man's a genius<U+0097>sometimes he'll walk right by you without even saying a word, and sometimes he'll grab you by the collar and say "did you know that 'if' is the middle word in 'life'<U+0085>if you can hold your head while all around you they are losing theirs" and then "I mean he's a wise man, he's a great man; I should have been a pair of ragged claws scuttling across the floors of silent seas" (The first one's Kipling, the second one's Eliot.


                
Coppola represented the harrowing experience of Vietnam War through the story or rather the movie's theme itself. The classy yet intense editing, the beautiful yet upsetting cinematography, and the fluid yet disturbing camera movements and shots, all have a major role in conveying the message of the movie. The violence could have been more powerful and gritty, but that's not what Coppola wanted, he wanted to show the horror of war by depicting it as an annoying and irritating experience. Unfortunately, the movie could have been way better. There are many sub-plots that could have been used in a way that adds to the main plot by emphasizes on the moral dilemma of the movie. That's exactly what made the ending falls flat, at least for me. Instead of being one of the greatest endings ever, I found it kinda cheesy!(8/10)


                
The war will turn you into a barbarian. When you lose judgment, you lose justice, then you lose humanity. then even you want to kill yourself. It is impossible for you to participate in a meaningless war. You kill people and go back to normal life after returning home. People are not machines. The true horror is who thinks this movie is telling you that go to war without judging it. As I read it in comments. the horror.. the horror......


                
In Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now, a soldier, referred to as Captain, is given a mission to "terminate" a mentally unstable officer by the name of Colonel Kurtz in 1970's Vietnam. The film opens with on a scene of coconut trees with instrumental music accompanying this image. As the lyrics enter the song, the trees are lit into flames, the words "this is the end" being sung in the background. This effective cinematographic choice to open the films sets the overall tone and foreshadows the ultimate fall of some character or situation. Captain Willard, or Captain, has been on tour previously, leading to symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and a divorce from his wife. Leave has led to him feeling unrest, and he seeks a mission to give him strength again. His role in the military has given him purpose in life and without it, he is lost. When given the mission to terminate Colonel Kurtz, he accepts with little hesitation. Unlike other war films, the protagonist's goal is not within the typical boundaries of war alliances. His proclaimed antagonist is a member of the United States military. Colonel Kurtz serves as a unique character, having once been a model officer of the United States, but falling from prestige due to some unknown shift toward "madness". However, he has a select following that honors him as a god, justifying his ever flaw. As Captain travels toward the end of the Nung River, where the Colonel is said to be hidden, he is accompanied by a few soldiers, and meet many Vietnamese civilians along their travel. Each character serves toward a large social commentary of the effect of war on the psyche. When some characters meet an untimely death, the question of whether any humanity exists in war is presented. Throughout the film, graphic wars scenes are interrupted by banter and social interaction between the soldiers. These scenes often allude to pop-culture as the soldiers seek some semblance of American life while oversees. It really highlights the unique circumstance that these individual's face daily and how home is the goal of many, though not Captain's. At one point in the film, Captain re-iterates his mission, as though to reintroduce it. This shows how his reason in following through has changed. He had at once been seeking a mission, and accepted for that reason, but he soon comes to wish to interact with Colonel Kurtz. It is as though him and his assumed antagonist are not so different after all. While the film was thought provoking, and had all of the aspects to make it a "good" film, I did not personally find it overly enjoyable. This may be due to its long length or my limited interest in this genre. Overall, I would rate this film an 8/10.
This was a marvelous film that features a star studded cast. Marlon Brando was absolutely phenomenal in this film, with his "horror" speech being one of the most famous in history. The camera work contributed to creating such a highly respected film, with the dolly shots, the long shots with the Vietnam scenery, medium to medium long shots, and the establishing shots of the ocean and sunsets. It was extremely well done, and the fact that it was filmed in Philippines likely allowed it to be as realistic as possible. Sound helped as well, with non- diegetic music playing during action scenes, building up intensity as the action would pick up. The character's were very believable, and they were dressed the part to make it for an authentic experience. With such amazing acting, and with the cast alone, this should be watched for all film lover's. It's got everything in it, but it is not a war film as one might believe. Pay attention to the cinematography and the editing, and enjoy the performances of those that made this film win so many awards, such as best cinematography, director, and score.
Coppola's masterful war film about a Vietnam war captain(Sheen) who is on a mission to kill a renegade green beret who has set himself up as a leader of a local tribe in Cambodia. The film is written well by JOhn Milius and Francis Ford Coppola, directed beautifully by the master director who did his best work in the 70s and this one was his last film of the decade (although in my eyes 83' film Outsiders was brilliant as well). Apocalypse now is a long, detailed, poetic account of the story inspired by Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness novel. The cast is great in this film, Brando, Duvall and Hopper are all great while the best performance came from Martin Sheen in the lead. It was also nice to see Harrison Ford, Laurence Fishburne and Scott Glenn in supporting roles. I liked the cinematography from Vittorio Storaro, and the musical pieces as well. The film was well done in all, a great war film. --- IMDb Rating: 8.5, my rating: 9/10


                
I should begin by saying I've never seen the original version of this film, only the extended version on DVD. I really was impressed by the caliber of acting in this movie. The scenes with Brando's Kurtz are truly unforgettable and Martin Sheen as the protagonist is in top form too. Obviously the material they are working from is top notch. The smaller roles like Robert Duvall's and Harrison Ford's were more than serviceable as well. The photography was spectacular too. IF this is the way the U.S. really conducted it's operations in Vietnam I can see why they lost to the more disciplined and committed Vietcong. I don't think we got "peace with honor." I believe that the U.S. Government didn't do all it could to win the war. I think traitors and conspirators whose interests were only their own, not America's, stabbed the American fighting man in the back. One day I hope there is a reckoning. By the way I rate the extended version 8/10. The reason I don't score it higher is that by my tastes it's not a film that I really want to see again. Still it is undeniably a masterpiece.


                
I watched the original 1979 version of this movie a long time ago. All of a sudden I felt for watching it again and I got hold of a copy of the Redux version. I feel they spoiled the movie to some extend. The added Playboy Bunny sequence added nothing to the movie, only slowing it down considerably. The same goes for the overlong French Quarter visit scene. It was way too long and putting the movie to a complete standstill. All in all the Redux added some good bits, but mostly slowed down the pace and added unnecessary nudity and sex that was not present in the original. My advice is watch the original and: Don't get off the boat!!!!


                
Apocalypse Now is not a conventional film and it makes no attempts to be one. Do not sit down and expect to see a 2 hour film with a structure to it because you'll be disappointed. The movie lurches along with action scenes interspersed into moments of psycological reflection. And then some simply inexplicable scenes.Overall, the pace of the movie is fairly slow. Coppola breaks all the rules of conventional film making with the movie opening with no titles and shots throughout the movie of up to 2 minutes. However, in the context of the film it works well. These men aren't normal people and Vietnam isn't a normal place and the film reflects this. Through the narration of Sheen's character, Captain Willard, we get an insight into the human mind and how it reacts to such adverse conditions. Like Marlow in Conrad's novella, we follow the psycological change of the protagonist as though it is our own.The disappointment of the film is Brando's character, Colonel Kurtz. Although a lunatic he is obviously a man of surreal intellect yet on screen little of this is developed. An attempt is made, through Kurtz's discourses to analyse his mind but it isn't done anywhere near as well as with Sheen's character. Having said that, in some ways this just reinforces the idea that men can sometimes get so lost within their own little world that those outside of them couldn't possibly understand them and perhaps this was what Coppola wished to portray.Overall, Apocalypse Now is an interesting look at the workings of the human mind in an adverse environment and also an interesting interpretation of Conrad's classic novella. There is some excellent photography throughout the film and despite its length it does manage to retain attention through most of the movie.8/10


                
Coppola's apocalyptic vision belongs to an ever present now. The dark sides of human character, the purgatory we frequently create for ourselves, unwillingly - that just doesn't end. It is often said that Heaven is right here, right now - well, if so, hell is too.When the soldiers take the boat up-river, deeper into a strange and terrible land, it is like going on the river Styx to that domain, where mercy ends. Also, it's the long and troublesome travels of Odysseus, before coming home - to find that home is irrevocably changed. And it's Stanley's long search for Dr. Livingstone.Mythical grounds. The water of the subconscious, the jungle of irrationality - man's curse and blessing in one.Marlon Brando is divine in his acting. As soon as he appears, the long time leading up to it just disappears, and he is a demon, a monster from the beyond - still, so real, so true as an archetype of human dignity, maybe the most fundamental of our talents, gone awry. The horror.This is the first time I see the film, in 2003, more than 20 years after it premiered. I chose to wait. So many movies deteriorate in a much shorter period than that, but this one, I dare say, is enforced by time, and will continue to be.


                
Many people say that Apocalypse Now is the greatest war movie ever, I do not agree with them, but I can understand why they like it though. The performances are good, production was good, I however do not like it. It is boring. It is not a film about Vietnam as the grunts would see it rather how a drugged-out Director would see it. It was adapted by Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness and they should have let the movie stay true to the book, but they did not. The length is too long, there action sequences are just not what is to be expected. The only thing I like about the movie is the end of it.


                
