In 1930s Chicago, a young con man (Robert Redford's character , Johnny Hooker, is supposedly named after blues legend John Lee Hooker) seeking vendetta for his murdered partner teams up with a master of the big con (Paul Newman) to win a fortune from a criminal mobster (Robert Shaw).Enjoyable picture with magnificent performances, splendid period piece , thrills , humor , plot twists , emotion and amusement . The movie is based on the real-life exploits of grifter brothers Charley and Fred Gondorf, whose experiences culminated in a scam similar to the one shown in the film, known in 1914 as "the wire" or "the big store". Unlike the movie, however, the actual "mark" was more than happy to testify against Charley Gondorf, the front man of the scam, and he spent time in Sing Sing, as did his younger brother a year later for running another scam , both served a few years and were released . Producer David S. Ward got the idea for this movie when he was working on the script for Steelyard Blues, which includes a pickpocketing scene , researching this, Ward found himself reading about con artists ; Ward had shown the other screenplay to Tony Bill, so he now gave him an outline of this story. Likable acting from Robert Redford , Jack Nicholson and Warren Beatty turned down the role of Johnny Hooker before Robert Redford changed his mind and decided to play it . Exceptional Paul Newman as an expert swindler. Robert Shaw was injured his knee and incorporated the resulting limp into his performance , as he steals the show as a nasty mobster , though Richard Boone was the first choice for the role of Lonnegan , Oliver Reed was offered the role but refused to test for it , he would later play Lonnegan in the sequel . Support cast is frankly excellent such as Charles Durning as Lt. Wm. Snyder , Ray Walston as J.J. Singleton , Eileen Brennan as Billie , Harold Gould as Kid Twist , Charles Dierkop as Floyd and Dana Elcar as FBI agent . Evocative set decoration by Henry Bumstead who usually worked with Alfred Hitchcock . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Robert Surtees , usual cameraman expert on super-productions . Director George Roy Hill wanted to film the picture on location, but Henry Bumstead was adamant that it would be much too hard to get the period appearance right; for example, things like lane markings on the streets ; in the end, the only location shooting was a few days' worth in Chicago and Los Angeles; most of the exteriors were filmed on Universal's back lot . Wonderful score consists of Scott Joplin ragtime compositions well played by recently deceased Marvin Hamlisch , which were composed between 1900 and 1910 , although The Sting helped bring Joplin's ragtime back into American popular culture, they actually predate the period of the story by 25 years. Marvelous gowns by Edith Head who won her 8th and final Best Costume Design Academy Award for this film .Followed by an inferior sequel , ¨The sting 2¨ (1983) by Jeremy Kagan , also produced by David S Ward with Jackie Gleason , Karl Malden , Mac Davis, Teri Garr and Oliver Reed was offered the original role but refused to test for it he would later play Lonnegan in this following. Rating : sublime film , two thumbs up , essential and indispensable seeing .


                
As I type this, this movie sits at #83 on the all-time greatest movies list. Almost makes me guilty for only giving it a 7 and possibly dropping it to 84, but to be honest it wasn't the greatest movie I've ever seen. But it also wasn't the worst.Paul Newman and Robert Redford are two confidence men ("con men" or "grifters") in the 1930s who cheat at cards. They cheat at cards against a wealthy New York City man and then sucker him in for what is called a "long con" or "big con". (If you like the character "Sawyer" from "Lost", this is probably your movie.) The whole second half of the movie is this long con: and will they pull it off? You won't know until the end, because the mafia and the FBI are both trying to kill them. And sometimes happy endings happen when the cops win and the cheaters lose. So don't bet on any horses until you know the score.Anyway, it's a good film. Some parts are hard to follow in my opinion, but in a twisted sense this makes sense -- if they are conning the other cons, surely we the audience should be getting conned, too. It would be shoddy con work to let in ANYBODY, even the audience. And the acting is of course perfect because it's Newman and Redford. But also the guy from My Favorite Martian (Walston) and James Earl Jones' father. So, that's good.They claim the music really makes the film. I disagree. The music is appropriate, but not because it matches the 1940s. Because it matches the cards used to separate the different scenes (which, by the way, I think was a great idea). To cut a review short that isn't going anywhere, this film is recommended. Not highly recommended. Not "top 100 films of all time" recommended. But you might want to see it anyway.


                
Undeniable star power and top quality production values lift this depression set caper movie into something more than the standard fayre it might otherwise be. In reality, it's lightweight entertainment, but it's put together with panache and a lightness of touch and you can't help but enjoy it.Robert Redford was bigger box office when this film was made and his role affords him much more screen time that that given to his co- star, Paul Newman. It's a shame because it's the scene's that involve the two of them together that leave the most impression. Their previous, superior, outing made the most of their combined chemistry and you can't help but wonder if this movie could have been even more fun.If you feel like a little light-hearted entertainment one afternoon, this will do nicely. Enjoy!


                
The story is nicely constructed, taking use of the duration to elaborate on the original motive of the daring move, as well as the careful planning, recruitment and staged execution of the big con.But that's the view I get when I put myself in the shoes of people of the seventies, at the time this movie was out. Now, with the significant advance in technology, and also the many modern con and heist movies with comparable plot twists and turns, this movie seems dwarfed by all those. Also I see that the movie didn't do enough justice on side characters that turns out to have quite a significance at the end, like Loretta. These characters don't develop well enough to be well explained. The acting overall is quite good. I think I now know how Tom Cruise gets his usual trademark of grinning almost all the time in most of his roles. Paul Newman did great in portraying the con artist, with all the necessary "acting within acting". Robert Shaw also played very well, maintaining the expressions of suspicion and greed within.
My Rating : 7/10'The Sting' is gorgeous to look at, the cinematography is exceptional and it's endlessly entertaining.Recommended for fans of heist films and those who love a good comedy with guns and witty dialogues.


                
I feel like I'm not quite as high on the Newman / Redford movies as I am on the two actors themselves; there's an undeniably natural charisma between them, and that's what really pushes this film forward. Not that this movie is bad. It's not at all. It's quintessential "bad-guys-who-are-actually-good-guys" that's a whole mess of effective cons, a couple of which are being played on the audience.


                
After watching this film again recently, I don't think it's as good as it must have seemed to me when I first saw it in the theater many years ago. I still think it's very entertaining and fun. The movie is billed as a comedy, crime and drama. But beyond the idea for the plot, and our seeing it carried out, there isn't anything spectacular about "The Sting." I give it seven stars, but it is far from ever making a list of my favorite 250 films. The movie has a considerable cast of familiar names of the day. Some have endearing roles in the film. Only two performances stand out as above average – Paul Newman as Henry Gondorff, and Robert Shaw as Doyle Lonnegan. Newman didn't get an Academy Award nomination, but Robert Redford did for his role of Johnny Hooker. I give a clear nod to Newman for the versatility of his role, and his carrying it off quite well. He was serious at times, light-hearted at others, and switched to the raucous, loud and unafraid drunken card player – purposely taunting Shaw's Lonnegan. That was a good piece of acting. The cast were all quite good, the costumes and other technical aspects were good. Those are the things that earned "The Sting" most of its seven Oscars. And, they were probably deserved awards. The fact that this film won the best picture Oscar indicates that the competition wasn't that great for 1973. There were a few very good films and after that, only mediocre stuff. Still, I can't see how this film won out over "The Exorcist." On the other hand, I think George Roy Hill was deserving of the Oscar for directing "The Sting." It would be a toss-up between him and William Friedkin for "The Exorcist."The voters in Hollywood must have been in a light or romantic mood that year. The acting Oscars (save for Jack Lemmon's best actor in "Save the Tiger") went to actors in light, comedy romances and dramas. A couple of outstanding performances were passed over by actors in "The Exorcist."The script for "The Sting," was good, but not very witty or funny. The dialog between Hooker and Gondorff when they first meet, is the only really funny scene. Hooker, "Luther said I could learn something from you. I already know how to drink." Gondorff, later, "Are you going to stay for breakfast, or do you already know how to eat?" Hooker, "Can you get a mob together?" Gondorff, "With what happened to Luther, I don't think I can get more than two-, three hundred guys."
The Sting (1973)A simple bold calculation that Rob Roy Hill directing two charming beautiful men in another period "buddy movie" would make big bucks was easy. The Sting was huge in its day. But lucky for all of us, it also made a wonderful if not great film, an entertaining film above all. And it gave us more time with Robert Redford and Paul Newman, which is never a bad thing.The first film, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) was sensationally popular and influential. And is and was a better movie. For one thing, The Sting avoids any real tragedy. For another, by the very nature of being left out of the main character's heads as they scheme away (to leave us in suspense), we are not drawn into their world, their worries, their characters. In a way, this is the big let down overall. We are made to watch the movie, not get absorbed into it. There is real romance. The Butch Cassidy "good friends who don't know each other after all" feeling, with its poignancy and humor, is missing here. And even their friendship, which is confusing on purpose on screen, is never for real. Everything, top to bottom, on the surface and deep, is for convenience, and for effect.That's not necessarily a bad thing. But in a way, this is a return to the kind of early 1960s movie-making that the late 1960s have become so famous for upending, including Hill's own Butch Cassidy, which is more raw and alive and beautiful than The Sting by far. Yet, besides all the critical picking away, The Sting is a fast, layered, well done movie, with incredible period sets. The music is beautiful but odd (ragtime is a pre-1920s New Orleans style and the movie is post-1920s Chicago), but is maybe another example of how the director and team decided to go for sucking people in and having them enjoy themselves. And that's exactly what happens.


                
September 1936 Chicago; a young grifter Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford) and his partner-in-crime Luther Coleman (Robert Earl Jones) are pleased as punch when they pull off the con of their lifetimes. Their elation is short-lived when the men learn that the money they stole belonged to a man who was part of mob boss Doyle Lonnegan's crew (Robert Shaw). As a result of this, Hooker's partner Coleman gets killed by Lonnegan's men. Realising that killing Lonnegan would present too much of a challenge, Hooker teams up with master of the con and mutual friend of Coleman's Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman). The two men set about fleecing as much money from Lonnegan as possible and have many cunning tricks up their sleeves in order to achieve this objective.The Sting is another film that gave us the dream pairing of Newman & Redford who both appeared in Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid a mere 4 years before this film was released. Individually both Redford and Newman are excellent - although I've always preferred Newman myself out of the two actors. However when they're on screen together the chemistry between the two men is wonderful and they're simply a joy to watch together.Of course for a film like The Sting to be successful it needs more than just Newman and Redford; it needs an engaging story and solid support from the rest of the cast to really make it work and again it succeeds in both these areas. Not only is there plenty of fun to be had from watching The Sting but there's also plenty to be interested in; Gondorff and Hooker aren't merely content with just taking Lonnegan for a few thousand dollars, but they are intent on humiliating him and completely ruining him and the various ways that they achieve their goals are very entertaining.I also got the impression when watching this film that there was a hidden subtext about greed; when you think about it Lonnegan chose to believe that Hooker was trying to help him take Gondorff down even after Gondorff had cheated him out of thousands of dollars and even though he knows that Gondorff and Hooker know each other. Some may see Lonnegan trusting Hooker to be far-fetched and not believable. However, I saw it that Lonnegan's own greed clouded his judgement which is why he initially went along with this part of the con. Naturally as the story progressed, Hooker and Gondorff dangled several carrots in front of Lonnegan which made him believe that he was going to make himself a fortune. They actually say that most of the time it's people's own greed that allows them to get conned and in some ways the subtext here suggests that it is a Cautionary tale on the evils of greed. This was one reason that put the film up a notch for me as it's probably more clever and insightful than people give it credit for.I've touched upon the performances of Newman and Redford (who are both great here), but some of the supporting cast are also very good such as Shaw & Durning - the former has a calm understated menace about him and is good fun to watch. The latter hammed it up to the ninth, but again he was great to watch in the various scenes that he was involved with. The score in The Sting is also good and memorable.The Sting for me isn't an entirely perfect film; it does have some slow sections and suffers from the odd lull now and again. The ending isn't as surprising as I suspect that the filmmakers thought that it would be, but again it's still great fun. It's definitely worth watching though.
A great pairing Newman and Redford deliver again. A very solid movie


                
"The Sting" is one of those movies that has a devoted following, was critically adored at the time, made oodles of money and won all sorts of awards, but which I've just never gotten around to seeing. Well, I finally did see it, and I was expecting something more than I got, which was a diverting but unremarkable heist comedy.I can see why this movie made such an impact at the time. It re-teams Paul Newman and Robert Redford, who had made such a hit a few years earlier with "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." It came out during a fertile period for wonderful but admittedly grim and depressing films, so it probably drifted through movie theatres like a fresh breeze. But it doesn't hold up as anything overly special now. There's nothing necessarily wrong with it, but I just saw it the day before the one on which I'm writing this comment, and I've already mostly forgotten it.Grade: B


                
Robert Redford and Paul Newman both portray some clever and bold con men during the 30s. When their common friend is killed by a Chicago banker/mob guy they decide to join forced and take the guy down by playing him the biggest and boldest scam ever.With hit men, police and the FBI on their necks, and a plan that ain't exactly dummy-proof the film is set for lots of excitement and plot twists.Quite a nice picture when it comes to mice en scene and the acting bits, but the Cinematography is a little marked by its time with a lot of zooming, not to mention all the 1970s transitions they put in during the editing.But if you can ignore those little things it is absolutely an entertaining movie.


                
As "The Sting" is probably the most famous con artist-themed movie ever, you probably know that it's about aging con artist Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) and up-and-comer Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford) teaming up to get revenge on crime boss Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw) in Depression-era Chicago.This movie may be most famous as 1973's Best Picture winner, but I wouldn't have given it Best Picture. Granted, it was an interesting look at the underworld of the 1930s and the corruption prevalent throughout that period, but a number of movies that year were more deserving. Oh well. It's still worth seeing. Whenever George Roy Hill directed Newman and Redford together, he always came up with something good. As it was, this was one of two movies in 1973 about Depression-era conning; the other was of course "Paper Moon".And "The Sting II"? I don't think that anyone's actually seen that movie (I sure haven't). Once on "The Simpsons", Grampa even made a comment about it's lack of fame.


                
I saw this movie when I was a kid and remember it didn't quite make a good impression on me. There were many aspects of it that I remembered fondly: its music, its look, the star quality of its main actors, and yet, it didn't move the ways other 70's movies did. It didn't have the shock and anguish of the "The Exorcist", a movie with plenty of humanity under its still impressive special effects. It didn't connect with me in the way "The Paper Chase" related to the subversive in all young people share. "Chinatown" wrapped itself around its audience like a sad song, and "Cabaret" chilled us with its disintegration of life as we know it. "The Sting" was impressive but it was like that work behind the glass: untouchable, and yet something worth admiring. I look back and can't help thinking how "Paper Moon" brought back an era, with its flaws, humanity, and spirit quite intact.What works: The screenplay is rather dazzling, a labyrinthine construction of twists and turns, executed with almost clinical perfection. The players play others, get played, get bullied, and titter on the edge. It is like reading a book people recommend and never quite getting into it. Sometime its dazzle prevents us from looking at its heart.Both Redford and Newman are downright amazing, with terrific costumes and million dollar smiles. They're both attractive and carry the film very well, especially Newman who brings forth the qualities of wisdom and experience to the part. Redford is competent and does a decent job, sometimes coasting on Newman's powerful acting. Years later, Tom Cruise would give one of its best performances in "The Color of Money", once again trying to keep up with Newman's expertise. In a minor role, Gould shines as the team player who must adapt chameleon qualities to survive. Brennan, Durning, and Walston fit in nicely.The score helps with the feeling of nostalgia for those who might have lived in the period. Its simple and belongs to the classes the movie portrays; there are no airs of culture, but a sassy quality, with plenty of attitude.What is a little problematic:The film feels directed, cold, and uninvolving, keeps winking at us, telling us how "good" and "clever" it is. Hill's direction is never relaxed, but calculated and precise. Directors are like painters, showing their personality in their work. Less admired works, such as the drama in "Titanic" might show less directorial expertise, but more human sentient, allowing its actors and audience to bond. Earlier this year, another potential masterpiece was ruined by a filmmaker that has already proved himself quite capable of directing a "safe" bet of a film, keeping himself away from taking chances in "Cinderella Man". Much is to be learned from directors who take chances such as Peter Jackson in the three "LOTR" efforts, films that could have collapsed by his choices to show exhilarating and extended scenes showing us the passion and energy he felt in the prose of the novels. His amazing displays of technical knowledge worked well because he wasn't afraid to take it further. His actors showed charisma and made us care, with the rest of the canvas finely structured to support the overall effect. "Chinatown" still haunts us because its portrayal of the lower qualities in every human being were raw, uncompromising, part of the "film noir" atmosphere Polanki tried to recreated. In "The Sting" its photographic is at best pedestrian, and one can't help feel as if we're watching a TV production, rather than a work of art.Yes, "The Sting" is a finely crafted work, but its heart is not big and strong; as a matter of fact, it might be its weakest component, surrendering to the powerful brain that keeps trying to impress us. If you want to feel moved, refer to the other pieces of the 70's exploring the early 90's. There are much finer twists in "Chinatown", much heartfelt cons in "Paper Moon" and more clever displays of talent in "Bugsy Malone".


                
Besides the bizarre honky-tonk piano ragging recognisable riffs that serve as the soundtrack and the odd painterly chapter-break frames - that both feel quite out of place to the point that they tend to clash with the tone and interrupt the flow of the piece (rather than emulate the movies of the 1930s as intended), 'The Sting (1973)' is a colourful and gleefully confident flick that takes joy in simply showing its characters getting one over on the bad guy using their sheer ingenuity and willpower alone. It's set up to play out much like the big con it portrays and, while its final reveal didn't sneak up on me the way it is intended to, it successfully manages to cleverly subvert expectation and consistently deliver devilishly fun solutions to its smart little problems. 7/10


                
The Sting is a Hollywood diversion that is slickly made, acted even better, and has an ending that is one of those that people seem to love to pieces but I kind of have a problem with, but I'll get to that later. What George Roy Hill and David S. Ward do get right is that thrill and rush of pulling off a nice solid con on someone, which we see right away in the film from Robert Redford's character Hooker, and his partner in crime Luther Coleman (Robert Earl Jones, good for how little he's used). The premise is straight-forward enough: the money that the two con away is really dough that belongs to a gangster, the scary, steel-eyed Lonegan (Robert Shaw), and when Luther is taken out by his men, Hooker wants revenge. Enter in expert-con/Grifter Master Gondorff (Paul Newman), and instead of simple blood and bullets, there is a much different thing to do to get back: the "Long Con" - all the money they can squeeze out of the guy.Just because it's in the 1970's, you should know, it's not really all THAT dark like a lot of other movies of its ilk. And that's fine; Hill knows what his movie is, and goes even further: wipes and transitions are meant to call back to, I suppose, old-time movie clichés, and the Marvin Hamlisch music is so kitschy it'll make 'Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head' in Butch/Sundance gritty by comparison. Perhaps one should also know that it's self-conscious about itself, and later movies like Soderbergh's Ocean's Eleven would emulate how the characters - and by proxy, the audience - are all in on the joke (except for the flustered villain).While Shaw here may be a much better target - more of the kind of threat that can chill the bones and is impossible to look away from - than the later Andy Garcia example, I'm not sure if all of the film really *sticks* with me. It's all a crowd-pleaser, to be sure, and Hill knows that he has two gigantic stars. Oddly enough, Redford got an Oscar nomination for the character, and he's not bad... but it's the kind of character that isn't really that hard to play, and even during his cons (much like performances) he's more convincing in the voice. Newman fares much better for me, and my favorite scene in the film is with him as he does the first part of the Long Con against Lonegan, a poker game on a train where he acts like a louse, drinks like a fish, and gets under his skin. This is one of those riveting 'Movie' scenes (with a capital M) that makes the experience worthwhile.Things get a little muddier for me in the third act, but what got to me by the end was how the filmmakers got, frankly, manipulative. Much of the film is handsomely mounted and easy to take, the stakes are solidly made and the third act even tries to make things more dramatic and interesting. But, suffice it to say, this is *not* Butch and Sundance. Maybe I let myself get "conned" as well, so to speak, with the twist that the FBI are not exactly who they appear to be, and everything is honky-dory by the end. But it didn't really seem that... necessary, as in to make the impression on the Mark that was intended. Ultimately, it makes the experience feel even hollower than before. Where Butch & Sundance had much more harrowing things going on, this is much more pleasant.Bottom line, The Sting is a fun experience, but just up to a point, elevated mostly by its cast (Shaw is really terrific here, even down to his character's limp, which is wisely not explained, but the audience can infer how it happened in the life of crime), and a few very funny scene. Hell, it's the kind of movie with people getting shot here and there that you can show to your grandmother. It's just the kind of thing that the Academy certainly ate up with a big giant spoon, and gave it seven Oscars including best picture (and more power to Julia Phillips as the first woman picture winner). But... there's the air of BS to that ending that I just can't shake off. It's a good movie, and yet I can't shake the sensation it could've been more. 7.5/10
It is really weird how the starting credits show the characters as they appear in scenes from the movie. That is something you see at the start of a show but looks weird in a movie. Like a collage of not-spoilers. Anyway<U+0085>Parts of this movie can be hard to understand and that is largely due to the dialogue. For one, a number of characters, especially the main villain, speak with an accent that takes a moment to understand. The other reason is the words used. Characters use fancy gangster language, like "fold the con" and contemporary terms like "Faro" (a card game apparently). A combination of this cool language and quick mumbled speech means that it is hard to understand anyone, sometimes with the frequency of every sentence in a scene. Some dialogue is happening in the background. Some of it does not get a set-up and none of it comes with any explanation for the viewer. All of this makes the movie sound natural and smart, but it also results in loss of meaning. Where the movie really shines is when it comes to its performances. The two main leads, Robert Redford and Paul Newman are really charming. Possibly the archetype of a charming bandit. The villain, played by Robert Shaw, though he acts well, is a weak character. He looks intelligent, but he eats up everything the other con artists feed him. In general the story breaks down if you think too much about it. For example, without spoiling anything, ask yourself after watching this movie: why would a trained assassin waste several days pretending to be someone else just to kill an unarmed person when there were countless opportunities to do so, and then you will find an answer: for the sake of an exciting twist.Also, where did all these conmen find all the money they needed for the big job? The two main characters especially are shown to be down on their luck and the con involves an army of people, rented spaces and investments. It feels like this movie fooled many people into believing that it is smarter than it actually is.Having said that, it is really charming and well-acted.


                
"The Sting" is a crime movie in which we have a con man who wants to take revenge for the death of his best friend and partner. To succeed this he teams up with a bigger con to win a fortune from a criminal banker. In this movie we have plenty of twists and last minute alterations.I liked this movie because of the plot and the storyline but I have to say that I have seen even better movies than this. Of course when we watch a movie of 1973 then we have to criticize it with the criteria of that time and we can not put it into a comparison with todays movies. In addition to this I have to say that the plot for that time was really good and the direction of it which was made by George Roy Hill was equally good. Paul Newman who played as Henry Gondorff was for one more time simply outstanding. Another interpretation that it had to be mentioned is Robert Redford's who played as Johnny Hooker and he was really good at his part.Finally I believe that "The Sting" is a really good movie to watch and have nice time and as I said before if we have to compare it with the standards of that time then it was a brilliant success for that times. Also we have to mention that this movie is considered as one of the most famous and best crime movies of all times and if you only watch it you will understand why, but when you watch it you have to think how old this movie is.


                
After 200+ reviews, what's left to say. Not much that doesn't echo other remarks. One important point: the movie's not really a comedy. Instead it's done with a light touch that creates a tongue-in-cheek effect. Note how neither Newman nor Redford performs very dramatically, instead lightening the mood with knowing smiles. Even Shaw is fairly low-key in his villainy, though appropriately somber throughout. I almost wanted to "boo" every time he appeared, like one of those old time melodramas. Then too, I'm glad the producers had sense to cast tough-cookie Brennan opposite Newman instead of some glamour puss. In fact, the film shrewdly features no glamour at all, in either the seedy settings or the women. That way, nothing distracts from the elaborate con job or from the three core characters.On the other hand, the intricacies of the con are pretty complicated, while director Hill draws out the runtime with often unnecessary bits of business. But then, a movie featuring two of the biggest names in the business commands a lengthy runtime. On a more minor note, the bloody upshot of Redford's one night stand strikes me as both unnecessary and misjudged.In my little book, it's the movie's odd charm that carries the two hours, thanks to the two leads, the bouncy piano score, and the chapter cards that suggest an unfolding fairy tale. It's also fun seeing the nasty Shaw get taken, even if it's not very plausible. But then, like many good movies, The Sting doesn't depend on belief for appeal. All in all, and despite the sometimes violent moments, the movie remains a low-key classic with its own brand of Redford-Newman charisma.


                
The Sting is not a flawless film, very quite the opposite actually,but still being a enjoyable one. Paul Newman as Henry brings a performance that is nothing less than excellent, Redford did a good job as well, not so good as Newman though, but still pretty good. The story itself, it's not that bad...sure, the dialogues seems to be way too uninteresting and a bit pointless, because sometimes it could easily be skipped, but that's OK. A few twists as well are not so well made. The edition, yes, one of the highest points in this film. It's really surprising for me personally to find a film so well edited in the earlier 70s. From all the films which i saw done in this time, all the greats had the edition as a very strong point. It's not coincidence,for sure.The Score is very lighthearted with a lot of comedic tons. It fits perfectly in the film, because despite a few deaths which en- darken a bit the atmosphere, the sting is a very 'UP' film overall. So,i don't know if it will add anything to your life,but if you watch it,you'll wont waste your time either. 7.5/10P.S: Highlight to the scene where Harry(Newman) and Doyle(Shaw) are playing cards. A truly remarkable moment in this film.
Paul Newman & Robert Redford reunite for this Academy Award winning film directed by George Roy Hill about two con men who team up to avenge the death of a mutual friend by "stinging" a mob boss(played by Robert Shaw). Film details their intricate plan to do so, which involves an excellent cast including Charles Durning, Ray Walston, & Eileen Brennan, among others. The story climaxes in an elaborate swindle that may well fool the audience. Fine use of vintage 1930's jazz music appropriate for the period.Wouldn't go so far as giving it the best picture award, however, since it is just a good film, not in any way a great one, though it was a big hit at the time.


                
Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford) cons a passerby of his cash. The problem is that the passerby was delivering money for a mob boss Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw). Doyle vows to hunt down the petty crocks and kills Hooker's partner. Hooker goes on the run and gets the help of Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) seeking a long con revenge.The long con can confuse the audience. It takes some effort to follow. Director George Roy Hill doesn't really draw us an easy to follow map. Some of it is great like the card game. As individual scenes, some of them are quite memorable and interesting.If there is one thing missing, it's a bit of comedy to break up the serious tone. Redford-Newman-Hill reunite but is missing that charming fun of 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'. At least it moves along quite well which is not always the case for movies of that era.


                
This is a very well made flick; almost a perfect one, technically, but also one which merits lie exclusively in its value as an entertainment vehicle, so don't come here looking for answers to the big questions of life, for philosophical or spiritual enlightenment or for education on the Great Depression. TS unfolds in a different universe, one which has only a passing resemblance to our own. For one thing, con men here are hunks, come with perfect hair and look like they haven't gone hungry a single day in their lives. And when they groom they look better than a young Bill Clinton. Neither anybody seems to be wanting for a job or going destitute as you don't see scenes so common in movies like Grapes of Wrath, Sullivan's Travels, or even in Stooges shorts, of crowded soup kitchens, lines for the unemployed, etc. Everything and everybody looks slick, clean cut, here and you don't even see any hint of racial segregation or discrimination. Murphy's Law never seems to apply here either: everything goes well for the good guys, even the impossible--escaping hero can pry open a manhole's cover with bare hands and bad guy never bothers to check gambling den between visits, etc. Despite all that the plot is well structured, impeccable in his logic and internal consistency—as long as you don't look too closely--so you may sit and watch TS as you would do with an amusing chess or tennis match.The plot: small time con man Hooker(Redford) unknowingly hits big time hoodlum Lonnegan (Shaw) with a $11.000 loss, along his partner Luther (R.E. Jones), who gets killed as the result. Hooker must run for his life and he comes to seek shelter with retired con man and Luther's good friend Gondorff (Newman) to whom he'll entice to get revenge on Lonnegan by hitting him with a big sting. Most of TS is dedicated to show how such sting unfolds, along with some other subplots, mainly of a corrupt cop who's after Hooker and about some professional assassin hired to kill him too. The FBI also seems implicated, as Special agent Polk (Elcar) sets his sights on Gondorff. Now, all this together put has created confusion for some, so let's go over the essentials.The mechanics of the sting is quite simple: Gondorff's gambling parlor is fake; it only works when Lonnegan visits. When this last arrives at the restaurant, at the time agreed upon, J.J. (Walston) starts scanning the wire for horse races that have just ended, checking the odds of the winner and then he "broadcasts" the race. He must pick a winner with the lowest possible odds so the money to be paid to Lonnegan will be a minimum. When he finds the race, he gives it to Kid Twist (Gould), in the 2nd floor room, and Kid gives it to Lonnegan, who runs to make his bet. Initially they had planned to do it only once but Lonnegan still wants another try, now for $15.000. Even worse, he wants to meet Hooker's man in the wire office. In that meeting, both Hooker and Kid try to dissuade him from making still another (small) bet, but he won't budge. At his 2nd visit to the betting joint J.J. has trouble getting races with odds lower than 4-1 (at 94 min.) so Gondorff decides to keep Lonnegan from betting--he can't possibly pay him $60.000! Finally J.J. finds a winner (Wrecking Crew, 3-1) but the men block Lonnegan anyway. The tip was good though, so Lonnegan decides to go for it. This is how the scam works, but how Lonnegan sees it? He knows how the parlor works because Hooker had told him, but he sees all those "gamblers" as suckers being fleeced, so he wants to move in, take over. Hooker told him also he had sure tips because he was short-circuiting the wire results. So everything is set for the sting on Lonnegan.That's the plot of the scam. But that's not all, even if you'll be probably too busy following the action to ask a crucial question: how do they plan to rob Lonnegan without he noticing? We get the answer later, as we see Lt. Snyder playing a crucial role, but I still have myself a question: If Gondorff didn't realize that Snyder was after Hooker until the operation was under way, how he had planned to do things before it, as he couldn't possibly have included the cop in the initial plan?. In any case the overall logical structure of the story is flawless, everything comes to fit to perfection, if you only assume that Gondorff, Hooker & ass. are so lucky that everything works out perfectly for them.The cinematography is good, even if some sets look rather cheap to me. Camera work simple but effective. Directing tight but somewhat loose with the two leads. The acting is excellent by most, but Redford's Hooker looks ever too happy and self satisfied for a child of the Great Depression and Newman's Gondorff's too cocky and self assured, as if he had already read the whole script. That takes a lot of tension off even more with the complete lack of character development. Pacing and plot development impeccable and so the editing. And there is of course the well known ragtime piece by Joplin as score. In all, pure, 100%, entertainment. 7/10.
'The Sting', if you like jolly heist movies, is an easy movie to like. It tells a tale of a con artist, who decides to avenge the death of his mentor and friend by cheating a notable amount of money from a man who was responsible of killing his friend. So there even is a slight moral in the story, not just stealing money from the heck of it.So the main players of the film are: Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford), who is the man who wants to revenge the death of his mentor with the help of Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman). So as you can see, the cast has the two huge starts of its own era in the lead. The chemistry of Redford and Newman works very well and they don't seem to be battling each other to gain more screen presence over each other. 'The Sting' is the kind of a movie, that will stand against the test of time relatively well, as it relies more on the actors and plot than anything else. I don't think it's the greatest heist film of all time, it actually can be said, that if the lead men would be someone else than Newman and Redford this film would barely be remembered, but it is entertaining and it carries through its duration very easily.


                
I recently wrote a script and partial novel of a con man's adventures, and this extraordinary and extremely clever masterpiece was certainly one of my primary influences. I was first introduced to "The Sting" at a young age and I've loved it ever since.Gotta love Redford and Newman! Oh, and then there's the plot on top of it all!Just don't bother with the illegitimate sequel...5/5 stars.John Ulmer


                
