At first sight, THE STING appears to be nothing more than a television movie.  It is entirely plot-driven with no real stand out characters or personalities.  What makes the film work is excellent production design and a delightfully clever plot filled with many surprises.  The movie is feather-weight emotionally, but the depth of the "con" and the way it is fashioned by screenwriter David Ward leaves you with a pleasant experience.This is more Redford's film than Newman's, who reunite with George Roy Hill, director of BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID.  The legendary actors were more flesh and blood in that film, but here, they are merely players who carry the story along.  With lesser actors, THE STING may have been a forgettable piece of work.  Redford does all of the dirty work after Newman's initial "hook", but the omniscient presence of Newman, as big-time grifter "Henry Gondorff" exists throughout.  A mysterious gloved character, a crooked cop, the FBI, and a seemingly bigger con-man "Doyle Lonnegan" (played by the late, great Robert Shaw) are some of the players who are involved in some events that seem to be manipulated by an unseen force.  Is Newman as good as he claims in trying to clean out Shaw?  We'll see.The film is shot simply by Hill.  No tricky angles or contrived camera movements are used.  The action takes place simply in front of us.  The production design by Henry Bumstead and James Payne recreates old-time Chicago through the use of built sets, matte paintings of a smaller sky-line, and some location shots.  It gives the film an almost artificial look which is fitting considering it is a direct homage to the 1930's and the gangster pictures that so dominated that decade.  The story is even furthered by title pages describing "the set-up, the hook, and the sting". They are turned like pages in a book, adding a drop of elegance to a crooked world.  An iris is even employed in some scenes.THE STING is definitely lightweight entertainment.  It does not provoke much thought or insight into what is happening on screen.  Fun is the word for this amusing little film that depicts a masterful plan for a big steal which would be impossible to pull off today.  Look out for Ray Walston in a hilarious role announcing horse races and their results as they are "happening" just after receiving word of the "real" race results from a back room in the betting house.  These are good con-men.RATING: ***


                
I watched this film three times as a teenager in 1973/1974, with my friend, then my friend and his aunt, and then when I had to go along with the school class. I then found the film boring because I never understood it and there was little action. I would have been 15 or 16 at the time. The language was too speak-easy for me and the plot too adult- like for an un-worldy teenager like myself.But I never give up. Forty years later, I watched the film again and I understood it. I found it to be quite enjoyable and liked the twists.The acting was very good, as was the plot. There were a few bugs in the film and with modern equipment, I could freeze frame a gunshot to the head and see there was no bullet hole. Still, it was quite entertaining.The music of course is a classic... THE ENTERTAINER!


                
In 1936 Joliet, Illinois, blue-eyed con-man Robert Redford (as Johnny Hooker) and his brown-eyed partner Robert Earl Jones (as Luther Coleman) make a bundle during a street bilking. While Mr. Redford wastes his money gambling, his partner decides to use his share of the $11,000 to retire. Sadly, Luther is killed for the con. Redford takes the dead man's advice and looks up Chicago con-man Paul Newman (as Henry Gondorff). Mr. Newman, a bit down-on-his-luck, sobers up quickly. Then, the handsome duo plot an elaborate revenge, setting up "The Sting" on gangster Robert Shaw (as Doyle Lonnegan).This film is too contrived, too calculated, and too cool. Suffice to say George Roy Hill very successfully directs box office stars Paul Newman and Robert Redford, as he did in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" (1969). It's interesting to see Newman in a role secondary to Redford - yet, it never really seems that way, and the stars elevate each other more than even their first pairing, which was a better film. This time, they play on their collaborative appeal. David S. Ward's story, the marvelous supporting cast, Marvin Hamlisch's tinkling Scott Joplin score, and the pseudo thirties look add up to style.******** The Sting (12/25/73) George Roy Hill ~ Robert Redford, Paul Newman, Robert Shaw, Eileen Brennan


                
This film just oozes 30's Chicago. Whether it is the suits, dames or sets everything about how the film looks is perfect. The use of title cards to denote the various sequences of the plot and caper are a nice touch that keep the film light and breezy. Likewise, Redford and Newman are charming while being well matched. These grifters are fun guys to pal around with. Doyle (Shaw) is the sort of jerk you just love to hate. Unfortunately, all of this style is put to service for a very silly plot.I realize that as a heist film the silliness of the caper is part of the joy, but I just can't get over the practical aspects of the con. No less than 30 guys are in on it. No less than 20,000 dollars was spent on it. (Abet some of this was pay-as-you go grifting). No less than 3 different teams were work in independent efforts to pull it off. It is simply incredible, as in it is not credible, the planned worked. Human beings can't do that, especially among a bunch of untrustworthy con artists. Someone somewhere would have mucked up the plan. The story ends up feeling dimensionless without a major reversal of fortune.This is movie is a trick. The more you think about it the more it falls apart. It is a good trick but pay attention to the distractions.


                
It's always entertaining and I'll usually watch it if it's on. Redford and Newman have great chemistry. The supporting cast is full of TV and Movie veterans like Ray Walston and Harold Gould who round out a solid cast. The best is most certainly Robert Shaw as Lonnegan. He's a truly brutal main who only barely manages to maintain the cover of a legitimate businessman. You always feel he's about ten seconds away from killing someone.For fans of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, note this is not a Redford/Newman buddy picture. The character dynamic is that of mentor and student. Hooker is clearly the main character and in the bulk of the scenes, whereas outside the poker game, Newman doesn't have much in the way of character development and rarely appears without Redford. As I said, the chemistry is still great, there's just not as much of it and Redford interacts with more of the rest of the cast.I'd say the biggest problem is the ending. How the sting is actually played out. It really feels that they didn't have good idea and use a twist of language the NO ONE would ever use in the real world. The followup is arguably even worse and it presumes Shaw and Charles Durning's cop character won't read a newspaper the next day. That would be fine if they hadn't made a point that Lonnegan could never know he'd been conned. However, it does recover a bit with a final interaction between Redford and Newman. They really are a likeable pair with a natural chemistry.
During the Depression, two grifters run a scam. Having scammed the wrong person, one of them is killed. The other vows revenge by hitting the killer in the wallet, and a sophisticated scheme is devised...Robert Redford and Paul Newman proved to have great on-screen chemistry (and much box office success) in Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid, so teaming them up again was a no-brainer. And, although Redford get's the lion's share of the on-screen business, the magic does work once more in this enormously entertaining period piece.The plot is nearly as complicated as the main scam, the performances, script, music and period feel are all superb, and the film is exciting, funny and endlessly entertaining. It won shedloads of awards, and quite right too!
If you look at the 10 films that won an Oscar for "Best Picture" in the 1970s, you'd notice a general trend. The majority of them are long, hard-hitting movies – just look at Parts 1 and 2 of "The Godfather", "Patton" or "The Deer Hunter". There are two exceptions to this trend: the hilarious "Annie Hall", which was awarded in 1977, and "The Sting", which was nominated in a year where none of the other nominees were standard Oscar bait. It's a feel- good film, which ticks all the right boxes in terms of its light-hearted nature, great soundtrack, and the way it embodies its chosen aesthetic.The film tells the story of two con-men, played by Robert Redford and Paul Newman, and their attempts to escape the police and get one over on the crime boss Doyle Lonnegan. It's a film which makes you care about its characters, despite them being criminals, whilst also being fun and keeping you guessing. The film's greatest successes are its plots, from the very opening scene to the big finish at the end. It's cleverly written so that you don't always have as much information as the two leads, making the reveals even more rewarding. Throughout the film, the dynamic between Redford and Newman is outstanding in every emotion they show, whether it be friendship or falling out. Each of them gets to show their skills individually too, and Newman's entry into a poker game halfway through is exemplary acting.The challenge which "The Sting" faces is not taking itself too seriously, without being too light-hearted. In order for it to be a success, you have to care about the characters but feel the fun in their capers. The 'prestige' of the film simply wouldn't work if you weren't constantly rooting for the characters and didn't believe that the plan has failed. The film adopts the aesthetic of its time, with inter-titles, costumes and use of Scott Joplin (somewhat anachronistically) to make you feel the Great Depression. It's not a film without flaws, however, and at just over 2 hours, it sometimes feel like it's dragging on.The other problem it faces, which is very difficult to pull off for any film about tricks or magic, is that it occasionally has one too many twists and turns to follow. Discovering late in the day that a character who you've previously believed to be a bad guy is actually working with the whole operation can feel a bit cheap sometimes, and while "The Sting" just about pulls it off, it's not always effective."The Sting" is undoubtedly a cinematic achievement. While it might not be perfect, it is extremely fun, thanks to two excellent lead performances, and is not afraid to keep its audience guessing its tricks.


                
The Sting was the feel-good hit film of 1973 that won the Oscar for Best Picture of the year and documented that the chemistry Paul Newman and Robert Redford created in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid wasn't a fluke.Set in Chicago in the 1930's, Redford plays Johnny Hooker, a second rate con man who finds out that a criminal banker named Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw) was indirectly responsible for the death of his long time partner. Determined to avenge his partner's death, Hooker enlists the aid of veteran con man Henry Gondorff (Newman), who has his own issues with Lonnegan and, together, they set up an elaborate con, a "sting" if you will, to get Lonnegan where he lives...in his wallet.One of the strongest aspects of this film is the Oscar winning screenplay by David S. Ward, who has chosen to let this story unfold very slowly and with serious attention to details in story execution. This is one of those stories that if you miss five minutes of the movie, you won't have a clue what's going on, so have that pause button poised if you're interrupted. I have always felt that this was the sign of a really great screenplay, that every single detail presented on screen is germane to the story.George Roy Hill's meticulous direction and the chemistry between Redford and Newman are the other things that make this film work. Hill has mounted an elaborate story here with striking attention to period detail and to serving the story. Newman and Redford are a well-oiled machine here. Redford actually received his only Oscar nomination for Best Actor for his work here, which I think was also in recognition of his other big performance the same year in The Way We Were. There is also a first rate supporting cast including Charles Durning, Ray Walston, Eileen Brennan, Harold Gould, Dana Elcar, and Dimitra Arliss.Hill won his only Best Director Oscar for his work here, Edith Head won her fourth and final Oscar for her costumes, and Marvin Hamlisch's musical scoring also won, based on the music of ragtime icon Scott Joplin and believe me, after seeing this movie, you will be humming "The Entertainer". A wonderful film, to be sure, but was it really better than The Exorcist?
This is a movie my father was familiar with growing up and I have to say I was not looking terribly forward to watching it when he suggested it for one of our Friday Family Movie Nights, but in the end, I was more than pleasantly surprised. The movie is set in the 1930's surrounding a con man with a plan to make revenge for a murdered partner. This movie is complete with a great cast, and well written parts, exciting action, and plot with plenty of twists and surprises to keep even the mos reluctant viewer, myself included, interested and hooked. Redford delivers as always, this movie is a great addition to his portfolio and a credit to his career. Give it a watch, you won't be let down that is for sure!


                
So I watched "The Sting" a couple days ago, and now, here is the review. In 1973, "The Sting" won the Oscar for best picture, and for your information, it mostly likely deserved it.The story was pure genius; it totally had me fooled until the end. The story moved along smoothly, never at any point did it become boring. Every scene had purpose, and overall, it felt very polished. It stands as my favorite heist movie.The characters were mostly excellent. The main characters were well developed and had interesting back stories; however some characters, although they only played a minor part, felt deficient of information. I would have preferred it if they had at least were named, like in Ocean's Eleven for example, where all the team members had a defined part in the con. This was a minor issue though.The acting was simply perfect. Robert Redford is perfect as usual, and Paul Newman gave me goosebumps as the colorful Henry Gondorff. During one scene, I simply had to smile because of Newman's screen presence. The cinematography felt very familiar to that of the Ocean's series; I wouldn't be surprised if Ocean's Eleven borrowed it from "The Sting". I have always loved the style of editing and cinematography that is employed by movies such as "The Sting". It is abnormal, yes, but also interesting and different.The music added the final touch. It fit perfectly with the setting.Overall, "The Sting" was gripping, humorous, and dramatic, all at the same time. Although it wasn't emotionally impactful, and you won't be leaving with any life changing messages, "The Sting" is still an absolute blast. It feeds off the charm of the actors, and the brilliant story to deliver a true masterpiece.


                
Classic con film. Classic Redford. Classic Newman. The Sting is just a classic. It's the story of a young con man named Johnny Hooker who is out for revenge against the scrupulous banker named Doyle Lonnegan who murdered his long time partner in crime. Hooker teams up with renowned con man Henry Gondorff to swindle Lonnegan through a very elaborate con involving a fake horse race betting house. As the con becomes more complex the stakes grow ever higher and Hooker finds himself more and more at risk going up against the violent Lonnegan. The Sting tells an immaculate story full of twists and turns that keep one entertained from start to finish. It's got a vivacious atmosphere and charming personality that entertains, engages, and delivers a fantastically good time.There is a specific image we all get in our heads when we think modern classics. The term pertains more to films that have come out in the last ten years or so, but in the grand scheme of things it more appropriately applies to films of the 70's and 80's. The Sting is such a film that fits that image of a classic 70's flick. It has some of the most dashing actors of the time, it is a big budget period piece that captures a time so vividly and so intelligently, and it delivers the cadence of a classic film that all kinds of people can enjoy and relate to. The Sting isn't a film that focuses on one demographic. It is a film that can be enjoyed by people with all different tastes. If you love slower and more methodical films, you can enjoy The Sting plenty. If you lean more towards action blockbusters you can hopefully still appreciate the fun filled quality of The Sting. It's also a film that young and old can enjoy. It isn't by any means a kids film but it isn't strictly geared towards an adult audience either. It has dashes of comedy, slices of suspense, and is full of wild entertainment. It's easy to see why this won best picture in 1973. It is a film for everyone.Now, I've talked a lot about the various tastes of people that can enjoy The Sting, and I don't specifically fall into one of those categories so I just liked The Sting all around. I found it to be incredibly entertaining and lots of fun. It is a very well written, well directed, and superbly well acted film with an easily recognizable calibre of quality to it. It's one of those films that I feel I appreciate more than love, and there's nothing wrong with that. I have plenty of respect for films that are as well made as The Sting, even if they aren't my favorite movies of all time. But a critique like that is tedious and redundant, so what I will finish with is that I thoroughly enjoyed The Sting and found it to be a very well made film that outshines many of the films that try to do what it does. It is the quintessential con film that now has a hidden legacy that pops up a lot these days in films that are good, but is never quite as refined as The Sting.


                
'The Sting' features the most likable bunch of thieves, scam-artists, and con-men you've ever seen in your life. There's not one of them that you wouldn't want to sit down and play a game of poker with, even if they stole your pants off. Even the baddest of the bad guys, Robert Shaw's Doyle Lonnegan, is likable, because he's such a great foil for the two most likable rogues, Paul Newman's Henry Gondorff and Robert Redford's Johnny Hooker. If this were a serious movie about confidence men in the 1930's and the 'sting' they pull off, that likability factor would be a fatal drawback, but it's not, so it isn't. No, 'The Sting' might well be considered the ultimate crowd-pleasing flick, consistently hitting all the right buttons for a mass audience. Everything, right down to the music, or maybe even especially the music, is just right. Scott Joplin's piano rags are masterfully adapted for the film by Marvin Hamlisch; you'll be humming them and hearing them in your head for weeks after watching. In fact, 'The Sting' is almost like a period musical without singers or dancing. It's too brightly lit, too cozy and comfortable with itself, too (I'm trying desperately not to say 'likable' again) in love with its characters to achieve any really threatening moments, even when one suspects that it wants to. There are surprises here and there, but against this feel-good backdrop, even the most potentially shocking ones go down easily, like cotton candy. The ingeniously whimsical plot takes us on Gondorff and Hooker's journey to swindle Lonnegan, a big-time crime boss, out of half a million dollars. The 'big con' is set up elaborately and methodically over the course of the film; that is what accounts for most of the enjoyment we get from it. Grifters are recruited, a fake gambling hall is established, false identities are created, all for the purpose of making Lonnegan believe he can win big by putting up a half-million dollar bet in Gondorff's place. Along the way, there are many subplots, each providing background or motivation for certain characters (mainly Hooker) and in the end, these threads are all neatly tied up in a final scene that is funny and satisfying and which usually results in the film audience breaking into spontaneous applause. None of the performances, with the exception of Robert Shaw's, is particularly outstanding. Newman and Redford have a comedic chemistry that is undeniable, as they proved in 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,' but this isn't really a showcase for either's acting versatility compared to other films they've made. The rest of the cast is a gallery of character actors and it's nice to see them all playing such lovable crooks. I daresay 'The Sting' was a career high point for at least a dozen of them. When the film first came out, it grossed nearly $160 million and it seemed damn near everyone in the country had seen it and loved it. Not many films can make that claim, and so I will say it for the record now: 'The Sting' is the most likable movie ever made.
This is a very clever and entertaining con or heist movie. It's just so much fun to watch the plan come together, since you really want the people trying to pull off the con to win even though I really dislike con artists. Watching each step of the plan is fun cause of how clever it is and the dialogue is clever as the plan itself. This is another great movie with Robert Redford and Paul Newman in it, they played there characters almost flawlessly. The twist and turns is great and the film is almost perfect, I just wished there is no sequel to this, cause from what I heard it doesn't come close to being good as the original. The plot is basically about a con artist who seeks revenge on the gangster who killed his friend, teaming up with another con artist on the surface but the film is much more than that. Great characters, great story, great dialogue, a must watch.8.5/10


                
Sometimes great things come out of America, but they are hardly ever presidents. As the saying goes: `in the United States of America, anyone can be president <U+0096> and THAT is what usually happens.' I think the quote is from Ralph Whitman.Be as it may, when a work of art comes out, it is of no import as to whether it comes from the USA,  or from anywhere else: it stands up on its own merits.I am hardly a European with a naturally friendly disposition towards the USA, basically for the heavy-footed way in which that country conducts itself in international affairs. Even so, and with absolutely no intentions of making any kind of publicity, there is nothing which comes up to Kellogg's Corn Flakes, Kodak photographic film, Hewlett Packard printers, `The Grapes of Wrath' (the book, not any of the films), Malcolm Lowry, Charles Ives' Symphony nº 2, or Chief Seattle's purported speech in Duwamish in 1854, anywhere else in the world. In the case of cinematographics productions, it is not even important whether they win Oscars or any other awards. `The Sting' is, without any doubt, one of those truly fine pieces which only comes out every decade or so, with luck. This film is now deservedly one of the classics of North American cinema. For some years now I have had it on video, and of course I have Marvin Hamlish's arrangements of Scott Joplin's `Rags' in my collection. I dispute this film being called a `comedy': it is too good to be given such a simple epithet; that certain parts may be considered humorous is only because life itself must be humorous or would not be worth living. Fine interpretations all round, excellent scenification with all those old cars and the same old bus in several scenes, and those so authentically-looking 1930's Chicago streets. And all this so admirably backed up by Scott Joplin's `Rags': this is my one complaint <U+0096> could they not have included more of this music in the film?Just the card game on the train is worth queueing up for; thirty years on `The Sting' is still worth 120 minutes of your time if you are able to value some finer aspects of film-making.With more than 13,000 votes giving a voting average of 8,3 I would say that is just about right: and that makes `The Sting' one of my highest voted US films of all time.


                
Although impressed by the impeccable manner in which this story was crafted, plotted, dramatised and performed, what really struck me was the marked difference in cinemacting between the American and British players. Newman and Redford were glamorous stars: they spoke their lines convincingly, but their personalities didn't change. No doubt I haven't seen all their films, but enough to perceive them as somehow always the same. In a sense, type-cast. The British actor, on the other hand, here Robert Shaw, disappears into his role, in the tradition of innumerable actors of the same school: Alec Guinness, Peter Sellers, Anthony Hopkins, the incomparable Gary Oldman. Shaw was one of the best, as the variety of his many roles bears witness. Unforgettable as Henry VIII in A Man for All Seasons, as Aston in The Caretaker. I learn that he was also a novelist, a playwright, and an alcoholic, dying early, at age 51. You follow ?
That must have been tough for the Academy voters because to single out Redford as opposed to Paul Newman must have felt a bit unjust. For though Newman was nominated many times over his career and finally did win for The Color of Money, did not get a nomination for The Sting.Robert Redford is a small time grifter who while working a bait and switch street con takes off a numbers runner carrying the weekly take. The orders come down from the head man himself, Irish-American gangster Robert Shaw to kill those who did this as an example.Redford's mentor, Robert Earl Jones, is in fact killed, mainly because Redford starts spending a lot of that newly acquired loot that tips them off. Redford wants revenge so he looks up big time con man Paul Newman who himself is dodging law enforcement as is Redford also.They work the big con on Shaw and it's a beauty. The scheme they have is something to behold. They also have to do a couple of improvisations on the fly that lend a few twists to the scheme.The costumes and sets really do evoke Chicago of the Thirties and director George Roy Hill assembles a great cast to support Newman and Redford. My favorite in the whole group is Charles Durning, who plays the brutally corrupt, but essentially dumb cop from Joliet who nearly gums up the works and has to be dealt with.Special mention should also go to Robert Shaw. He's got a difficult part, maybe the most difficult in the film. He's not stupid, he would not have gotten to the top of the rackets if he was. But he also has to show that hint of human weakness that Newman, Redford, and the whole mob they assemble that makes him vulnerable to the con.During the sixties and seventies Robert Shaw was really coming into his own as a player, getting more and more acclaim for his work. His early death was a real tragedy, there was so much more he could have been doing.Can't also forget another co-star in this film, the ragtime music of Scott Joplin that was used to score The Sting. It probably is what most people remember about The Sting. Music from the Theodore Roosevelt era, scoring a film set in the Franklin Roosevelt era made while Nixon was president. Strange, but it actually works.


                
Winner of 7 Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director & Best Original Screenplay, The Sting is a skilfully crafted, expertly narrated & fabulously performed cinema about con artists that exquisitely blends elements of many different genres into one & oozes enough charm throughout its runtime to qualify as one of the finest films of its time.Set during the Great Depression, The Sting tells the story of two professional grifters; the young Hooker & the much experienced Henry, who along with other accomplices plan a plot to con the mob boss responsible for the murder of their mutual friend, in order to get even with him. The plot is divided into various segments, each focusing on a particular stage of their plan.Brilliantly directed by George Roy Hill, the film runs at a relaxed pace for a while during which it properly introduces each one of its characters but once the board is set, it starts throwing one twist after another which continues until the very end. Art Direction makes heavy use of bright coloured sets, Cinematography further enhances its imagery & Editing is cleverly carried out as well.Coming to the performances, The Sting features some of the most charming actors of its era in Paul Newman, Robert Redford & Robert Shaw, each of whom ends up chipping in with excellent performances in their given roles. The chemistry between Newman & Redford is near-flawless, Shaw makes up for an intimidating antagonist & even the supporting work is high-quality stuff.On an overall scale, The Sting is one of the most delightfully entertaining & highly rewarding films of the 1970s that's full of twists, turns & light-hearted humour. The greatest motion picture about con artists? I can't say that with absolute certainty because I haven't explored enough of this genre but it certainly seems to be one of the top contenders for that spot, if it isn't on top already. Highly recommended.


                
I was very pleased with myself, having avoided absolutely everything about this Best Picture-winning classic. I have never seen a Paul Newman film before, and was disappointed by Redford as Gatsby. I didn't even know what this film was about. Absolutely nothing. And it made the film that much better.The Sting is about con men performing 'the long con' on a shady banker, as revenge for a former partner. With throwback title cards we are walked through the process, which comes down to an elaborate gambling hoax. It was a bit frustrating to not know what was going on though. Not even the surface-level plan. And for a modern audience, 'straight poker' is a bit alien. Nonetheless, comprehending the plot is the most thinking you'll have to do during The Sting.Don't expect a life-changing moral or social criticism: entertainment is the goal of this slick, 30's set robbery. Take it at face value, enjoy the genius writing and oh-so-cool leads, fall for every hook and have a few laughs: The Sting is lots of fun, 40 years on. 8.5/10


                
THE STING is another Redford-Newman collaboration with director George Roy Hill after BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (1969, 9/10), and this time it reaped more than what it sowed, 7 Oscar winnings including BEST PICTURE and BEST DIRECTOR. No need to say the film is intriguingly diverting, the rectitude and benevolence of grifters are bonded together with friendship, craftsmanship and camaraderie, by contrast, the police forces (including the FBI) and the greedy and shifty bankers come under the lash, and being bamboozled, which, is pertinent to strike a chord with general audience into a world of escapism and fairness. To my surprise, the first-billed Newman has a lesser screen-time than his co-leader Redford, but his personal allure could never be underestimated, the charm is oozing from every single glance and gesture, while Redford has ample time to play his reckless but fleet-footed character to a maximum closeness with the audience (it has been his only Oscar acting nomination so far), despite of being too handsome, his larger-than-life optimism has found the right niche in the film. The supporting group is crammed with typecast roles (a crippled villain and his minions, a corrupted cop, a bunch of fellow grifters, pi-faced assassins), Robert Shaw and Eileen Brennan are superbly cast, the latter's iron-face yet kind-hearted procuress is very much underwritten. The score from Marvin Hamlisch is legendarily well-known, whenever co-occurring with the segment captions or transiting the tonal settings, it is smoothly catchy, like the film itself, establish itself as the paradigm of what Hollywood and motion pictures could concoct with the best brains and the technology staff, even the final twist is not that unexpected, nevertheless an anticlimax will never play out to kill off the satisfactory mood after steeping into a great piece of work


                
I was quite surprised to find myself preferring Ocean's Eleven (the remake), considering how much I love the classics. Both are intricate conmen movies with two alpha males leading a crew of (mostly) men, but while Eleven is cheerfully and humorously irreverent, the Sting avoids having too much tongue-in-cheekiness despite some tantalizing tastes of it. What a pity, since Paul Newman and Robert Redford were the original George Clooney and Brad Pitt, all of them masculine, cocky, sexy men with that devilish glints in their eyes.Despite the less engaging patter, watching the two men in action would've made the movie sufficiently entertaining, but coupled with the production values, it becomes a good movie (though not the great movie most people think it is). The technical team really captured the 1930s (as far I know, from watching the movies from then), from the art direction to the costumes, and even the directorial choices invoke the retro feel, like the slight haziness in the camera-work and the changing of scenes by wiping. Visually, this movie is more impressive than Eleven, but the latter was the more fun watch for me.


                
I really enjoy this film because of the interaction between Redford and Newman, they had great chemistry and they work so well together. What is different about their relationship in this compared to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is that Hooker has no experience and is therefore low on knowledge about how to do a long con compared to Newman's Character Gondorff who has more experience at them. Gondorff is Hooker's mentor who shows him the ropes. Hooker starts off cocky, not believing there is anything Gondorff can show him but gains respect for him the more he is around him. Robert Shaw brilliantly plays Lonnegan and the rest of the cast make the film a success- Robert Earl Jones (Luther), Eileen Brennan (Billie), Charles Durning (Snyder), Dana Elcar (FBI Agent Polk), Ray Walston (J.J. Singleton) and Harold Gould (Kid Twist).I think all the elements come together so well- the music, the costumes, the story and look of the movie. There has been a lot of complaints that the music is wrong to use because it wasn't around at the time of the film and yes, it wasn't around at that time but you can't deny it works so well with the action and compliments it so well. It is very interesting to see the type of cons played in those days to how they are played today which are showed in TV series like Hustle.The film is another hit for Newman and Redford which worked so well because as I have said all the strands came together so well thanks not only to the cast but the people behind the camera such as George Roy Hill (Director), David S. Ward (Writer), Edith Head (Costumes), Scott Joplin's music and Robert Surtees (Cinematography).
It's good to see a movie more concerned with humor and character than with blood and death like The Sting, a comedy film directed by George Roy and written by David S. Ward. The Sting won seven Oscar's not only because every element in the film leads credibility to the story. But also, the two stars (Paul Newman & Robert Redford) make all the difference between simply an OK film and a greater one. Redford plays Johnny Hooker, whose friend and mentor Luther Coleman (Robert Earl Jones) is murdered by millionaire Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw). Hoping to avenge Luther's death, Johnny begins planning an elaborate scam to destroy Lonnegan. He enlists the aid of "The greatest con artist of them all," Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) Hooker and Gondorff gather together an impressive array of con men, all of whom hate Lonnegan and wish to settle accounts on behalf of Luther. The twists and surprises that follow are too complex to relate in detail. The Sting is a film that holds up a few surprises until the very end, keeping the audience in suspense. One of my favorite scenes is at the beginning of the movie when Hooker and Luther scam several thousand dollars of a cop, who turn out to be a corruptive one, working for Doyle Lonnegan. It is a funny scene with a twist. This scene sets the pattern of the movie. If, I had to point out a blemish, I would consider the slower pace of some of the scene, and the looks of the hookers. They were not attractive at all. Maybe the director purposely planned to focus the attention on the two good-looking starts. Overall, The Sting is a great choice for movie watchers who enjoy a good Hollywood gangster movie.
Sting is a good classic, really liked the concept of moving movie forward in sections: the setup, the sting etc<U+0085>enjoyed this more movie than Butch & Cassidy. They are 2 different movies but I found this one more substantial<U+0085>one reason could be that I am not a big fan of Westerns. The 1st hr of the movie isn't as well paced as the 2nd<U+0085>this is when Newman appears. This is also one of the rare movies that I have seen where they use the word Con which I guess is usually restricted to fiction novels. It has a good plot, no doubt about that. The screenplay is well done especially for the train scene. Another worth noting thing about the movie is its art direction, you really feel you are into 1930s. It is hard to say who, Newman or Redford has done better job, just like in Butch & Cassidy. All in all a movie that can certainly be watched again for years...something about it that it will never feel old.


                
All good movies know how to lead the viewer somewhere; the very act of telling the story (separate from the content) is engaging or seductive. In contrast, a poor movie is simply 'there' -- just a collection of plot points, the viewer doesn't fall for the storytelling.You've got to love the self-reference here...the movie is about a con within a con, and the entire movie IS the "big con" that Redford describes (he's 'always wanted to run one'); only, the viewer is the 'mark', and 'he can't know he's been taken'.There are three specific scenes where we get played; the initial three-grifter scam, the poker game, and the 'sting'. The first two are laid out in an obvious manner, with the mechanics completely exposed, so as to set us up. The Bureau's 'sting' knocks us down, by having us believe the machinations were ruined. Clever noir construction...the best recent successor to this (in construction, if not in the subject)is probably "The Usual Suspects".Cinematically, the story is unfolded by turning pages of the 'book'; smart use of self-awareness. After "The Hustler", Newman could play this in his sleep...he winks at us in recognition of his power to make this fun.Major tracts of this became templates for parts of "Rain Man" and "Dark City".


                
George Roy Hill's The Sting (1973) is the ultimate crime-does-pay movie. It reunites Robert Redford and Paul Newman (fresh from Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid) as a pair of loose canon con artists. Redford is Johnny Hooker, a reprobate being groomed by slight of hand master, Luther (Robert Earl Jones). Together, the two devise and carry out an elegant con that nets them a tidy bank roll. However, when mob boss Doyle Lonigan (Robert Shaw) learns of their deception, he orders his men to rub out Luther and Johnny. Hooker is shaken down by crooked <U+0096> if slightly sympathetic police lieutenant, Will Snyder (Charles Durning). But Luther is killed, sending Johnny on a mission to avenge his mentor by employing one of his old acquaintances, Henry Gondorf (Newman). Henry used to be a man in the chips. Now he's yesterday's news. But is he ready to throw in the towel and become a legitimate and productive member of society just yet? Director Hill peppers the plot in a series of ironic mishaps and implausible twists that somehow never become contrived. The culminating shake down and final con is memorably set to the music of Scott Joplin's ragtime.I'm not sure what Universal means when they advertise a disc as 'digitally remastered with completely restored audio.' Does that suggest that the video is only partially restored? After a dismal initial offering from Universal, which was NOT widescreen <U+0096> but then even more insultingly repackaged and advertised as a collector's edition <U+0096> we get a 2-disc Legacy Edition DVD of The Sting. It IS widescreen and thankfully enhanced for 16X9 displays. However, the image quality presented throughout is hardly something to get excited about. As with the previously issued full frame disc, colors remain pasty, slightly faded and generally unnatural looking. Flesh tones are usually too pink or slightly orange <U+0096> but never appearing as natural. Contrast levels are weak. Blacks are rarely deep or solid. Whites are more bluish or grayish than white. Overall the characteristic of the image is soft. Occasionally we get some nice crisp looking close ups of Newman or Redford in which fine detail on clothing and make up can be observed, but for the most part details become lost in a dull looking image that has little to recommend it. The audio has been remixed to 5.1, DTS and a cleaned up Mono track (as originally presented in theaters). The 5.1 and DTS offer virtually the same listening experience <U+0096> flat, largely isolated in the center channel and with little to no separation <U+0096> except in the musical tracks and occasional sound effect. Otherwise, they might as well have been mono.Extras on disc 2 boil down to an extensive documentary on the film's creation, success and longevity, inexplicably divided into three chapters that abruptly end, and are really a reason for Universal to advertise them as three extra features <U+0096> rather than one giant one. There is NO audio commentary track <U+0096> a gross oversight for a 70s flick as beloved as this one is. Overall then, The Sting gets recommended as a must have on this time around. But it's not the reference quality collector's piece that it might have been. Oh well, the con is still on.
