I cannot feel that many people who have reviewed this film are overly nostalgic towards it. There is no question that the Python team were talented comedians; that this film was excellent in its time and that its influences are still being felt today. However when I watched it recently I barely laughed and could not help but feel that this film has been overhyped in the years since its release. I think The Life of Brian is still a great piece of comedy and can be enjoyed as much today as it could 20 years ago but not The Holy Grail. Having watched nearly every episode of sitcoms such as Fawlty Towers, Only Fools and Horses and Blackadder before the film I can see that these shows have built on the comedy of The Holy Grail and are finer works because of it. But having seen these before the film I found the humour old fashioned, outdated and *gasp* predictable, something which would not be true when it was released. People have claimed that young people today do not 'get' comedies such as this but I would say that humour has evolved and now slicker, more sophisticated comedies have left dinosaurs such as this little more than reference points in comedy history.


                
Well going into this movie i had very low expectations, despite the high amounts of praise it has received. I had heard for years how funny and amazing this movie is. So i finally felt that i needed to watch it. I had procrastinated watching it for far too long. Well, the truth is, i didn't procrastinate watching long enough. I wish i had never watched it. After 25 minutes, I had to shut it off, which makes this the worst movie i have ever watched. The so-called jokes in this movie are completely unfunny. These "jokes" are on par with middle school toilet humor. Worse actually. This movie is a constant bombardment of stupidity. After watching 25 minutes of it, i felt like i had gone insane. I needed to know that i wasn't the only one who felt like this was utter trash, so i came here to see if anyone else felt the same. Thankfully i am not alone.Im not that great at writing reviews, but in short, the "jokes" are infantile at best.


                
First thing I want to ask is ... how can anyone give this an 8.4 rating !!!!! I watched this movie when I saw its rating. But sorry to say the movie was hopeless. There was no humour in this movie. The entire ambiance in the movie looked gloomy. The attempts at humours were pathetic and even a 4 year old kid would write better comic scenes. It was the most boring movie I have ever watched. What were these people thinking when they made this movie ? This definitely not the 'epitome' of English comedy. Only thing it was good at was that I had a nice nap when I was half way though the movie. The remaining half gave me a nice sleep in the night. Don't even bring its DVD on rent.If I had to describe this movie in one word it would be 'nonsense'. (I had a stronger word but I refrained myself from saying it)


                
I think this movie put me through shock at how cheesy, corny, stupid, unfunny and how completely pointless it was. What is up with these stupid comedies. I could barely watch the whole movie but still it was very hard for me to watch considering how I have a sick sense of humor. This film just was really not all that funny to me though seriously. Everybody says that this movie is hilarious and it's entertaining well to be honest it's nether. This movie to my opinion is on my top 10 of worst films. This film of course is number 4 on the list because it managed to make me laugh once and only once. People say this movie is good so I will recommend this film to little kids. But other than that I just can not see why this is so funny. I rate this film a 1 out of 10 purely because it doesn't deserve an 8 because I wasted my money on this film.


                
How on earth people find this movie funny is beyond me. I tried my very best to like this movie but I gave up after 32 minutes into the film................. I watched Monty Python's other movie 'Life of Brian' and it was pretty good. 'Life of Brian' was a comedy movie that knew its limits for silliness, hence enjoyable............ .. 'Holy Grail' on the other hand pushed the limits for silliness too far that it was not at all funny. ............... Please don't believe in all the positive reviews this movie is getting.........( why can't IMDb allow me to post a short comment, it says I have to write at least a 10 lines review...please excuse me - fill fill fill )


                
i wonder how people could laugh on such silly so called jokes of this movie,this movie is for kids,and i don't think they can also laugh on this, i had high expectations of this movie,but this is the worst movie i have ever seen , it sucks. i found no see laughable,its dumb. IMDb ratings are not perfect at all , no wonder movies like this make to 8.4 and many good movies which are not much popular makes in to 3 or 4 points there are so many classic comedy movies of old times which are much below rated here, this movie doesn't really deserve a rating above 4,i am thankfull that i didn't buy a original DVD of this movie,don't waste ur money on this


                
This one was considered the best, my pals told me many times how great it was. I watched it very carefully. I almost cringed and simply made myself watch it till the end. This is Awful. I hated every single second of this third-rate-horror-of-a-tasteless movie ever. Ever. Nobody is funny in this movie - Innes, Gilliam, Idles, Cleese - they all are horrible. This is a very fine example of really poor script, terrible play, vain efforts of being funny, but just being utterly silly. Stupid. Senseless. Clueless. Less of all. Just less. I hated it with all my guts. Right were those who said this movie did not stand the test of time. Well, it never stood at all. It dragged and crawled most miserably. My advice is this - never waste 90 minutes of your time on this delirium, this stew of unfunny skits and blunt jokes. There was nothing sacred for this bang of unfunny comedians. It is clear here. it is bad and worse every minute. Simply bad


                
I guess I am very much in the minority but I totally disappointed and disgusted with this film.  I had a really good attitude when I put the tape in the other day having heard so many positive things about the movie over the years.  It wasn't long into the movie that I started wondering when it was going to get good and the problem is, it never did.  Just one dumb attempt at humor after another, nothing really connected, and almost none of it was very funny.  A great deal of it was absurd and bizarre but nothing that really made me laugh at all (except maybe for the monks hitting themselves in the head with a board and the bit about the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch).  I was left wondering just what the folks who did the movie were trying to accomplish and really couldn't figure it out.  I will never waste my time with a Monty Python movie again.


                
I just don't get it. I'm a hard core Fawlty Towers fan and a Brit, but I find nothing funny about this film. The  rabbit scene near the end of the movie was the only thing that made me chuckle.Michael Palin was wonderful in his travel documentaries "Around the World in 80 Days" and "Pole to Pole", and John Cleese was perfect as Basil Fawlty, but put these two in a Monty Python film and you get no return on the investment. I have a wicked sense of humour and I have tried and tried to find something funny in all of the Python films, but I have yet to have a real good laugh.I wonder sometimes if there's an "emperor's clothes" type of mentality surrounding these movies; I'll pretend to like it so as I'll belong to the "I get it club". The humour in this movie is not intelligent - I work as a high school teacher and I am certain that the "knuckle head" students in my class would completely enjoy this film. Sure, the movie is full of jokes with historical relevance: feudalism, pre-enlightenment science, etc., but these don't make for an "intelligent" film - simple childish humour. In the same way as I don't find junior high school toilet jokes funny anymore, I think I have left it too late to appreciate the humour of the Holy Grail.I rented this movie completely on the recommendations of the user's comments on this site - a complete waste of money. Your $3.50 would be better spent on some Fawlty Towers re-runs.


                
I had heard that Holy Grail was a hilarious flick, so I was pretty excited as the opening credits rolled by. It was supposedly "the epitome of British comedy". If this is the best that British comedy has to offer, I think I'll stay American, thank you. The movie was absolutely stupid. Now, I like certain types of stupid comedy, but this movie just didn't cut it. It was a waste of my time. If you want to see real British comedy, check out the old game show "Whose Line is it Anyway?" If you want to see garbage put on film, Holy Grail is the movie for you.


                
wHAT...wHAT....dID YOU JUST SAID THIS IS A GREAT COMEDY?With this movie in my mind i am still not able to control myself...just saw holy grail and life of Brian.....and this is the worst thing i ever did in my life, and yeah, yES Sir.Lets start talking, i remember that punch of a girl called as witch was really funny and remarkable but for the rest.....I think hahaha the very presence haha of such type of movies is a threat to human beings. lET ME contROL mySELF. Hell i cant even talk now.This movie or movie or mevoi whatever you call it is amazing task of .... i am still laughing on how foolishness can be compared to non- senseness...or whatever you call it again. Such kind of films and the people loving them is a pure and serene indication that soon there will be a time when rapes, assaults and sex will be given a status of comedy ; today we have black and dark comedy....may be that will be categorized as "HARD COMEDY".So basically in our world of freedom , such movies cant be blamed or banned but when they receive high ratings and huge following i am sure that we are not on wrong path.


                
I was eager to see this film after it having such a good reputation but its a film with no story, constant unfunny stupidity and general crapiness.People say its typical British humour, well in that case i don't like British humour. Im sure if you find it funny, its an hilarious film. But im rating this as a movie like i would for any other and therefore it deserves a 1/10, nothing higherAn 8.5 rating should be on a film which is actually a good MOVIE not a good sketch show (that for the record didn't make me laugh). It makes me feel sick that this trash has higher ratings than full metal jacket, platoon and reservoir dogs. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion Mine is just the right one :)Monty Python is not an excuse in silly comedy; it is simply a failure, it sends jokes at you every second yet it fails to deliver.


                
I do not understand why almost all of the IMDb user reviews give this movie 8 or more stars. It was terrible quality recording (NOT EVEN HD!) with unbelievably horrible effects. It wasn't funny at all and the ending was the worst ending i have ever seen in any movie, it was so stupid, i felt like stabbing needles in my eyes so i would become blind and never have to see that movie ever again. And the plot was a complete copy of Indiana Jones and the kingdom of the crystal skull. The soundtrack was also very stupid, the entire movie didn't even have 10 songs and all the songs that were in the movie, no one would even know because they're so old, in fact, they're probably from even before 2008 or 2007! They should put songs in there that people actually recognize like maroon 5 songs and LMFAO songs! I would never recommend this movie to anyone. I regret watching it and i will never in my entire life regret typing this online review. WORST. COMEDY. EVERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR!


                
I would prefer that Monty Python were included in this " best 250 " list because of their masterpieces, s.a. The Life of Brian, The Meaning of Life, And now something completely different, a.s.o. , than for this boring not-succeeded movie.Just to take the concept of the enthusiastic main comment I red, you have to know how to use this kind of " silly " humor: here lays the distinction ( I add ) between real silliness and humor one! The Holy Grail belongs unfortunately to the first sphere. (and suggesting to watch Space Balls instead of it, as I read in another comment, is not a solution: it is pure silliness as well!) Monty Python (so as Mel Brooks, who seems to have forgotten it ) knew very well how to make people laughing with surrealism, so they are not to blame for this forgivable and forgettable little sin.What is to blame is that we should have forgotten it, and on the contrary I found with surprise that this bad film ( I won't add about it anything more than the many not-satisfied comments say ) is underlined and appreciated.Of course I remain convinced about this thing: Monty Python knew how to make people laughing, and they surely ( in their own ) still know it: that's the reason why if they saw their movie now, I'm sure they would not laugh at all!


                
It's just not funny at all as far as I am concerned.Not that I don't like silly comedy - I do. But this movie just doesn't cut it for me. The film never really goes anywhere. There a few funny moments but overall a disappointment.There was no character development whatsoever. I have no idea what were these guys in the movies were thinking. It was terrible.It could be I am not a British. But a truly funny movie should be universally so, like city lights.But again, to each his own. I would suggest to stay away this film however.


                
I didn't expect much when starting to watch this movie. I was told it was a funny movie. The fact is, it is not funny at all, it's disgusting. After 15 minutes watching it, I felt I want to vomit. I got dizzy. The jokes were so bad and stupid. The words can't be understood easily. some scenes were violent and horrible. I regret watching it. It is a very low intelligent movie. It was made with low taste of jokes. I don't recommend to watch this movie, especially children. There were some violent scenes that were made funny (but not funny at all!!) as if they were jokes. This could potentially give children wrong views. I wish such movie would never be made ever again.


                
This movie consisted of some of the most unfunny British humor I've ever seen. I didn't find it funny at all. The only good thing about this movie was that it was accurate in depicting Medieval living conditions and such. Otherwise, I couldn't wait for it to end. I kept waiting for it to get funny, but it didn't. For a real spoof movie, check out a great one like Spaceballs.


                
People have been raving about Monty Python for years. this film is crap, the "jokes" really are not the slightest bit funny. Over the years I've noticed that the people who say this film is funny generally don't have a sense of humour. I think mostly they are lying in a vain attempt to hide this fact. All other Python material is crap too. Fawlty Towers was funny though Cleese' influence would have ruined it if he'd had more input. You could see it coming close as they bled some jokes dry. Palin is a gifted travel commentator. Monty Python had success because at the time it was different, if only they could have combined this with some humour. Don't watch this crap and be3 very wary of anyone who claims to find it funny.


                
Everyone has been raging about how bad ass funny this movie was. Well I finally saw it the other day, and ugh, I had to turn it off halfway through.First of all, it appears shot on 16mm, with all the production value of a community college student film (zooms included).The jokes fall horribly flat. They kept using that "coconuts for horses" bit that got tired after about 2 minutes. The killer rabbit scene looked like some sort of slasher movie, way out of the realm of silly comedy. There are scenes with a lot of fog, which give the feel of a foreboding atmosphere, like a Braveheart like battle is about to break out, but this doesn't belong too well in a comedy flick. If you want to be entertained, watch Family Guy and Drawn Together instead.


                
Not funny. Tedious. Boring. Fast forward. Flat. Lame. Mentally bankrupt. Struggling. Uninventive. Would be laughable if it wasn't soporific. How can I manage a minimum of five lines for this disaster ? Please help me. Void of wit, novelty and ideas. Laboured. Painful. There are many other things to do besides watching this. I couldn't face it all the way. It was not just silly, but stupid silly. I seriously (and I mean this very sincerely) hope I will lose a lot of votes with this uniquely perceptive review. End.
In 932 A.D., King Arthur, along with his squire, Patsy, is travelling throughout England searching for men to join his Knights of the Round Table. Arthur's first stop is at a castle where the guards ask how Arthur found the coconut halves Patsy has been using to simulate the sound of horses galloping. Arthur leaves after his encounter turns into a discussion about African and European swallows. Arthur later encounters the Black Knight, who will not let Arthur and Patsy pass. A sword fight breaks out with Arthur gaining the upper hand, but the Black Knight continues to fight despite having all his arms and legs cut off. With all four of the Black Knight's limbs gone, the battle is declared a draw as Arthur and Patsy continue onward.The villagers of a small town come to Sir Bedevere the Wise, claiming that they have captured a witch. Bedevere puts the woman through a test, where she is revealed to be a witch because she weighs the same as a duck. Arthur knights Bedevere as a member of his Round Table, and is joined by Sir Lancelot the Brave, Sir Galahad the Pure, and Sir Robin the Not-Quite- So-Brave-As-Sir-Lancelot. The knights reach Camelot, but following a song- and-dance cutaway, Arthur decides not to enter, because "'tis a silly place". The group soon encounters God (shown as a cutout animation of British cricketer W. G. Grace), who instructs them to seek the Holy Grail.
The unfunniest so called comedy I've ever seen river had more belly laughs than these greedy spoilt middle class bores Never have I been so bored or laughed so little. Even the mighty Taxi D Not a patch on the naturalism of the hilariously dark Twin Town or most dark American comedies. The best comedy is anti-establishment anyway which Python certainly are not.Vegas I ;like normally but this script is so dire so predictable so well English in the worst way (In recent years the English films have been awful all of them) Ireland at least produced the commitments, Scotland with Braveheart and Trainspotting 2 stand out great movies and Wales had Twin Town, Zulu, Last Days of Dolwyn , Torchwood, Doctor Who and Under Milk Wood etcThe comedy is paint by numbers, the actors are dead men walking because there is no characterization and no originality and it's just soooo unfunnyEngland is falling behind no matter how many grim up north movies they produce. It's the old class system that destroys English films. The Oxbridge graduates spewing endlessly clichéd scripts about working class people they've never lived with. It is pathetic. Monty Python wasn't funny, neither was anything from Oxbridge. it's just not funny.Let guys like Jonny Vegas and Peter Kay, Rob Brydon, Billy Connolly or write their own dialogue and forget the archaic failed class system let the working class people and the real talent that comes through the system properly take over the writing and the British and English film industries will rise again what next prince Edward to write a modern day Oliver Twist?


                
This is the first time I write a review. I couldn't help it. I really can't understand how so many people find this movie to be great. It's almost unwatchable. I managed to watch half of it. It's one of the worst movies I've watched so far in my life.


                
I'm not going to write a novel like a lot of reviews here. I'm simply going to say this movie is severely overrated that it makes me want to punch something. I didn't laugh 1 time. I also didn't smile 1 time. What a waste of time


                
If you think this is somehow can be watched with your family or loved ones, you will he disappointed in this movie. It is gory, inappropriate and not for the faint of heart. There is nothing funny in this movie and the hype is absolutely exaggerated. I sat an hour through this movie with my friends and we looked at each other, no one laughed even once. The plot is dumb as nails. 1 hour was forever wasted. Again. I did not find it comedic. Just the so called humour was exaggerated and plain lame.


                
