King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table set out on a quest to find the Holy Grail...as told to do so by a cartoon God that lives in the clouds... Easily the most hilarious and original comedy ever made, Monty Python and the Holy Grail claims it's undisputed throne through insanely ridiculous situations and characters that will very likely never be duplicated. Pure comedic genius that doesn't go stale with age or decades of competition having been released. Simply seeing the way comedy films are made today, this film will very likely have a long reign before anything can even hold a candle to it. An absolute belly-laugh fest that never lets up.Only the cast of Monty Python could have pulled this film off, with each actor playing many different characters...all hilarious! The genius in the actors' lines themselves are truly to be admired. The comedic style of talking in circles is one technique that most comedies do not try to do, simply because they can't compete with the genius of this film, which uses it flawlessly. Those that do try usually fall flat on their faces. Two particularly excellent examples of this can be seen in the beginning scene, in which the characters discuss the origins of coconuts.....and the other when Lancelot breaks into the swamp castle to save the "damsel in distress." This is merely one technique that the cast has perfected to conjure up laughs consistently throughout the entire film. The only way that I can imagine that someone might not like this film is if they simply do not enjoy it's type of humor. Too bad for them.Another hilarious technique used in the film is the use of comedy in the background. From people slamming cats against poles for no apparent reason, to people filling up baskets with mud in the fields....all very strange and hilarious at the same time. It's also simply amazing that all of the characters are played by the same group of actors, which shows the great range all of them have. Some are simply unrecognizable from one character to the other and it sometimes takes a good eye to pick them out, which makes it fun. And I don't want to ruin it for anyone, but this film takes some turns that no sane person could see coming.Ridiculous characters in ridiculous situations equals ridiculous laughter.The epitome of all-star comedy that will no doubt continue to stand the test of time. Kudos to Gilliam and the rest of the Python crew. If you haven't seen it yet, make it your first priority in life!


                
This is perhaps one of the greatest, funniest parodies in the history of film. I think the greatest definition of irony is that to be believably stupid on screen, you have to be very intelligent. This is a rare occasion where something can be so stupid that it's funny, with the addition of feeling you got your money's worth at the end. Examples of failures would be anchorman, austin powers, scary movie etc. The gore and clichés of three headed, and goofy "NI!" yelling knights are what give this movie discreet beauty.Did I mention that the acting is also very good for a movie of this sort. All of the main characters, as they do in the series, take on numerous characters, all of whom are well established and each have their quirks about them. This was a well written, well thought out, and perfectly directed, low budget comedy. The funniest of any monty python film, and amongst the top comedies of all time. I laughed from beginning to end and bruised one of my lungs. I highly recommend this film to anyone. This is living proof that all you need is a good script and good actors.


                
I do know, however, that Monty Python and the Holy Grail is one of the funniest movies ever made. Let's face it, if the Python hadn't showed up in 1969, someone would have created them by now, or the world would be a much sadder place. Alongside Life of Brian, which is the sextet's masterpiece, Holy Grail is an excellent start if you want to get addicted to their surreal humor.As suggested in the title, the film deals with the Arthurian stories, freely reinterpreted by the Python ensemble: after recruiting his knights, including Sir Lancelot (John Cleese), Sir Robin (Eric Idle), Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones) and Sir Galahad (Michael Palin), King Arthur (Graham Chapman) embarks on a mission from God (also Chapman, voice only though): to seek and find the Holy Grail. No need to say, the journey is going to be perilous, but also hilarious, our heroes doing their "best" to screw everything up.As in Life of Brian, there are so many good bits choosing just one or two feels reductive and disrespectful, given the material. It's pure comedy gold from start to finish, a non-stop gag marathon: from the mock Scandinavian subtitles in the opening credits to the argument about swallows, from the Killer Rabbit to the Black Knight and the jaw-dropping epilogue, you will keep grinning like never before (if you're unfamiliar with these comedians, that is). Actually, after some serious thinking I can select two particular sequences as particularly memorable: the Knights who say "Ni!" and the Bridge of Death. The rest of the film is ace too, but those two scenes are the ones I can't stop thinking of fondly whenever the movie is mentioned.Oh, and let's not forget Terry Gilliam's vital contribution: he doesn't appear that much as an actor (his Bridgekeeper is absolute genius, though), but he compensates that with the remarkable animations used to depict part of this epic adventure. Speaking of epic, this picture has one of the most brilliant tag-lines in comedy history, if not film history in general.Oh yes, the world wouldn't be quite the same without the Monty Python. Even the most miserable person on the planet will laugh like a lunatic after viewing any of their films.P.S. Ni!


                
The first time I saw this was on CBS at 11:30 on a Friday night. I had seen a few Monty Python shows on PBS, so I knew who they were, and I was very interested in seeing this.This film shows you just what all around comedy is all about.It starts during the opening credits and ends in a way you don't see coming. The songs are....memorable. The drawings/animation are imaginative for its time and the Monty Python troupe was at its shining best playing a host of characters from the days of King Arthur. If you don't laugh at this today, you have no funny bone! Many other reviewers here hit this film on the nose, there isn't much more to add to how brilliant this piece of work it.This is one of my all time favorites and is one of the top 10 films of all time.
This is such a great film that a professor of mine actually used it in a Medieval Civilization class as extra credit. This was not because the movie was so historically accurate, but because the movie was so much funnier when we applied what we learned in her class to it! It was really hard to pick only 10 funny lines!To anyone that watched it once and didn't quite get it or got frustrated the first time, here is a tip: Catch it on DVD with the subtitles or closed-captioning on. That way you will be sure to catch all of the French insults and the other one-liners that fly by so fast! I don't recommend doing that with kids in the room - my 7-year-old picked up a couple of words on the screen that he had missed previously...Enjoy!


                
From a technical viewpoint, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" could be called a seriously flawed and impaired film. Filmed on location in the UK with a minimal budget and regular "Python" cast members, I seriously doubt that anyone working on the project at the time had believed it would spark such a cultural phenomenon. And revisiting the movie now, post its release 28 years ago, is magical.First-time viewers may be puzzled by the film's odd opening--in fact, stories of those who thought that they had entered into the wrong screening room come in abundance. But as soon as the voice of the coarse British man is audible the viewer realizes that he or she has been duped once again by the Python Troupe.King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table have been sent on a most glorious quest by God Himself--to seek and maintain the Holy Grail, the legendary cup that Christ drank from during The Last Supper, prior to His execution, and which later caught His blood as he was left danging upon the cross.But the seriousness surrounding the Holy Grail is left wholly untouched by the members of Monty Python--instead, we follow King Arthur and his men as they come upon an odd assortment of characters, including The Black Knight, Dennis, The Knights Who Say "Ni!", and The Killer Rabbit, all of whom hinder the daring soldiers in their quest for the Holy Grail.Many people will find the humor of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" ingenious, while others will find the exact same jokes and stints repetitive and ridiculous. I myself did not enjoy the film the first time I saw it as a child, but over the years I have come to appreciate its humor a bit more. I still find the jokes a bit too stretched out at times, and certain gags, though hilarious the first ten times, get a bit humorless the twentieth time around (the coconuts, for example, which are amazingly silly when first introduced, soon become tiring when they are treated as the highlight of a joke repetitively). However, often enough the jokes introduced at certain points in the films are merely played in the background further into the film--for example, the fact that the men do not ride on horses is quite a major idea the first time it is revealed, and becomes the central subject of a conversation between Arthur and the man atop the castle battlements. But later on the notion of no horses is played smaller and in the background as so we can concentrate on the current jokes at hand, as well as the missing horses as an added bonus.There is absolutely nothing to truthfully discuss about "Monty Python and the Holy Grail," other than to say that at first it seems quite obnoxious, but it starts to grow on you. And this movie has definitely made a deep dig into our culture. In fact, on the commentary track for the newer DVD, John Cleese mentions that a pro American football player (or "footballer" as the English call them) and his buddy were thinking of a plan in the midst of a serious game. Their strategy was this on the field: Run away! Run away!There are countless classic scenes, including the battle between The Black Knight and King Arthur ("I've had worse!"); the scene where Sir Lancelot the Brave (or Launcelot, as the script for the film names him) storms the Swamp Castle in hopes of rescuing a fair maiden and, in result, ends up destroying everything in his path (including the candle mounted along the wall leading to the spiralling staircase), saying that he gets a bit frantic and over-excited in this genre; Sir Robin and the Three-Headed Knight ("...when danger reared its ugly head he bravely turned his tail and fled..."); The Knights Who Say "Ni!" and their request for a shrubbery; the Killer Rabbit's attack on Arthur's merry men. That's just to name a few memorable scenes."Monty Python and the Holy Grail" may be the silliest film ever put on celluloid. It rarely makes sense, sometimes falls a bit flat, but always puts a smile on your face. And that's an achievement.
This is how to make a comedy. Laughs can be found throughout, and the 4th wall falls apart throughout the film without any actors chewing the scenery. The movie from the first scene, and on is great. The acting is wonderful. Everybody in the cast delivers the jokes hilariously. Also the the actors never seem to overact at all. There are a few jokes that go on for to long, but it is aware of this. If only another comedy that doesn't deserve to have its name mentioned (cough Disaster Movie cough) was self-aware that the jokes it had were to long. It really is a shame that British people can say that they have awesome comedies like this, and we have a lot of awful comedies like (sigh) Disaster Movie. This film is a work of genius.4 stars out of 4


                
This has got to be one of the side-splittingly funniest films of all time.No one can deliver such cerebral humor as the pythonians,and this is truly their finest hour(OK,so its about an hour and a half).This film doesn't even wait for the show to begin to start you laughing,it goes for the throat during the opening credits(sorry I don't want to ruin it for you).It made me laugh till my tears were crying.If you are a single chap, and you want to know if a certain girl is right for you,then try this.Bring her to your home,cook her a wonderful meal,complete with a great bottle of wine,then plop her down in front of the telly and start this video(or DVD,whatever).If she is not laughing hysterically within ten minutes,then turn off the box,and break up with her immediately,as she has an impaired humor center in her brain(and will only cause you tremendous misery in the coming years).I only wish I had known of the "python Challenge" during my dating days.It would have saved me years of unremitting heartache(as well as thousands in legal fees). Please trust me on this one,it might just save your life.I give this movie an unrepentant 10,but would give it a 20+ if it were an option.
There's a huge difference between American humor and British humor. American humor is the fart and burp joke while British humor is the arguing over a pointless subject joke. Python is British. Therefore, there will be many people who won't "get" this film. But those who do will have the comedy experience of a lifetime.With a plot that can be summed up in 10 words (King Arthur and his knights search for the Holy Grail), this film isn't deep or emotional. However, the dialogue is so funny and the acting so excellent that the film feels like an epic-minus a large budget. The budget is the only problem with the film, and it doesn't detract much. You might notice the crummy special effects, but there aren't many, so it doesn't matter. Other than that, the film is beautifully shot. The epic Scottish landscapes are perfect for the film. The medieval costumes and sets are also great, but it's the acting which makes this film a true classic.All the Pythons are fantastic. Graham Chapman is hilarious as the straight-faced King Arthur, along with a few other roles. His straight man occasionally delves into the "silly", which makes for an excellent performance. John Cleese, my personal favorite of the Pythons, is funny as the French Taunter and- my favorite role in the film- the eccentric, pyromaniac, spitting Tim the Enchanter! Michael Palin has one of the funniest moments in the film while in the Castle Anthrax with about 20 young girls. Terry Jones is a riot as the timid Prince Herbert, who sounds like Michael Crawford and yearns to escape his castle with Sir Lancelot. Eric Idle is very funny as Sir Robin, the Not-Quite-So-Brave-as-Sir Lancelot, who frequently wets his pants and runs away. And Terry Gilliam, besides providing beautiful animation sequences, has a variety of funny small roles, including the "horse" Patsy.Not a scene goes by that isn't funny. The humor is rich, including Knights who Say Ni, Killer Rabbits, politically active peasants, a knight who refuses to give up even when he's lost all his limbs, and a group of minstrels who sing of "bravely running away". The film is the funniest film I've ever seen. Shouldn't that be good enough for you?
With close to 600 reviews on IMDb, nearly all of them wildly positive, one adds another about Month Python and the Holy Grail for much the same reason as one lights a candle in a church - to pay tribute to something or somebody that truly deserves to be remembered no matter how many others may have done it before.Inspired lunacy from start to end, this is a one-off film unlike any other and certainly the Python team at its peak. A sure sign of its unique features is that it hasn't been copied: there is no Holy Grail #2, Holy Grail Revisited or whatever for the simple reason that even the cretin script writers of today are brainy enough to realise this level of skill is untouchable - the Holy Grail, in fact.I first howled with laughter at this flick aged fifteen, a few years after its release, and consider myself lucky - giggly teen age is probably the best time to be initiated to Python. Tonight, watching my own son go into paroxysms over the Black Night losing all his limbs, and the gorge guardian being flung down for confusing his swallows, made me realise that the Holy Grail has become an unlikely classic. It may well be one of the 50-odd 1900s films being watched in the year 3000. The Pythons did a lot of overrated stuff, but this is sublime.
You really could laugh yourself to death watching this movie. It is nothing but hilarious. Monty Python keeps pounding and pounding you with gag after gag, and lead you down a road, but suddenly its a bridge, no, its an ocean. One of the things that really makes this hilarious is the grand spectacle that dazzles you with attention to grand sound effects, and then the next scene may be purposely cheap sets, all to make you laugh yourself to death. There is crude humor, and what I think can fairly be described as dark humor-you might not think its funny to see an animal with big teeth rip several knights to death, or a knight have his arms and legs cut off, but Monty Python will make you laugh at it. I personally think they're akin to Marx Brothers comedy, or Mel Brooks-hilarious with likable people in outrageous situations.


                
Even if you never heard the name :"monty python" , you will find it hard to stay indifferent to this magnificent film. the "so called" quest for the holy grail which marks the main theme of the movie is vaguely attended for, on this crazy "streem of conscious" comedy. on every possible occasion the movie wonders to absurd grounds with such off-topic debates as to what kind of sparrow can carry a coconut while maintaining air velocity, or what is the best system of governing is there to manage peasants - that is the kind of rubbish king Arthur has to endure on his no-good journey on a non existent horse to a grail he will never find, due to a sudden anachronistic burst of police officers that arrest him and his knights. indeed a good reason not going to Camelot is because "it's such a silly place" or maybe because "it's just a model"? who knows? but what i do know is that you'll never forget the dual between Arthur and the black night, or "the violence inherit in the system" sketch, or any number of unforgettable sketches you could find in this remarkable movie. you will be happy to get to know the amazingly talented cast of the "monty python's flying circus" legendary t.v. program from the early 70's BBC hit: john Cleese, Graham Chapman, Micheal Palin, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam, along with others who appeared regularly on the show (Connie Booth- Clees's ex-wife for egg.). pay special attention to the opening credits- in the Hebrew translated version i saw they hid the credits with the translation, so don't miss it by that chance. have fun! Sapir
I will preface this by saying that while I'm not a big Monty Python fan, when they get it right, it is brilliant. The show had some great sketches, but some were just bizarre and incomprehensible. The movie is 100% on the mark, starting from the titles with subtitles to its off the wall ending.It would be a disservice to explain the movie and the great scenes in this review. But a few things to note.First, when you take into account that this film was done in 1974, most medieval movies of the time were glamorous set pieces with handsome knights and beautiful princesses. The Pythons skewered this notion completely: Arthur and his knights were commonplace blokes, and the sets were in some muggy, ugly areas. This may have been a budgetary issue, but interestingly enough, they probably depicted medieval England more authentically than even films nowadays.Second, the amount of times the fourth wall is broken are numerous, and just goes to shows how dementedly hilarious the movie gets, but yet still holds the story well.That said, if you have never seen Monty Python (who hasn't?), this is a whole different level of comedy--yes, silly is about right, but not in the crude "Paul Blart" or "Larry the Cable Guy" type of silly, but at the same time, not the cerebral "Dr. Strangelove" type of silliness.Must watch.


                
WOW! is all i can say about this comedy epic. i had seen it 8 years ago but all i remembered of it was the rabbit scene. and i had no recollection on how it ended. now 8 years later i got the double disc DVD and as usually i watch everything on the discs. including those stupid subtitle tracks. the film itself is simply brilliant. after about 3 and a half minutes of quite amusing credits it starts with a scene with king Arthur having the most meaningless argument with a guard in a castle. it's my favorite scene in the film. my favorite line i: "Are you suggesting that coconuts migrate?" HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!! i love that line! it then goes on to another favorite scene of mine with Dennis. he was quite the menace for the king. heh...get it? menace? Dennis? it was the....never mind....the film then plays out with oh so many funny scenes and meaningless arguments that you'll die laughing. this is the perfect film for Saturday night or any other day for that matter. totally recommended to anyone in any age! watch it over and over and over again!


                
Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a British comedy film written and performed by the comedy group Monty Python (Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin), and directed by Gilliam and Jones. It was conceived during the gap between the third and fourth series of their popular BBC television programme Monty Python's Flying Circus.In contrast to the group's first film, And Now for Something Completely Different, a compilation of sketches from the first two television series, Holy Grail was composed of new material, therefore considered the first "proper" film by the group. It generally parodies the legend of King Arthur's quest to find the Holy Grail.From its opening multi-language titles to the closing arrest of the entire Dark Ages cast by modern-day bobbies, Monty Python and the Holy Grail helped to define "irreverence" and became an instant cult classic. This time the Pythonites savage the legend of King Arthur, juxtaposing some excellently selected exterior locations with an unending stream of anachronistic one-liners, non sequiturs, and slapstick set pieces. The Knights of the Round Table set off in search of the Holy Grail on foot, as their lackeys make clippety-clop sounds with coconut shells. A plague-ridden community, ringing with the cry of "bring out your dead," offers its hale and hearty citizens to the body piles. A wedding of convenience is attacked by Arthur's minions while the pasty-faced groom continually attempts to burst into song. The good guys are nearly thwarted by the dreaded, tree-shaped "Knights Who Say Ni!" A feisty enemy warrior, bloodily shorn of his arms and legs in the thick of battle, threatens to bite off his opponent's kneecap. A French military officer shouts such taunts as "I fart in your general direction" and "I wave my private parts at your aunties." Rabbits are a particular obsession of the writers this time around, ranging from the huge Trojan Rabbit to the "killer bunny" that decapitates one of the knights.Grail is as funny as a movie can get, but it is also a tough-minded picture -- as outraged about the human propensity for violence as it is outrageous in its attack on that propensity.Also,there's something about feature films that brings out the best in the Pythons. The occasional indulgence of the TV series is replaced by a more focused approach which wrings every conceivable joke out of a given subject.Finally,it is an instant cult classic as gut-bustingly hilarious as it is blithely ridiculous, Monty Python and the Holy Grail has lost none of its exceedingly silly charm.
To review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are five schools, I mean three : 1--- The Ecstatic Review : One of the greatest laugh riots ever committed on the big screen, an epic quest of absurdity like only the glorious Monty Python could have lead.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : Damn, I wish the movie was longer, couldn't they get more budget, it's such a shame. Oh, well, I had a great time, and only for the opening credits, the movie deserves its reputation.1--- The Ecstatic Review (again): You don't get it, Harold, that's exactly the point, it's a low-budget film, and its apparently low quality contributed to the high popularity of the film. Man, it's called a parody.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : I know, what a parody is, Bernard, thank you. But my point was that the movie could have been so much better if only <U+0085> *** WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE FAULT IN THE REVIEW. HAROLD AND BERNARD HAVE BEEN SACKED *** 3--- The Not-ecstatic-not-really-enthusiastic-in-fact-quite-negative Review : This movie is so flawed I don't even know where to start, hell, they didn't even have horses and <U+0085> Aaaaarggggh! *** WE APOLOGIZE AGAIN, FOR THE NEGATIVITY EXPRESSED IN THAT REVIEW. THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN S<U+0085> WELL, SHALL WE SAY, HE MET WITH AN UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT *** As I was saying, to review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are three, I mean two schools of review that actually can both be fused into one unique review, MINE, so let me be the bard to sing the praises of this epic tale of hilarity through : I--- The Self-Hedonistic-Introspectively-Tautological Review : The comic genius of the film is so surrealistic it goes beyond any reasonable attempt to measure, judge and therefore give it a proper review. It would be like answering the eternal question : "What's the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?" I think one should consider the wisdom of Sir Bevedere who said that "The Earth is banana shaped", an interestingly fruity allusion which is not without reminding Newton's apple that would revolutionize the law of Physics and originate one of the most important principles governing the film, the one I call <U+0085> 1/ The 'Tarte Tatin' principle :This culinary example might satisfy the descendants of the French "Ka-niggets", the tart was basically invented when a woman who burnt her apple pie rescued it by putting the pastry on the apples and turning out the upside down tart. The result became a famous and delicious dessert. "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" works the same way, it's botched, disjointed, irreverent, turning into derision every cinematic mechanism of the epic genre, but the result is just one of the funniest laugh-out-loud comedies and one of the perfect examples of the level of sophistication and unlimitedness that absurdity can reach, the one I call <U+0085>2/ The 'Red Nose' principle : "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is a succession of incoherent episodic sketches governed by strong coherence in absurd style and surrealistic comedy, and vice versa. The film is the celebration of the boundlessness of comedy. Here's a mathematical demonstration that would have made Sir Bevedere proud : let's admit, by hypothesis, that there was one limit "NI" that comedy could never exceed. Now, what is the definition of comedy? According to the Oxford dictionary, it's a "professional entertainment consisting of jokes and sketches, intended to make an audience laugh". Now, if "NI" existed, that would mean that there would be no comedic purposes in anything above that "Nl" level, which indirectly means that there's absolutely no one who would ever laugh to any subject implying the use of comedy above the "Nu" <U+0085> sorry the "NI" level, in other words, anything above the "Nl" level could be admitted as 100% serious. But consider that total seriousness is so psychologically oppressive that it inevitably implies the use of a comical element to relieve the tension. And the use of a comic relief is even more necessary in a totally serious narrative. So, from a reductio-ad-absurdum, I've demonstrated that even in the existence of a limit above which we can't laugh, we realize that not only we can, but we should. Quod Erat Demonstratum. Whatever seriousness you build, whatever order you create, it's meant to collapse. That's the principle, the one I call <U+0085> 3/ The 'Castle of Cards' principle :The castle of cards has only one goal in its short existence, to collapse. It's the perfect demonstration of the ephemeral essence of any organized and perfectly structured entity. And the higher it gets, the closer is the cataclysm. What's that to mean? "Monty Python & the Holy Grail" highlights the eternal victory of anarchy over order, and how even anarchy can be appealing. It's a perfect assemblage of chaotic situations, that gets your mind acclimated to the so universal and true unpredictability of life. Nothing can surprise you, yet everything is absolutely surprising : a three-headed knight, a black knight who continues the fight even if he's totally chopped off, a witch with a fake noise, a castle full of virgins with nymphomaniac impulses, a harmless bunny that can decapitate you in one second, and one of the worst cases of cinematic party pooping ever. Everything is built up until it dramatically ends in one of the most brilliantly abrupt endings, demonstrating the inevitable destruction of every measurable structure. World was created from chaos and it will end up in chaos in such a pointlessness that absurdity is the only language that could define it. Also ...*** ANY ATTEMPT TO TAKE THIS REVIEW SERIOUSLY WILL BE PUNISHED BY MOOSE TRAMPLING, ACCORDING TO THE SEVERE BUT FAIR LAW OF SVENSONLUNDERJUNGERGUNDESON***
What does it take a film to be immortalized? What moves audiences and critics alike to carve a special place in history for them? James Cameron would argue that it's innovation in special effects; Francis Ford Coppola and Peter Jackson would have you know it's the depth of a story and its epic development through trilogies; Orson Welles was quite sure it was a film's ability to perform above its time and deal with perennial topics. They would all be correct, and their respective films have triumphed and remain must-sees to the world at large. But what would be Monty Python's answer to the above questions? How would the members of this perfect English troupe deal with the pure genius of their films and the depth of their comedy? They'd stand by the fact that, um, a good deal of moose, coconut-carrying African swallows, cheeky revolutionary peasants, 'Ni'-saying knights, Broadway-style numbers and a famous historian are the key to a great, pitch-perfect comedy that stands the test of time...and you know what? Even through their silliness, they'd be correct.Monty Python is a group of English thespians composed of Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones and Michael Palin. Just to read their names together makes the reader raise his/her eyebrow in amusement, for their household names, synonyms of pure comedy. Monty Python gave England its laughs with their satirical, modern and outrageous humour reminiscent of Peter Cook, Harold Pinter and Samuel Beckett, and the few feature films they made together caused such uproar around the world that they're now considered utter classics by critics, film associations, cults, universities and families. "Monty Python and the Holy Grail", possibly their most iconic film, is my personal favourite.The plot follows King Arthur, who has only just retrieved Excalibur from its stony perch and has been informed by the Lady of the Lake that he's to become the greatest king ever. He now travels through the entire country searching for brave, wise, gallant knights who'd like to join him at his round table at Camelot. Sounds quite epic and historical, doesn't it? Well, it's anything but. The film is hilariously nonsensical, too outrageous to be believed, silly at its core; it constantly strays from the plot to present different ridiculous sketches of the knights, it presents events that are not only unbelievable but preposterous...it is, in short, a farce of what comedies and epics have come to be. But unlike other silly movies like "Scary Movie", the film's parody is pure genius and manages to make heavy political, religious and cultural statements throughout, and the silliness is actually uproarious. I laugh every single minute of it, and younger audiences will find that, even if THEY'RE not doing so, the wit and intelligence underlying the ridiculous events astonish them. Audiences of every age and generation have found this to be a comic gem to be treasured.The film begins with THE wittiest opening credits I've seen to date. They're shown upon a black screen featuring ominous, dramatic music and Swedish subtitles. Through the course of the credits roll, the subtitles no longer translate what is being written in English but give out the weirdest, most non-sensical statements about moose; soon after the credits stop and a disclaimer announces that those responsible for the stupid subtitles have been sacked. The subtitles resume, and once again the disclaimer appears saying that those responsible for sacking have been sacked too. More credits appear, like "Moose special effects," "Moose trainers," "Miss Avery's moose", "No moose have been harmed in the making of this film," etc...to the point where a third disclaimer appears saying that everyone responsible for the credits has been sacked and a new set of people have been quickly rounded up to finish the credit sequence, which grows sillier and sillier to the very end. The opening credits foretell the silliness of the film aptly, for the remaining hour and forty minutes is a wild and crazy romp that will have you in awe. Never (and I mean NEVER) has a film been simultaneously silly and profound like this.I can't name any particular scene to exemplify the film's genius. I rather have the reader rent or buy the film and be treated to its wonder without any warning of the surprises in store. There's epic fight scenes, outrageous musical numbers, heavy parody, controversial political and religious statements, interwoven modern scenes, some animation and, well, just about the best screen writing and acting I've ever seen. So...What DOES it take for a film to be immortalized? The answer is pure and simple: it needs to be the inspired work of geniuses, and Monty Python lives up to those standards.Please, if you know what's best for you, SEE THIS FILM! Rating: 4 stars out of 4!!


                
Monty Python and the Holy Grail is by far the funniest movie ever. It also has some of the best quotes in movie history. Such as: "Let's not bicker, and argue about who killed who." etc,etc.... Only Mel Brooks and Jim Carrey have even come close to matching wits with this masterpiece of laughter. This movie will easily maintain it's #1 seat in the comedy hall of fame for decades to come. From a Knight who says Ni! watch for the "little bunnies".


                
i recently re watched this movie for about the 20th time and still was reduced to tears out of pure hysteria. this movie is true comedy and almost every part will have you laughing. the first time i watched this movie i was crying so hard from laughter during the opening credits. The Monty Python guys seems to have found the formula for laughter and used it non-stop. it is probably one of the most recognisible and quotable movies ever made with almost every scene a classic from the black night, to the french guard to the knights who say "ni". you may find funny movies but the all hail in comparison to this comical masterpiece. a must see for those few who haven't. 11/10


                
For years I did not watch or listen to Monty Python, and in retrospect I can't entirely remember why. I remember seeing a couple of scenes from "The Holy Grail" on television when I was younger (the notorious 'black knight' scene and the harem of girls in the castle) and not finding it uproarious as I might have expected. Maybe I'm just not into British comedy, I thought ignorantly. Then I finally gave into it, as I got to be a big fan of Terry Gilliam's films, and discovered as well that John Cleese is one of the funniest people to ever come out of Britain. Life of Brian was surprisingly witty and fun as it dug its claws into a subject of some controversy. Then I went on to this film, and it took two times to watch the film until I found it to definitely be a truly masterful effort in the delirious.The first time some of the jokes and gags and puns and visuals flew over my head, but as an emotional experience (if one could call it that) was immediate- many of the parts were funny as hell, even if I didn't think the whole was. The second time around everything fit, I laughed harder at the jokes I laughed at before, and I was officially a fan of the movie. Like another comedy classic than came out a year previous to Holy Grail, Blazing Saddles, the whole story is rather inconsequential when it comes to the set-pieces and actors in the various roles. King Arthur and the knights see a strange, God-like figure in the sky (my biggest laugh the first time around, one of many genius illustrations from Gilliam) who tells them to find the Holy Grail. So off they go, and encounter a plethora of trials and tribulations along the way.In fact, the whole film is an act of stream-of-consciousness (as was the television show, Flying Circus) where the animated bits are instrumental in taking the shape of the story, or 'skits' in the film. My personal favorites were the 'black knight', the knights who say 'ni', the 'killer rabbit' (one of the great comedy surprises I have had recently), and the boy who "just wants to...sing!". But even when a weaker bit might come along, it may be a bit that doesn't lack the fine visual detail and look provided by Gilliam and Terry Jones, or with some form of wit (i.e. I didn't find the "bring out your dead" scene as extraordinary, but I wouldn't doubt it's original).Although many say that Monty Python and the Holy Grail, which starts and ends with total disregard (and fitfully so) for all logical rules in storytelling, that it's one of the funniest films ever made (which it very well could be), I feel only very slightly reserved in recommending it to anyone. If you're in the mood for a bloody, moody, very low-budget dip into medieval satire by five of Britain's most talented writer/actors (not to mention to 'token' American), it's for you. But it may prove too silly, and maybe too sporadic, to work as a whole. One thing that I can say without a doubt, however, is that it serves as an audacious move in post-modern comedy. To put it another way, Monty Python (not just this film but the TV show, movies, and albums) were a major influence on the guys who do South Park. It's crude, odd fun practically by necessity- you know what you're getting right when "Dentist on the Job" is just 'accidentally dropped in before the movie even starts! A+


                
Monty Python takes a bit of getting used to, as their comedy company is somewhat of an acquired taste for most Americans who aren't accustomed to the dry British wit featured in these movies. However, they are absolute geniuses of comedy, as is demonstrated here in their first full-length feature film, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail." There are excellent and memorable lines, hilarious dialog, and intentionally cheesy acting, combined to give you the laugh of the Dark Ages.King Arthur and his lowest-budgeted knights set off on their legendary quest for the Holy Grail. What they find, instead, is series of mishaps, antics, and outright hilariously idiotic stumbling-blocks.I highly suggest seeing this on the Special Edition DVD (KILLER RABBIT-ON!). There are added features you will undoubtedly enjoy."I...fart in your general direction! Your mother was a hamster and your father...smelt...of...ELDERBERRIES ~! Now go away, or I shall taunt you a second time!" (John Cleese as the French Taunter.) It rates a smooth 9.8/10 from...the Fiend :.


                
Like so many pleasures in life, the typical Monty Python fare is a bit of an acquired taste. Their comedy series, "Flying Circus," had many funny moments, but I would estimate that 70% of it was just very silly stuff that was so outlandish and off the wall that it didn't have much of a wide appeal.Holy Grail had more than its share of silliness as well, but it seemed that the troupe really had outdone themselves here with clever and original material. Some of the bits were so outrageously funny that I must have nearly split my sides laughing at the first viewing with a few friends. And they hurt afterwards as well, so I was apparently not the only one who loved this type of humor.In typical Pythonesque fashion, much of the humor here is black comedy, with bits of gore sprinkled throughout. There was no swearing or nudity that I recall, which is odd for a comedy, instead there was a great deal of violence. It's almost a bit of a satire on the tendency for media outlets to be bastardized for nudity or sexuality, while extreme violence is often viewed as fine for all audiences.What it really amounted to was the Pythons making light of the oft untouchable British legend of the immortal King Arthur. There are so many quotable lines and bits of clever dialog that I could probably see the movie a hundred more times and still be heartily amused. This is a true comedy classic and should not be missed.


                
When I first saw this, I must admit I was a tiny bit skeptic to a low-budget movie starring John Cleese. I had seen Clockwise before I saw this movie, and I had a bad experience with that one. When that's been said, I must say I still laugh when I think of the scenes in this movie.The opening is one of the most special opening scenes I have ever seen. I saw this movie along with the rest of my class, and I'm pretty sure they didn't know what on earth that was going on. Our teacher said nothing of what kind of movie this was, so everyone thought it was serious until about 2 minutes into the opening scene. From there on, everyone knew that it would be an absurd, though funny movie. Since there are so many strange and silly obstacles, and so incredibly absurd humor, this movie is one strange, though extremely funny way of picturing the knights of the round table.The acting is this movie is also flawless. The characters act silly and ignorant, funny and gullible, everything expected from a Monty Python movie. Now, I haven't seen very many Monty Python movies or series, but I have seen Life of Brian, Meaning of life and Monthy Python and the holy grail. These are what I mean to be his best movies.A glittering 10 out of 10 from me. A must-see for Monty Python fans and those who hasn't seen it 20 times...


                
Proof, yet again, that the biggest budget will get you nothing but fancy effects.  The script is the most important part, and this one sizzles. Perhaps one of the funniest movies of all time.  Yes, there is a British sense of humor, but unlike many English movies and understanding of British humor is not entirely required. There is physical comedy, musical comedy "It's only a model". And of course it wouldn't be a Monty Python movie without ripping "society" a new butt.  "Oh, King, eh?  Very nice." "Bring out your dead!"4 stars


                
"Your mother was a hamster, and your father smelt, of elderberries!". One of my favorite lines! Monty Python has come out with some tremendous comedy, but The Holy Grail is one of there best! The classic British humour, and the way they deliver it is great! Plus, the story line is great! If you like comedy, this is a must see! One of the best scenes is, The Castle Anthrax! "I bet your gay!", "No, I'm not"! And you cant forget, Swamp Castle! "We are not to enter the room, until u come and get'em!", "No, you stay here, and make sure, E, dosn't leave"! The movie is great, and most people, (other than uptight squares who have no sense of humour), would agree! "Now go away, before i'm am forced to taunt you a second time-a!"


                
