I rewatched this movie for the first time in almost 10 years to see if it still held up. Did it? Kind of. The first 20-30 minutes are great, the last 20 minutes are great, but the middle really drags.Everything from the beginning of the film to the point where the knights split up is superb. The false opening, the second false opening, coconuts, swallows, "tis but a scratch", monster hand turning the book pages, the Trojan bunny, that stuff was great. Once the knights split up, the movie screeches to a dead halt for 40 minutes. The scenes were basically unrelated skits that meandered about to pad the running time to theatrical length. This wouldn't be so bad if these scenes were at least funny, but they weren't. I didn't laugh or even chuckle once through this whole stretch. Sir Robin, Galahad, Lancelot, none of it did it for me. The Knights Who Say Ni was the only somewhat humorous thing, mostly because of how stupid it was. Once they reunite, things start picking up again. The killer bunny, The Man From Scene 24 at the bridge, intermission, getting arrested, all classic stuff. Had the middle section been heavily trimmed, this could have been fantastic, but that middle section really bogged the movie down to just "very good" for me. Apart from the humor, I'll say the film looks good given its small budget, and the foggy locations give it some nice atmosphere. Comedy can be very subjective, so how much you enjoy this film is dependent on your sense of humor. If you're not a fan of British humor, you're going to hate it, but if the first half hour grabs you, you'll probably enjoy it.
Delightful as well as hilarious satire about King Arthur and his knights embark on a low-budget search for the Grail, encountering many very silly obstacles . This is an imaginative , glamorous , chaotic fantasy based on a haunting journey carried out by King Arthur (early deceased Graham Chapman) and his botcher knights . Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975) results to be a spectacular legendary tale filled with irony , slapstick , adventure and fantasy ; being efficiently directed by Terry Gilliam . Irreverent and often sidesplitting nonsense comedy/satire of Middle Age movies that will probably like to nutty humor fans , including many Political and Social comments . Both John Cleese and Terry Gilliam performed all their stunts during the duel between Black and Green Knight , they both had to learn to manage big and heavy swords and to do some acrobatics, though never being recognizable, wearing both heavy armors and full helmets . The French tactic of pelting Arthur and his knights with livestock echoes the relatively modern legend of a medieval siege of the fortified southern French town of Carcassonne ; said to have been near starvation, the townspeople used the last of their food to pelt the besieging army to convince them, suffering likewise, that the town was well stocked with food and that the siege was hopeless. Adequate production design , he interiors of Camelot and Swamp Castle, and exteriors of Castle Anthrax, French Castle and the opening castle were all shot at Doune Castle . Recently-rebuilt Castle Stalker was used for the Castle Aarrgg ; however the Scottish Department of the Environment withdrew permission for the Pythons to shoot within their castles, saying that the film's script would be "incompatible with the history and fabric" of the castles . The flick was imaginatively directed by Terry Gilliam , an expert on wonderful , surreal atmospheres such as Baron Munchausen , Twelve monkeys , Time bandits , Brazil , Fisher king , Jabberwocky and Heath Leger's last film : Doctor Parnasus . The film might be described as an extraordinary Medieval fantasy full of imagination and color . Six cast members played various characters such as Graham Chapman , John Cleese , Terry Gilliam , Eric Idle , Terry Jones and Michael Palin who plays the most characters , 12 . Though the movie has been directed by Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones , there were a lot of the frictions and conflicts .Lively and evocative Original Music , including jolly melodies . Colorful as well as evocative Cinematography . The motion picture was well directed by Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones . In 1965, with his friend Michael Palin, they made The Late Show (1966) for television, which was his first success and he wrote for many other TV shows . But Terry Gilliam' greatest success was the zany Monty Python's Flying Circus (1969-74) (with Palin, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Jones and Eric Idle) and other hits such as Jabberwocky , The meaning of life , and especially Life of Brian and this Monty Python and the Holy Grail and this Life of Brian , among others . Rating : Good , better than average . Worthwhile watching .


                
I just finished watching this movie and was extremely disappointed. I had previously seen The Life Of Brian and The Meaning Of Life (which in my opinion were bad and worse, respectively), and although this is the highlight of the series, I am not impressed. Maybe I just don't get British humour (well really, it's not about "not getting it", it's more about just not finding it funny), but I don't find this movie entirely funny. Maybe others do, and kudos to them! But this doesn't entertain me. I'm not saying I didn't laugh though. There were humorous and hilarious parts, but I was hyped up and expecting a gut busting movie, so I was disappointed. The coconuts were humorous (funny the first time, then it became tedious), I laughed my ass off when John Cleese decapitated an entire wedding party, and when he in turn was decapitated (albeit in an earlier scene). I also thought the Killer rabbit was extremely hilarious, and the bridge was funny too. Also, the logic of the witch burning was amusing. But 10 minutes of funny from a 1 and a half hour movie isn't too good, especially since I heard this movie is a comedy classic. This is one of the reasons I have mixed feelings about Dogma as well. There are some friggin' hilarious parts, but some boring parts as well (I understand they are moving the plot along, and respect that). However, I just enjoy Dogma more. Back to The Holy Grail. I just am so underwhelmed. I'm trying really hard to like Monty Python, but I just can't. However, the movie is not bad. It has it's moments, and for that it gets.......6/10


                
Don't get me wrong, I understand how this film is considered humorous and well put together for its meager budget, but it being crowned one of the top movies ever made I find myself with my jaw dropped.How is this movie any different from the other purposely stupid comedies like Dumb and Dumber? People who find a liking to Monty Python think that those who don't like it just don't get the humor because it's too intelligent for them. Actually, on the contrary, they do get it and they just don't think it's funny. Monty Python is dumb humor, per se, and there's nothing really unique about it except its setting.If this movie deserves to be in the top 250 of comedy so do films like Dumb and Dumber, Harold and Kumar Go To White Castle do as well ... and i'm dead serious. The only reason this film is bumped so high is the thousands of those akin to nerd culture who for some reason highly value the movie come here and give it a 10/10.It's too silly and hollow to be given such a high status. It belongs to a certain group of moviegoers and, quite honestly the majority of people find no pleasure in this type of entertainment. To call it genius or the funniest movie ever made is exaggeration. It's good, but it isn't great; I honestly don't think it was filmed with the intention of making cinematic history.If that's one thing that makes it great, then you can treat it that way. But as far as I'm concerned, the high rating for this film is very misleading. It should come with a warning label:ACQUIRED TASTE.6/10.


                
Even some 30 years after it's release this still seems very fresh. Monty Python was classic comedy and this was the best Python film. There's really too many highlights to recount, but the nights that say Nee and the Bridge of Death are truly memorable. What a shame we haven't got too many comedians of the calibre of Chapman, Cleese, Palin, Idle, Gilliam and Jones around at the moment. 8/10


                
The Holy Grail is a classic comedy film that spoofs medieval times, made by troupe Monty Python. This movie definitely has its funny moments (especially the 2 stupid knights guarding the room), and has some ingenious ideas for comedy. (i.e. a brief intermission) But there are a few cons about this movie. One, the ending. Why did Sir Lancelot, King Arthur, and Sir Bedevere get arrested by a bunch of cops? This was a big disappointment to me, because I was expecting King Arthur to you know, like, find the Grail. Second, the movie gets a little boring at times (not boring like you want to turn it off, but just bored). And that's pretty much it.
And jolly good fun! With hilarious and memorable lines, MP`s trademark animation sequences and the constant jokes, this is a classic that will forever live in infamy. The Python`s take a well loved story and twist it until it comes out "Pythonized" so watch out if you are a famous historian! Five stars!


                
After establishing themselves as the Beatles of Comedy on their five-year UK television run, the six-member comedy troupe better known as Monty Python made their move to film with this clever, genre-bending spoof of Arthurian legend. In a better world, it would have kicked off a long series of similar Python films, of satires and broad comedies at a pace of one every two or three years, some better, some worse, but all beloved in the same vein as this.I feel in an odd spot here, saying "Holy Grail" is not that great on the one hand and I wish there had been more on the other. But there's a logic stream here. I think the Pythons were on to something, a formula they could have enriched over time. The movie was clearly the work of novices; accomplished comedic actors and hilarious writers yes, but stark newbies on the big screen. The film's texture is as muddy as a Super 8 home movie in places, the action is choppy, and the plot line sags when it should grow taut. I get the feeling the film draws away deliberately from letting us like the individual characters because it disrupts the aesthetic (or as Lancelot would say, the idiom) in which Python works, but this morbid and depressing style grates over time. And then there's that wicked stupid ending, as bad a one as any good film ever had.These are flaws lesser than the film's virtues, which are some brilliant comedy sequences, an eye for period detail and squalor, and a terrific musical score. The no-horse joke is dragged on past the point of obviousness and idiocy to a place by the end that's almost sublime, and it's as much a testament to the comic courage of the Pythons than any of their later icon-bashing. What's bad here are minor by contrast, and the sort of things more accomplished filmmakers would improve upon with subsequent efforts, talky bits, jumpy segues, and the like. Indeed, Python did just that when they made their next film, "Life Of Brian," which actually works as a story in a way "Holy Grail" doesn't, though minus the same broad humor, but then the Pythons went to seed in the 80s, traipsing off into solo projects and one lame sketch-comedy knockoff, "Meaning Of Life," before we lost Graham Chapman to AIDS and that was that.MPATHG works very well for the first 20 minutes or so, setting the scene of Britain circa 932 AD, then loses altitude like a coconut-laden swallow as it takes on the Grail quest legends, before screeching to a silly halt with a ending that deserves a spoiler if any film ever did. Episodic bits work well in isolation, often very well, but don't gel the way they should. There's some great episodes, the duel with the Black Knight, the faceoffs with Knights who say Ni, the quests of Galahad and Lancelot, and the finale at the Bridge of Death ("oh, great"). The part I enjoy most is Robin's relationship with his minstrels, perhaps the worst spin doctors a leader could have (though he certainly deserves them.)Picking out the individual members for applause seems an exercise in perversity, but Michael Palin shines as Galahad, the lead Ni Knight, and especially the father of Prince Herbert ("This is supposed to be a happy occasion. Let's not bicker and argue over who killed who.") Also, Chapman is solid in the lead role, and one almost wishes we were really allowed to root for the guy. (Hard to believe Chapman was reportedly soused for much of the filming. He seems rock-steady.)The great thing about this movie is you don't have to be a Python fan to enjoy it. You can actually have a happy family life, normal adult friends, and no special aptitude for Jeopardy or Trivial Pursuit. Holy Grail doesn't deserve the biggest cult following this side of Sun Yung Moon, but it's merry and more than adequate for what it tries to be. I can't help feeling it could just have been the beginning of so much more.
My Rating : 7/10This film is not for everyone, I will admit that, but it is a fun humorous take on the Knights of the Round Table as only Monty Python could do. A lot of the humour in the film is quite dry as is most of British comedy, and some of it takes a moment to process, so if you don't mind the Brits or thinking about a joke this film is for you. Obviously not all the jokes are thought-provoking, some of them are just plain stupid, which is great because it goes well with the film as a whole. We follow the Knights on their quest for the Holy Grail as they fight the French, battle against temptation, fight an evil rabbit, encounter the black knight, and the knights that say "Ni". Will they accomplish their quest to obtain the Holy Grail? Or will they fall short because of some heinous murder? Only time and you watching the film can find out. Whatever you do, avoid Camelot for it is a silly place.


                
Ni. Ni, ni ni ni ni. Ni ni ni ni ni. NI. 
Ekki-ekki-ekki-ekki-PTANG. Zoom-Boing, z'nourrwringmm


                
King Arthur is recruiting his Knights of the Round Table throughout England. After that, they are given a quest by God to find the Holy Grail with a few obstacles along the way.This movie is known by many people as a comedy classic. I was thinking, "Wow! This must be a hilarious movie!" But was it a hilarious movie? For me, it wasn't. It was by far a decent movie that delivers mostly chuckles.People have different tastes of humor. This movie, I think, is meant to play skit after another skit after another skit, like "The Ten" or "The Kentucky Fried Movie". Well, this was actually my first movie that has skits in it.This movie has a fair share of bad skits and a bit more funny ones which is why I give it a decent rating. There are little parts of the film where it made me laugh out loud. I mostly chuckled throughout or sigh on the bad skits.The cast has a fair share of the humor and they all get along well. Is this movie good? Well, for the most part, yeah. Was the movie hilarious? For the most part, no. I just thought it was a decent comedy but not anything special, though.


                
Monty Python's first feature film is a classic in ridiculous comedy, a fine example of the utterly absurd, and an entertaining watch with plenty of funny lines and ideas. Largely, it is a parody of the many films and books about the legendary Arthurian tales, and it succeeds in the ridicule.
The cinematography and set design leave a lot to be desired but it doesn't matter too much as it has a good script with an intellectual humour that will please most viewers.


                
MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL shows off the talents of the Monty Python team at their most irreverent. This is a very broad comedic spoof exploring the medieval legend of King Arthur, taking care to deliver a unique mix of spoofery, cross dressing, slapstick, surreal humour, animation, character gags and basically everything thrown in except the kitchen sink. It's a high-energy enterprise that gets by without very much money at all and makes the very cheapness an asset. The team are all present and assembled well here, taking on numerous roles each. The story is episodic and sometimes little more than a series of linked sketches, but most of the jokes are very funny indeed, and there are some classic scenes: the Black Knight, Tim the Enchanter, the Knights who Say Ni, and plenty more besides. This is the kind of film that makes me proud to be British.
"Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is indeed a classic, and they don't make comedies like this anymore!Everything here is just outlandish, and so strange that it works out greatly in a hilarious way.The characters are colorful, vibrant and full of personalities. And it is always fun to watch Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin take on all of the different characters and bring them to life on the screen."Monty Python and the Holy Grail" has a truly unique and funny storyline, and it is a very Monty Pythonesque movie indeed.This is the type of comedy movie that you can watch again and again, as it is a timeless classic.


                
My Personal Rating - 7/10I'm gonna admit this is one of the most hilarious film i have ever watched. some of it's scene are just pure gold and very funny. if you are looking for a Comedy Film with real hilarious scenes not like one of the comedy films of today that had cheap jokes. then this is for you. see i'm hard to make laugh i don't easily laugh of jokes but this film, this film almost had me dying of laughter. it's just an hilarious film and nothing else. i do really recommend anyone to watch this film.Pros:Some Scenes Are Just Pure Gold And Unforgettable.Very Hilarious in a Nonsense WayActing is Very Spot OnRoasting Old Myths in a Hilarious Way 
Cons:Story is not that Great (But Seriously Who Cares, This is a Comedy Film)Only Had Short Budget
Rating On Each AspectStory: 5/10Cinematography: 6.5/10Atmosphere: 5/10Soundtrack: 6/10Acting: 8/10Dialogue: 7.5/10


                
When watching the German version, just keep in mind that it's completely different from the original version (joke-wise). It might be even funnier, but it's not Monty Python. You can get a transcript of the original text somewhere on the net.


                
I don't know enough about English History to understand all of the jokes in this film, but suffice to say that it is entertaining and funny, but not as good as The Life of Brian (little us).  Whereas Brian concentrates on a historical story that I can relate to strongly, this does the same but with English History.  The Python's run the same kind of spin on a famous yarn, pointing out how ridiculous the concept of The Holy Grail (and hence, the English Church) is.What does work is the appearance, to me, that they are producing a performance that would fit onto a stage and turning it into a film, which is one of the strongest points of this film.Ultimately, it isn't funny enough to be a great film, but if you've not seen this or The Life of Brian I would recommend both to ascertain just what the Python's were trying to achieve.  No particular order as you'll need to watch both.


                
1st watched 6/31/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Terry Gilliam & Terry Jones): Hilarious Monty Python comedy that slows down on the laughs about 3/4 of the way thru but overall displays their unique style of comedy better than any of their movies that I've seen.  In this movie, they also don't seem to be extremely concerned with disgusting their audience but rather making them laugh.  The 'Meaning of Life' had many disgusting scenes and 'Life of Brian' wanted to slap religion in the face from beginning to end.  Here we get British comedy at it's best with Python's weird mix of animation, live action, and interaction with the audience of some sort.  There are many memorable scenes which could be viewed again and again and still be funny. This is what makes this a classic comedy in every sense.


                
Before I start I would just like to say on know account is this a bad film. I found it hilarious in almost every respect. However it is only funny once, after seeing it you know where all of the surprises are and as the sketches are so memorable, it is hard to forget the jokes. Making it less humorous the second time you watch it. I feel that the life of Brian is a better Monty python film. The holy grail seems less focused, and the pythons have really gone out of there way to put as many small jokes into this film as possible, but there aren't that many that make you scream with laughter.As a one off comedy film you cannot get much better than this, but my patience for this film has lead me to the point where I refuse to watch it for a year or so before watching it again. So you have been warned its fun but don't wear it out..


                
-Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a 1975 British surreal comedy film written and performed by the comedy group of Monty Python (Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, and Michael Palin), and directed by Gilliam and Jones. It was conceived during the hiatus between the third and fourth series of their popular BBC television programme Monty Python's Flying Circus. -In contrast to the group's first film, And Now for Something Completely Different, a compilation of sketches from the first two television series, Holy Grail is composed of original material. It parodies the legend of King Arthur's quest to find the Holy Grail. Idle used the film as the basis for the 2005 Tony Award-winning musical Spamalot. -Monty Python and the Holy Grail grossed the most of any British film exhibited in the U.S. in 1975. The film received a 97% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with the consensus: "a cult classic as gut-bustingly hilarious as it is blithely ridiculous". In the US, the film was selected as the second best comedy of all time in the ABC special Best in Film: The Greatest Movies of Our Time; in the UK, readers of Total Film magazine ranked the film the fifth greatest comedy film of all time, and a similar poll of Channel 4 viewers placed the film sixth (2000).--Cast: Actor Main role Other roles Graham Chapman King Arthur Voice of God / Hiccuping Guard / Middle Head of Three-Headed Knight John Cleese Sir Lancelot Second soldier in opening scene / Man in plague scene with body / Singing Knight #4 / Black Knight / Third Villager / French Taunter / Tim the Enchanter Terry Gilliam Patsy Old Man (Soothsayer) in Scene 24 (Bridgekeeper) / Green Knight / Singing Knight #3 / Sir Bors (First to be killed by rabbit) / Weak-hearted animator (Himself) / Gorilla Hand Eric Idle Sir Robin The Dead Collector / First Villager / Singing Knight #2 / Confused Guard at Swamp Castle / Concorde (squire of Sir Lancelot) / Roger the Shrubber / Brother Maynard Terry Jones Sir Bedevere Dennis's Mother / Left Head of Three-Headed Knight / Prince Herbert / Voice of the Cartoon Scribe / French Knight Michael Palin Sir Galahad First soldier in opening scene / Dennis / Second Villager / Singing Knight #5 / Right Head of Three-Headed Knight / King of Swamp Castle / Monk (Maynard's assistant) / Main Knight who says "Ni" / Narrator / French Knight / Guest at Swamp Castle Neil Innes Sir Robin's Minstrel Head of chanting monks / Singing Knight #1 / Baton Minstrel / Page crushed by wooden rabbit / Fourth Villager / Singing Knight / Laughing French Knight Connie Booth The WitchCarol Cleveland Zoot Dingo (Zoot's twin) Bee Duffell Old crone John Young Frank the Historian Dead body (who claims to be not dead) Rita Davies Historian's Wife Avril Stewart Dr. Piglet Sally Kinghorn Dr. Winston


                
The second feature film vehicle for the legendary Monty Python comedy troupe wasn't always terribly funny for this viewer, but it has enough memorably hilarious lines and moments to make it very pleasant viewing. The boys are in their element here, knowing full well that often the best "no-brainer" laughs actually require a fair amount of intelligence. Along the way there are many verbal and visual gags, some of which go on a bit long. But there's always another good laugh in store. The movie is deliberately episodic, giving each main character a chance in the spotlight, and allowing each troupe member to show off his comedic chops. There are some delicious jokes that remind you that you're watching a movie, including the time honoured tradition of breaking the fourth wall. There are hysterically over the top gore gags, animated interludes, and the occasional brief musical bit.The story has King Arthur (Graham Chapman) recruiting good men to be part of the court of Camelot, among them Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones), Sir Galahad the Pure (Michael Palin), Sir Lancelot the Brave (John Cleese), and Sir Robin the Not-Quite-So-Brave-as-Sir-Lancelot (Eric Idle). God then tasks Arthur and his merry band with retrieving the Holy Grail, causing them to have many misadventures as they deal with countless quirky individuals, such as the Knights Who Say NI!Among the personal favourite moments for this viewer were the goofy and gruesome fight with the Black Knight (Cleese), the instances of taunting from French soldiers ("Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries!"), the episode with the fair maidens of Castle Anthrax, and of course the show stopping confrontation with one of the most deadly beasts known to man. Adding to the entertainment factor is the use of music, which is majestic rather than comical.The ending to this is uproarious, and does send the audience away with a smile. All in all, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is engaging stuff that is preferable to some of the comedies of the modern era.Seven out of 10.


                
Silly boys. Those Monty Python chaps send up the King Arthur legend as only they could. Silliness from beginning to end. But silliness can be brilliant you know. And there is some truly inspired stuff in this movie. It's a farcical parody in which the laughs come fast and furious. You've got a three-headed knight. You've got a knight who just won't quit, no matter how many "flesh wounds" you inflict upon him. You have knights who sing about that silly place known as Camelot. And of course you have knights who say "Ni!" You have snooty, condescending French persons and their flying livestock. You have rabbits, both Trojan and killer. You have a unique use for coconuts and the question of whether coconuts can migrate. All of this surrounding the main plot, the quest for the Holy Grail. Oh who are we kidding, there really is no plot. The movie just careens from one gag to the next.The movie is brilliantly performed by the Pythons, each of whom takes on multiple roles. Graham Chapman, playing King Arthur, is the glue that holds everything together. All the nonsense revolves around him. Chapman is the straight man, if this movie could be said to have such a thing. Everyone else gets to be gleefully silly while Chapman's Arthur is a little more restrained as he focuses on his noble quest. But Chapman is as funny as any of the others. Arthur's Knights of the Round Table meanwhile are a quirky, eclectic bunch and each provides plenty of laughs as they go off in their own directions seeking the Grail. And for as good as they are portraying their respective Knights it is in the other characters they also play that the Pythons perhaps shine brightest. How can you not love John Cleese's Taunting French Guard? Michael Palin is great as the peasant Dennis who bemoans the class system and questions Arthur's legitimacy. Palin also plays the King of Swamp Castle and Terry Jones does great as heir to the swamp Prince Herbert. Among other things Eric Idle is a great dead collector, shrubber and monk. Terry Gilliam has comparatively little screen time but makes his own contributions with his great animation as well as co-directing the whole thing with Jones. No small task pulling all this film's wonderful nonsense together so Gilliam and Jones have to be given a great deal of credit for their directing work. The movie is really let down only by its ending. It's jarring and abrupt, the Pythons pulling the rug out from beneath their audience. It's typical Python though. But this last bit of silliness doesn't really work. For all the great stuff that came before the movie deserved a better conclusion than this. But a misstep right at the end isn't going to detract too much from the overall experience. This movie is funny, brilliant and thoroughly enjoyable from the opening credits all the way to the end. Well near the end anyway. Easy to see why this is one of the most beloved comedies ever. This movie which sends up the great Arthurian legend has become legendary itself.


                
Whether you love it or hate it, Monty Python is forever etched into British comedy history and this edition of the filmic Python exploits has stood the test of time, just.The thing with Monty Python is that it's very random. The bizarreness and variedness of the humour is really something to behold and there are numerous examples in this film alone which backs this up. Whether it's a completely random and insane discussion-come-argument about swallows to a really scathing, surreal attack on how the English dealt with the 'black death' or the 'plague' or whatever killer virus' were going around back then, in the carefree manner that is shown. It can be a joy to behold.With this film, we are instantly thrown into a world of confusion as the 'projectionist' actually loads up the wrong film to begin with. From here, you know something's up as no other film that I've ever seen or heard of has a beginning like this and you know that this is going to be different. Once the real film has started, the dialogue in the early scenes superbly juxtaposes the setting in 900 odd B.C. as political arguments and, as I've mentioned, discussions about migratory birds pop up. It feels like an extra long episode of a comic, sketch TV programme which has no real plot, but is just a montage of jokes and hilarious situations the characters find themselves in and this isn't a bad thing. The great thing about this is, is that the early situations and exchanges work as a flame for us, the moths, and it sets the stage very well; drawing us into the world of humour on show. Since no one around now knows exactly what happened in the time of the films setting, no one can argue whether any of this would really happen. Were minstrels who followed people/knights around that annoying? What did knights guarding the turrets of castles actually do/talk about to pass the time? Swallows maybe? Effective little scenarios like this make you wonder and it just adds to the genius of the writing.One of the early scenes has to be one of the funniest in films entire one hundred year plus history. This is the fight scene between Arthur and the black knight. Following on from a good fight scene, the black knight delivers some of the funniest lines in the most funniest of ways following his own decapitation. The line: 'All right, we'll call it a draw.' has me in stitches just thinking about it.One quarrel I have with the film is the animated sequences. Now, they look terribly dated and really aren't that funny. Fortunately, they only last a few seconds (most of them) and don't distract you too much but why even bother to have them in the first place? The titles in-between the knight's own separate stories are fine but little things like the 'artist suddenly having a heart attack' just insult the viewer. Not good, unfortunately.I think most people would have a problem with the characters who talk to the screen, breaking the 'fourth wall', something which was stamped out of narrative film-making decades ago. I had a minor frustration with this as although it only happened twice from memory, it spoilt what was a perfectly good/funny scene. The incident in the castle full of young girls is the one which immediately springs to mind as she starts talking to the audience. In an analytical sense, this is actually supposed to add to the experience in the sense that it's all theatre anyway and this film shouldn't be taken seriously. It's fun and farcical and that's all that matters. I didn't let it get away with it when it came to the rating, though.This film's great to watch alone, especially if you've not seen it either before or for a very long time. If you've never experienced Python before, then this is a great appetiser and remember <U+0096> there are two other films and plenty of TV series' as-well.


                
Let's face it. The only thing that kept the movie afloat was the comedy. If you were to judge it based on themes, acting, or any other (usually) important details, then you would have been greatly disappointed. Fortunately, the humor is enough to make you die laughing. Once you recover, you'll be begging for more. The first time I saw this movie I just couldn't stop laughing. It was like watching Seinfeld with British accents. Although this is the only Monty Python movie I've ever seen, I have a feeling it's the only one with anything that can be called a plot. If you're into stupid humor, see it. If you're not, find something else.By the way,...NEE!


                
