Well, if you want original humor, meaning something different than what you normally see - this is your ticket. The above statement was true 30 years ago, and still holds. It's just silly, far-out humor.It's not all winners, no comedy is, but there are enough of them, and enough classic bizarre scenes that it's always a hoot to re-visit this film from time to time. The only problem I have with it are the cheap shots in gives - in typical 1970s fashion - of anything Biblical. But, it's not that bad and most of the film is pretty innocent.It's pretty much one ludicrous scene after another. I mean, where else do you see a knight fighting on after his legs are chopped off, then his arms?!! Or a killer rabbit? It was almost like watching a Marx Brothers film 40 years later with '70s irreverence.Don't let the PG rating fool you. This would be an easy PG-13 today with all the blood, some cursing and the violence. I know some young kids, however - nice kids, too - who love this film as much as adults, so it can't be too offensive. If I had to describe this movie in one word it would be "lunacy."


                
I saw there were a couple people that watched this once and hated it. When I first watched it, I was about 17.  My younger brother was watching it and just cracking up.  I thought it was boring and never even bothered to watch all of it.  What is weird is that I even liked the flying circus and watched it all the time, but this movie was just, "BLAH"A few years later I was in a remote area for a year (Yosemite National Park) and there was nothing to do at night except watch TV if you had one.  One night the local bar had a "Locals Only" party and the Holy Grail was the feature. "DAMN, not that again" I thought.  But I got there and everyone was hysterical and reciting the entire movie.  I think something I missed before finaly stuck and I realized what a great movie this was.  If you saw it once and hated it, find a bunch of friends that liked it, get a big party going and have a blast. That might show you what it is all about.  Although it is good when you are alone, it is soo much better with friends.Yes I do now own this on VHS along with other python movies but when I got a DVD player, this was the one I bought.  Meaning of life, Life of Brian, "...and now for something completely different..." are also good but Holy Grail just has something there that the others are missing.  Maybe they were more serious with the others or something, but the Grail is now on my top 10 movies list.


                
This movie is one of the funniest movies ever made. The combination of the low budget, one liners, and opening subtitles make it hilarious. If you're looking for a quiet, brainy, subtle comedy, this may not be for you. But if you want a laugh out loud, wet your pants, make your flatmates think there's something seriously wrong with you kind of comedy, you want to see this movie.See it for the opening subtitles alone. Two minutes in, you're already lying on the floor laughing hysterically.It tells the tale of King Arthur and his knights on their quest for the holy grail. Sort of. That's the general outline, anyway. There's not actually all that much in the searching for the grail, but that's not terribly important. In place of a good solid plot, you get the best one liners and physical comedy in the history of the world. I think it's a good trade off, personally.This movie has everything you could ever desire in a movie. It has action, adventure, comedy, and almost romance. Mostly comedy, though.All in all, this is an awesome movie. I've seen it probably fifty times, and I jump at an opportunity to see it again.


                
Maybe I'll offend some but I'm not sure I could agree with the saying that this is the best comedy ever. Still, it's incredibly funny. An intelligent comedy that goes beyond insanity. I was quite surprise to see that each actor plays so many characters. And I just loved the opening credits.It's just the first time I see it. I'm looking forward for the next time and I'm sure I'll love it a little bit more.Out of 100, I give it 86. That's good for ***½ out of ****.Seen in Toronto, at the Fox Cinemas, on November 4th, 2002.


                
Ni! Theyre Coconuts! Castle Anthrax! A Spanking!! English Pig Dogs! It is a silly place! RUN AWAY!!!Sheer class, every last minute, every last word!Ni!


                
My favorite part is the naughty nuns.Zoot: Spank us!All: Yes, yes! Spank us!Dingo. And when your done spanking her, spank me!All: Yes, yes!


                
That is all I have to say until the minimum amount of characters is reached.


                
This film is so stupid that it's actually funny. The comedy is out there and sometimes it makes you think about the joke to truly understand it. Some of the humor doesn't hit the target, but it depends on preference. The breaking of the 4th wall was humorous and added a new aspect to the adventure.
Although the film had a low budget, the cinematography was not bad. The blend of live-action and animation added to the comedic factor. The acting is entertaining as the cast gets to goof off on screen. The music in the film is easily forgettable, but it fits the era the story is primarily set in. The plot in this film is generic, but the comedy helps keep it fresh. Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a film with good comedy and a great cast.


                
Monty Python and the Holy Grail tells the story of King Arthur and his knights of the round table as they head out on a quest to find the Holy Grail. This is based on a real Arthurian legend, but made hilariously absurd by the Monty Python group. This is Monty Python's best film because it is non stop funny, and its twist on the legend of King Arthur makes a great base for a film.The reason I find Monty Python funny is because their humour is so random, and so absurd, that you can't help but laugh at how ridiculous and how stupid some of it is. What I like about this film in particular, is that it can't even make it through the opening credits without goofing off with subtitles at the bottom of the screen. Then, as the movie actually starts, it manages to look like a serious King Arthur film for all of five seconds before we notice that King Arthur is not riding a horse, but he's skipping along as a lackey behind him clacks too coconuts together making the sound of hooves. Then, the verbal humour starts. This movie has some truly hilarious characters that will make you fall to the floor laughing. There's Sir Robin, the Not-Quite-As-Brave-As-Sir-Lancelot, who everyone thinks is the bravest of all the knights when in fact, he's afraid of the smallest of things. Then there's the Knights Who Say NI, a group of knights that scare all who see them by screaming the word NI over and over. Possibly the funniest scene in the movie is where the knights of the round table are attacked by the fiercest monster in all the world...A fluffy white bunny.What makes the movie even better is that it was made on a very small budget, so in some scenes, animation has to take over because they just couldn't afford to do the scene in live action, but they manage to cover this up by making the animation scenes absolutely hilarious. The Monty Python group are true comic geniuses, and this is their best work. I recommend this movie to everyone that likes a good laugh.8.5/10


                
Great Writing 4 stars
Characters are well developed, the dialogue, plot and editing is hilarious.Great Production 4 stars
Acting Great
Art/Location Great
Cinematography good
Sound/track good


                
Even if this type of comedy is not your thing, you should just watch it so that you finally understand where all these quotes you've heard before come from!


                
This is another awesome Monty Python movie (from the beginning of the hilarious initial credits to the end of the film). There isn't a single scene when you will not laugh. And, if you saw some scene of the movie (like the Black Knight scene) out of context around the Internet, you'll laugh of her when saw it on screen.Monty Python and the Holy Grail, despite age, still being a good comedy movie, better than countless another ones from this decade, what is cliché, but is true.
What makes this movie work in my opinion is the sheer absurdity of it all. Unlike other comedies, they literally just come up with random ideas instead of having some sort of melodramatic subplot that ruins the comedy. And it works. Very well


                
"Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is a low-budget, ridiculous, hopelessly anachronistic ride that will still leave you laughing until your insides hurt. Much of the movie's comedy is of the "random funny thing just happened" variety, such as the famous credits scene with the "majestik møøse", but a careful listener may pick out certain references, in-jokes, and Easter eggs, especially concerning medieval history and culture. In addition to all this, the movie also features amusing dialogue, witty one-liners, and a fair amount of meta-commentary.While the episodic structure of the film and "random" humor may well put some viewers off the movie, overall, it succeeds wonderfully at its intent: to be an absurd, funny, and at times surprisingly intelligent comedy.


                
I decided to start my challenge one day earlier, and what a movie to begin with!Monty Python and the Holy Grail is considered to be one of the greatest comedies of all time, and for a good reason.This low-budget film didn't just age well, but it sounds like it has been released 10 or maybe even 8 years ago, except it really makes you laugh out loud. This is how irony should be used, this is how breaking-the-fourth-wall should be done, and this is a Self-reflexive film that keeps being inventive and challenging throughout its running time.While its sharpness has been considerably blunted at some times, I was intrigued and hooked at every second of the movie.I didn't find the ending was rushed, rather I found it reasonably funny, if not completely satisfying. I'm really surprised at how Terry Gilliam take advantage of almost every silly situation or gag to reuse it later in the movie. He's a real genius!Simply, Monty Python and the Holy Grail is the godfather of parody films!(8.5/10)


                
In the 1970's Hollywood's economic crisis gave way to a number of low budget blockbusters. These low budget films, when successful, brought millions back in box office revenue. The 70's gave way to some of the most memorable films in Hollywood's history: one of them being Terry Gilliam & Terry Jones' Monty Python and the Holy Grail. The humorous retelling of King Arthur's search for the Holy Grail made the best out of a small budget and still stands out to many as one of the best films from the 70's.Stylistically, Monty Python and the Holy Grail doesn't seem like a huge leap forward upon first glance. The film, like many other movies of the same time period, took some of its inspiration from famous literature; primarily the stories of King Arthur and his Knights of the Roundtable influenced the plot of the quest for the grail and the characters. The film was shot on location at multiple different locations across the United Kingdom and aerial shots were cleverly used to give us a sense of being among the castle walls looking down upon the knights as they conversed with guards. Necessity also gave way to the actors playing multiple roles in the film, Michael Palin playing the most characters at 12.Editing in Monty Python's Holy Grail used one of the newly popular techniques in filmmaking at the time: parallel editing. Two separate events, occurring at the same time are shown back-to-back to show that these events are occurring at the same time but in a different space. Transitions also hold a major role in the style Holy Grail presents. A storybook motif is used at a point to move the story along, as well are a number of animations drawn stylistically to resemble illuminated manuscripts of medieval times, and the use of a narrator (whom is introduced as quickly as departs). As a comedy the humor in Monty Python and the Holy Grail had to stand out against other comedies of the time in order to mark it as a film worth remembering. Monty Python's writers imbue The Holy Grail with their unique brand of humor that was accessible to a wide variety of audiences. Their humor also made comments on issues and made the mundane humorous. Even the credit sequence itself, taking its inspiration from Igmar Bergman's foreign films, uses the credits and the subtitles in a humorous context. The credits begin to argue with themselves (over the humorous addition of inaccurate Swedish subtitles making jokes about a møøse and then further jokes related to llamas). Some of the prop related humor was a direct result of the small budget the film had to work from. Real horses were unaffordable which gave way to coconut halves being used akin to radio sound effect production. The result, though born of necessity, made the film all the more memorable. The humor in Monty Python and the Holy Grail ranges greatly from simple slapstick like humor to political and social satirical humor. They used the opportunity to let their humor make comments on politics (Arthur's conversation with the man and woman digging through the filth), common sense & mass hysteria (the trial of the Witch), society, and religion (the monks hitting themselves with planks of wood). Films in the late 60's and the 70's had a habit of taking on a political undertone and Monty Python's Holy Grail doesn't disappoint in that aspect. Holy Grail's shining moments however may lie in how it questions continuity and the concept of stories existing in their own world separate from our own. Dialog continuity is made into a joke numerous times as characters have multiple side conversations unrelated to the plot, and plot continuity itself is questioned with the sudden 'intermission' alluding to theatrical performances and with the film's abrupt ending giving no sign of a resolution. The 4th wall, which usually contains a story within itself, counting the audience as just viewers; broken numerous times in Holy Grail for humorous effect. Characters will address to the audience, make comments about set models, acting, scenes, etc. even sometimes prompting the other actors to tell them to "Get on with it." The sudden introduction of the narrator even breaks the 4th wall since he becomes part of the story and is killed off in a matter of seconds (the 'animator' of the animated transitions and the monster they face in the cave suffers a similar fate).Overall, while the quality of the film at first might appear like it is nothing special, the content is what really drives it home.
In this film, there is a contaminating effect. It is much better to watch it with a bunch of friends. It is a funny movie because it's silly all the time but sometimes it's pain. You must take everything in the second degree. We liked this film. It's a "must have".


                
i' ve never seen a film as hilarious as this one. i' ve never laughed so much as when i saw the "Trojan rabbit" and the knights who says NI!the end is very funny and after you will see this film, you will never look at a rabbit as you used to.


                
I particularly enjoyed the end, one of the best I've ever seen: mixing middle ages and today in England.... GREAT IDEA!! I loved the rabbit and the knights' absent horses with the coconuts.I enjoyed too the black knight then the Trojan rabbit. This movie is very funny and it's a "must see" , even more with a bunch of friends..


                
Monty Python's Flying Circus was a hit and miss comedy series consisting of a group of Englishmen performing some comedic sketch and then moving on to something completely different. The sketches were so different and so many that you were bound to find at least one sketch funny. A movie, it seemed wouldn't allow them to do silly sketches, it would have to form a much stricter pattern. Not for the Pythons, it doesn't.Monty Python and the Holy Grail is still just a series of sketches with a Medieval theme. But unlike the TV series, here most of the sketches work. When you throw so many jokes at the audience you're guaranteed to have success.John Cleese is marvellous particularly as Sir Lancelot but also as the Frenchman. Graham Chapman is as usual the straightman to the rest of the Python's fun but he is also good as Arthur, King of the Britons. The rest of the crew give some of their best work and the animation which was particularly annoying in the series is used sparingly here.If you like Pythons you'll adore this. If you don't, don't give it a miss it might surprise you. It's certainly an acquired taste but for a fan it's one of the funniest films ever.


                
This movie is great. You'll end up on the floor laughing - if it's your sort of humour. Either you simply love the Monty Python-gang and their crazy world-perspective, or you love to hate it. If you're in the first group you'll love this movie!!! But remember that there's more to Monty Python than their movies, the episodes of The Flying Circus are actually even better at times, so don't forget them. But enjoy this movie on a day where you're up to a good laugh!


                
This movie can be easily called "the British answer" to Blazing Saddles. Of course being a British movie it has its own style and caliber of comedy. Overall it's a great movie that includes good humor but you have to really like the sense of humour.  Watch it for sure, can't miss it.


                
Monty Python has to be the best British comedy show.  Out of all of MP's movies, this is my all time favorite.  If you like ridiculous comedies such as Airplane or Loaded Weapon, you will love this movie. 8 out of 10.


                
Can anyone tell me what was with:Coconuts instead of horses (especially "Dismount...")The extreme blood (I saw a part with that on 9.11.01... not funny at all)the high rating on the IMDb (as of now, it's on the top 100)the overwriting in the Book of the Film in the movie (They described Sir Robin by describing a bit of his history... please)the Monty Python name (take away the actors and that name, and it'd be the same)Sir Not-Appearing-in-this-film (that's in the Book of the Film)No one? Figures.My brother is a fanatic of this film. Why? Blood, innocent people dying, violence... That isn't funny. Maltin was right; this is awful (well, he said it was awfully bloody).


                
