In the Realm of King Arthur, the Monty Python team set out on a quest to recruit the best Knights in the kingdom and find the Holy Grail.This is Classic Python Mayhem, where we encounter Killer rabbits, Knights who go Nee! and Horny Nuns who lure the unsuspecting in with there Grail Shaped Beacon.The Cast all give Typically Hilarious Performances, bringing another must see to the Python Loving Audience.If You Like Monty Python, you'll love it, if you don't then stay away.If you've never seen Monty Python before then give it a try, yes it's dated but its still great fun.9/10Also see, The Life Of Brian and The Meaning of Life


                
I was smack in the center of the target demographic for this film 25 years ago. I thought it was liberated, sacrilegious, self-referential, anarchic, all the things we liked.Seeing it now, only a few parts are funny. I suspect they are all written by Cleese: the bit about swallows and coconuts, the two episodes with the French guard, and the skit concerning anarchy. These are precious.The rest is getting worse with each passing day. The problem is that so much of their humor depended on being outrageously, either with the unexpected or the taboo. But we've evolved, and these guys who were out of bounds before are rather well-behaved now. Can you imagine them doing a semen in the hair joke?You want funny, check out old tapes of the Goon Show, of whom these guys were always a lesser copy anyway. Those old shows are still outrageous, most of them.


                
Way too often when I ask people their favorite movies...one of these three flicks is offered.....Spaceballs...Shawshank Redemption or Monty Python and the Holy Grail.I've always considered these movies over- rated and thus avoided seeing them while simultaneously readjusting downward my opinion of the cinematic tastes of those recommending the flicks.I only avoided Shawshank for a few months. I've got to admit it was pretty good when I finally saw it and if I would have waited a few more months it probably would have been better and if I had waited a few years it probably would have been great. I waited twenty years to see Spaceballs and when it was finally forced upon me I watched it with an attempted open mind but kept comparing the flick unfavorably to other Brooks films like Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, High Anxiety, Silent Movie,and The Producers. I came away with the reinforced bias that Mel lost his touch after Silent Movie. I held out for almost thirty years on Monty Python. Then to my alarm my twelve year old daughter Mary told me that Monty Python was the funniest movie she had ever seen. I like Mary's taste and when I told her that I had never seen Holy Grail, she was surprised and encouraged me to rent the DVD which I did. I played it last night and yup, I loved it. Truly an original film. We laughed and now everybody is walking around going "neeth" etc. Of the three Grail is the best, Redemption second and Spaceballs a distant third. I wouldn't say I missed the boat..rather I waited three decades to catch it. Now I'm on board...sort of


                
This is by far one of the best Python films i have ever seen. It doesn't matter how many times i watch it i'm still reduced to tears, the black knight gets me every time. this movie is so stupid that its genius. the entire python crew are at their element, John Cleese works wonders and he really is the one person in this film that made me laugh the hardest. i loved the bridge of doom (if i've got it wrong please forgive me) and i have to say this, when we first me Sir Bedivere and their weighing the witch please look out for the man with shaving cream. this is the best film ever, honestly if you are feeling really terrible and you have it put this film on it will get you every time.


                
One of my favorite comedies, and Monty Python's best and most irreverent movie is Monty Python and the Holy Grail. The Monty Python troop made three films and had a television series that challenged the status quo by dealing with religion, class welfare, politics and dead parrots. There humor seems as fresh and rebellious today as when it was aired. Sometimes their humor was forced -- some scenes in The Meaning of Lif(e) ; however, Monty Python and the Holy Grail has the perfect mix of antitoletarism, irreverence and silly sots.Speaking of silly sots, the cast of this film -- including Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin -- would later take Hollywood like a fierce Killer Rabbit. The kind that lops off men's 'eds' with fangs three-feet long. Monty Python never quite made the mainstream in America; nevertheless, its actors (and directors) did.Monty Python and the Holy Grail remains a cult favorite amongst geeky young males who play Magic in comic book shops. Many of these men grow up to be comic writers or shrubbery salesmen. These comic writers find many ways to allude (or just plain mention) many scenes in this movie. Examples are the Simpsons, the now defunct Freaks and Geeks and the title of Scorcese's Bringing Out the Dead. However, there is more to this film than fanatical fans. It is the antithesis to The Rocky Horror Picture Show, it is a cult movie that is actually good.Reviews on movies like this one are difficult to write because the charm and essence of the film are in its characters and insane skits. Recapping the plot does nothing to convey the essence of the film unless you write it in an irreverent or silly manner. Since I am beyond that type of blasphemous writing, I should either plod on or quit and do my laundry.I would rather do my laundry later, so I will go on.This film was loosely based on King Arthur and the Holy Grail. I am also sure this film was loosely based on a script. Though the plot is chaotic and the cast few, the movie is funny and witty. My only disagreement with the movie is the forced ending. That is only a scratch, a mere flesh wound to this brilliant comedy -- a fanatical farce that is one of my favorite movies.


                
The first feature-length film from Monty Python, the quintet of physically and verbally gymnastic British sketch comics, is not only widely considered their funniest, but one of the funniest films ever committed to celluloid. Known for abruptly ending TV skits mid-stream with the segue "And now for something completely different" -- due both to their distaste for writing endings and their ADD giddiness to move onward -- the troupe finds uncharacteristic continuity here, examining one fertile topic from each of its absurd angles. Yet the movie is still comprised of distinct segments, any of which could serve as a favorite for fans who want to recite the choicest dialogue and make converts of the uninitiated. But for five minutes of sheer uncontrollable hysterics, one need only watch the scene in which Graham Chapman steadily lops the limbs from a foolishly determined knight, who continues issuing taunts even after he's been totally neutralized. Irritated more than threatened, Chapman's King Arthur keeps hacking at the prating cripple just to shut him up -- it's the only sane reaction in this ridiculous world full of delusional windbags. Chapman is a wonderful constant as the frustrated straight man, and his colleagues lob one demented set piece after another "in his general direction." The temptation is to enumerate these clever interludes, but a catapulted cow really needs to be seen to be appreciated. The only time Monty Python and the Holy Grail stumbles is at its sudden ending, a cop-out that's pure Python. Or maybe it's just that any end to such enlightened joke slinging is cause for lament.


                
To watch this film aptly you must know three things. First, you must expect no overarching narrative. Second, you must realise these characters will be one-dimensional, at best. And third, you must tell me what is average air-speed velocity of an unladen swallow? Pray that you must never cross the gorge of eternal peril. Except when venturing near Castle Anthrax, where the punishment of oral sex with 17-19 blondes and brunettes awaits the foolhardy. Instead sit down, stay still, and appreciate the consistently spot-on sketches from the Python boys.Now for something completely different. This is a mind-expanding film, scathing of the mythology that built these fair islands of Blighty. Classic lines, completely confident, a crew and cast having fun. This is a film to show your grandchildren. Just remember to ask them, "African or European?" AAA...


                
There's a new form of testing our English skills at our school. It's a watch and listen-test. You get to see an English documentary or something (no subtitles of course!) and you have to answer question about what you see and hear. My English teacher had the most brilliant plan to practise for one of these tests: We were going to watch The Holy Grail. The reactions were different. A few got a grin on their face, that didn't go away until the film was ended. Others looked bored or annoyed. Monty Python's humour is really particular. I myself was one of the smiling kids: I enjoyed it from the "wrong subtitles" at the beginning, until the last step of Arthur and his brave knights. Most people had never seen the film before and were immediately bored when the coconut-conversation came up. As I said, the humour is typical, but it's totally my kind of humour. The film is so ridiculous (think about flesh eating rabbits, never ending conversations about coconuts and a knight, who still lives and wants to fight after he got his arms and legs cut off) it's just very very very funny. I especially love the Brave Sir Robin song and the witch trial. Anyway, when I came out of the classroom (still grinning of course) I had the feeling this was the best class I ever had.


                
This movie is so quotable, and just so damn funny. It has stood the test of time and become a genuine classic.Is there a plot? Well the Python team, with Graham Chapman as King Arthur and his valiant (or not so valiant knights in the case of Sir Robin, who defeated the chicken of Bristol) in search of the Holy Grail.So many great sketches here. The Black Knight (You're arm's off, you silly sod!") Castle Anthrax and Castle Swamp, the gorge of Eternal Peril, the French Taunters. It's all here. Graham Chapman is a superb Arthur, trying to make sense of all the madness around him. But they all shine. They are, after all, the Python Team, some of Britain's greatest ever comedians.Come see the lovli lakes....
It's a must for British humor lovers. Since its the Monty Python we are talking about, it taks time to get into that kind of humor but whenever you are in take good care of your stomach because it's going to hurt a lot. Prases from this movie had enter everywhere which only prove its classic status but beware if you're not used to British humor.I'm saying that because I sent once my brother to watch the film and he returned desapointed but after we sat again together he almost fell to the floor :)Conclusion: You must see it even if to find one this is not your style or just to know what other people talking about.


                
"We're Knights of the Round Table, Our shows are formi-dable, But many times We're given rhymes That are quite unsing-able! We're opera nuts in Camelot We sing from the dia-PHRAGHM A LOT!"The real danger of thinking about this film is that, once you begin reciting a sketch, you won't want to stop until you've finished it. The lines flow after each other so perfectly and naturally that every one becomes the punchline of the one before it. Classic examples are the Politically Aware Peasants, ("Help Help I'm being repressed!") the Logic of Witch Burning, ("If she weighs the same as a duck, she's made of wood- and therefore... a witch!") the warning of Tim the Enchanter ("Death awaits you all; with nasty big pointy teeth!") and so on. The film does have a few dud gags, in particular the tale of Sir Lancelot, but these are far outnumbered by the good ("Allo daffy English Kniggits and Messeur Arthur King who has the brain of a duck you know!"). Despite its self-deprecating tagline, this film feels like an epic, especially since it was made for less than the cost to cater a modern Hollywood film, and is beautifully shot. Perhaps the most innocent and sweet-natured of the Python's films, it still features a liberal amount of sensless murder and bleakness, particularly near the beginning and end. It is still the most addictive of their films.


                
Holy Grail is easily the silliest of all the Python movies, save And Now For Something Completely Different which isn't really a movie at all but a series of some of the better sketches from the Flying Circus. Of course saying that Holy Grail is silly certainly isn't insulting it in any way, it may be the funniest Python movie ever made, although the humor isn't for everyone. The pure randomness and all out impossibility of everything that happens is what makes it so funny, this is definatly present in their other films but generally not to the degree that is seen in Holy Grail. I have a hard time deciding whether Holy Grail or Life of Brian is the better movie, while Holy Grail tends to get more overall laughs, Life of Brian's jokes seem more intelligent and well thought out. I would say that Holy Grail is better for a first time viewing, but Life of Brian tends to be funnier over repeat viewings.  Both movies are simply fantastic and nothing made nowadays can come close to rivaling the all out hillarity that was Python.
I don't know how you people can not like the ending to Holy Grail, in my oppinion it fit in so perfectly with the rest of the movie. You guys love other odd quips of the same sort such as the holy hand grenade, the animator suddenly dying to kill off a monster, the black knight and cocconuts being used in place of horses yet a completely random and unexpected ending doesn't sit right with you? That just seems strange to me. Personally, I think having a big budget, flashy fight scene at the end would've made the movie seem stale and unoriginal, it simply wouldn't fall in with the style of the rest of the film. They needed to put in something that would make audiences say "What the hell was that all about?" at the end at that's exactly what they did.While the members of Python have now gone their seperate ways you can still see the same type of wackiness coming up in newer movies they've contributed to. I would say the most prominant would be the films Terry Gilliam has directed, most of them aren't meant to be funny but the aching attention to detail he puts into his strange, chaotic sets will often remind you of something out of Python. The best examples would be Brazil and to a lesser extent Twelve Monkeys, both strange, fantastic movies, even though they're not particularly funny.


                
SPOILERSThis film is possibly the funniest thing I have ever seen. I rented it a few months ago, and I nearly got sick laughing. There was no attempt at plot- which I consider an advantage- the movie didn't make sense, and if it had, it wouldn't have been half as funny! It's the bizarreness- (Is that a word? Doesn't matter.)- that makes it so entertaining. I had seen the Life of Brian, so I had some idea of what to expect, but from the coconuts, to the French taunter, to the Black Knight, to the Knights of Ni and their penchant for shrubs, to the politically aware peasants living in an autonomous collective, to God and the Beast of Aaarrgh, and the killer bunny- well, basically, the whole movie was like being slapped by a fish! In a good way! I showed it to my mother, my brother, my two best friends, the kid I babysit for, and heck, when I had to give it back to the video library I was heartbroken. But I have rented it again and again and it's still just as good as the first time. Some people think the ending is a cop-out, and maybe it is, and I'll admit that I was disappointed, but that's what it's there for- having enjoyed the jokes, you have one played on you- there is no punchline, just annoying music! (Oh no, now that tune is in my head.)
After the brilliant Life of Brian, I was looking forward to watching Monty Python and the Holy Grail. And I loved it, I don't think it is quite as good as Life of Brian, but it is definitely one of the better Monty Python comedies for sheer hilarity and fun. The story like Life of Brian isn't the strongest component but this is in no way a criticism and yes the special effects are cheesy but perhaps that was the intention. My only problem with the film was that the ending is a little flat, but that is a minor criticism compared to how much I loved this film. The script is irreverent and highly quotable, and the soundtrack is even funnier. As a comedy it is wonderfully inventive, that debunks the Dark Ages and legends of chivalry through King Arthur, The Black Knight, God and the "knights who say ni". Comedy highlights include the trial with Connie Booth's witch and the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch sequence. Even the sets are quite well designed and authentic. And the acting is simply wonderful, John Cleese, Terry Jones(the encounter with Dennis's mother was hilarious), Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Michael Palin and Eric Idle perfectly live up to their exceptional talents. Overall, a great comedy and a great film. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
This movie is really neet
so neet that I am trying to do this review without using a certain word
Some of my favorite scenes in the film were the bridge
The knights who say NEET
the black knight
Pretty much anything this movie is as good as a comedy can get


                
The Monty Python group is an icon of modern comedy, since their first work in the "Flying Circus" TV series to their "Meaning of Life" film, they've brought us a lot of short but smart and overall funny sketches to remember. Without even considering songs like "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life", their characters and situations are so memorable and iconic they're impossible to forget.I've got to mention I don't consider myself to be a fan of comedy in general, I've seen a few films but generally the humor of TV isn't as comfortable or familiar as real-life conversation jokes, but this is one hell of an exception. I came to this film expecting to see a real fantastic middle-age ambientated movie, what I got was one extremely absurd comedy that kept me laughting constantly. The final result is an spectacular motion picture, that utilices every resource it has to creat a joke: the low budget serves for the writing of the coconaut scene and the animation makes up very entertaining short transitions that, I assure you, at least will make you smile. The nihilism, political debate and satirical representations of god and religion not only make for good acts but also for good implicit social critiques.In simple words: the film is a masterpiece of comedy, whose influence has transcendent decades being even referenced and studied directly in the present. Seeing it will not only serve you for "cultural purposes" but also will offer you a very good time with unforgettable dialog and situations


                
The best mediaval comedy ever, a movie that really makes you laugh the whole movie, with good actors, good story and great photography. One of the best movies ever. Highly recommend. Without doubt one of the best films of the 70's.


                
As I started my camp in Vermont, one of our counselors decided to put this movie on. I was surprised at how few people went with us to view it, as I was very curious. My family loves the Flying Circus, and for several years they have wanted me to view some of their skits. Now, what is it about this movie that makes it hold up?For characters, we have twists on Arthur's Knights of the Round Table that stem from 932 social attitudes applied to 1975. Arthur himself is a tad vain in terms of desiring the Holy Grail, all under the guise of serving God Himself. As expected in group comedies, his Knights come with specific kinks that add to, with the exception of Bevedere, the scenes focusing on them specifically. The way the characters' personalities clash, such as the Frenchman and the 3-headed giant, add more to the comedy. The actors seem to know exactly when they're following the down-to-earth style of the marches or the over-the-top style of their skits. There are several facial expressions that add to the silliness, but I feel that the choreography will be more likely in delivering laughs. The environments feel realistic for 932 outside of the 1975 policemen, although I was rather confused about how Aramaic found its way to England that early. What really makes this film stand out as funny, however, is its incredibly witty writing. Granted, British comedy in the 70s would be rather difficult for 2018 Americans to fully comprehend, but the wide array of sight gags, action, strange quotes, and behaviors are sure to at least once cause an uproar. It's occasionally complex and surreal, but this isn't really a film for children anyway. As such, it may not end up being an issue.Older families will be highly entertained by this film, while young children may be surprised by the nudity, innuendo, occasional language, and violence. It's a classic case of something that the Parental Guidelines would rate PG-DLSV; in other words, know your children before watching this with them. If they are fine with these things, then it may end up being one of the greatest live-action comedies for families. That is more than enough for me to recommend this film.
From the very beginning credits the film is able to make the audience laugh with wrong credits and writing at the bottom of the screen which leads greatly into the film about King Arthur. This film makes me laugh from beginning to end and is an amazing watch which will never get old to me and doesn't stop getting funny at any part of the movie which is a bonus. Highly recommend everyone to watch Monty Python!


                
That was a hella of a movie. It has a lot of smart funny moments and at other times, stupidity at absurd levels. Gotta respect those guys, they made their time :)


                
I've heard a lot about this movie, so the minute it was on Netflix I gave it a watch. The first 30-40 minutes was a bit tough to get used to, but if you hold on a bit longer you will be treated to a hell of a comedy! 
From the Knights Who Say "NI", to a Random Historian's random death. 
This movie has a lot to offer that you can miss if you give up on it half way.


                
Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a comedy movie set in 10th century England. It is a story about King Arthur and his journey to find the Holy Grail with the Knights of the Round Table. The movie is executed cleverly by the Monty Python comedy group, considering their low budget of $400,000. Instead of creating an unimaginative movie, the group uses their limitations to create comedy. In one scene, the castle guard asks why is King Arthur's squire beating coconut shells together. King Arthur claims that it is his horse. Since coconuts are tropical, the guard rejects his answer and questions the origins of the coconut shells leading to a long and hilarious conversation. Although confusing at first, every plot point connects to one another. An example of this would be Sir Lancelot saving Sir Galahad from temptation, then reuniting with Sir Robin and King Arthur at the forest. This happened right after Sir Robin reunited with King Arthur and Sir Bedivere at the Knights of Ni, after he dealt with the three headed knight. These plot points all connect up, leading to the reunion of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, letting them continue their journey to find the Holy Grail.The movie also executes comedy in a unique way, using incompetence, instead of forced punchlines and one liners. A scene that shows this would be the scene of the Trojan Rabbit. In this scene, King Arthur and his knights created a plan to infiltrate the French castle using a Trojan Rabbit, clearly a reference to the Trojan Horse the Greeks used to infiltrate Troy. But the group mismanages the execution, by sending the Trojan Rabbit to the French before getting inside it, due to Sir Bedivere failing to mention that someone needs to get in the rabbit. Overall, I would rate this movie 9 out of 10, due to its execution on comedy and uniqueness. I would not give it a 10 out of 10 since the ending was anticlimactic and the subplot was not executed well enough.
Monty python and the holy grail is a great comedy film filled with memorable and hilarious comedy sketch scenes. the whole movie is about king Arthur and his knights on a quest for the holy grail. the movie does not have a plot but is more a collection of comedy sketches featuring the same characters rather than a general story or plot. A great point to this is how the movie is cut. the movie shows the scene then goes to an intermission card saying who the next scene features. the jokes are hilarious making fun of most stories featuring knights and medevil heroes for example there is a scene of king arthur talking to a peasant and the peasant tells him how monarchies are not a proper way to rule. The film as a whole is a classic must see comedy
"Have you ever watched Monty Python before?" A friend once asked me. I replied that I hadn't. I'd grown up listening to The Goons, which is similar to Python's surreal brand of humour but broadcast through the radio by Spike Milligan et al. Once my friend had recovered from the shock, he sat me down and made me watch this as though it were a medical requirement. Having missed the TV show and never really being converted by "Life Of Brian", this is without a shadow of doubt the best thing Monty Python ever did. Who said abusing cats in films wins my vote? "Monty Python and The Holy Grail" brings together the crew to explain how King Arthur (Graham Chapman) brought together his Knights of the Round Table to search for the Holy Grail, as ordered by a crudely animated God himself. Sir Lancelot (John Cleese) bravely fights wedding guests at Swamp Castle in his quest, Sir Galahad (Michael Palin) is besieged by nymphomaniac maidens in the bizarrely named Castle Anthrax, Brave Sir Robin (brilliantly played by Eric Idle) and his side-splitting minstrels battle a strange three-headed Knight while King Arthur and his faithful companion Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones) clash with the monstrous Knights Who Say Nee. There was also Sir Not-Appearing-In-This-Film but he couldn't appear in the film, sadly. Budget constraints, most likely.The budget is obviously tight but instead of disguising the fact, the team play it up. Despite all the knights riding horses, you only ever seen one briefly - the rest of the time, their servants just bash two coconuts together while they skip along. It is this sort of approach that make "Holy Grail" wonderful to watch, allowing the comedy to appear unfiltered and undistracted. Nothing to see but the lines and the performances and all are superb. Whether it's battling a Black Knight with no arms (or legs) or fleeing from rude, cattle-firing French soldiers, everything is designed to make you laugh every step of the way. It reminded me of a drama rehearsal, that devil-may-care feel is left in place and the film feels rough and unfinished. But of course, it is exactly how they wanted it. Credit is due almost entirely to the Monty Python crew who fill most of the roles with gusto and a knowing wink. Sometimes, it's really difficult to tell who is who as they are increasingly obscured by make-up, fake facial hair or just a bloody big knight's helmet.There is really not much one could criticise here. Aside from an obviously dated appearance (animation is particularly creaky and weak, as it was on the show) and the chance that you might not like surrealist humour, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is essential viewing. It farts in the general direction of other British comedies ("Sex Lives Of The Potato Men", anyone? I didn't think so) and remains a benchmark for ensemble pieces, costume dramas involving swallows and coconuts, semi-religious movies and musicals about Brave Sir Robin. Do yourself a favour - I picked up the two-disc DVD special edition for £7 today. Go and seek yourself a copy of this thirty-year old gem, sit back and answer me these questions three, ere the other side you'll see...


                
King Arthur never did find that Holy Grail, but from the looks of Monty Python's movie about the search, he did meet a lot of interesting people on his quest. The loony comedy troupe that made the popular BBC television show "Monty Python's Flying Circus" which featured silly sketches that often didn't end, the famous animation style that looks more like South Park than The Simpsons, and humor that drew as much from 1960s British current events as it did from the Middle Ages. Monty Python was Dennis Miller before Dennis Miller was out of his diapers. All of these influences on their humor come through in their most complete movie, a retelling of the King Arthur legends and lore. And when I say retelling, I mean a series of sketches that have their root in Middle Ages lore and have some affiliation with King Arthur. Methinks the Knights Who Say Ni did not exist in the late 900s. Graham Chapman plays King Arthur, who does not ride a horse, but rather simulates a horse by banging two coconuts together, as he tours the English countryside, trying to find knights for his round table at Camelot. The knights never do make it to Camelot, as Arthur claims "it is a rather silly place," instead are met by God and told of their quest. The movie then follows each knight as they meet snooty Frenchmen (notably John Cleese and his flying barnyard animals), the Castle Anthrax and the 18-22 year old women who make scandalous underwear, the three-headed knight, and many other odd creatures. My favorite tale is that of Sir Lancelot (again, Cleese) as he tries to save someone from being forced to be married by their father. After taking out the entire wedding party, Lancelot finds Prince Herbert (Terry Jones) and silliness ensues. In true Monty Python fashion, the last scene of the movie does not really fit in with the rest of the movie, but if you know Python, you know it is the right ending of the movie. Fantastic points about society are sprinkled in throughout the movie, jokes about overacting are accentuated by the phrase "Get on with it!" as shouted by other characters in the movie, and we even get to learn some Swedish. Directed by Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam, it is a fast paced onslaught of scatological jokes, and shrubbery.


                
