James Stewart and Frank Capra.  One needn't know much more going in to be assured that this will be an enjoyable film.  Together they take on the Washington elite with this dramatic comedy about a naïve Washington outsider who gets appointed to the Senate and stands alone against corruption and graft.  Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) is appointed from an unnamed state after one of its Senators dies.  He is appointed because the political fat cats need someone who will not seem like a crony, but who will not stand in the way of a graft scheme for a pork barrel dam that will make bigwig Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold) millions.  When the wide eyed Smith gets to Washington, he discovers the corrupt bill because the dam will stand in the way of his own proposed bill for a children's camp.  When he tries to stop the project, Taylor's political machine frames him to make it seem like he is the one taking graft.  This leads to the dramatic confrontation in the Senate, where Smith filibusters in an attempt to get the truth out.This film is wonderful in so many ways.  The story is a classic struggle between good and evil.  In typical Capra style, the protagonist and antagonists are exaggerated so there is no confusion as to who are the good guys and who are the bad guys.  If there is one clear message in Capra's films it is that those with strong moral fiber never give up hope.  He likes to create utterly hopeless situations for characters to test their integrity, and rewards unswerving adherence to basic values and principles by triumph against the odds.  I was dismayed to see a comment, obviously from a young viewer of this film, that said that the characters weren't realistic because no one used profanity.  This is a sad testimonial to our culture, when it inconceivable to young people that there was once a time when profanity was the exception and not the rule. Stewart is brilliant as the idealistic and awe struck kid from the backwoods who is overwhelmed by the glory of Washington, with its monuments and history.  The story brings us a confrontation between political expediency and idealistic principles with the message that the truly great men are the ones that don't compromise their principles to hold on to power.  Stewart also brings a whole treasure chest of bumbling comedic sight gags that make him all the more lovable in the part.Jean Arthur is fabulous as the tough and savvy assistant who is jaded by Washington politics, but gets a fresh injection of fervor as she listens to Smith's noble homespun philosophies.  Claude Rains is also masterful as the adulterated Senator, who sold his soul to corruption for a chance at the presidency.  He plays the simultaneous sense of guilt and ambition with a torment that is clearly ripping his heart out, and the power of both emotions portrayed in his performance makes his character both repugnant and pitiable.This film is a national treasure.  It is in my top 50 list of all time.  The story of corruption in politics and the greatness of the men who resist it is timeless and would not be lost on the politicians in Washington today.  A 10/10.


                
Now, I must admit that this is one of my top five favorite films. There is a warmth, idealism, and kinda simple feeling of hope, that makes one believe that things will work out in the end. Capra knew exactly what he wanted, and it shines. Jimmy Stewart, in the role of his life, makes us believe, what we know is almost impossible in todays crass world.Claude Rains is incredible as Senator Smith's evil mentor. Jean Arthur, as his confidant, plays the part so well,that we just want her to save the day.The final scene, where the filibuster is taking place, is among the greatest ever made.BUT THE PROOF, YOU ASK?In the early 80s, I showed this film, over three days, to a group of 15 year old inner city teenagers. I taught Political Science in a very difficult school in Chicago. It was a new class, and not all of the "best" students took it.I decided to show this film at the end of the year, just to see how long I could keep the students attention. I didn't expect much. Fifteen is a very tough age to keep any kind of attention span, and it was at the end of the day, 2:30 -3:15 pm. which made things worse. As the film began, there was rustling in the seats, boredom, that famous oh what a waste of time look...Mind you, this is 43 year old film, about a white Senator, in those "old" days, and being shown to a totally Afro-American crowd of 15 year olds, late in the day, (over a three day period, which meant the students would have to wait till the next day to see what was going on. ..By the end of the third day, Capra had worked his magic, and the entire class was spellbound by this film. They were there till the very end, and you could see how much they enjoyed seeing a film, that they wouldn't have looked at in a thousand years..Comments were wonderful. Any film that could accomplish this, more than 40 years after its conception, to a crowd that no one would believe would have any interest in, deserves to be truly called a "great film."


                
Since the beginning of the art form, movies have generally fallen into two categories: the realistic, and the fantastic (fantasy-based).  There are some that point out that the films of Frank Capra unduly fall into the latter, that they are completely far-fetched and fastened in their own time, and even invented a pejorative term "Capra-esque" to describe any non-cynical, heartwarming picture that has a message.  His great films, like It Happened One Night, It's a Wonderful Life, and of course, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, however, are not fixed in a single era, but all eras, the truest definition of a classic.  And considering it was released among true powerhouses in 1939, a year as important to movies as 1998 was to baseball, its ideals, story, and general excellence shine as bright today as it did over 60 years ago.A Senator from an unnamed, middle America state dies and a new one must be appointed by Governor Hubert Hopper, a puppet whose strings are held by newspaper magnate Jim Taylor.  They need to find one that would be easily controlled by the now-senior Senator Joseph Paine (played brilliantly by Claude Rains), so a bill allowing a building of a dam near land by the Willett Creek owned by Taylor can pass in the Senate.  After his initial choice is rejected by Taylor, and Taylor's handpicked man is shot down by the public, the governor chooses Jefferson Smith, played to perfection by James Stewart, a boy scout leader and local hero who is both wholly idealistic in his patriotism for America but naive and blind to the actual process.  After he gets embarrassed by the local print media, Mr. Smith begins to learn the harsh realities of DC.  Paine, Smith's boyhood hero, takes him under his wing and suggests that Smith try to create a bill. Smith agrees, and with his assistant, Clarissa Saunders (played by Jean Arthur), they create a bill to create a campground for boys from all over the country to learn about each other and the civic process, much to the initial dissuasion by Saunders.  Smith then wants to choose a site near the Willett Creek, the same site where the dam is to be built and when his superiors and true string-pullers find that out, major complications ensue.Although the basic premise is David vs. Goliath, the story is wholly originally and was probably one of the earliest pictures to suggest the government as corrupt.  The characters are played excellently by all principal actors, with Mr. Smith you root for whole-heartedly, Mr. Taylor you root against for his sheer arrogance and greed, and Mr. Paine, who you pity as you see a man who lost his initial zest to serve the public and is now a jaded shell of his former self.  A great performance was given by Harry Carey, Sr., who plays the Vice President/President of the Senate for comic relief.  The lines where completely believable and the parts of Smith's final filibuster that were shown give the most impact.  There is a beautifully shot scene with images of the monuments and sights of Washington with several national anthems synchronized as the score.  The climax is as tension-packed as drama can get, and while the ending may seem rather sudden, and everything isn't completely or neatly resolved, it works perfectly and ends the movie on a happy note.Obviously, few if any people elected to public office has the moral character, conviction, and general good heartedness of Jefferson Smith, and I doubt whether the government would be better if it was.  The movie showed an ideal, a supposed "lost cause" of truth in government.  And although it is next to impossible for Capra and the eternal good guy Jimmy Stewart to ever fully change the world of politics with just a motion picture, at least it shows that maybe once in a great while, being the good guy has its definite rewards.  If (using the same analogy of the 1998 baseball season) The Wizard of Oz and Gone With the Wind were the Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa of 1939 moviemaking, then this would be like Cal Ripken voluntarily ending his Iron Man Streak, something done with full class and the highest respect in mind, and that elevates an ideal of being the good guy and sticking to your dedication brings the greatest of riches.  This picture is flawless in all respects and a true classic, with thought-provoking ideas, wit, a little bit of platonic romance, and an excellent cinematography and score, and deserves the rank as a 10 out of 10.  And in giving this rating, either I'm damn right or I'm crazy.


                
It was a lot of fun watching Mr. Smith Goes to Washington in a class where the professor noted how this was the sort of film that was of historical importance while not taking itself too seriously. And I think that's the way Frank Capra wanted it, in a sense. Perhaps in the time of 1939 America this film was seen as being of merit to the American Government's due (though according to the trivia, it was denounced at showing corruption and even banned for showing how democracy "works"). But the director is also wanting to make an entertaining movie, of the kind of Hollywood appeal that brings 8-to-80 years olds in attendance. What had me interested throughout, particularly in that climactic, rousing twenty-minute sequence in the Senate with Jimmy Stewart's constant, un-faltering filibuster, is how it really is a patriotic kind of bravura to be shown on the screen. Here is how it SHOULD be done, to an extreme perhaps, in getting things done in government. But at the same time, Capra keeps it entirely watchable with that group of kids up on the balcony, keeping the audience laughing and smiling all the way through the great lines that Stewart says. "Great principles don't get lost once they come to light. They're right here; you just have to see them again!" This is a kind of talent that I'm sure few other filmmakers at the time, or even after, could have pulled off.The rest of the film isn't just Stewart's struggle to be heard as a young, new-in-town senator. It's also a witty, more often than not true look of how government tends to really work as opposed to how it should. Basically, the core of the story is the fish-out-of-water type, where Stewart's Jefferson Smith (one of his better Hollywood performances), leader of the Boy Rangers is called to be the senator of his state. He has a childhood hero in town in the form of a senior senator (Claude Rains, terrific as always). And there's even a woman (Jean Arthur) in the mix that's growing an interest in him, at first dubious. But despite the corruption that is almost thrust upon smith by Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold, as skilled a character actor as could be asked for), Smith fights it all the way to his final filibuster, which includes a reading from the Constitution, in-and-out cheers from the Boy Rangers, and general guffaws from the other senators. In other words, it's really much in that pure spirit of Frank Capra that 'Mr. Smith' is working in, and even at its cheesiest and sometimes most-dated moments, it's a very successful picture for what it wants to do. It's really an equal-opportunity kind of film about people in politics that should be able decades later to appeal to both the hopeful and the cynical, and it works as good as it does a comedy as it does a piece to show in history of film or American government course.


                
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a wonderful film about a man Jeff Smith (James Stewart) who believes that children are the future and should be able to enjoy the outdoors, while taking in knowledge of their great Country. When a senator dies in Smith's state, the governor is forced into an awkward position of electing the new senator. While the governor is sitting down to dinner, his young children propose the idea of Jeff Smith who is head of the Boy Rangers and prints a weekly newspaper for the local children. Mr. Smith is elected into office in the funniest way, a coin toss. 
When Mr. Smith arrives in Washington with his colleague Mr. Pain, (Claude Rains) he is amazed by all the greatness that Washington possesses. After being sworn into the Senate Mr. Smith comes up with idea to propose a Bill that would let boys come together and enjoy the wilderness, and the perfect spot would be in his home town next to a creek. What he doesn't know is that his colleague Mr. Pain has his own plans with that same land. The film then releases the full fury of what corrupt politicians can do to a truthful man.The plot of the film will grab the viewer within the first five minutes and will not let go until the astonishing end. Even though this type of thing is implausible it's still very funny and unique in its own way.
The acting was superb! James Stewart will always represent the good guy trying to make his way through life in an honorable way. Claude Rains character was perfect for him, a good man gone bad by the power of politics. Jean Arthur's character was something that isn't normally seen in the movies. She played an ambitious woman trying to get to the top without anyone's help, but is still the great old fashioned woman she was born to be. James Stewart and Jean Arthur were very charismatic together. There could not have been a better pair. The lighting in the film was great in two scenes when Mr. Smith is at the Washington memorial the light shines on sentences of the constitution that added a lot to the emotion of the character and helped set the tone for the scene. This is a classic film that should be recognized and cherished forever. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a great film for the whole family, the film is not only captivating and genuine but there is also a moral in the story. Definitely a ten out of ten, and should be part of your home video library.


                
`Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' is not as well known of a movie as it should be.  It is a very good movie that is very interesting and a very good way to learn how some things involving the Senate work.  This reviewer absolutely loved this movie and wishes she could run out and buy it right now.   It definitely grabs the audience's attention and keeps it there.  While watching this movie, this reviewer was laughing, smiling, getting really, really angry, learning, and even getting a little teary-eyed.  How can a movie that brings out all those different emotions in someone not be great, or even spectacular!  `Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' is definitely one of the best movies ever made despite the fact that it is mostly about politics! It's still interesting!While watching this movie, the audience might be thinking that the acting isn't half bad and is actually quite realistic.  They would be right too! All of the acting is really very good and it draws the audience in and keeps them in.  This movie was so close to not having one single cheesy line or unbelievable acting job that it's really a shame that it did.  At the very end of the movie Saunders, played by                 , stands up from her seat in the balcony and yells `Stop Jeff! Stop!' and then falls to the floor.  The line and the way       says it is very, very cheesy and something the audience might find themselves laughing at.  That line is just about the only time in the entire movie where the acting was lacking.  James Stewart was, of course, phenomenal.  He is a very good actor and one that should be remembered for a very long time.  He's awesome!The only other not so great thing about `Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' is the ending.  It's a happy ending but, well, it just ends.  It's an abrupt ending.  It ends so abruptly that the audience isn't even expecting it to end when it does.  It has one of those endings where the audience knows a bunch of things that will be happening, they just aren't shown happening. This reviewer doesn't really care for those kind, it is much better when you get to see the things carried out.  Although the ending could have been better `Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' is still an awesome movie and the ending doesn't take away from that at all!This movie is so great that every person in the world should be able to see it because it is definitely worth the time it takes to see it.


                
From time to time, a movie comes along that holds up so well that it actually gets BETTER with age. "Mr. Smith Goes To Washington" is EXACTLY that type of movie.For a basic plot summary, this movie tells the story of Jefferson Smith (Jimmy Stewart) a sort of "wide-eyed rube" who only gets promoted to U.S. Senator because of the political machine of Senator Joseph Payne (Claude Rains), whom the young Smith adores. Once in Washington, however, Smith gets a rude awakening as to the "real" politics of D.C. With the help of a female aide named Saunders (Jean Arthur), Smith must decide whether to fall in line or fight the deep- rooted corruption in the Capitol dome.This movie remains an all-time classic for two primary reasons:1. It strikes such a simple emotional chord in all of us. Even though, deep down, we know that corruption runs rampant in even the highest levels of government, we like to cling to the ideals that the nation was founded on. Well, that is exactly the journey that Stewart's Smith viscerally takes us on. We want him to succeed so badly because we all feel as if that is what WE would do in a similar situation.2. I know I'll probably get a few down-votes for this statement alone, but I believe that our government is as corrupt now as it has ever been. Thus, while watching Stewart's impassioned pleas for honesty and common sense, my heart ached for the United States of America. So, not only does "Mr. Smith" stand the test of time, but it actually transcends it.Basically, this movie does to politics what fellow Frank Capra film "It's A Wonderful Life" does to Christmas. If it were up to me, this movie would be shown in every American Government high school classroom and on television sometime the week before every major political election. It is THAT important in the message that it espouses.


                
If I could choose one movie, more than any other, which was not only brilliant, but highly significant, it would be this one. We live an an age when cynicism about politics is rife, when people who get involved to change things for the better are more often than not dismissed as naive; this is a film which everyone who is cynical towards politics should see. It doesn't hide the fact that there is corruption in politics, but it does say quite clearly that there is a point and a value to standing up to it.As movie quotes go, Jean Arthur's words to Jeff Smith deserve to be remembered: "Your friend Mr. Lincoln had his Taylors and Paines. So did every other man whoever tried to lift his thought up off the ground. Odds against 'em didn't stop those men. They were fools that way. All the good that ever came into this world came from fools with faith like that." This is a movie which can teach a very valuable lesson, particularly those who despair of modern politics. There is a way forward.


                
What a wonderful film. What an exaggerated, corny, fantastic, beautifully acted, exciting, wonderful film."Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" is a classic for good reason. It reinforces qualities that many of us have lost along the way: idealism, strong, unshakable belief, never quitting, honesty, and commitment. Today, patriotism and "American values" have taken on another connotation. They have become the property of the right wing. But there isn't anything wrong with the kind of patriotism and American values expressed by Jefferson Smith, which are different from what is being expressed today.Is anyone today as idealistic as Mr. Smith was when he first came to Washington? Can one really win against a powerful force like the Taylor machine? As one who was involved in a legal case where the other side had all the clout and all the money, I sadly have to answer that I don't think so. In the real world, as Court TV has taught us, things don't work that way. Is anyone as corrupt as Senator Paine and Jim Taylor? Sadly, I'd have to say probably. Would they ruin anyone who got in their way? Yes. Have they? Definitely."Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" is a fantasy, but it's a fantasy that uplifts us and reminds us of what we could be and, like Jean Arthur says in the film, maybe being jaded isn't such a good idea all the time.James Stewart had the role of a lifetime, and he was perfect. Homespun, intelligent, boyishly good-looking, his career and tremendous popularity even today speak for themselves. His filibuster scenes are incredible, passionate, and strong. We were lucky we had him as long as we did. There will never be another. Jean Arthur was fabulous in her role as a streetwise assistant who finds something to believe in. Claude Rains, as the unlikable, weak Senator Paine, gives a powerful performance. The bad guys - and Capra always makes sure they're real bad - were all great. As for Harry Carey, the sympathetic speaker, you want to hug him. A fantastic job.Frank Capra knew how to make movies. The pace is swift, the story strong, and the scenes tense and exciting. One gets caught up in the world he fashions. A shame it isn't real.


                
James Stewart was simply magnificent in this memorable classic of a dedicated young politician who is appointed to the senate following the death of his state's senator.. He wants to do what is best for his constituents. He soon learns that in Washington this is not to be the case. Corruption, patronage et al are alive and well and functioning.Edward Arnold, in a supporting role, is fabulous as the old style political boss. The Stewart character represents what we need as leaders to run this great nation of ours. Some real scene stealing is done by Claude Rains as the other state's senator who has become corrupt. His temperament is perfect for the part. His seething by guilt and his denunciation of his fellow senator shows depth in acting. His outburst at the end of the film is totally memorable. He claims that he has compromised to get what he wants. How far from the truth this really is! Jean Arthur, as the secretary in the know, is truly fabulous as well. Newspapers can learn from this film. They should. Censorship still exists in 2006.Remember that great filibuster scene? Stewart acted his heart out. Though he lost the coveted Oscar here, the Academy rewarded him the following year for the comedy "The Philadelphia Story."This film should be a definite pre-requisite for students in political science classes.


                
Through a series of fortunate, and unfortunate, events, an unsophisticated local hero, Jefferson Smith, is appointed a US Senator. The people pulling the strings in his party and State figure that he will be compliant and malleable and basically stay out of the way of their plans, some of which aren't entirely ethical, or legal. However, a well-intentioned deed sets off a dramatic chain of events, a series of events that will see him at odds with his colleagues, with the shadowy, bullying powerbrokers and with the entire Senate.Brilliant movie from Frank Capra. While Capra also gave us such great movies as It's A Wonderful Life, Meet John Doe and It Happened One Night, this is his greatest work. A superb indictment of politics and how democracy has been undermined and corrupted, told with the trademark Capra brand of wholesomeness and practical idealism. Considering how politics has even further degenerated since 1939, even more relevant today than when it was released in 1939.Clever, engaging plot that doesn't waiver for a second. Not an ounce of deadwood in the movie - every scene is perfect and important. Some great twists and turns and some great tension towards the end as Smith struggles to preserve his name and ideals. Wonderful themes and morals too, as you would expect from Frank Capra.Add in some excellent performances, especially from James Stewart in the lead role and Jean Arthur as Ms Saunders. Both received Oscar nominations, as did Harry Carey for playing the President of the Senate.In all, Mr Smith Goes To Washington was nominated for 11 Oscars, including Best Picture, but won only one, for best original screenplay. Unfortunately for it, the 1940 Oscars belonged to a juggernaut known as Gone With The Wind...


                
This movie will make you laugh, fall in love, believe in morality and trust me, it'll make you dance with elation in the end. James Stewart will take you back to your younger days vibrant with energy, living the ideals and free from bitterness. The romance is the (not oft explored) simpleton-guy & cynic-girl kind. The scene where Stewart prepares the bill with Jean Arthur is priceless. I rate its direction alongside Casablanca and The Apartment, unfortunately its an extinct style. The dialog writing is sublime especially while addressing the themes of liberty and life.In hindsight this is one of the earliest superhero movies. There is a hero whom kids adore, bad men with anti-superpowers and a sad girl who is first enthralled by the hero's superpowers but then falls in love with his human side !!!


                
James Stewart plays Jefferson Smith, a toddler in a man's body taken out of his small town rural play-pen and plunked down into the heavy political traffic of Washington DC. The sudden death of the incumbent Senator of an unnamed state prompts the state's political machine to appointment Smith as interim Senator. Smith's a local celebrity in his hometown, a proponent of boy's healthful living, the founder of Boy Rangers whose mission it is to prepare the male youth of today to take their place as the patriotic cheerleaders for the American Way in the world of tomorrow. The senior Senator Joseph Paine admirably played by that fine actor Claude Rains, and his puppet master, corrupt political boss, Jim Taylor, in the person of actor Edward Arnold, are convinced the newbie Smith is naïve enough and malleable enough not to disrupt their dirty program of graft and shady dealings so that business can be carried on as usual. Arnold, virtually typecast by Hollywood as the venal, power hungry businessman really puts this character across with all its hallmark, villainous trappings. Jean Arthur as Clarissa Saunders is tasked with a real thorny assignment. She's Smith administrative assistant, a Washington-wise veteran of the savvy, cynical breed who takes him in hand, steering him and cheering him on. So refreshing, and pathetically unspoiled is the new Senator, Saunders can't but help taking him under her wing and---ultimately falling in love with this touching, earnest sap. Most of the action takes place in the Senate chambers that serves as the arena of combat, a theater full of drama, tension and political maneuvering in action. Spectators in the gallery are the enraptured audience. Perched eagerly above are a contingent of the newspaper corps avidly gazing down on the proceedings notebooks and pencils at the ready to document any newsworthy copy that can be finessed into sensationalist reportage. Thomas Mitchell plays Diz Moore, one of these tough, weathered news-hounds, a man without illusions yet one not immune to sentimentality, himself joining Saunders in her concern over Smith's dilemma. Well, things don't exactly work out the way boss Taylor and his ally Senator Paine are convinced they will. In Capra's world honesty and just causes never go unrewarded. Smith introduces a Congressional bill to fund a national boys camp, and doing so unknowingly intrudes into one of the bad guys well laid schemes crafted to enrich themselves and their cronies back home. Frank Capra was a life long right-wing Republican who reviled President Franklin Roosevelt and adamantly opposed his New Deal programs during the Great Depression. Capra had achieved the American Dream of fame and fortune and saw no reason others could not do the same. He lived the American Myth and spent his professional life making films that were skilled vehicles of propaganda. In Mr. Smith, both Democracy and domestic bliss reign over all in this happily ever after Capra love letter to America. This is a true film classic and a noteworthy example of Capra presenting America to Americans at its most idealized, fantastical best.
Jimmy Stewart is best known and remembered for playing the good guy. In this film, he played Jefferson Smith, a revered boys' leader, in an unknown state. He gets appointed by the Governor to replace a deceased senator for the remaining of his term. When Smith gets to Washington D.C., he sees the sights and memorials like Lincoln Memorial and Capitol Hill with such awe and reverence. It isn't until he wants to get something done that he is met with those who preferred the status quo way of doing things. Smith isn't bought by anybody like the others and he won't sell out as well. The cast is first rate. Jean Arthur is brilliant in this Capra classic. The supporting cast included the Hollywood greats like Claude Rains, Edward Arnold, Beulah Bondi, Ruth Donnelly, and others. You will root for Jimmy Stewart's Smith because you want too. His performance brings you to him.


                
This was a beautiful movie. The ending was intensely dramatic and can bring a stone to tears. Throughout the movie a part of me was going, "Hey! This is sentimental rubbish! This does not happen! This can never happen! This drama is so corny and over-idealist and impractical BS!!". Thats when another part of me interjected, "May be it's supposed to be sentimental rubbish! Yes, this does not happen. But, should this not happen ? Why can't we have Mr. Smiths in the Washington ? Why shouldn't we fight for lost causes ? Why should I reject this as sentimental rubbish ? Is there anything wrong with being idealistic ? Is what Mr. Smith representing wrong ? No. If he is not wrong in his principals, then why should I think of it as rubbish and corny ? Why should I accept that politicians are going to be corrupt ?..." And this is the beauty of this film. It shows its viewer that its not wrong to be honest and try to defend and uphold our ideals. It also shows that, in order to bring reform, one ought to be prepared to fight. Fight against mighty forces, and have faith that justice will prevail. This movie is not meant to be realistic and practical. Its meant to be what it is so that people are inspired by its beautiful and powerful message.


                
In the golden age of cinema, year 1939, Frank Capra released his political masterpiece "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington." Starring James Stewart, Jean Arthur, and Claude Rains, it is a film about a naive young "Boy Ranger" leader (no doubt meant to be a reference to the Boy Scouts of American) with big dreams about American politics, history, and freedom, who is selected by the governor of his state to replace a deceased senator. Expecting a dream come true, he soon finds that he was only selected to be pawn for the powerful and corrupt "Taylor Machine" along with his fellow senator Joseph Paine. Rather than back down and follow orders, he decides to stay true to his ideals and stand up against corrupt politics.This film is a landmark in cinema for several reasons. First of all, it was incredibly important too society. It was often frowned upon at the time because it was one of the first films, if not THE first, to paint a somewhat negative picture of American politicians, but it was also banned in several fascist and communist countries because of it's message of democracy, freedom, and the power of one. It was the last American film to be shown in France before the German occupation and no doubt gave hope to the country that freedom was on its way.It is also a very inspiring film. Many claim that Frank Capra's work is all very unrealistic and corny. Several claim more specifically that in real life this film would not have ended the way it would. I disagree with that, but even so, there's not denying that this film is powerful. By the end of it, you feel very uplifted. It makes you believe in the power of your voice, the power of one man, and the importance of having high ideals.It is also just overall an incredibly well-done film. Some of the transitions are very quick, but that just the time period, filmmakers at that time had yet to experiment with flashy camera work and creative transitions and such. Most definitely what was important about films in the 30's and 40's was the content much less than the camera work or the editing, and the content is fantastic. The film has an excellent screenplay, and lovable characters as well as some detestable ones. It's also very informative, containing somewhat of a lesson on the way the legislative system of our government works. but what stands high above everything else in this film is most definitely the acting.James Stewart is absolutely brilliant as the young and naive, yet determined Jefferson Smith. When he gets to Washington he has every appearance of a little boy going to see his favorite baseball team play for the first time. In the first part of the film he's very passive and very vulnerable, but also very kind, but once he starts to stand up for himself, he exudes power with his performance, and you can see the transition completely.Jean Arthur is adorable as the cynical yet sweet Saunders, and while the romance between her and Smith is a little underplayed, it's very captivating. Claude Raines also give a brilliant performance as Senator Joseph Paine. You can see the inner struggle of his character in his expressions and his delivery is impeccable. And Harry Carry's reactions as the President of the Senate are priceless. They're subtle but very amusing.All in all this is a movie that true film buffs absolutely should not miss, as well as anyone who is interested in politics or would like a good lesson in acting.


                
Sam Foley, U.S. Senator of an unnamed state is dead.Governor Hubert "Happy" Hopper has to pick a replacament.His corrupt political boss Jim Taylor pressures Hopper to choose his handpicked stooge.The governor's children have their own candidate in mind, Jefferson Smith, the head of the Boy Rangers.He is a naive and idealistic man, and Hopper picks him.Now this small town man is off to Washington.Jeff gets all excited about all the monuments they have in Washington.He looks at the Lincoln Memorial and has a lot of belief to the system.His beliefs are soon crushed when he notices how corrupted the system is.One man is pulling the strings, telling the politicians and the press what to do or say.Smith wants to fight against this system.He has an idea for a national boys' camp.But it locates at the area a damp would come.This film got some politicians actually scared and called it anti-American and pro-Communist for its portrayal of corruption in the American government.I guess they were scared of the truth coming out.Frank Capra was brave enough to make such a picture.The ending is most effective.Smith faints after all those hours of talking and Joe Paine comes crying yo the chair shouting: Expel me! Not him.Me! The good wins and the world seems a little better place.
Another Frank Capra masterpiece surfaces to the pinnacle of movie making!! "Mr Smith Goes to Washington" is a film which introduces the American public to the pejorative intricacies of the political process!! Jimmy Stewart's performance in this movie is considered one of the best acting performances ever in the history of the American silver screen!! Back in 1939, even with the Great Depression, Americans conceptualized politicians as icons of altruism who epitomized moral and socially ideological beliefs that people in this country could adhere to!! By attrition, more and more Americans have accepted the fact that politicians are the masters of one precarious preoccupation..it is called graft!! The complacency of pork barreling was something that the political spectrum wanted to keep covert... Here is where the very wet behind the ears Mr Smith (Jimmy Stewart) becomes astounded by the ulterior motives of the actual Washington DC, and not the one which he revered all his young adult life!! The film "Mr Smith Goes to Washington" makes filibustering a form of heroics, and translates the desires of the American people to the dogged tenacity of Jimmy Stewart to overcome graft!! Such a resilient assertion of democracy garnered an auspicious reaction from the American moviegoer!! "Mr Smith Goes To Washington" has become a legend in the movie world!! Such a charisma is largely due in part to the acting, and the directing in this movie!! At the same time, this film's strongest feature is the overall premise that graft can be overcome by a freshman senator, this powerful element to this movie ultimately cultivated a camaraderie with the American people!! If you have never seen this film before, I strongly recommend that you do!! When the phenomena of the White House and stars and stripes forever become relegated to a citadel of disillusionment, it takes the vigor of a magnanimous maverick politician like Mr Smith (Jimmy Stewart) to set things right!! Jimmy Stewart has always been the Mr squeaky clean baseball, apple pie, and mom type anyway!! He is perfectly cast for this movie!! Frank Capra, who has a virtual myriad of accolades in the world of Hollywood, does a tremendous job at directing this movie!! All in all, I think that "Mr Smith Goes to Washington" is a definite American movie legend!!


                
Frank Capra made some great films in his career (You Can't Take It With You, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, It Happened One Night), and he made some near-great films (Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, It's a Wonderful Life, Lost Horizon, Lady For a Day). Not bad for a Sicilian boy! Maybe he and my grandfather came over on the same ship as they only lived 38 Km from each other.This film which starred Jean Arthur and James Stewart may be a little corny for many people's tastes, but it is my favorite Stewart film. I like movies with a political theme, and this one is timeless. The same things that happen in this film are likely happening right now in Washington.Stewart gives an outstanding performance as Jefferson Smith and makes an unlikely candidate for public office; much the same as Robin Williams in Man of the Year. He got one of his five Oscar nominations for this role, and the New York Film Critics considered him the best of the year.This was a year in which Clark Gable was up for an Oscar in Gone With the Wind, Laurence Olivier for Wuthering Heights, Mickey Rooney for Babes in Arms, and the Oscar winner was Rober Donat in Goodbye Mr. Chips. Presitigious company, indeed! Lewis R. Foster won an Oscar for his story, Capra was nominated for best Director, losing to Victor Fleming for Gone With the Wind, and he lost Best Picture to David O. Selznick for the same film.Two supporting actors, who gave marvelous performances in this film also got Oscar nominations: Claude Rains as Sen. Joseph Harrison Paine and Harry Carey as President of the Senate. Who could forget that smile during the filibuster.One of the greatest films ever made in Hollywood. A real David vs. Goliath story that will warm your heart and get your blood pumping. This is a classic from the day when movies stood on the strength of the actors and the script, and not on CGI, sex, or violence.


                
"Mr. Smith Goes To Washington" is simply one of the best movies of all time. It embodies the principles of democracy and fair play that the world has forgotten and should revisit. It's one of Frank Capra's best! Mr.Capra won the Academy Award 3 times in five years. It's refreshing to see a movie that expresses ideals. Things were simpler then, ( the film is older than I am!). There is a minimum of sfx. There is, however, a great deal in the way of depth of feeling. Besides the leads, Jas. Stewart and Jean Arthur, the supporting cast is stellar. All roles are very well-cast. The characters are extremely well-defined. The script is so well crafted that it takes us on a rollicking comedic romp, sets us up,and then drops the hammer on the substance of the story. This film will never be surpassed as a perfect example of what great cinema can and should be... at least some of the time. Viva Frank Capra!


                
The death of a senator results in party crisis. As the powerful members pitch their own candidates, the head of the party, at the insistence of his children, selects Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) - a local scout hero. People against this decision are told that Mr. Smith with his boyish charm is a perfect man for the job as he won't ask inconvenient questions and at the same time party will get some middle class support. All hells break loose when Mr. Smith turns out to be a Lincolnian. Mr. Paine, who is the other senator from the state and Jeff's ideal since childhood, slams him with charges of corruption to get rid of him. Jeff is heartbroken with the realities of Washington. He decides to take the next train home but his secretary Saunders (Jean Arthur) who is already jaded with political surroundings helps him fight back. Performance-wise James steward is at his best. He is very convincing as a local hero, a Lincolnian youth and frustrated senator. Jean Arthur is good. She did a little over acting but its OK for comic relief. Claude Rains is very good as Mr. Paine. Edward Arnold is too good. Thomas Mitchell is fantastic as Diz Moore. This movie is extremely comical, serious stuff and jokes are happening at the same time. The film is extremely tight, entertaining and very well crafted. It was my second Capra film. I wanted to watch this film to checkout the senate footage. It turned out to be a huge lesson on US senate for me. This film actually explains lots of processes i.e. Jean Arthur describes how a bill is passed, oath taking ceremony etc. The first half of the film is establishing and humorous. Second half of the film is extremely definitive and to the point. The last 20 minutes of the film are thrilling. I think its one of the best story, dialogs and screenplay I have seen ever. It's a flawless film. The only other films in the same league are 'Anand', 'Guide' and 'Bicycle thief'. All of them are genius works. 'Advise and Consent (1962)' has the same backdrop but has just too many flaws. I don't have a 'Cinemascope' brain but while watching this film I noticed some scenes which were done in a particular way to narrate the story for e.g. in a sentimental scene Jean Arthur's eyes are in the shadow as tears wont go with her character. I think it's a shame that this film lost all its well deserved Oscars to one of the most overrated and boring film 'Gone with the film'. The only reason it got an Oscar for original Story was probably because there was no competition. I'm sure this movie was sidelined for obvious reasons. It came out in the middle of the world war and America bashing was the last thing Americans wanted.


                
After seeing this movie, I really tried to figure out what took me so long to see it. Maybe political dramas don't really get my interest, but this was more than just a political drama. Every character in this movie had life breathed into them by incredible acting and those who supplied that acting. At the end of this movie, I was REALLY rooting for the good guy Jimmy Stewart, and hoping that the bad guys went you know where! Claude Rains and Jimmy both gave noteworthy performances as their rivalry and tensions brought the movie to a whole new level! I strongly recommend this movie to anybody who is looking for a solid story line and great character development!


                
My all-time favorite movie because it is, above all, a film about simply doing the right thing. It is not even about Mr. Smith doing the right thing, however, because we know all along that he will. He couldn't be any other way. The real hero of the movie (you may disagree with me here) is Payne. Payne is like us. We are often conflicted about knowing what the right thing is; in denial and rationalizing actions we know are wrong; and weak about doing the right thing when we do know what it is. Jeff Smith only needs Saunders to remind him of what is right, and he will do it. But all is still lost without Payne. For sixty years the biggest criticism of this film has been its abrupt ending. It is often called a contrived ending. But I believe it is the perfect ending. Like Payne, each one of us has to step up, find our humanity, find our conscience and only then can the hero save the day, with our support! The film is brilliantly written with memorable characters and scenes. It is a perfect romance as well, since the attraction between Smith and Saunders is founded completely in their mutual respect and admiration. Without any kissing at all, the romance is there in their eyes and in the concern they display for each other.
Many will dismiss this great film with slanders like "sappy," "corny," and, worst of all, "Capra-corn," but anyone who can watch this movie unmoved and uninspired must have a heart of stone.  This tale of the idealistic American everyman struggling and triumphing against the greed and corruption that has tarnished the institutions of our country is done in a way that only Capra could pull off.  This is perhaps his greatest achievement, with competition only from IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE.  The acting is superb, with Jimmy Stewart giving an absolutely mesmerising (and frequently hilarious!) performance, and Jean Arthur making the role of the cynical secretary Saunders truly memorable, and reminding us that she's one of the most under-appreciated actresses of all time.  The two of them have great chemistry together, and the balance between comedy and drama is perfect.  For me, what makes this film truly remarkable is that it is profoundly patriotic without resulting to the flag waving, "no questions asked" attitude taken by many people today.  The movie expresses a real love for the country, but is not afraid of showing the flaws in the government, though admittedly the resolution IS unrealistic, but that just adds to its charm as a political fantasy.  After all, who secretly doesn't wait for a Jeff Smith to come around and win us the America we wish we had?  Definitely a 10/10.


                
This is obviously one of the most inspiring films that has ever come out of Hollywood. The film inspires because it dares to suggest that honesty is still the best policy. In our day and age when honesty in politics is scoffed and replaced by cynicism, this film is a reminder to us that once upon a time we hoped that our politicians were working for the benefit of their electorate. Naive though it may now seem.One of James Stewart's most remarkable performances: the filibuster gets to me every time.


                
