Mr. Smith is as good as it's legend. Sometimes I'm disappointed when a universally acclaimed movie isn't as enjoyable as I thought it would be. But here, that is not the case. James Stewart is deservedly remembered most for this role. That's saying a lot given his impressive body of work. This is also Frank Capra's signature film along with Mr. Deeds. The idealism of Jefferson Smith might feel a bit anachronisitc today but, and I know this is a cliché, the world could use more people with his values. The supporting cast is also spot on. Jean Arthur plays the same type as she did in Mr. Deeds and Claude Rains is terrific as the mentor who betrays Smith. Strongly recommended, 9/10.


                
Patriotic, stirring, uplifting, absolutely mesmerizing<U+0085> Here are just a few words that can be used to describe Frank Capra's brilliant 1939 film, 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.' Bringing together a stellar cast of both fresh and seasoned actors, Capra manages to reach into each of our chests, and wrench almost painfully at our heartstrings.Jefferson Smith (James Stewart, 'It's A Wonderful Life'), is a young, enthusiastic patriot who resides in an unnamed American state, but is known throughout it (most especially by the young boys of the region) as an unsung hero. Head of the Boy Rangers, Smith has a love of his country and of nature, once quenching a potentially devastating forest fire single-handedly. After the unexpected death of a current Senator, Governor Hubert Hopper (Guy Kibbee) is forced to choose a replacement. Whilst his corrupt political boss, Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold), urges him to appoint a handpicked stooge, Hopper surprisingly decides to follow the confident advice of his own children, awarding the job to Smith.Smith arrives in Washington, excited and idealistic, no doubt modestly considering himself to be unsuitable for such a prestigious position. He is proud to accompany the other current state Senator, Joseph Harrison Paine (Claude Rains, 'Notorious'), a highly-esteemed man who was once great friends with Smith's father. Unbeknownst to Smith, however, Paine had long ago abandoned his political ideals, seduced by the promise of power and political longevity to make "certain compromises." Whilst Smith works tirelessly to submit a bill regarding the creation of a national boy's camp at Willet Creek, which he hopes will teach a new generation the value of freedom and liberty, the devious Paine schemes to dam that same locality, an act that will serve nobody but the power-hungry Jim Taylor. When Paine's cynical secretary, Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur), informs Smith of these plans, he determinedly attempts to speak his mind, only to be quashed by the almighty "Taylor Machine."Frank Capra, who had previously supplied Columbia Pictures Corporation with two Academy Award Best Picture winners ('It Happened One Night,' 1934 and 'You Can't Take It With You,' 1938), once again proved his undeniable genius, something he would continue to do throughout his film-making career. One often-cited example involves the romantically-awkward Smith's second encounter with Paine's beautiful daughter, Susan (Astrid Allwyn). Rather than focusing on faces, as would be the typical style for such a scene, Capra keeps the camera firmly on Smith's hat, as he restlessly shuffles it between his fingers, frequently dropping it to the floor and stooping to reclaim it. This shot tells us more about Smith than any facial close-up ever could!Finally, James Stewart is unquestionably brilliant as the young, idealistic Smith, in one of his first critically recognised roles. The look of absolute awe and wonderment on his face upon first witnessing the Capitol Dome appears truly genuine, despite the fact that Stewart was merely acting against a projection. For his highly memorable filibuster speech at the climax of the film, Stewart dried out his throat with bicarbonate of soda to make himself sound hoarse, an act that could potentially have destroyed his later ability to speak. As we witness Jefferson Smith, ragged and exhausted, determinedly continuing to shout hoarsely at the Senate members, we immediately understand that his voice is reaching much, much further. He is not just shouting at the Senate, but he is shouting at the people; he is shouting at his country; he is shouting at us. And we are right there alongside him, quietly urging him along.


                
The theme of one man being able to combat the ways of a long-established system is not a new one. In fact, man versus machine is one of the oldest forms of conflict in cinema, but this is a different kind of "machine," this "Taylor Machine." When a young, naive, and idealistic man by the name of Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) is placed, as a pawn, in the United States Senate, he is honored and humbled by the job set out before him. He sees it as an opportunity to provide a service for his country, and, even more so, his people. In Jefferson Smith, we see everything that is good and wholesome in America. One man who wishes for nothing more than an improvement upon a country that he already cherishes. He intends to do everything he can to fulfill his duty as a newly appointed Senator. However, the people that put him there were not nearly as patriotic in their intentions. Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold) and Senator Joseph Harrison Paine (Claude Rains) have conspired to put Smith in office in hopes that he will simply sit there and keep quiet while they pass a bill that will profit Taylor. Smith's dream of building a national boy's camp is shattered by Taylor's scheme to build a dam in the same area. The powerful Jim Taylor is forced to pull some strings in order to discredit the young senator so that his dam can be built. The Taylor Machine frames Smith, accusing him of fraud. Shamed, Smith is ready to leave Washington behind when his assistant, Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur) inspires him to fight for his ideals just as his forefathers had. Smith returns to congress, armed with a new strategy to accomplish his goal.James Stewart gives one of his finest performances as Jefferson Smith, the young, passionately patriotic Senator confronting corruption in the government he holds so dear. Jean Arthur's performance as Clarissa Saunders is strong, while Claude Rains is forced to counter Stewart's inspired intensity (a feat that I feel he accomplishes). The filibuster scene is one of the highlights of the film, and one of the more memorable sequences in American cinema. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a wonderful movie, not just because of James Stewart's relentless performance, but because it has quite a bit to say. It is a statement declaring that ideals are stronger than the pages they are printed on, and that it is our ideals and the spirit through which we see them realized that allows one man to topple "the machine."


                
Director: FRANK CAPRA. Screenplay: Sidney Buchman. Based on an original screen story, "The Gentleman from Montana", by Lewis R. Foster. Photography: Joseph Walker. Film editors: Gene Havlick and Al Clark. Music composed by Dimitri Tiomkin, directed by M. W. Stoloff. Art director: Lionel Banks. Costumes: Kalloch. 2nd unit director: Charles Vidor. Technical adviser: Jim Preston. Montage effects: Slavko Vorkapich. Stills: Irving Lippman. Assistant director: Arthur S. Black. Sound engineer: Edward L. Bernds. Western Electric Sound System. Producer: Frank Capra.Copyright 10 October 1939 by Columbia Pictures Corp. New York opening at the Radio City Music Hall, 19 October 1939. U.S. release: 19 October 1939. U.K. release: January 1940. Australian release: 25 January 1940. 13 reels. 11,822 feet. 131 minutes.SYNOPSIS: Idealistic greenhorn senator uncovers corruption in Washington.NOTES: Academy Award, Lewis R. Foster, Original Story (defeating Bachelor Mother, Love Affair, Ninotchka and Young Mr Lincoln). Also nominated for Best Picture (lost to Gone With The Wind); Best Actor, James Stewart (lost to Robert Donat for Goodbye, Mr Chips); both Harry Carey and Claude Rains, Supporting Actor (lost to Thomas Mitchell in Stagecoach); Directing (lost to Victor Fleming for GWTW); Art Direction (lost to GWTW); Film Editing (GWTW); Best Music Score (Stagecoach); Sound Recording (When Tomorrow Comes).2nd Best Picture of 1939 (Goodbye, Mr Chips was first) — The Film Daily annual poll of U.S. film critics.Best Male Performance of 1939, James Stewart — New York Film Critics.COMMENT: Outstanding entertainment — although the film is not without its defects. Chief problem is that there is too much talking, especially in the middle of the film where Capra is content to capture the dialogue in long, static takes. If about 15 minutes were trimmed from the Arthur-Stewart scenes, "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" would be a masterpiece.All the same, as Graham Greene wrote in The Spectator, it's a great film, acted by such a magnificent cast, "Capra can afford to fling away on tiny parts men like Eugene Palette, Guy Kibbee, Thomas Mitchell and Harry Carey. . . . Here is Capra, back to his finest form. All the familiar qualities are here: the exciting close-ups, the sudden irrelevant humor, the delight in the ordinary human face."* Greene truly states that you remember the faces in this film vividly — the faces chosen and shot with such Capra care — and this, it might be added, long after the "message" and the forced romance are forgotten.* The Pleasure-Dome: The Collected Film Criticism of Graham Greene 1935-40 edited by John Russell Taylor (Oxford University Press, 1980).
Frank Capra directed this classic political comedy/drama, which stars Jimmy Stewart as naive but pure Jefferson Smith, who is appointed to the Senate to replace a deceased senator. The political machine headed by evil Jim Taylor(played by Edward Arnold) thinks that simple Smith will be easy to control, and not stir controversy because he isn't a crony. He is befriended by veteran Senator Joseph Paine(played by Claude Rains) who has been gradually corrupted and cowed by the rotten political bosses. When Smith proves to be his own man, who can't be corrupted or bribed, Taylor uses Paine to concoct a phony scandal related to a bill Jefferson was trying to get passed, leading to a filibuster at his senate hearing...Jean Arthur plays his ally won over by his sincerity.Outstanding film is even better today, with an intelligent and insightful script about political corruption and the destruction of anyone who dares to stand up to the political machine(partisanship) that rules it is sadly still relevant today. Jimmy Stewart is excellent, and was deserving of an Academy Award(he didn't win) for his entirely believable and impassioned performance. Script pulls no punches either, with a particularly shocking scene of youngsters trying to spread the truth about Mr. Smith being run off the road or beaten up by thugs! Stirring ending may be wish-fulfillment to an extent, but I for one wouldn't have wanted it to end any other way!


                
I'm far too much of a cynic about everything this movie stands for to really fully appreciate it. I've always hated the kind of sentimentality Capra espouses but I cannot deny that he is a great director. There is such sincerity in everything he does that even these themes that reek of over zealous sentimentality can actually feel compelling to an audience that just isn't susceptible to them. For one thing he always casted his films extremely well. 'Mr Smith Goes to Washington' is driven by it's excellent performances that turn these characters with motivations that seem so one dimensional into powerful representations of the optimistic world Capra so believed in. This is compelling despite all it's cartoon eccentricities. The fact is this is the most interesting Capra film. It shows a world that is dark and where Jefferson Smith is the only real idealist in it. It is an achievement equally shared by Capra and his brilliant cast headlined by Jimmy Stewart.Jimmy Stewart is really pitch perfect even when he plays seemingly simplistic characters in these type of films Stewart does have an ability to show the motivations and soul behind the nice guy persona and that isn't an easy thing to do. It's hard to remember his talent because the Stewart persona has become so iconic it's almost a parody. I like this representation. He isn't blatant or loud. There's some unspooling to be done with Jefferson Smith. He's a character that changes a great deal of the course of the film and we get to see that through Stewart's performance. His bright eyed idealism is in tune with the Stewart legend but the best moments from Stewart come when Smith begins to lose that hope. My favorite scene in the film is when he revisits the Lincoln Memorial after he learns the truth about the culture of corruption. Stewart is so good in this scene that he almost makes us forget the film we are watching and expect something tragic. This performance is essential in looking and assessing Jimmy Stewart as a an actor.My favorite performance comes from the great Claude Rains as the hardened career politician Senator Paine. This part could have very easily been a conventional villain especially in a black and white Capra world but Rains is brilliant here because we see that this character is more than appearances. He isn't black and white and like many men like him we get the feeling this character has repeated the lies until he believes them. I love the build up on Raines face as he listens to the classic filibuster ending. The writing rightly shows that men like Jefferson Smith come to Washington all the time with idealism but they end up becoming like Paine through compromise. Raines shows this. We can't hate this man. That he finds redemption in the end shows the best qualities about the American ideal that Capra loved. There's a lot of goofy stuff here. It's not a film that hesitates to engage in the most blatant over the top melodrama. It's also undoubtedly a piece of propaganda. The America in this film unfortunately is the concoction of storytellers and myth makers like Capra. Capra makes us believe and hope in it though. It's entertaining and silly but the sincere way it is told and acted captured the attention of a cynic like me. It's grade A 'Capra corn'.
Jimmy Stewart stars as Jefferson Smith, the leader of the Boy Rangers who was appointed by Governor Hopper (Guy Kibbe) as a new U.S. senator for his state. Realizing him having no prior political experience and his naivety, Hopper thought that Smith would be easy to manipulate. Once in Washington, Smith discovers the downsides of the political process as his first piece of legislation he introduced, producing a national boys' camp, leads to a conflict with state political boss Jim Taylor. Taylor tries to corrupt Smith and then attempts to destroy his reputation through a scandal, hoping to lead to his expulsion from the Senate. In on the scheme is the crooked Senator Joseph Paine (Claude Rains).Having first watched this film in a college government class, this movie is both educational and fascinating. You get to learn part of the legislative process of the U.S. Senate, including introduction of bills, the committee process and the filibuster. And, you get to see a good piece of cinema work with a captivating story and superb acting, from the corrupted Jim Taylor and Senator Paine concocting their scheme for political gain to the courageous Senator Smith trying to beat the political machine to seek the truth and fight for his constituents. Having the odds stacked against him, Smith presses on, showing the audience that even in a machine as big or tainted as the U.S. Senate or any other political institution could still yield a man of integrity and honesty. At the same time, you get to see the U.S. Senate in action, letting us see the political powerhouses as they debate the laws that will eventually affect our country. Even for a drama-genred golden oldie that is over two hours long, Director Frank Capra really kept the plot's momentum going strong and screen writers Sidney Buchman, Lewis R. Foster, and Myles Connolly wrote a fascinating script that really attracts the audience's attention. I thoroughly enjoyed this film - it is highly recommended.Grade A


                
The Distinguished Gentleman borrowed heavily from this movie, though I feel that this movie is far superior to the later. In this movie a senator dies and a replacement is needed, namely somebody who will be nothing more than a stooge. They have a few names in mind, but at dinner, the governor asks his kids and they all suggest Jefferson Smith (James Stewart), a local Boy Rangers leader. So suddenly this innocent man's life is changed as he goes from a humble Boy Ranger to a United States Senator.The movie is about the corruption that flows through the government. The government was angered at this movie, claiming that it would spoil the reputation of the nation, but it does serve to destroy the naivety that people have about what really goes on in the government. Jefferson Smith is a yes man, and would have played along nicely, visiting Memorials and generally having a huge amount of faith in the system, except that he puts forth a bill which clashes with a dam that is being built. He quickly learns that his colleague and an number of other congressmen are being controlled by a business man from his state. He controls everything in the state and uses his power to get what he wants. Quickly Smith learns that there is little freedom in Washington, but rather a group of elected stooges that are controlled by corporate giants.The movie quickly becomes a battle between this lowly senator and the industrial machine. His few days in Washington quickly bring him out of his naivety to make a stand for his beliefs. Jefferson Smith is an honest man and honourable man. He refuses to bow to the pressure of the industrial machine. When they try to destroy him by creating lies about him, they learn that Smith will not go out silently. Instead he holds the floor of the senate in an effort to bring the truth to the people, yet the industrial machine moves on, trying to destroy him. In the end it is the morality of his colleague that allows him to win through. Thus what we see by the end of this movie is that even though the industrial machine controls the state, a vigilant man has the ability to bring it down.Mr Smith goes to Washington is one of Capra's left wing movies. It is one that criticises the industrial machine and how it seeks to smash over the individual. It is not a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, but rather a government controlled by the industrial machine. It has no care for the person but rather for the increased profit of the corporate bosses. It is a movie that calls out to us to see what the government has become and seek to change it. In the movie the truth comes out, but will it do so now?
The finished products of Jimmy Stewart under the direction of Frank Capra are nothing short of pure works of art.Who better than Stewart to play a popular yet naive hometown boy who goes to Washington where he is expected to be nothing more than an easily influenced clone for other senators and nothing to be taken seriously at all,only to end up a champion for what is decent and right.I consider Jefferson Smith a precursor to Rocky Balboa,because when you think about it,they are in fact,similar.Set up to fail,only to win big.Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a joy to watch not only for it's story,but for the acting genius that was Jimmy Stewart.
No film is a greater champion of democracy than "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington." One would be hard pressed to find a film that better communicates the ideals upon which America and democracy were founded. Forget all the patriotic war films or political biopics, "Mr. Smith" is the most American film of all time because it reminds us what it means to have a government for the people, by the people.What's most impressive about what is arguably '30s and '40s master Frank Capra's greatest cinematic achievement is that despite not identifying the state Senator Jefferson Smith (Stewart) represents or identifying any political parties, the film is still able to make a profound statement about the complacency among politicians for corruption within government. No one is implicated in this film and no political bias could possibly sway a viewer's opinion -- it's one hundred percent about how in a democracy, people must stand up to their government, opinions and beliefs aside."Mr. Smith" does it by creating a protagonist in Jeff Smith that represents the typical youthful, idealistic American. When a senator dies, the governor of his state feels caught between the people's choice for a replacement and that of an influential businessman named Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold). He decides to appear as if he isn't favoring either influence by appointing Smith, a boy scout leader -- a choice that shocks everyone. At the very least, the governor figures Smith will be so overwhelmed by Washington that he'll stay quiet in the Senate and allow Taylor's hush-hush controversial dam to be passed.Smith arrives in Washington and is awe-struck by the monuments and the buildings, not unlike a young American seeing D.C for the first time. All he's known his whole life are the ideals America stands for, not the inner-workings of the political system. We are in his same shoes and much like the film corrupts this idealism for Smith, it corrupts it for us. Stewart, who officially breaks out in this role, is perfect. He has charm, but he's rather nervous and clueless. He is phenomenal at being nervous and uncertain despite speaking with strong conviction -- he's easy to relate to as he fights for what he believes in as the film progresses.Smiths' emotions are our emotions through the film and that's where "Mr. Smith" draws its true power as a film. Between Capra's work building up Washington and then exposing it and Stewart's ability to demonstrate this same idea through his reactions to it, we want to give up when Smith wants to give up. We're even surprisingly convinced ourselves by Jean Arthur's -- who plays Smith's assistant -- passionate speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, pleading Smith to keep fighting. As he continues the fight, we support him, pity him and much more. It's his fire to keep the purity of American ideals that is truly inspiring.Essentially, Smith is any one of us, a well-respected American, who happens to find his way into a role where he can make a difference, and he single-handedly tries to do what every American wishes he or she could: stand up for what he believes in and never give up, no matter the cost, because it's what's right. There have been films about people making a difference or fighting for the American way, but never one that acts as such a strong metaphor or even a microcosm of when democracy is its most powerful.


                
Boy, do we ever need a refresher course in the subject. 2006 has been quite a year, worth studying in some detail. Congress proposed a bill that would hike the minimum wage for the first time in almost ten years. (Meanwhile, Congress had voted itself almost ten raises in the same period.) Enemies of the minimum wage hike tacked on a repeal of the estate tax for the mega-wealthy, so the bill flunked.I just give that as an example of how some things worked during this past year, a period in which Congress worked for 93 days. (They gave themselves two weeks off for St. Patty's day alone.) Anyone who follows the news knows as much as I've just written, and in fact I may have added some misleading details out of ignorance.How can such things happen? If a bill is designed to raise the minimum wage, period, how can an explosive device like a repeal of the estate tax be buried in it? How, exactly, does a bill get "hung up in committee"? WHAT committee, and why? And how come the House Ways and Means Committee is always described in the press as "powerful"? What makes it so damned powerful? All these kinds of issues are raised and answered in a five-minute lecture given by Saunders (Jean Arthur) to Honorary Senator Jeff Smith (Jimmy Stewart). It's not really as complicated as it sounds. I learned more from Saunders' little explanation than I did during months of civics in the fifth grade. So much for your class, Mrs. Greene. You never liked me anyway, and to tell you the truth I always found you a little overbearing. And I didn't care for that business of whacking people with the ruler either.The movie, as a movie, is informative but sterile. The villains are really villainous -- except for Claude Raines, the bad guy who turns good. The issue in this case is hardly one involving life and death. It's not about the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge or abortion or capital punishment. It's about a kind of Boy Scout camp that Stewart wants to build on some unused acres in his home state, land that will be paid for by the Boy Scouts themselves by sending in their nickels and dimes. ("No more than ten cents apiece," says Stewart.) As in many of Capra's populist and popular entertainments there are shady shenanigans going on behind all the public nobility displayed. A bad guy (Edward Arnold) intends to build a lucrative dam on that land and discredits Stewart, who is humiliated and scorned by his former admirers. The format is familiar and undemanding.And of course no one in Washington is as naive as Stewart. The Boy Scouts? Dimes? Are you kidding? But it is SO simple that, like a fairy tale, it becomes gripping. We watch as Hansel and Gretl are prepared to be popped into the oven.If it were any more realistic, aimed at a more sophisticated audience, it wouldn't work. The characters and their motives have to be clear and pure. That's the whole point of the movie. The simplicity leads us step by step through the political process, as an army training film might tell you how to dismantle an M-16.What realism the film has disappears almost entirely at the end, when Stewart collapses on the Senate floor but is saved by Claude Raines who has just undergone some sort of epiphany. Man, does Stewart suffer through his lone filibuster, his voice shot, two days without sleep, disheveled and shaky, only to be redeemed at the end by Raines. No need to get into religion here but that epiphany and that suffering for all our sakes is suggestive.I watched it last night after not having seen it for years and expected to be bored, but wasn't. I enjoyed the film for its entertainment value, and because now I know a little more about how things inside the Beltway can go so terribly wrong.
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington	With the death of a senator in the opening scene, the puppet masters of the government look for a new yes man to fill the dead senator's shoes.  They find Jeff Smith, a son of liberty, a mentor to young boys.  They expect Jeff to roll over and die for them, they expect him to do as they say.  But what they don't expect is for Mr. Smith's honor and ideals to overcome all odds. 	 Jimmy Stewart oozes with charisma in his role as Jeff Smith, the small town guy with big ideals.  Jimmy makes the role lovable and he drips with a realism that would make Stanislovsky proud.  He also delivers all his lines with sincerity that envelops the audience into this heroic battle that Mr. Smith is catapulted into.  But every lead actor is only as strong as the actors supporting him.  The supporting actors in this film each brought a multitude of talents to the screen.  They played their parts with an unmatched professionalism that made `Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' a joy to watch.  The performances were in every way inspiring and memorable. 	Feeding the actors brilliance was the writing in Mr. Smith.  The story was both original and entertaining.  The story line starts with a medium pace, it then slows a bit in the middle so it can slip in some essential patriotism, then the end steeply climbs up to the satisfying and enthralling conclusion of the story.  To show off the fantastic writing the director (Frank Capra) uses double exposure (a cutting edge editing technique at the time) and he also includes shots of monuments in Washington, D.C. that are exalting to the spirit.  And even though Capra's directing is anything but subtle, in this case, it was appropriate for him to drive the point home. The major themes are patriotism and perseverance, which evoke emotion in anyone with a soul. 	Mr. Smith Goes to Washington was and is an American classic.  And American classics don't deserve to collect dust.  I loved this movie because I was lost in the beautiful story.  After the triumphant climax I snapped back to reality and found that I had actually been praying that Jeff would find vindication.  This film, this masterpiece is worthy of being bathed in compliments and of being watched by all.


                
MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON,' is an overlooked gem of our time.  Does the senate really treat rookies or newcomers like they way they did in the film? No one really knows except,  for Frank Capra.  He manages to show how even a great man can sometimes be condemned for no apparent reason.In the beginning,  one of the states (no idea which one) has lost one of their senators , and is in a mad scramble looking for a replacement.  The governor has selected Jefferson smith  (James Stewart) To go serve as a senate member in Washington.  But is this a mistake?  Does he know what could possibly go wrong?  Jefferson knew very little about being on the senate, so this serves as a target for criticism, and ridicule from other senators.  The other senate member, of his state is senator Paine, an old friend of his dad's.  Payne is going along with smith on his way to Washington, to help him out. (or as though we think.)  When Jefferson arrives in Washington, he runs off to go look at the natl. capitol, and other places, leaving senn. Payne and others behind.  When Jefferson decides to come back, he is introduced to beautiful young Clarissa Saunders. (Jean Arthur)  Through out most of the movie she tries to help him along, but finds that she is getting nowhere with him.  At the same time Jefferson is trying to propose a bill to the senate, that will create an all boys camp, on government property.  This is where the trouble starts.  While Jefferson is trying to figure this out, sen. Payne, tries to round up some people who can help him get Jefferson out of office.  The next day, when Jefferson is ready to present his bill, he is in for a rude awakening.  He is extremely nervous and scared.  When it comes time for him to present his bill, a lot of the senators are extremely rude to him, and won't even let him speak. This ends up happening because sen. Payne and others lied about him and tried to get him into trouble with the law.  Jefferson finding out the hard way that everyone, (even his own friend) has let him down disgracefully, decides to go sit and weep by the Lincoln memorial.  When who should come along at the right place and time? Miss. Saunders.  She convinces him not to give up, but to have faith in what he believes in.  She takes him back to his office, and decides to stick with him all the way through, so he can not only defend his bill, but also stomp on those who have committed that foolish act against him.  The heat is rising on the floor of the senate house as Jefferson is trying to defend the bill, after hours and hours, of talking he then starts to defend himself against those who hate him.  A few hours later while Jefferson is still arguing with other senators, sen. Payne does something remarkable That can<U+0091>t be discussed without spoiling the movie.  Even though Payne did a terrible thing to Jefferson, he made up for it by coming clean and doing the right thing.
Young good looking James Stewart, and older but not to old Claude Rains, make terrific duo in this film, as not only being friends, but true enemies as well.  The film has many values to it, especially on how far a friend will go to help someone out,  even if his dishonesty towards his friend is apparent.  This film has earned a passing grade from the reviewer.  It is not the best thing ever viewed before, but it is worth seeing sometime.  Go rent it.


                
I have just recently seen this movie, and although the copy was poorly shown and scratchy, i must say it is truly one of the best I've ever seen. If you ever need a reason to get motivated or inspirational - watch this film.


                
This week I watched the 1939 dramedy Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. The logline reads "A naive man is appointed to fill a vacancy in the United States Senate. His plans promptly collide with political corruption, but he doesn't back down." I think the best part of watching this was realizing that the battle of morality in places of power is nothing new. This particular film, although it may have had some funny moments, was definitely more drama and less comedy. As a product of Columbia Pictures, it was very professionally done. However, to me, the elements that stood out the most were the writing and acting. The writing of this film was really well thought out and was executed very well too. There seemed to be a lot of study or knowledge of politics and a lot of time spent in constructing the plot sequence the right way in order to pull this off. The acting was the next best part of this film. Obviously James Stewart is in this film, but Jean Arthur and Guy Kibbee really gave some stellar performances. Overall, I thought that this film, even given its age, is still relevant today. I enjoyed it and will be sharing it with others.


                
The only reason this isn't a 10/10 in my book is that I wish there had been more closure; Smith finding out about his victory, meeting with Saunders, Taylor's downfall, etc. But overall... Every time Capra and Stewart get together, it's magic (even more so when Jean Arthur is the leading lady). And this is no exception! Even nearly 80 years later, the story is a breath of fresh air, and incredibly gripping. I couldn't look away for a moment when it came down to the courtroom scenes at the end. It's a tremendous movie - it truly deserves its high rating. If you get a chance to see it, don't miss it!
"Mr. Smith goes to Washington" is one of the oldest classics to have survived today, although it was produced in 1939, but still able to sweep the minds of viewers with his brilliant story, his brilliant output, and his extraordinary representation by silver screen star James Stewart "He said. When the director Frank Kapra is mentioned, the first thing to come to mind is the successful participation of Stuart and Capra in It's a wonderful life. Indeed, these two films can be associated with each other to stay in the memory of all lovers of classical art. .
The story is about Jefferson Smith, a good-hearted, honest-hearted man in his life, who is nominated to serve as a senator in the US Senate to replace the former senator who died. When nominated by power men in America, they expected him to be docile. Be more than a grab in the face of their corrupt exploitative schemes. But Mr. Smith discovers corruption everywhere, putting every man in the Senate under the control of a few of the greedy, big-assed, greedy, despotic men who are unsatisfied with the looting of the country and the exploitation of all the people's resources and projects to serve their own despicable personal interests. So Mr. Smith has to face a whole system of fossilized minds and men to prove that he is right before being overthrown in a dirty way worthy of the malevolence of men who have taken over everything in the country. The story of the film despite its power, but it is very simple and not complicated We are used to it in films described as political and all you do is to waste the viewer in swirls that you might not understand anything about. In this film, the situation is quite the opposite. The issue may not concern many, but it is capable of gaining respect for the viewer from the beginning of the film and drawing it into an extraordinary story, the hero of which can be considered a man of the general public. The excellent script that combines power and simplicity can not be forgotten. It respects the professional cinematic scenes, while simplifying things for those who want fun only. The film's output is really wonderful and may surpass all the films produced in the 1930s. From the existence of a few minor errors in the editing and editing where some of the clips where the pieces are not correct for the viewer, but this does not reduce the technical value of the film, especially we are witnessing in this work crystallize the real classic cinema. James Stewart's performance was at the top, and he gave a performance that could not be described in a few words.
He was able to give us an accurate picture of Mr. Smith's simple, intelligent and intelligent personality, at the same time humble, generous and soft-tempered, and not happy to see a mistake without correcting it. The importance of the big film comes from the power of the ideas he poses in his own way, as he cries out against the corruption that has spread everywhere to extend to all the men of power, and even the press and media who have become obedient For the orders of a few people they spread their influence over everything, and did not like the voice of truth to leak out of the Senate chamber.
But if we think more, the thing that makes the film much more powerful is that its message transcends Washington and the whole of America, or any particular country because the message of the work is universal and can be seen everywhere. In any country in the world, exploitation can be seen by a small group, and the masses are silenced and blinded to remain like the herds that do not know anything, and all this is managed from the seats of power, newspapers and the media and everything that would prevent the collapse of any corrupt system exploits everything he can to fill "At the end of the film Mr. Smith stood up after delivering a three-day speech in the Senate exposing the practices of every corrupt man in power and reminding officials of their duties to the citizens and the country. Then came the piles of messages from the citizens, approached Mr. "Smith" from these piles, opened a letter, discovered fraud, and saw with his eyes the killing of freedom and repression of the honorable, looked around him and saw corrupt officials are laughing around him .. No one with him .. Even the friend of his father Betrayed them .. look at them a recent look, and then fell to the ground .. A scene actually translated summarize the real happenings in front of us every day, but we manage her necks, and look away and go as if nothing was .. The right always in a war with corruption and injustice, and perhaps tired He demanded the truth and wished without finding anyone to help him. But in the end, the truth must prevail as it did at the end of the film. The end scene hopes that every honest person will see it with his eyes because injustice can not always continue, and it must collapse before the power of truth that is not covered by the lies of the corrupt and their blind hypocrisy.
Wonderful work worth the full mark without hesitation:
This movie sends a very strong message to the American people, as not all politicians are corrupted or on the take. It shows the true way how a democracy system should work here in the US. The political statements shown in this movie were attack when the film was released, as people thought of it as anti-American and pro-Communist for its portrayal of corruption in the American government. In my opinion this film shows the faults and positives of our political system. A film like this really can give the viewer of what the true democracy system feels like and shows it only takes the courage of one man to stand up against corruption. Mr. Smith is that man who is not a career politician, just a common man that bleeds red, white and blue. He has an idea that would benefit sociality as it will help kids stay out of trouble and become men. When he finds out about the graft scheme he stands tall and challenges the big political machine Taylor, with out fear like the other members of the hall. This shows the courage of a man standing by his self against the same members of his party. Mr. Smith stands his ground and keeps to his word to ensure that a "government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth"
Undoubtedly one of the most beloved American films of all time, Frank Capra's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is one of the great directors most cynical portraits of the U.S., revealing an infestation of corruption all the way to the top of the Senate in the city where the Capitol Dome and the Lincoln Memorial sit uneasily as symbols of idealism. The film is also one of his most optimistic, and this blend of attitudes have led to many other Hollywood movies being labelled in his honour as 'Capraesque', one of the most misunderstood and overused labels in cinema.'Capraesque' is commonly lumped upon movies with an overbearing sense of positivity, with the little man, or woman, ultimately overcoming overwhelming odds to triumph over whatever conglomerate or institution trying to stamp all over them. But what the labellers forget is the skill required to convincingly build up the struggle of the hero, making the climax all the more poignant and satisfying in the process. When Jefferson Smith (James Stewart), the small-town head of the Boy Rangers, is invited to join the U.S. Senate, he accepts the role with humility and a determination to prove himself worthy. What he doesn't know is that fellow senator Joseph Paine (Claude Rains) intends for Smith to be a stooge while he and his boss Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold) go about their dodgy business.Initially, his "aw, shucks!" persona is met with ridicule by the press, and is seen as a naive idiot by his secretary Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur). However, his patriotism soon endears him to Saunders, who witnesses his peers and superiors begin to tear him to shreds as he uncovers a scheme to buy up land. As Smith, Stewart is perfect, embodying the kind of American ideals that the country prides itself upon but rarely follows, stubbornly holding court while he fights for his reputation in a riveting climax. It's a Wonderful Life (1946) is commonly labelled as Capra's finest moment but, in my humble opinion, Mr. Smith is his crowning achievement, a movie of such substance and social insight that it more than transcends its now-routine formula and reaffirms a belief in good overcoming evil.


                
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a film that lives up to it's title. A man named Jefferson Smith (Jimmy Stewart) is appointed a senator for Missouri after the old one dies. Jefferson is now alongside Senator Joseph Paine (Claude Rains) also from Missouri. Jefferson arrives in Washington, DC completely vacant minded about politics and meets his cynical secretary Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur). Because Jefferson knows almost nothing about politics he was pretty much the perfect man to put in that position as Paine, Governor Hubert Hopper (Guy Kibbee) and a man named Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold) are three corrupt politicians planning to build a dam, somewhere in Missouri. Luckily Jefferson has plans to build a boy scout camp at the exact same place and the two plans collide. Jefferson inexperienced but more determined then Paine, Hopper, and Taylor to get his ideas across, and along the way actually get's Clarissa on his side too. After a long filibuster in which Jefferson get's absolutely pounded but nevertheless continues talking all kinds of lies from Taylor's political machine come in. When Jefferson eventually faints. Paine can't bring it upon himself anymore and brings the entire blame on himself. It's a great and inspiring movie. The acting is great, especially from Stewart, and the story is amazing. And the filibuster scene which is now one of the most famous in film history is just incredible. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favor and go watch it.
An all-time classic, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a scathing indictment of the American political establishment. It's about Jefferson Smith who is an all-American "Boy Scout" who fully believes in the Constitution and all the myths of American democracy. He's chosen to replace a U.S. Senator who has died, and because of his spotless reputation in the community and inexperience in politics, the Governor, controlled by capitalist interests, chooses to name him Senator thinking they could easily manipulate him. Once he arrives in the Senate, he quickly discovers that his idealistic (and naive) belief in the American system to reflect the will of the people does match up with reality. He's smeared by the corporate media (the Washington Press Club denounced the film as un-American after the world premiere) and his efforts to pass a bill to establish a local camp are sabotaged by the corporate political machine because it interferes with plans to build a dam on the same land. Seeing Smith as a liability, the corporate state goes into full character assassination mode, while Smith embarks on a filibuster in the Senate with the goal of exposing the corruption of the system. The brilliance of the film is that it shows how capitalist interests own and control the political system (a system that is set up as a distraction from that fact), and yet it doesn't allow Smith to be completely triumphant, which would have reinforced his idealism and proved the system can "work" if only good people are elected. The ending is left ambiguous and somewhat bleak as Smith proves his point but nothing is fundamentally changed. Jimmy Stewart gives a fantastic performance as Smith in this classic by Frank Capra.


                
This is not a perfect movie. (I don't know that there are any.) Jimmy Stewart's character early on is sometimes too naive to be believable for someone raised by a newspaper editor, someone who has studied American history as thoroughly as he has.But when this movie is good, it is as good as any movie ever made, and I do not say that lightly.Much of the power of this movie is in the uncompromisingly negative portrayal of political corruption, embodied in the brilliant performance of Edward Arnold, always a fine character actor, at his very best. His cold-hearted ruthlessness and drive never go over the line into caricature; he is always devastatingly believable, enough to send chills down your spine.Claude Raines, another very fine character actor, gives perhaps the most well-rounded performance in the movie, as a once idealistic politician who has allowed himself to abandon all sense of honesty in the pursuit of personal gratification, only to have his former, almost forgotten self brought back to him by the son of an almost forgotten former friend. Few modern American movies made for the general public would dare to portray such a character as so capable of duplicity for so long.Jean Arthur is good, but her part is perhaps the least natural and most preachy. Eugene Palette actually gets a significant role as another corrupt politico and does a first rate job of it.But then there is Stewart at his best, as well. Once his character, Jefferson Smith, gets shaken out of his naiveté and comes to grips with the ugly reality of congressional politics, he delivers a performance as riveting as any I have ever seen on film.This is no cheerfully optimistic Capra movie. In the end, Stewart wins not because the system works - in fact, it completely fails him - but only because one man slips over the edge. Once that happens, the movie ends two minutes later. The rejoicing is brief, because in fact Stewart's character, giving his best, cannot triumph over the Senate's corruption and indifference. Good does not win out over evil because it is better. It therefore left me with a most unpleasant feeling: politics IS as corrupt as we fear in our worst moments.If you have never seen this movie, be sure to catch it. It is not another Capra feel-good movie. It is a masterfully constructed, by no means optimistic, and sometimes bone-chillingly pessimistic view of our democracy.----------------------------I watched this movie again tonight. Once it gets going in the Senate chamber, this movie is riveting, as good as movies get. Stewart's performance is unbeatable, directed magnificently by Capra. But again, as I wrote before, this is not an optimistic, feel-good movie. The Senate is corrupt, and goodness does not win it over or change it. It is only because Claude Raines' Sen. Payne breaks down that the tide is turned. The movie ends two minutes later, as if to say that the whole group still smells so bad that Capra does not want to linger and deal with them further. I don't think that Congress is that corrupt today, but this movie is so well made that it still chills me to the bone.


                
Mr. Smith goes to Washington is a wonderfully powerful film about a single man who takes the corruption in Washigton head-on only to realize that the powers-that-be running this nation have no place for the virtues of the common man.If only all 100 senators on Capitol Hill had half the conviction of Jefferson Smith, then politics in America might not be thought of as such the ugly thing that it so often is. Portrayed beautifully by Jimmy Stewart, Smith embodies the virtues of the just and fair American man who, when called upon to do the right thing, will take a stand in an effort to revive the tenets of the documents we hold dear. Sadly, the brilliance of Frank Capra's film is that it demonstrates that men like Smith are a highly idealized vision of what an elected official (in this case an appointed official) can be. Thus, with the character of Smith, Capra and Stewart attempt to show that despite the special interests and power lobbying in Washington, that there could be men or women like him who simply want to make the best America they can--yet more likely, men like Smith don't exist or perhaps simply cannot exist.While Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is an inspiring film, it is serious about its message that it would really take more than one man with a false hope to change the nature of politics. In this way, the film has a timeless quality in that it is as relevant to contemporary political discourse as it was to politics of the day when it was produced. The enduring message of hope that there is a power from within each of us to fight for what is right is what makes this film such an important classic.


                
Smith is a film that uses a recurring theme in many stories: the David vs. Goliath theme.  This story is set in our nation's capitol and the battlefield is the U.S. Senate.  Very well done film (a big-time contributor to why 1939 is the year that produced the most great films).  Smith is definitely Best Picture caliber.  Unfortunately, as aforementioned, it came out in the year of Gone With the Wind (which won), Stagecoach, Hunchback of Notre Dame, Wuthering Heights, etc.  Excellent film, though... Don't miss it!!!


                
IMDb Top 250: 102Honesty and righteousness. In Frank Capra's 'Mr.Smith Goes to Washington', you're going to learn a lot about those two things that all humans should strive towards. This is an inspiring film, and an American classic.Smith is a shy man with little confidence when we first meet him. And it was a shock when I first met him. I have only known James Stewart as George Bailey, arguably the swellest guy to ever grace the screen. He, in comparison, is charming and headstrong. So to see Stewart, stumbling over his words was really something. His performance is outstanding. From his humble beginning to drained, heartful end, we see a character transformed by outside forces and inner strength. But the titular character isn't the only standout. In fact, the entire cast is commendable. Jean Arthur is transformed from a cash-minded to a truth-minded person, with a growing liking for Smith like the characters in 'It Happened One Night'. Claude Reins is easy to hate as the political slimeball who thinks of himself more than the good of the people. As said before, the whole cast shines.I'd like to mention the beginning. Many older movies have very slow beginnings. Not this. Instantly we are thrown into the plot, with a series of phone calls and one hilarious "NO!" From there, the drama mounts, and the tempo stays high. 'Washington' could've been a dreadfully boring film. But Capra knew what he was doing. He has a thing for inspiration, eh? I would've given this film a low nine, if not for its one fault: the ending. The ending is so rushed. Right until the end, the film is a masterpiece, but then it just ends. The point is served, and we can draw our own conclusion, but 5 minutes of footage should've been added to settle things down. Capra would learn this several years later with his masterpiece, 'It's A Wonderful Life'.Themes of justice, sticking to your guns, corruption and more hit you like a political activist trying to drum up support. 'Washington' gives you many things to think about. And if not for the too-soon ending, it would be a masterpiece. 8.6/10


                
