What is it about these movies from the Coen brothers which appeals to so many people? How can anyone enjoy a slow paced, over-the-top acted borefest with an impressive collection of the most annoying personalities available. Movies which don't seem to go anywhere despite the fact that there is plenty of story to go about. It must be something masochistic which I don't get.Fargo.Surely none of the characters are real life persons but yet I'm not watching a cartoon. None of the dialog seems to be of this Earth, yet I'm not watching a re-enactment of our planet by the inhabitants of Planet KzOrp. So I can only imagine that I'm watching a comedy or at least a movie with an attempt at humor. I mean, what else could it be? It's too preposterous to be a thriller and the characters and the screenplay are too bizarre to make it a drama. I must have been misinformed about this genre of film. Because it has always been my understanding that a comedy had something to do with laughter and amusement. A ridiculous situation could become quite funny, but truly not when the whole movie is ridiculous as well. Same goes for the abominable, hateful characters.If the movie Groundhog Day, arguably amongst the best comedies ever made, was made by the Coen brothers, they would have had the entire village reliving the same day over and over again. And not only that, they would have made every character in that movie be twice as arrogant (Murray), dorky (Larry) and desirable (MacDowell) etc. Its result would be the a monstrosity of a caricature .This movie lacks everything what Groundhog Day makes a good comedy; namely finesse, subtlety and something which makes the viewer not being alienated from the characters and above all, something actually funny going on. (Since when is a kidnapping and a lot of deaths a funny setting? Because Buscemi and Macy are in it?..give me a break, this is hardly Pulp Fiction)For a crime/thriller based on actual fact, it lacks a seriousness and perhaps even respect to the events that have taken place. And the lack of means of time-travel aside, watching Fargo, I was expecting Jeff Bridges to walk onto the set looking for his stupid rug which would have been my longed for queue to press the eject button.So all in all it is not a comedy, it is not a crime/drama/thriller but simply a Coen production. To me it's just an incredibly annoying in-between-genre film which cannot decide what it's supposed to be. Therefore it misses the mark on all counts which make the redeeming qualities of the production (and there are a lot) seem sadly wasted.But it seems to be the minority opinion<U+0085>the bandwagon ride is so comfy..


                
I can only classify this film as a missed opportunity. While it did have a good storyline, worthy of a film noir, and some very good performances, especially by William H. Macy (you can almost see him crumbling under the weight of not just his crimes, but his cover-ups as well), it is tainted by the Coen brothers' directorial style.  What made it intolerable for me was the amount of "quirkiness" that was injected into every single character, scene, and situation. Taken alone, each little quirk is not a big deal, but after so many of them, one after another, it just gets too much to stomach.Some examples...The title: The movie takes place mostly in Minneapolis (which isn't quirky enough -- that's where the Mary Tyler Moore Show took place, after all), and Brainerd (and nobody would go see a movie called "Brainerd"). About 5 minutes of screen time were set in Fargo, and Fargo has a quirky-enough sound."True" story: Just because a story is true, does that make it a better story? There is both good and bad fiction and non-fiction. So, what is gained by lying about whether a story is true or not? Quirkiness! See, if you believe this story is true, then all this quirkiness must be true too!Names: Character names were given as Grimsrud, Lundegaard, Showalter and Gunderson. Apparently, Scandinavian-sounding names (especially with a double-a) are much quirkier than Pryce, Lopez, Rossi and Sheppard.The weather: The snow and the cold serve no purpose but to make the characters put on parkas and snow boots, which make them look quirky. For instance, when the policeman was talking with the man shoveling his driveway, and had to put his hood up so far you couldn't see his face. Quirky! However, anyone who lives in a cold climate knows that when the sky is that grey and the snow is as wet as the stuff he was shoveling, it isn't all that cold...Accents: Whether or not people actually talk "like that", what's the point of everyone talking like some country bumpkin, even the ones in the fairly large city of Minneapolis? Accents: quirky. No accents: not quirky.Pregnancy: Apart from making the lead character wobble when she walked, and to give her a convenient excuse to throw up every once in a while, what exactly was the point of making the police chief pregnant? Ah yes, another quirk.The old friend: A cop meeting an old high school flame at a bar. Sounds kinda dull, right? Well, let's quirk it up a bit. Make the cop a woman -- no, wait: a pregnant woman. Make the guy Oriental. Make it totally unnecessary to the plot. Now we're talkin' quirky!By the time we get to the end, we're almost surprised that Macy's character sold plain old GM cars instead of Austin Minis or VW Beetles. The whole thing feels like the directors had no confidence in the subject matter, so they slathered on layer after layer of quirks in the hope the audience wouldn't notice.In the end, it just becomes an exercise in frustration, as a movie that had everything going for it just turns you off after one wink and a poke in the ribs too many.


                
I have written a few reviews on IMDb, and this is the first time I feel compelled to write a negative one. 8.4 IMDb score. Really?Just don't watch this movie. You are not getting those 90 minutes back, and you will really retreat it. Steve Buscemi is awesome as usual, but otherwise the movie just falls apart. The movie is slow, boring, and it makes no sense whatsoever. I understand it's based on a real story, but it's been adapted poorly (or not adapted at all). The side stories add nothing to the main plot (if there is such a thing in this film), and they are added in such a way that make them look like editing mistakes. It actually looks like they mixed their reels and just pasted things from other films. Besides that, there is no conflict. Just a lot of characters that are truly stupid, make all kind of mistakes, and most end up dead or imprisoned.(warning, spoilers ahead)There are several clearly connected crimes. So the investigator, who is a colorless boring character, just plays it exactly by the book and finds the killers immediately. There is just no story. She goes to the crime scene, everything is bloody obvious, so she just makes a few calls, interviews two people, and finds out she has to go to a nearby city. She goes there, and finds the killers who happen to have the car just parked outside waiting to be found. But before doing that, she stops to meet a creepy Asian guy that she hasn't seen for a long time that wants to bang her, but she says no and goes away. Yes, that is the actual plot. On the side, you see a lot of terminally stupid criminals doing everything wrong, a desperate guy that needs money, but WHY is never explained, so he makes a lot of blatantly obvious mistakes and ends up in jail. I can't even begin to explain why the movie is so bad, because it doesn't even deserve much explanation. There is no conflict, no story, no characters. Just a lot of stupid people that kill each other in the most meaningless ways.


                
What galls me most about this movie specifically and the Coen brothers' movies generally is that they all reveal the insipidness of both the Coens and their fans. What they can't achieve with excellent dialogue, well-spun stories, and logical continuity in plotting, the Coens make up for via blood, lust, more blood, and then more blood. Vanquished from their movies is any sense of humanity or hope, and we are left in what I can best describe as a "bleakscape" - where the great positive is the presence of so much that is negative. I do delight, however, in the spectacle of reading swooning fans' fawning tributes to the Coens' "films" (and yes, their fans will watch only "films").Utterly unbelievable in the bleak, depressing, and joyless tableaux they offer, the Coen films are the perfect answer to a society full of soulless narcissists.


                
I am sorry, it may be a 'work of art' as some have suggested here, but Fargo is the most BORING movie I have ever seen.  You just can't care about the characters, the plot, anything!  The only way my friends and I could continue to watch after the first hour was to MST3K it, shouting comments at our TV screen that at least kept us amused. There was a whole lot of snow..a bunch of really 'meaningful' scenes including snow.  Some more snow.  Some person who was so pregnant she could hardly walk, but seemed just fine stalking down the rabid killer at the end...oh, and she was in the snow when she did it.  Then there was some more snow.  I think the snow had a really bad accent, but I cannot be sure, because eventually I couldn't even stand looking at the screen to see who was saying their incredibly banal and annoying lines. Fargo is boring.  Fargo is bad.  Never watch Fargo, not even to put you to sleep.  It just isn't worth it.


                
I love most coen brothers films but even the ones I love have that one awful part to them, the supernatural unexplained arty farty scenes (The biker in raising arizona, the devil & the flood in oh brother, the ufo in the man who wasn't there, etc) I find them to be the low points in every one of their films. Fargo either missed that obstacle or the entire film consisted of a variation of it, either way it failed me from the first 5 minutes I was unhappy with this film. Just stripped down simple times in a simple place with complicated deadly themes. Disregard the value of life and be entertained. Art? yes lots of art, if you want to think it's there.. This movie should not have been the staple for the Coen brothers, people hold this movie in such high regard it just makes me think they are just wanting to sound smart because they only had to watch it twice to understand it. That and Wood chipper wood chipper wood chipper.. Yes I always hear the talk about the wood chipper scene, over & over, maybe the highlight of the film? wow.. so sad.. This film is nothing but a basic simple life town with wood chipper shock value. Bring up Fargo in a coversation & you will hear the words "wood chipper" within five seconds..


                
This movie is one piece of pretentious s**t. This is a very harsh story that should be told with the integrity and honesty it deserves. Instead the Coen brothers  chose to make it some kind of black comedy. It just doesn't work. The story isn't original at all, that's what everyone should know. People that like this movie so much are blindsided by it's unconventional, pretentious approach and it's sarcastic view.It made me want to puke.


                
As mentioned in the title I really have no idea why this movie is held in such high regard. Did I miss something obvious? The plot was insubstantial and then the movie seems in a hurry to wrap itself up. The humour for me was perhaps a little to quirky and I did not find it funny in the least.I should have been warned by the mention of an Oscar, that tends to mean its going to be rubbish.I have read that its primarily a love story, I would like to ask how, where and when? The one redeeming feature was...wait a sec there wasn't one.


                
I am ordinarily a big fan of Coen brothers movies. "Raising Arizona" is one of my all-time favorites, and most of their other films are also quite good. Fargo, however, is highly over-rated. I believe it to be their worst film to date. As several others have commented, the film is simply too mean-spirited in its comedy, especially when it purports at the beginning to be a "true" story.The best example I can think of, is the scene in the movie when the wife is tied up inside a sack and the kidnappers are trying to get her into the cabin. She momentarily gets away from them, and runs around in a panicked frenzy, blindly bumping into things, while the kidnappers laugh at her. Believe it or not, in the movie this scene is played for laughs. The movie wants the audience to laugh at this scene, and inevitably some do laugh. Laughing puts the viewer into the same frame of reference as the kidnappers, instead of identifying (as they should) with the victim. As a result, you laugh without thinking, and then feel bad about having just laughed. A very uncomfortable feeling.Most Coen brothers movies are filled with quirky characters that have a lot of "heart." Even the bad guys end up being somewhat likable. In "Fargo" however, there are very few likable characters. Marge Gunderson is just about the only one, and even she is really too much of a cartoon caricature to feel like a real person. Yet, at the same time, the movie feels a little too much like real life to be a good dark comedy.Dark comedies are tricky things, and I do love a good dark comedy. However, I think a dark comedy needs to feel unreal enough, in order to allow us to laugh at the naughty goings-on. Bad things can be funny, if we know they are not real. The more real bad things feel, the less funny they get. "Fargo" made the mistake of trying to portray bad things in a very realistic way, and then making fun of them. This contrasts with "Raising Arizona," which portrayed some bad things in an over-the-top cartoonish way, and remained funny. Cartoon violence is funny, real violence is not.I say, skip this one and watch "Raising Arizona."
I've always heard good things about Fargo, and once it made the AFI's top 100 list of funny movies, I decided to rent it. I very rarely rent R-rated films, but this seemed to be worth it.In short, my brother and I did not laugh once, nor did we enjoy the film.First of all, the film is violent and grotesque. I've seen many violent films before, but this went beyond anything I've seen. There are several murders committed. All of them are extremely disturbing in their depiction of blood and guts as well as the complete inhumanity of each killing.Second of all, the film has numerous moments of gratuitous sex which serve the plot no purpose, other than perhaps additional character degradation.In my opinion, this film is the second worst thing to happen to mainstream entertainment in the 90s.The worst thing is that people out there laughed at it. What a blasted hame!


                
Typical situation. Some Hollywood insiders put out some piece of trash that thumbs its nose at anything with any sense and all of the "smart" people rave about it. In the vision of the producers, all of the decent people are stupid and the criminals are the interesting ones. Meanwhile, two hours are wasted with lousy dialog, poor acting and pacing that makes the ice age look like a party. Of course, it won some Oscars! How else would the intelligentsia living in the brain-addled, sunshine paradise of Southern California prove that the rest of us don't know anything. "Oh yeah! You betcha, yeah!" Steve Buscemi and the Cohen Bros. should not produce any other expectations. They are lousy, but have exceeded their typical capacity for producing junk with this one.


                
One of thos movies (like "Pulp Fiction") where the audience is expected to laugh about scenes of most cruel violence. That's disgusting and even dangerous, because this plays down violence. "It's only a movie, you know?" But we all know how influential movies can be, don't we?


                
I can't for the life of me understand why people like this movie. It was TERRIBLE! It glorifies violence (even tries to turn it into a big "joke") and makes all the characters look stupid -- the "bad guys" as well as the "good guys". This is, quite simply, a movie without any redeeming qualities. When I left the theater, I was depressed for hours.


                
This is without a doubt the worst movie that I have ever seen. Terrible acting, slow-moving plot, and absolutely unbelievable fools for characters (no, this does not make for a better movie. Better movies allow the audience to IDENTIFY with the characters). The only thing that could have given this movie a shred of credibility and humor was if it were based on a true story. But surprise, surprise...it wasn't! The writers/producers took a few creative liberties in this story, one of which was the intro which states that it was based on a true story.Whenever I speak to someone who feels that this was a great movie, their argument for it is typically, "Well, just think about the context. This actually happened! It's based on a true story!" Hmmm...do you believe everything you see in the movies? Maybe you'd better watch out for the Blair Witch the next time you go for a walk in the woods.


                
I heard so much about this movie, so I really tried to enjoy it, but not one second of it got me interested. I usually like a lot of different movies, and it takes a lot to get me bored.To me it looked like all the actors just spoke their lines out of their head, and not with their heart, just as the acting itself.The events seemed like running out of control and cutting up the movie, instead of following up and glueing the movie together. There was too much emphasis on the story telling to make it look real, so the characters come over too slow.The fact that the movie is based on a true story doesn't mean I have to appreciate the movie higher than I do now. There could have been done a lot more with the story, and the attempt to 'fresh it up' a little with to some dark comedy failed imo.


                
Am i the only one that thinks/feels that this film sucks...???When i saw the film, ALL the "great" scenes had already been seen in trailers and review programs and the rest was pure s***.And how could Frances get an Academy Award for this?????She just waggled around like a pregnant duck and tried to speak english with a swedish accent.Check out "Murder on the Orient Express" and see how Ingrid Bergman did it. There´s a fine actor/actress......


                
After hearing a lot of hype over this film I decided that it was time I sit down and watch it, and after seeing this piece of work I must post the question that I feel is obvious. What makes this movies stand out as a cinematic masterpiece? If someone could enlighten me as to why please do. There were no real dynamic characters, no one I felt sympathy for or any connection to; overall it was not entertaining. The storyline was slow, it dragged on to a conclusion that, frankly just wasn't there. Honestly there were like ten different people killed and I was still bored. Finally, I've seen posts where people seem to flip over the ending, it wasn't deep or thought provoking, it was a dead end to a highly overrated picture. Simply put do not waste your time watching this movie.


                
Without question, the worst movie I've ever seen.  It isn't an issue of style - I like Tarantino movies, for example - but one of quality.  The plot was unimaginative, the characters insipid (which I hate to say, because I like William H. Macy, Steve Buscemi otherwise)  and the writing weak at best.  There was no flow to the story, if it could be called that.  The film was so bad, in fact, that we almost shut it off in the middle and took it back to the video store early - and I sat through all of 'Jacob's Ladder'.An associate of mine suggested the appeal was the constant juxtaposition of the absurd and the banal, but that's how it felt - like the writers sat there and said, 'if we juxtapose the absurd and banal, it'll be a great movie.'  Completely forced and artificial.Their idea of what midwesterners sound like was pulled from thin air. Having lived in the midwest all my life, I can honestly say I've never heard anyone speak like that before.  It's not an issue of being offended, it just wasn't accurate.As it is, I would not recommend this movie for anyone for any reason.  There were absolutely no redeeming qualities to it whatsoever.


                
It had it all:  bad story, BAD acting, bad edits.....if we could add a badly done 50's monster it could be upgraded to a poor b-class sci-fi film, unfortunately it doesn't quite get there.  Macy didn't help himself with this film as he's a much better actor than what is shown in this film.  The best part of the film is you find yourself watching it to the end since you keep thinking it has to get better.....


                
Woah, I cant understand why people make a big deal about films by the Coen brothers. I've seen this and Big Lebowski, and they seem to have been both made with NO soul or feeling what so ever. The characters are all soulless droids going about there business, and they are no characters that one can relate to. All seem totally inhuman and void of emotion or expression or any good human characteristics. As a result, one has little or no interest in the plot. A dire, dire movie to avoid.


                
this movie was the worst i have ever seen.  I was expecting something given all the reviews but it was a day in the life of ordinary person nothing spectacular at all no action no love scenes the humor no wow i didn't think it was going to end that way. Just FLAT you could sleep through it!


                
i´ve seen this movie on a cold winters day and i think it´s totally awful. The actress who plays the officers role is very bad. The only cause to watch this movie is steve buscemi. I cant´t understand why this movie is so high rated.


                
I can't see why people liked this movie.Me and my wife both looked at each other,Said is this it?We wanted to turn it off but well might as well go all the way.It never got better,hi Marge, hi herb here's your worms herd.Oh god who wrote this stuff?A totally dumb boring slow movie.I see why the Minnesotans got offended at how stupid they were portrayed.I am having a hard time getting 10 lines to write about.Nothing good to say except that it finally ended.Give me a Columbo rerun or any Csi movie ,now thats a mystery cop show.I know tine daily won an Oscar for it also.I have such a hard time thinking not one other film was Worth while,Thats scary.I would love to have had talks with people than seen it to help me understand it?No action,No mystery,little comedy except for the normal dialog.Yuk


                
This is undoubtedly a faddish cult film where one is supposed to believe the pathetic characters and bad acting are purposefully concocted and are part of a private inside joke that only the in crowd will get. I was appalled and dismayed to see that it was chosen by the AFI as one of the best films of the 20th Century - especially comparing it to nearly any of the many nonimations that did not make the final list. I believe it has a very time limited appeal that will not withstand the universal appeal and timelessness of a true classic.


                
Absolutetely awful. Banalities everywhere.All the characters use a common language with words that repeat over and over again like : "Yeah" and "Jeez". Half of the characters words are one of those ones. Too many unnecessary characters that don't influence in any way the plot. Insipid action with no ups and downs with dozens of dead intervals of time in which happens NOTHING. A totally waste of time. There are a lot of things that I can't understand about this movie.Why are so many characters when there are some of them that have no influence on the plot.Why characters do things with no importance, just to have them done? Some of the characters speak about things that were never shown up and will never be. I can mention also the lack of coherence in some parts of the movie.


                
