The Coen brothers' 'Fargo' is nearly a great film: a beautifully shot, blackly comic thriller that quietly subverts every convention of the genre. This is a film where the remote mid-western city of Minneapolis plays the same role as New York in a normal crime story, a hub of civilisation and vice; where the hero is a woman (and a heavily pregnant, happily married woman at that); and the chief villain a car salesman of absolutely no slickness whatsoever. In a final irony, most of the action doesn't even take place in Fargo, but in the even more obscure town of Brainerd. Yet I found it hard to love this film. At brief moments (in depicting the relationship of policewoman Marge, played superbly by Frances McDormaid, and her husband), it feels astonishingly tender, yet at others, it feels as if it is simply making fun of the strange folks from outer America with the wacky accents and absurdly stoical demeanour. And the combination of deadpan acting and frankly silly plot excess sometimes works and sometimes doesn't. Above all else, perhaps, 'Fargo' lacks a beating heart: while nearly moving, and nearly funny, there's a part of this film that refuses to commit itself, that prefers to hold back and mock not just its subjects, but also the idea that a film should take itself seriously. The Coens are widely celebrated as among the best film-makers of our age, but watching their films, I usually end up wondering whether irony is not a slightly over-rated virtue. Fargo looks lovely, and weird, and has a wry outlook all of it's own; but it won't make you laugh out loud, or cry. If it wasn't called a masterpiece I might almost like it.


                
I saw this film in 2004, long after the Oscar buzz had died down. I suppose it's a victim of its own hype. I enjoyed the film, but it seemed somehow smaller than I expected. Frances McDormand's Oscar-winning performance seems so trivial, seen through the perspective of eight years. The story is okay, though I again wonder about the Oscar the Coens received. (The 1996 Oscars were a somewhat weak field.) I spent most of the movie wondering if people in Minnesota and the Dakotas really talk that way, or is "Fargo" as much a travesty of regional accents as most "southern" movies are? Overall, the whole film was a nicely filmed, tight little story with apparently overdone regional ironies.


                
The movie is more overrated than you can imagine ! Yes, the movie has it's moments, great screenplay, it's a nice film nothing less, nothing more!! The thing everybody saying about it's weird structure, trust me it is NOT weird nor unique!! FRANCES MCDORMAND's character can make your blood pressure goes high, the way she smiles just makes me wanna kill her, at a scene, she was talking to a man and he snapped at her, she just stood up with this huge smile on her face and said: can I see your boss!! This film does not deserve 8.2 on IMDb, does not deserve 7 Oscar nominations, does not deserve to be called on of the best 100 Americans film ever by the AFI and ranking it above GoodFellas, Pulp Fiction and Unforgiven...True masterpieces! This film isn't comparable to the cool movies, this film is not like Se7en, Fight Club, Reservoir Dogs or The Usual Suspects. Just like everybody says.7\10 Maximum!


                
Ethan and Joel Coen are at it again. Their masterful directing and writing makes this movie unforgettable. Snowy North Dakota sets the mood real well for this maliciously funny story of a botched kidnapping. William Macy is a car salesman in the need of some big bucks. He hires two inept scum buckets (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare)to kidnap his wife thus letting him cash in on a huge ransom to be paid by his father-in-law. Frances McDormand plays a pregnant police chief that takes charge of picking up the pieces of the crime that has come unraveled.Strong violence and foul language go hand in hand with the awkward and hilarious situations. You will certainly be eager to watch this one again immediately.


                
I just saw the movie couple hours ago and i liked it. I think its a good movie but it could be better, feels like the directors didnt want to risk too much and stay on a good movie.
This movie is entertaining from the beginning to the end, the actors did a very good perfomance. The story is simple and may have alredy been used in another movie, but still a good decent movie.


                
Somewhat slyly advertised as being based on a true story, a car salesman by the name of "Jerry Lundegaard" (William H. Macy) hires two psychotic thugs named "Carl Showalter" (Steve Buscemi) and "Gaear Grimsrud" (Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife "Jean Lundegaard" (Kristin Rudrud) so that his rich father-in-law "Wade Gustafson" (Harve Presnell) can pay the ransom which will then be split between Jerry and the two kidnappers. Unfortunately, rather than being kept as secret as possible, things take a severe turn for the worse when Carl and Gaear shoot and kill several innocent bystanders in the process. And things get even more out-of-hand when a police investigator by the name of "Marge Gunderson" (Frances McDormand) is assigned to the case. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that I didn't think much of this film the first time I saw it but after further viewings I began to appreciate the dark humor a bit more. That being said, I have rated the film accordingly. Above average.


                
Frances McDormand, William H. Macy, Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare star in this 1996 crime comedy-thriller based on true events. This takes place in winter and focuses on in-debt, car salesman, Jerry (Macy) who hires 2 small-time, thugs, Carl (Buscemi) and Gaear (Stormare) to kidnap his wife. Things start to take a turn for the 3 of them while pregnant, police chief, Marge (McDormand) investigates the case. This is a good film with humor and violence featuring a great cast & score. Also, "Yeah" is said numerous times. I recommend this.
I understand the positive reviews, I really do. The story is non conventional, based on real events that lack the serendipity and skill of movie events. The actors, some of my favorites are in it, play very well. The mix of dread, disgust, contempt and amusement has a nice flavour, too. But the film is too real, too mundane and ultimately totally boring. It's like a heist movie done by idiots, but dangerous idiots at that.Bottom line: I really wanted to like this film, because they just released a series based on it. However, after watching it, I can't bring myself to view the series. The average grade that I give this film doesn't mean that I am indifferent to it, just that it kind of hits mediocrity, but that only because I average good acting and intriguing potential with my feeling of utter boredom after watching it.


                
On the strength of liking the rather coarse In Bruges I was recommended to see this one, one that had passed me by but trailed for me by the recommender as an even blacker comedy. Being a sucker for black comedies I complied, and found it ingenious and engrossing fiction, but with a streak of nastiness not in In Bruges. Brainerd definitely looked colder than Bruges!Geeky husband (Macy) arranges for two hit men, one dumb the other kind of funny looking, to kidnap his wife so they can all share the ransom money to come from her rich father. Except it all goes wrong - especially for a lot of innocent passers by, which is something I always find difficult to extract humour from as I never know what or in particular who lies around the next corner myself. Some funny alleged Minnesota mannerisms and accents from the cast, the pregnant Sheriff Marge had some of the most whimsical lines and was a convincing eccentric, to this outsider anyway. Favourite bits: Her police outrage when she sees Macy Fleein' The Interview; the funny looking guy getting shot in the teeth and continually whinging about it; trying to guess exactly how Macy's wife met her end, how often Ya was uttered throughout and where's the money buried. Nice photography and the music was atmospheric and excellent too, although it sometimes put in mind 17th century France. I just wish the main characters and their many foibles had been fleshed out a little more, otoh it was all nicely packed into 90 minutes...maybe the rather pointless meeting of Marge with Mike could have been jettisoned?Although redolent of Twin Peaks it's one of the best films from the '90's I've seen from my limited experience, episodic but good and enigmatic enough to bear repeated viewings.


                
A movie that's hard to categorize, because, quite frankly, it's so weird. It's innovative and artistic, with quirky characters and an offbeat approach.Dark humor can be difficult to digest sometimes, and that is my one major criticism of the film as several innocents suffer or even die violently. The movie doesn't seem to care, as it scurries along in an effort to showcase its weirdest characters. Sheriff Marge Gunderson (skillfully portrayed by Frances McDormond) is the only character who seems to notice that the victims are human beings. She's the protagonist with a calm demeanor and low key, Columbo style approach to the grisly crime she is investigating. She also serves symbolically as the only force of peace and sanity in this film's bizarre universe.In stark and comedic contrast to her are all the freaks. William H. Macy is brilliant as a car salesman who would try to sell an Eskimo an air conditioner. He hatches a foolhardy scheme involving two thugs to get some quick cash which starts to unravel. His efforts to keep on talking his way through everything reminds one of a guy trying to talk his way out of quicksand. His father-in-law is equally nutty; a zillionaire whose every conversation resembles a board-room style exec meeting with his ever-present business partner.The two crooks are just psychos, perhaps patterned after the two slime balls in "In Cold Blood." One is an idiot who never shuts up and errantly imagines he's the brains of the partnership; the other a mindless automaton who rarely speaks, but the wheels are always turning in his head. When he acts, he is devoid of any emotional response--just like a machine calculating, and reacting with ruthless efficiency.The actors work all of these over the top characters well, and the film delights in bouncing them off each other. The dark humor is at times brutal, but overall this movie is an entertaining watch.


                
Let me see if I understand this. Fargo won the Academy Award for best screenplay written directly for the screen? Astounding. Another nominee that year, Jerry Maguire, was more deserving (not to mention a better film overall). Yes, Frances McDormand and William H. Macy acted well. But the story was empty and transparent, the motivation questionable, and the outcome not entirely resolved. Why did William Macy's character need cash in the first place and what was so important that he would consider extorting his father-in-law's money at his wife's expense? What about Macy's character's son? What happened to him? And what about the money buried in the snow? Didn't anyone check his father-in-law's bank accounts to see that a million dollars was missing not merely 80 grand? What about his lawyer? Did I miss something here?? And what was up with that old high school chum of Frances McDormand's character, Mike Yanagita, and his contrived story? What was the point of this? And why would her artist husband (who only seems to eat rather than work or paint) not be a bit concerned that his seven-month-pregnant wife went to investigate cold-blooded murders? I definitely must have missed a lot of things here... At least her point that money isn't worth the violence perpetrated was on the mark... and this was better than "A Simple Plan" (1998), but otherwise there's not much left to say about this film. Well, if you're easily amused by overly-exaggerated Scandinavian / Minnesotan / North Dakotan accents, then see this film. If you enjoy dark humor with sudden bursts of homicidal violence then see this film... Otherwise, don't be misled by the Academy's misguided choice in 1996. Overall, a darned-tootin'  7/10.


                
It's probably inevitable that, after hearing so much about its greatness, 'Fargo' proves something of a minor disappointment. After numerous critical successes {including their finest film to date, 'Miller's Crossing (1990)' and the Palme d'Or-winning 'Barton Fink (1991)'}, Joel and Ethan Coen apparently struck gold with 'Fargo (1996),' the "true story" of a kidnapping and murder in the icy wastelands of Minnesota. The film is a thematic retread of the brothers' debut picture, 'Blood Simple (1984)' {of which I was not overly-fond}, and explores how a seemingly-simple crime can escalate into the tragic and devastating destruction of innocent (and not-so-innocent) lives. The Coens would return once again to this popular theme with the accomplished film-noir, 'The Man Who Wasn't There (2001),' which is arguably one of their best efforts. 'Fargo' was the filmmakers' first real Oscar success, retrieving seven Academy Award nominations and two wins (Best Writing and Best Actress in a Leading Role {Francis McDormand}). However, the film's Best Picture chances were upset by Anthony Minghella's majestic wartime romance epic, 'The English Patient.'In a dreary small-town region of the United States, where the road is perpetually covered in frost and a sheet of ice affixes itself to your car windscreen, money-troubled father Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) plots a simple, fool-proof method of acquiring funds. He hires two dubious-looking thugs (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare) to kidnap his own wife (Kristin Rudrüd), in order to extort ransom money from his wealthy, domineering father-in-law (Wade Gustafson). However, things don't go quite to plan, and after the two low-life criminals murder a state trooper and two passing witnesses, local Brainerd Chief of Police Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) arrives to investigate. She, like almost every other character in the film, has the jovial disposition and exaggerated mannerisms of typical Midwestern small-town folk, discussing a triple-homicide as though somebody has just stolen a cookie from the jar, and making frequent use of such quaint phrases as "You betcha," "Aw Jeez," "Okie-Dokie" and "Yah."The Coens have done a lot right with 'Fargo.' Their decision to blend a thrilling tale of deceit and murder with moments of satirical <U+0096> almost slapstick <U+0096> comedy creates a unique and interesting contrast that sets the film apart from most thrillers. William H. Macy is at his jittery best as a potential con-man so hopelessly inept that he can't call off the dangerous ruse because he never acquired the kidnappers' phone number. Steve Buscemi is, likewise, fantastic as Carl Showalter, a "funny-looking" weasel with a hot temper. Peter Stormare is suitably psychotic as the sullen but dangerous Gaear Grimsrud, even if his role just required him to remain silent and look creepy. Then we come to Frances McDormand (a.k.a. Mrs. Joel Coen), who, regardless of her talents as an actress, has annoyed me in every film in which I've seen her {which basically just covers 'Blood Simple,' 'Fargo' and 'The Man Who Wasn't There,' though to a lesser extent in the latter}.I know that Marge Gunderson is supposed to be one of the Coen Brothers' most entertaining creations, but her character somehow seemed so pointless. We spend all our time following her lightweight attempts at an investigation, and yet all I cared about was the kidnapping and how Jerry was coping with it all. Perhaps to hide the fact that Marge has almost nothing to do, the Coens toss in a couple of extraneous, dead-end minor characters who serve no purpose other than to distract me from the more exciting segments of the story. All things considered, 'Fargo' is a solid, albeit flawed, thriller/comedy that is characteristic of the Coens in every respect. Allow me to reiterate that William H. Macy was absolutely phenomenal, and definitely gives the film's greatest performance, though I did think that his character gave himself away too easily. In the grand scheme of things, 'Fargo' could certainly scrape into the directors' top five films, though my hope is that their latest release, 'No Country For Old Men (2007),' will oust it from the list.


                
It's pretty clear to me that you have to know a lot of the ins and outs of movies to enjoy a Coen brothers movie. But unfortunately if you don't your left bored and bemused. Now I can appreciate this movie has some top-notch acting. Not many will deny that, but there are a lot of movies out there with fine acting. So it needs something else which apparently this movie has, but as someone who just purely wants to be entertained and left thinking "wow", I was let down. Nothing shocked me, the ending didn't give me goosebumps etc. There were scenes (such as the one where the female cop talks to her old Asian friend from school) that I can't for the life of me work out why they needed to be there.So if you've been to film school or just simply have good knowledge of how a movie should be then by all means check this out and enjoy, but otherwise I recommend you stay away.


                
This "doco" is more "mocko". The people whose lives are tracked throughout the film are caricatures, I suspect cast purely for comic effect. Classic exploitation. That aside the film does make for some enjoyable viewing. At times I wondered whether the film was straying into the realms of snuff and thought 'why don't the filmmakers step in here'; but on balance, understanding the difficult decisions they face, I think they acted appropriately by not disturbing the natural order.If you're comfortable laughing at others' expense and don't lose sleep over unanswered questions (like why the film is called Fargo, what happened to the buried loot and did Frances McDormand's performance really warrant an Oscar) then it's well worth a watch.


                
Never been so amused and scared at the same time. I applaud the Coen Brothers for making the most accurate dark comedy genre film. Plot was a bit lacklustre but I think the point was thing come and go and life is sometimes dull. It doesn't leave an impression beyond that but it's nice to put a film to a name.


                
Fargo was an enjoyable film and probably could be best summed up as a comedy of errors. This definitely has the stamp of the Cohen brothers on it with its tangents and side plots. The strength of this film to me is the strong performances from the cast. This film is well put together and culminates in a bit of tragedy for almost everyone. It is memorable enough but I wouldn't go as far to say it's iconic and I know I'm the minority with that. A stronger plot and more focused scenes I feel works better during screen time. A number of people are fond of the various side plots/tangents that kind of lead to nowhere and don't really add value. For example the scene with Margie and person she went to school with trying to chat her up added little to the story. This is a simple and ironic story but it is certainly not of Shakespearean proportions.


                
Having seen this film some years ago I used to think it was really good. I watched it again last night, and decided it was actually pretty messy and nasty. Nearly all the characters, with Marge and the bit parts excepted, are unusually unpleasant. The Coens seem not to have enjoyed growing up in Scandinavian America, and have taken revenge on the place. Is it populated almost entirely by dolts, scammers, thugs, bullies, hookers, wimps and so on ? According to the extra feature "Minnesota Nice" there is an underlying feeling that "polite cultures are the most repressed and therefore the most violent". The Coens put it that way, in any case. In other respects the whole set-up reminded me a little of Blue Velvet country, ten years earlier.The film kicks off with three unplanned killings of innocent people, and then adds to these with three or four more. It would spoil things were I to list them. Marge, who is a pregnant policewoman, then forces a solution to what is going on and arrests the surviving guilty party. She tells him it's a beautiful day. It isn't in fact, since it's foggy and snowy. She ends up in bed with her signally lumpy husband, and tells him he's wonderful. The two of them spend a lot of time stuffing their mouths. There is a curious incident with a mentally disturbed Japanese man. I don't quite know what that's about. The net result is faintly comic, in an ugly sort of way, if you think all the deaths are funny. $1 million, less $80,000, is buried and lost in the snow.


                
Fargo does a great job of both capturing the midwestern attitude and creating a realistic drama. The acting performances and script are excellent, making all scenes feel realistic. No parts of the movie blow you away, but basically no mistakes are made and everything serves a purpose. Character-driven with a suspenseful enough plot, Fargo is a solid movie.


                
Quite interesting and different in its execution, with a unconventional setting. Having a snowy setting in a murder mystery really added a layer of strangeness. The acting is great, Frances McDormand is cheery and a good female protagonist. Some of the effects look really convincing and very disturbing towards the end of the film. Also, the accents are my my favourite part.


                
FargoThe resemblance towards the reality is the greatest strength of Fargo since it questions the sarcasm, logic and perspective about individual characters that can only be written by observing the surrounding.


                
My brief encounter with the Coen brothers has been reminiscent of a roller coaster. I loathed The Big Lebowski but quite enjoyed Barton Fink. Fargo has given me the inspiration I've been lacking to deepen my relationship with their films. The 1996 crime drama was a fun descent into their take on a "true crime" story. Weaving the tale of an inept crime organizer, trying to make his wife better by having his wife kidnapped for ransom money paid by his father-in-law, Fargo captures what it means to live in a town small enough to induce claustrophobia, and how suffocating an unfulfilled life truly is. Starring William H. Macy, Steve Buscemi, and Frances McDormand, Fargo remains an audience favorite from the Coen brothers even 20 years after its release.Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) is a car salesman, working at his father-in-law, Wade Gustafson's (Harve Presnell) dealership, unhappy with his current situation. He has an idea for an investment that he believes his wealthy father-in-law, who doesn't much care for him, will be willing to invest in. Jerry painstakingly goes over all the particulars of the deal with Wade only to be shut out when Wade decides to take the investment on with a partner, rather than give Jerry the initial capital to get it started himself. Devastated and humiliated, Jerry hatches a plan to have his wife kidnapped. It will all work, Jerry believes, by requesting in ransom more than will be used to pay off the captors, leaving Jerry the remaining money to invest how he pleases. The operation should be easy enough and will avoid all the "messy stuff" because Jerry is able to get the names of a couple people that will pull the kidnapping off from a man he works with at the dealership. Everything is going to plan until Wade refuses to let Jerry handle any of the particulars, vowing to take over the money exchange himself. Jerry's entire life begins to unwind with that decision as he finds himself in an even graver decision than he was before. On a personal note, it was fun to see William H. Macy and Steve Buscemi in a film together, as I spent a majority of my youth confusing the two actors with the other ( I don't know how, by the way). I spent most of the movie in complete awe of the way it was shot. Great emphasis is paid to mise-en-scene, throughout the film feeling quite claustrophobic when needed, and isolating when the script calls for it. As it turns out, despite the title card in the beginning of the film, not much in the Coen brother's Fargo is actually a true crime story, but as they noted, "you don't need a true crime to have a true crime story."


                
Believe it or not I finally got around to watching this movie last night at a midnight movie showing at a local movie theater. I knew going in it was a Coen bros. film, set somewhere up north, that starred Steve Buscemi. Other than that I had no clue about the plot or other characters, or the Oscar wins and high ratings on this site. That being said, this is a good dark comedy, a little on the violent side in some parts, but very well done. CONTAINS SPOILERS The movie is set in a bone-chilling, Minnesota/North Dakota, in the late 1980's, supposedly based on a true story. It is about Jerry Lundergan(William H. Macy), a weaselly car salesman that is having money problems(that is never really explained), who comes up with a plan to have his wife kidnapped and for his wealthy father-in-law to pay the ransom, with most of the money actually going to him. Once the plan is in motion, very little goes right and quite a bit of blood, mayhem and comedy occur. The atmosphere and screen shots are what I liked most about this film. The Coen's did a wonderful job of making you feel the cold and wilderness of the upper Midwest. The camera work was stunning and IMO is what really makes this movie great. The plot itself is good, a little slow at first, but really ramps up as the movie goes on. It is a dark comedy, with humor peppered in just the right amount. Some of the characters are over-the-top with heavy mid-western accents, some are just plain over-the-top. My only beef with the movie is the blood and violence. I think they could have made this movie just as good without the gore. I also think some of the character development was a little rushed, with a few characters adding very little to the story or plot. Overall a beautifully filmed dark comedy, and a must see! 7/10
An inept car salesman hires two thugs to kidnap his wife in order to get money from his rich father-in-law. Unfortunately he should have hired better thugs as they end up messing the whole thing up, which in turn causes the local law enforcement to become involved. From that setting we get a crime story worthy of being directed by the Coen brothers, full of awkward characters, everyday situations and hilariously dark scenes of blood, gore and rage.The two thugs, played by Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare, are what make this film work for me. Usually cinema tends to depict criminals as violent and lethal people, and these two are that as well, but usually these kinds of characters are not depicted to be quite so out of their depth. It is made clear very soon that while these two may have done these kinds of things before, neither is what you'd call the sharpest knife in the drawer. And they're both so idiotic in their own ways. It's fascinating to watch them live their miserable criminal lives and utterly failing at it. And yet they remain threatening throughout the entire film. Not because they're criminal masterminds, but because they're morons with no moral inhibitions.William H. Macy as Jerry Lundegaard, the car salesman, is also a fun character, who contrasts nicely with the two thugs. He's attempting to become a criminal, but he's even worse at it than his associates and every scene where he needs to pull off any kind conviction about his innocence is absolutely hilarious because<U+0085> well, you can guess.Frances McDormand as Marge Gunderson, the Minnesotan police chief in charge of investigations, has also received a lot of praise for her work. Personally I found her to be a touch boring, though I do admit that my expectations we're a bit too high. She's just so utterly chipper and optimistic all the time that it seems unrealistic. It's a nice contrast to her opponents, but it still means that I didn't find her that interesting. Still, I do like her character on a conceptual basis, and the performance itself is objectively fine. Not just my personal cup of tea.All in all Fargo is a nice watch if you're into dark comedy and can laugh at people being dismembered and people giving into their nefarious impulses. If you've liked any of the other Coen films, you're going to like this one as well.


                
Haven't seen the movie in a long time. I don't consider it a masterpiece like many others, but I think it's a great movie. "Low-key" is the keyword (no pun intended) in this movie: Score, Peter Stormare's character, John Carroll Lynch's character (Norm) and his relationship with Marge. All make the movie great.Wonderful atmosphere (combination of location, score, cinematography and direction), great cast and direction.John Carroll Lynch's character (Norm) and his relationship with his wife. It's so innocent, loyal, natural and low-key. I also love Peter Stormare's character. Again, low-key with minimum dialog. He's one of the main villains, but looks so innocent - like a kid at times. He's intimidating by NOT talking and just giving a blank look.Frances McDormand is very good in her role, but IMO it's not worthy of an Oscar. Definitely not for "Lead Role".


                
Well, I was hoping this snowy movie would help on August 1st, since it's too damned hot out and there's probably another 3 months of summer in Glendale, Arizona. Eh, not really.I have only seen this movie once before, I believe in late 1996 or 1997, so it's been awhile. Despite the nearly two decade absence, I'm usually good at remembering movie's specific scenes, plot points and dialogue. Here, I barely remembered 20% of the actions in this. It probably didn't help that I know I got laid that night when I invited my friend over to see this. To my defense, we probably got it on during the viewing.Maybe that was a good thing. It was interesting to revisit this as practically a first time. There's just so much that happens and it made it all seem so real, despite the lie at the beginning of the film that this was a true story. (Extremely loosely based is NOT a "true story" in my book. I could see a horrific traffic accident and decide to write an alien invasion story that involved a car crash. That wouldn't make that a true story. Much like this.)I've never been to Fargo or any of the many towns featured here, let alone Minnesota and though I've heard of "the accent" and key phrases "Don'tcha know" and "Yeeeeeah." I don't think I'd want to visit if this movie was accurate with the dialect. Man, this movie was tough to get through at times with all the Sarah Palin-type slurs. Again, since I've never been to these locations, I cannot verify if any of this is true to the locals. But, dang, if the snow didn't do me in, the talking would.I digress, the acting, tension and incredible script is completely worthwhile here and makes this a recommendation. The fact that it keeps going and going and the less than stellar police keep up with what's happening is probably part of the most unbelievable, but enjoyable parts. Frances McDormand's Marge is a dumbed down Columbo, but William H. Macy's Jerry was the real star here. Have to hate him, especially at his job, but I got more invested in him that the film's award-winning main attraction of McDormand. I think the Coens perfected this movie years later with No Country For Old Men, but they still did a great job with this effort and it's totally recommended.* * *Final thoughts: To give a little background, lazy and unintelligible word usage, namely filler words, irritate the crap out of me. It's unoriginal, unimaginative and worst of all, unnecessary. Thank God for earplugs as definitely need them at my job to attempt to block out all the "Yeeeeeah"s I hear roughly 78 times a day, mostly from one person. Oh, and while we're on this movie, just an FYI, Office Space is much more a "true story" than Fargo was. Apply at a call center, get hired and try to dispute that statement. I'll wait.
