I have not seen every Disney Pixar film. The ones I have watched are the Toy Story films, Monsters Inc and it's sequel Monster University, a Bugs Life, Cars, Finding Nemo & The Incredibles. The ones I have not seen are Wall-e, Ratouttlie, Brave, Cars 2 and The Good Dinosaur. Most of the ones I seen were either great or not bad. My favourite Disney film is the Lion King followed by the Jungle Book (1967) and Pinocchio. But this film is one of the worst and boring Disney films I have ever seen!The film is about a little girl named Riley who moves to a new home in San Franscisco after her dad gets a new job and her mind is controlled by a group of creatures known as 'emotions' who get her through everyday life but two of them Joy and Sadness end up in the bowls of Riley's mind where old memories are stored and without them especially Joy Riley's life is misery at home and school.This film was just awful. This film may be family friendly but the film is nothing like a film for children. There is very little comedy and is more adult-themed than the other Pixar films. It is my opinion also that this film shares similarities to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, The Exorcist and The Land Before Time. Like in Snow White the emotions have names matching that of their personality. For example Joy is all happy and optimistic while Sadness is like Eeyore by being downright miserable. Like Regan McNeil of The Exorcist Riley is processed in her mind but by the emotions and not a demon named Pazuzu while her parents and presumably everyone in the film are also processed by emotions. The film's sub plot where Joy and Sadness try to get back to headquarters is a throwback to the Land Before Time where Littlefoot and his friends try to find the Great Valley. I also felt the film was rushed and none of the characters apart from Riley, Joy and Sadness get much screen time. Even Anger, Fear and Disgust hardly get involved in the film. Disgust arguably was the emotion who got demoted to extra.The film was as I said rubbish and how people loved this film has left me stumped. To me this film does not deserve a sequel as this film is just not good enough for one.
I am genuinely confused as to why people are calling this "Pixar's Best" or an original concept. Pixar has done far better than this and even the mediocre 'Brave' and 'Cars' are far better.Not only is the concept of 'people controlling your brain' tired and used multiple times, they managed to make it even more boring. There is absolutely no nuance in this film. The characters, (joy, anger, fear, disgust, sadness), are a visual representation of their emotion. I mean seriously, do they understand subtlety at all? Anger literally catches on fire, sadness is blue, and joy looks like every boring same-faced cartoon princess. Not to mention none of the emotions look like Riley, the little girl. This is even more of a flaw when we later see the emotions in other characters heads, (Riley's parents, her teacher, etc.) who look just like the person whose brain they inhabit. Why would Riley be the only one whose emotions all look nothing like her? They took an old concept, made it incredibly literal, and then botched it up with inconsistencies. Aside from the boring concept, this movie is way too complex and depressing for children. The plot is nearly nonexistent and the most constant thing throughout is joy and sadness attempting to get back to the control center of Riley's brain after being sucked out by accident. Other than that its all very dull and if it doesn't make you cry, you'll probably fall asleep. There are, from what I remember, no laugh out loud jokes. Way too much time went into world-building and showing off the various landscapes and rooms of Riley's mind for there to be any actual storyline. Everything felt extremely dragged out and joy and sadness ran into obstacle after obstacle trying to get back to the control center. Finally, Riley tries to run away and it just so happens that joy returns and fixes everything before she has the chance to get too far. Not only was it absurd for an 11 year old girl to try and take a bus back home, it was far too sad the way the whole thing was shown. There were so many random characters introduced for 5 seconds which served no purpose other than to lighten the mood, and they failed at that too. Bing Bong the imaginary friend who was a furry pink elephant was out of place and his design was really uncreative. When he died, I honestly felt relieved not to hear his irritating voice any more. He had no personality or character development and therefore there wasn't any reason to feel sad when he died. Unles of course you're a little kid in which case the whole thing was way too heavy. Either way its a definite miss.And for those saying only psychology majors can enjoy this movie, that's not true. I can't imagine anyone honestly liking this movie. Aside from the complete inaccuracy of anyone feeling only one emotion at a time, everything about this movie was casually ableist. The portrayal of depression as being something small and easily gotten over was incorrect and terrible. Even the advertisements ("Meet the Little Voices Inside Your Head") felt like an insensitive joke towards people with schizophrenia or other disorders who have auditory hallucinations.Overall, I would not recommend this movie to anyone. Too depressing and confusing for kids, too boring and literal for adults, this movie is enjoyable by no one. Pixar did not please its intended audience, nor did it please the grown ups. The one redeeming factor was the animation, which was good but all the designs were so uncreative that good animation couldn't save it.
There are a few reasons why I consider this movie terrible and why I find it so horrifying that it's current rating is 8.5 when Spirited Away--one of the best animated movies ever created--is sitting at 8.6. Long story short, the characters were for the most part difficult to like. Joy was thoughtlessly cruel and condescending to Sadness and the other emotions, and Riley--the girl we're all supposed to love and find easy to relate to--was extremely obnoxious/egocentric and rubbed me the wrong way for the entire movie. I resented the stereotypes that were used and found them more than a little insulting. For example, Riley has an "imaginary boyfriend" at the age of 12. I don't know about you people, but I find this extremely concerning. 12 year old girls should NOT be thinking that they should have boyfriends at their age--while it may start out innocent, it can unconsciously encourage premature sexual thoughts and activity, which is EXTREMELY unhealthy and dangerous at their age. Also, I don't personally know any girls (including myself) who ACTUALLY had imaginary boyfriends. Ever. Let alone at 12! And don't even get me started on the imaginary friend Bing-Bong. BING-BONG! That's actually his name! I found him irritating and, frankly, disturbing. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm sure young children will LOVE this movie, and maybe some parents and teenagers as well. However, on the whole, I would NOT consider it up to par with other Disney Pixar movies. It was compared to "UP" for Pete's sake--the movie that had EVERYONE crying within the first 10 minutes! It was an enormous let- down for me, especially since all the raving had really caused me to build it up, which made it all the more disappointing. Therefore, watch at your own peril. Consider yourself warned.
I get that this is a kids film & they were trying to use simple ways of showing how emotions are formed but I can't forgive the fact that the whole plot was about how a little girl was suffering from depression because, due to a clerical error, happiness was out of office. & the final lesson just felt like "Cry & everything will be alright". Given how much praise this film was receiving (let alone it's a Pixar film) I was hoping for a much smarter explanation of emotions.Also most other aspects of the film just weren't funny/enjoyable.
The film was awful and extremely boring. It was just so depressing and sadness was possibly the most annoying character ever conceived...why why why did she have to keep touching things after she was told over and over not to, just irritating. It got to the point where I was dreading the character coming on the telly. Animated Disney/pixar films should stick to what they are good at and that's making children (and adults) happy. Yes they can have a moral lesson and sad bits but the general overtone is happiness not depressing characters inside another depressing character that I couldn't care less about. Should never have been made, should have saved their money. Im very sad that I can never get back the time I wasted on it...I could have watched paint dry.
This movie was built up by the trailers and I was actually excited to see it. The fact of the matter is that this movie is boring and not worth seeing. How major movie critics almost unanimously gave this movie positive reviews really makes no sense. Googling reviews for this movie proves to be much more telling than the scores it received on "reputable" websites. The scores are overblown because people were being generous with negative scores and way too generous with positive reviews by giving perfect scores to this mess of a movie. If you want to watch a movie and feel really uncomfortable this is for you. The emotions are forced at the viewer and explained by a plot that falls apart like the memories in the movie. Unfortunately my memory of this movie will remain.
I went to see this with my 6 year old and 12 year old and we all left depressed and hating the movie. Disney needs to remember they are in the "entertainment" business. This is the second movie they have made lately that leaves you feeling worse after you saw it than you were before viewing it. Inside Out begins with a good story line, but sadness (better named depression)is the biggest part of the movie. Yes, there is realism. But, I prefer the "fantasy" part of cartoons where one can escape the bad and enjoy a light-hearted laugh for a bit. In my opinion, Disney head's need to see a professional about this depression they feel so compelled to share. I won't waste my money on another movie ticket to a Disney show until can see people laughing when they talk about the new show. I grew up with Disney movies and loved almost all of them. Am so sad that my kids can't have that same joy! This movie was such a waste of talent and time!!! Save your money and watch a DVD at home instead.
I had high hopes of Inside Out before heading to the movie theater to go see it. The movie had lots of promotion on TV and Disney Channel where kids mainly go to see the exciting movies coming to a theatre near them. Needless to say, I was highly disappointed in this movie. I have to admit that the idea of the story was great and very creative, especially to young children. Other than that, the lack of character development and no good plot development ruined the entire film for me.Almost the entire movie consists of Joy and Sadness walking around that large area of Riley's memories, attempting to find their way back to headquarters, while the other emotions nonchalantly mess everything up (I don't get why Joy was the only emotion with some commonsense). Of course, along the way, they met a spunky elephant (mixed with some other animals) who managed to make situations worse more than making them better, and of course, he had to die at the end because, reality check, it's a Disney film. And their goal is to somehow make you cry one way or another. I just didn't get how the elephant disappeared so quickly, considering he hadn't been down the forgotten memory abyss that long. If the memories died so quickly like he had, why were their thousands of old grey memories still intact? Anyway, that's only a small screw-up compared to the rest of the movie. I felt like I had been constantly waiting for more character development for Riley but once again, I was let down. The entire movie revolved more around the emotions more than Riley, who from the trailer, seemed to be the star of the show. I could go on and on about the huge flaws and plot holes but I only have a limit of a thousand words. Do yourself a favor and spare the $7.50 and wasted hour that you'll never get back. I wouldn't watch that movie again if my life depended on it.
talk about lack luster in this movie and lack of joy , i had to endure watching this movie which had an awful plot , about some little girl with emotional center something goes screwy and she gets depressed and almost leaves home only to learn crying is good at the end . like how does that appeal to everyone ? talk about boring .The animated design for the characters was good but seriously pixar get your stuff together you had so many classic movies that would make this look like a piece of crap e.g wall-e , Up , incredible , monster inc, monsters university , brave, toy story1-3, ratatouille etc . Please bring those kinds of movies with great plot and fire the writers and director who wrote this movie . they should never set foot in the pixar company EVER!!
I simply cannot comprehend why this movie is being heralded as Pixar's finest. It is flawed in so many ways, which is uncharacteristic of Pixar. The concept is wholly unoriginal, which lead me to believe that Pixar would present us with something astounding to compensate, but what they have given us is unimaginative human characters whose personified emotions represent exhausted stereotypes. When we meet the father's emotions, they're lazily watching sports instead of taking an active interest in family dinner time, while the mother's emotions try to resign themselves to the fact that they have settled for a schlub instead of a handsome ex lover. The daughter is presented as the perfect all-American girl and we are never given even a glimpse of her being anything but perfect until the emotions Joy and Sadness find themselves ejected from the control center of her mind. Then suddenly she's the clichéd brat that lazy story telling will have us believe of every tween and teenager. The most unbelievable action of this character comes when this seemingly ideal daughter decides that in order to be happy she should run away from her loving home and travel alone across the country. All the while, mom and dad take this in their stride as though she's always behaved this way. All this, we are shown, is because the only emotions running the show are anger, disgust and fear, since joy and sadness are still trying to return to the control center. By Pixar's logic, we are incapable of rational actions without joy and sadness. Okay, I get that it's a movie, but this is bad writing. At one point we are expected to accept Sadness's antics simply because she claims that she doesn't know why she's doing what she's doing. What!?! If the ones controlling the brain cannot account for their actions, then what is the point of the premise? Perhaps the sequel will show us the emotions inside the heads of the emotions sadness, joy and the rest. Aside from the terrible story line and lack of character depth, the film lacks the usual humor we have come to associate with Pixar, and while Joy and Sadness's quest to get back where they belong is undoubtedly frustrating for them, the constant obstacles they encounter make it almost unbearable to sit through. Mostly, I feel, because again and again they keep getting sooooo close, only to have something happen and they have to find another way, finally making it happen through the use of a stack of imaginary boyfriends. Let me say that again: They finally get back to control by stacking up a bunch of imaginary boyfriends. Yes, I know, it's a movie, and a cartoon at that, but this is Pixar. We have come to expect better. Well, I have, at least. Judging by the other reviews and the box office, Inside Out is a huge hit. I still cannot fathom why. I must be taking crazy pills.
This still had some appeal as a trailer but sadly as a whole it felt flat pretty fast.The whole movie had a depressing effect and this became more obvious as the movie progressed.The basic story was some what ridiculous about only 5 characters controlling your brain similar to the factions in divergent(same screenplay writer perhaps?)Of the 5 characters 2 are highlighted and both of them (Joy and Sadness)are just annoying and the 3 side characters are totally forgettable.Problem here is they always react the same making it very predictable and there for equals boring.It has not been a good animation year, only the penguins worked and Minions and now this one really failed miserable.So,please ,put the fun and laughs back in these movies and stop with putting adult subjects in to kids movies. That might have worked once but at this point you're overdoing it.I think this one was rushed and not as well worked out as previous installments by pixar and I do hope they find they're way again and return to the classics we all know and love.Re-animate.
OK, playtime's over Pixar, now get over it. This film is so plainly a prequel – c.f. references to a 'puberty' button on the new 'emote' console in the character Rileys brain - you will fail to find anything of entertaining value for your 100 minute investment. You may harbour fond memories of Toy Story, Finding Nemo, The Incredibles and Ratatouille – all unique, funny, thrilling and entertaining. But, that is not what you will get with Inside Out. 'Joy', after all, is banished to long-term memory and can't get back in charge of the console. (Since when was a single emotion ever 'in charge' anyway?). Inside Out can be taken as a metaphor for the poor sops who work for the Disney Corporation. Yes, they started out with true optimism about the life journey they had chosen, (with Pixar). Then, all of a sudden they are 'taken over' by a less than friendly peer. To compound this, they are moved from their original 'playpen' to a new post industrial work lot. All is grim. Sadness takes hold and taints everything that is done. Even 'Joy' begins to sob with sadness and grief. Save us from this self-indulgent misery. Not only is it inappropriate as kiddie oriented movie fodder, those of us who are sentient, self-aware adults can do without this additional mock unhappiness. By the way, most human brains have a 'fat controller' who orchestrates proceedings keeping everything on an even keel – even if that is 'sadness' for a while. Riley's brain seems to be lobotomised – even before puberty has hit. Give this film a wide berth, in fact, it might be best if someone scuttles this ship before the pestilence it's carrying spreads.
I don't have a lot of reasons to give. All I can say is that every other Pixar movie I have rated a 10. I love animations, and the artwork for this one is top notch. Pixar has been terrific at delivering great stories until this one. I even love CARS, which many others found fault with. I wasn't in a bad mood when watching this one. I had great expectations. It's simply sucks. It's made a lot of money and has over an 8 rating, so I'm in the minority here. I want to caution someone like me to save their money so please read the other reviews with a 1 star rating. Maybe that will help guide you to a different movie to watch.
Yes, my mind is blown away by this movie not because it's spectacular  as it was hailed by many critics but because this movie is super lame  for a studio that has never released a bad movie (edit: i have  forgotten about brave and cars 2 i guess pixar has lost their touch and  that's why they made finding dory)  CGI wise this movie has an outstanding work like usual but the real  problem is the story. The first 1 hour of the movie i was waiting for  the main problem that would be the objective of the story but i was  actually watching it this whole time and watching it through the end i  just felt nothing and said "is that it? what the heck?".   The climax/ending was very weak it was somehow really flat probably  because the main obstacle itself was rather stupid.  The movie environment seemed very dull and narrow especially for the  imaginary part of the mind. The special 5 mind characters are annoying  and predictable. The jokes and dialogs are not memorable.  I don't know what kind of drugs these good reviewers are using but this  is the worst Disney PIXAR movie yet, it's so bad that i decided to  write my first review for this abomination of an animation.  I would give this 5/10, but with the misleading score such as 8.4, i  feel there is an obligation to demote it down hence the 1/10.  For those who thinks this is a hate/bandwagon/troll attempt. no this is  solely what i feel about this movie and it's a shame that people are so  against bad reviews.  TL;DR: this movie lacks a fun.
I have never entered in such a poor review for a Disney film. I am always defending the "Imagineers" and their creative processes. I'm a Floridian..not a true Florida cracker, more of a saltine (or maybe a Triscuit). But, my love for all things Disney ended with Inside Out. The premise was really great, in concept, but extremely poorly enacted. So, yeah, OK, you've got your emotions, "Joy, Anger, Sadness, Disgust, etc...." Yeah, it's that bad. An etc. Do I really need to say more? Well, of course, there's more. Riley is THE perfect girl. But really, what she is, is sheltered. A good family. Parents that worship her. A core group of friends and education, extracurricular activities, etc. Yeah, another etc. Societal norms and morés dictate that this is really not the case. Having both parents, let alone both parents being married, is an event these days. Sure, we'd all love to believe that those idyllic family structures still exist. But, truly, ask your children, it isn't even close. So, let's go ahead and move this "perfect" family, because of Dad's job (yeah, cuz that's an original storyline) and plunk em down in Cali from Minnesota. Disney/Pixar's attempts to poke fun at Vegan lifestyles to get the viewer closer to the family is pretty weak. As is the whole system of forming and processing memories. Leading us all to believe that joy is the most powerful and important emotion. When, in the end, sadness rules the roost. Ummmm, what? All "core memories" are formed by sadness and touched by joy. Please. The disconnect between the emotions and the girl is huge. Watching a movie that is supposed to be happening inside this girl is confusing. Riley's actions are so delayed that is clear that we're all watching minutes of dialogue before she reacts. It's distracting. Not to mention pretty lame. It seems Disney/Pixar kinda realized this and decided to showcase Riley's emotions while she was asleep. Believable. Mmhhmm. Yeah, ummmm, no. Throw in a couple of distracted parents and stress, not even real stress, a kind of implied stress, and they're you have the whole basis of the film. Pretty shaky. I saw this film with an 11 and 12 year old. Both girls Riley's age. Now, granted, these girls have great families...but they also have mothers going through terminal illness and fathers that work their trails off to make ends meet. So their emotions run high. But they aren't cry prone girls. And yet, here we were, popcorn, candy, sodas for breakfast watching this horrible film. Both girls in tears and a very well placed f-bomb by yours truly to lighten the mood. Bottom line? 90 minutes of confusing, sad, disjointed dialogue and about 5 minutes of happy. Never a laugh out loud. Maybe a smile. Maybe. So, ummmm, what the hell Disney/Pixar? This the trend? If so, take me back to it being a small small world. It's way better than drilling these fake boyfriend thoughts of being our savior into our daughter's head. First were waiting for "our price to come." Now we're relying on fake boyfriends? Please. How about a girl that can handle herself, her school, her family, and be strong? Not this lame nonsense.
There is a problem with psychological reality with this movie. The fact that it is presented as entertainment for children is an extreme negative. One of the most important thrusts of human evolution has been to free humans from the former mental encumbrances of past centuries. In this Movie the child is depicted as controlled by a number of entities, the child is in fact insane but depicted as normal. I am concerned as to the sanity of the person(s) who wrote this script. Such a movie disserves the bonfire. I am amazed that our Psychologists are not protesting the showing of this movie which demonstrates only the origins of western psychology - the cocaine importer and addict Sigmund Freud.
Usually love Pixar, Toy Story for example, was easy and fun to follow up on the big screen but Inside Out is a jumble of fast talking characters, sudden bursts of sound that'll wake you up when you feel yourself drifting off.This movie is hard to follow, has a very sophisticated theme and so anyone under 10 probably won't sit through this one.For example there are about a 1/2 a dozen different characters that represent "feelings" ( anger, sadness, fear etc ) all talking at the same time in some instances. Then there are the complicated explanations of long term/short term memory, REM sleep cycles, I mean, If I were a 5 year old, I wouldn't know what was going on after about 10 mins, I'd be lost.Not to mention that there are long stretches of fast action accompanied by loud rather jarring music and shrill voices etc.It's a mess of a movie & definitely not for the very young because they won't understand it, believe me.
Well I went to see this movie last night with a friend and I think for children under 10 the movie is to complex. The main human emotions were very original but the movie never got me in. The story was also not that good. I would not take my daughter to the movie and it is that my friend liked it, otherwise I would not even have finished it. I think this is not what we are used to from Pixar. All the other Pixar movies were watchable for adults and children but to be honest I thought it was pretty awful. The beginning before the movie started made me already feel that it would not be good. I can see why some people like it but I think there should have been a better storyline.
I'm like various reviewers who consider themselves Pixar fans. In fact, I'm an animated film fan and try to see the award winners whenever I can. The beautiful colors and well developed art of Pixar is most often worth the cost of admission to me. But Inside Out is so awful it drove me and my significant other from the theater. The concept is much too heavy and involved to hold the attention of a child. Quickly obvious that this will not be a bit lighthearted and plummets into bleakness. Inside Out becomes doggedly repetitive, with the emotional balls in the air, flailing here and there. The characters in Pixar, have a noticeable sameness of facial features and gestures. "Joy" is reminiscent of other females from past movies. This time, the female lead is so over-the-top that, after a short while, I wanted to shout "shut up and go away!" I went to be entertained and have a laugh or two. I came away feeling that I'd been emotionally beaten up yet bored to tears. Leaving before the ending was actually with a feeling of relief at having escaped.
This movie was just disgusting. First off, there are so many other terrible review giving this one star, and many people find those reviews helpful. The movie only stars like 4 or 5 emotions in people's heads, 4 or 5, I forgot, and frankly don't care since this movie was complete garbage. I "watched" this movie at a potluck at a friend's house but ended up playing ping pong with a friend the whole time since the movie failed to attract my attention. This movie is not suitable for kids as well. I do not understand why it is on the IMDb top 250 list, it should be on the bottom 100 list. This movie can scar kids and make some people actually depressed. It is quite depressing that there are such limited emotions and little activity in the brain expressed in the movie. I was actually depressed after watching this movie and found myself in a bitter state lacking interest in activities I usually cherish. Why? Because this stupid movie is trying to tell me what is in my brain and is completely corrupting. I was emotionless after the movie just like how the movie is. I'm sure the disgust emotion in the movie would be disgusted at the movie.
what a complete waste of time - read all the wonderful reviews that are misleading, obviously these are the people that go to Disneyland about 20 times a year - incredibly slow paced, especially after "JOY" & "SADNESS" get sucked into another dimension where they befriend Bing Bong, Riley's imaginary friend. Wow - it took forever. Bing Bong is the films JAR JAR BINKS, just so annoying and irritating. This is a definite G rated film. I did not see any adult themes whatsoever. This movie makes Winnie The Pooh look like a horror film. This is for 12 year old girls. Parents are so delusional(thanks for the positive reviews Mom & Dad)
In the beginning of 'Inside Out' it seemed like it was going to be a good, fun story. We were instantly intrigued with the characters in Riley's head as they entertainingly worked together as Riley's emotions. Then, Joy and Sadness got lost from headquarters and the movie began on it's downward plummet...towards a stressful, unorganized, Hodge-Podge of frustration! They encountered obstacle after obstacle until we were so ready for this movie to be over. It seemed to be annoying for adults and confusing for children. The movie just didn't work, there were not even close the amount of emotions necessary to compare to the complexity of the human mind, and the story of Riley wanting to take a bus back to Minnesota by herself thinking it would make her happy was ridiculous. Bing Bong, seemed like a very cliché imaginary friend, with nothing special to him to make him a supporting character. Especially if you compare him to other Pixar films supporting roles who we know and love such as Dory and Mike Wasowski. We found Sadness annoying, and every time we heard her talk we just thought of Phyllis Smith's role, Phyllis, in the Office talking. :)Joy was not one of the emotions we had while watching this movie. It dared to live up to the fun filled family films that Pixar has created before, such as Finding Nemo, Monster's Inc., and Ratatouille, but it failed to do so. It was not fun. In all honesty, after watching this movie we thought it to be quite possible this movie was created by a drunk woman during her time of month. We hope Pixar can get back on track with their next movie.
You ever watch a movie trailer and you can just tell you're going to hate it? That was this film. When it came out, I knew that I should stay away. Then a few months ago, as part of a project, my teacher had the class and I watch this film because we were learning about perspective-taking or something like that. Within the first five minutes, I knew that it wasn't going to get any better. The first 10 minutes are 85% crying and just people being annoying. That brings me to the first major flaw with this movie: the characters. I hate Riley SO MUCH! She gets sad all the time, but for no good reason...ever. In fact, the first 10-15 minutes of this film are just her crying and being a baby over little things. I wanted to kill myself the longer this went on. I get that we all get sad sometimes, but she gets more upset than any other human being I know, and it happens so spontaneously you have no reason to feel for her. Frankly, I don't know which character I hate more; it's either her or Sadness, who, let me tell you, every second she was onscreen, I wanted to punch her in the face. She spends the entire movie whining and being all angst-ridden and complaining. I get that that's her persona, but it's not done right. Jimmy Neutron did a sad character way better, and they made it funny! This movie's Sadness isn't funny in the slightest. And when everything is said and done, you realize that everything that happens in this movie is basically her fault because tinkers with what she shouldn't. To make matters worse, she never listens to Joy when she tells her DON'T TOUCH THOSE HAPPY MEMORIES. How stupid is this emotion? If I had to make a "worst characters of all time" list, she'd be on there with Riley.Oh, and the jokes. Not once did I laugh during this atrocity. I never laughed or even chuckled. The jokes were altogether predictable, boring, and kindergarten-level. Why is it that the non-funny movies are considered to the be the funniest, and the movies that actually ARE funny are the ones left in the dust? This movie's jokes were so bad, they are on par with The Emoji Movie's jokes. Yes. I said that. I actually compared Inside Out to the Emoji Movie. I'd much rather watch that than this. Never has a movie made me want to kill myself, and thankfully I haven't yet, because, it is just a movie. But I still really hate it. This is part of my Top 3 worst movies I've ever seen in my life; it's worse than Ghost Rider 2, worse than Sharknado 3, worst than Toy Story 3, worse than the Clash of the Titans remake and worse than Kubo and the Two Strings.So if you have a very small patience-span, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. It's way too obnoxious and unfunny.
I have been a Pixar fan since the Luxo Jr. days and watched their acquisition by Disney with trepidation. After seeing Inside Out, it appears that the Disneyfication of Pixar is now complete. This movie is just another one of those execrable Disney Tinkerbell movies with better actors and animation. It is so insipid that I wanted to leave within the first two minutes (ok, I actually wanted to leave during the horrible short that preceded it.) There was much laughter in the audience; all of it from children under the age of 6. Pixar movies always entertained people of all ages with their clever plots, excellent acting, and beautiful graphics. The animation of Inside Out was decent, the cast excellent, but I have nothing good to say about the rest. The plot was extremely derivative. There was absolutely no surprise about what was going to happen - once they set up the premise, it was obvious that we were doomed to another hour of their trying to get back, with mishaps along the way and the inevitable happy ending. It reminded me of the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 rock climbing episode (for those of you in the know). Even my teenager and her friend thought the movie and short were "babyish". I'm waiting until they make a princess sequel and have a ride named after it at Disneyland. Bye, bye Pixar. I'll miss you.
What in the hell was that! More importantly, what has happened to Disney! The movie is a reflection of a society whose kids (and parents) are medicated and going to endless therapy. Do NOT take children to this movie! Walt Disney is surely rolling in his grave watching this tripe! Compare Snow White and Cinderella to this thing! Eh gad. Disney should fire whoever created this movie and somehow try to rediscover its roots--producing wholesome non-psychotic movies. Worst kids movie I've seen since the last minions move, which was likewise offensive and mindless. Why child needs to know about subconscious, nightmares, and scary clowns? What happened to Dumbo, and the long legacy of Disney classic? Inside Out is a movie with little socially redeeming value.


                
