After seeing the trailer for "Inside Out", I was pretty keen to see it. The movie looked like it had a lot of good ideas and all of the people working on the project who I knew about I like. This should have been a great movie experience for me, but instead, it was a disappointment.After moving from Minnesota to San Francisco, eleven-year-old Riley (Kaitlyn Dias) has to adjust to a new life with the help of her emotions, Joy (Amy Poehler), Sadness (Phyllis Smith), Fear (Bill Hader), Anger (Lewis Black), and Disgust (Mindy Kaling). When Joy and Sadness are accidentally purged from the control tower along with Riley's core memories, which make Riley Riley, the two have to find their way back. As Joy and Sadness try to do that, Fear, Anger, and Disgust are the only emotions Riley has left to control her.In their journeys through Riley's brain back to headquarters, Joy and Sadness come across Riley's imaginary friend Bing Bong (Richard Kind), who helps them find their way through Riley's brain. Bing Bong was not introduced at any point before his reveal, so he just shows up out of nowhere without any buildup or previous mention. Then, he becomes one of the most important characters of the whole movie.When it comes to the characters, most of them are understandably defined to one personality trait (happy, sad, scared, angry, etc.), but even the characters that aren't emotions don't have much personality to them. Riley has (as stated by the movie) five things that make her who she is, and the only one that really adds any personality is goof ball. Her parents (Diane Lane and Kyle MacLachlan) are blank slates, their emotions are blank slates who somehow don't even show their one emotion, and even Bing Bong lacks any real personality. Along with that, Joy's character arc makes little sense. She learns of Sadness's importance to Riley, but for all we know, Sadness has only done one thing right that helped Riley while Joy and the other three emotions controlling her seemed to be working for the most part. There was no lesson that really needed to be learned from the get-go of the story, because Sadness was only needed to solve the problem that she started in the first place.The story elements are a lot of the same things over and over again. Joy, Sadness, and Bing Bong try to get to the control center, but each time, their method of getting their is destroyed by the accidentally and unknowingly by an emotion or an exterior event, like Riley sleeping or the brain workers outside of abstract thought. Then, they have to try and find a way to start everything up again or find a new way to Riley's brain. It just goes on like that for an hour and thirty minutes.Granted, there were some creative elements to the movie and some genuinely funny and emotional moments, but they were overshadowed by the larger problems the movie had. I'd say this is the worst Pixar movie I have seen, even worse than "Cars", and a great disappointment.
I TAKE my hat off to Pixar for developing animated film Inside Out, which depicts how five emotions control the mind of an 11-year-old girl. Naturally, each emotion has a distinct colour, shape and personality.I enjoyed the tug of war between the five emotions, and I also enjoyed how two of them go on a road trip in the mind, with core theme islands, train of thought, dreams and subconscious. The animation is an explosion of rainbows and the creativity shown to depict the happenings in the girl's brain is nothing short of amazing, although kids won't understand these ideas.However, it got tedious after awhile and I felt restless. I could feel the audience falling into a rut. Were they as disappointed as I was as to how things were proceeding?Thing started to get worse and I dozed off for a few moments.How did a great animation studio like Pixar fall flat on its face with Inside Out? The idea was remarkable and the presentation was even better, but it failed to grab me by the throat.Read more at:http://abigspark.blogspot.com/2015/08/inside-out-emotionally- drained.html


                
I will say that this movie did make me laugh out loud quite a few times. There is some great observational humor that captures the eccentricities of the human mind (or cats as can be seen in the credits), but overall I found the movie to be pretty boring and depressing.To start with there is basically no story or development of any of the characters. Riley moves to a new town, and the five emotions in her head have to figure out how to find balance/happiness after the move. The problem is that the whole movie is based around 5 characters (Joy, Disgust, Anger, Sadness, and Fear) all of whom are stagnant and kind of annoying.Most of the story takes place in the "control room" of Riley's brain, and it appears that the animators were extremely lazy or uncreative when deciding what the room should look like. It is basically an empty purple bubble with a computer in the middle, considering this room is the scene for about half the movie I'm surprised they didn't try to make it a little more exciting.On top of this the movie is very depressing, and not in a "good cry" kind of way, but in a "growing up sucks, you are going to be unhappy for the rest of your life" kind of way. Despite the fact that Joy is the leader of Riley's emotional control team, we constantly see sadness (who should have been called depression) constantly pull Riley down into the pits of useless, apathetic despair. On top of this we see that the leaders of Mom and Dad's emotional control teams are Sadness and Anger respectively; oh the joys of being an adult.Over the course of the movie Riley's memories go from those of mostly childlike happiness, to the bittersweet jaded memories of an adult. It seems that adults in the world Pixar created can no longer feel pure joy, their emotions are always tinged with a hint of anger, sadness, or disgust. Maybe this is true for a lot of people, but I think kids should enjoy their blissful naive ignorance for as long as possible. I would not bring your kids to this movie unless you feel the need to forewarn them of the depressing future they have to look forward to.


                
Do NOT see this movie unless you are either a Psych major, or have lived a life that is free from sorrow or emotional trauma. As usual Pixar has produced a digital masterpiece, with an inventive plot, original characters, and loads of modern scientific content. However, unfortunately, they chose to depict a young child going through a deep existential crisis, in which all the bases of her emotional world view are shattered, crushed, collapsed, etc. I was sobbing much of the way through, and off and on during the night. About 24 hours later I recovered enough to get back to my normal life activities. In fact it made me want to go back on drugs, to assuage the pain that it dredged up!I advise "taking a Valium" beforehand, to minimize the effects of the deep sadness.


                
Not a bad story.Unfortunately I was thrown off by the portrayal of all the male characters in the film. Let me say I am a male.I understand that the heroine was a female but the portrayal, beginning with the Father, as essentially an emotionally non-understanding and solely sports interested bozo was off- putting. The mother says as much mentally/emotionally when we go inside her consciousness/emotions and she instead only dreams of a Brazilian helicopter pilot whom she passed up.Then you have anger and fear; both males and both of whom do not know what to do any time a problem arises.The imaginary boyfriend also simply "would die for Riley" and Joy uses him (multiple versions) as a human ladder.Not one time does a male have a positive idea or problem solving strategy.Joy of course knows as the protagonist. Then sadness and disgust know how to solve the problems when they arise.Lastly, the boy Riley meets at the rink before her last game is completely awestruck and speechless simply by running into her.I challenge the women who have watched this film to imagine if the hero was a man and all the females knew nothing and did not know how to problem solve. Additionally if the Father only fantasized about a Brazilian girl instead of his wife.What message does this send our children, regardless of sex?Sexism, reverse or not, is an outdated ideology.Poor writing/script and damaging to males.


                
Pixar took a familiar idea, personifying emotions, and decided to tell a story about them running rampant, tearing a girl's memory apart and destroying her personality. The problem is that emotions don't govern a self-conscious person's thoughts, they only inform them. This is only the first of the film's many inconsistencies.There are too many moments where a plot device is introduced but promptly ignored for convenience of the story they wanted to tell. The over-simplified emotions present clumsy and sometimes offensive stereotypes of themselves and other characters. The narrative feels like a pasted-together brainstorming session and concludes itself with a solution that should've been common sense from the beginning.It's easy to dismiss these criticisms as being irrelevant in a children's film, but Pixar doesn't make films exclusively for children. This simply isn't a good movie.


                
I'd read that this movie is a contender for not only Best Animated movie, but even Best Picture at the Oscars. This is a very different film to one I've seen from Disney/Pixar tackling a very adult theme in human emotions. It's clever in the way it portrays the emotions and takes us into the world of the subject's mind. What loses it for me is that the film seems lost between playing out as a psychiatric experiment and being a film to entertain little children. The moral of the story seems lost amongst the confusing adventure within the subject's brain. The concept is certainly original and no doubt will be used as a talking forum in biology or human development lessons for years to come...it belongs in educational circles.
I'll start by saying I enjoy majority of Pixar films. In fact, I love them! However, unfortunately I do not think that this film lived up to Pixar's name. Initially, I thought the general idea for the film was fantastic and very fresh. A great idea doesn't always make a great film though. To start with, the film was interesting to see how they incorporated the Inside characters and to see how they would interact with one another etc. But as soon as the story kicked in, the film started to become quite dull and boring. There are orbs that contain memories that are transferred to the 'Inside' headquarters and some get stored in a special place where the memory will last forever. Anyway, two of the Inside characters, Joy and Sadness are sucked up in to this tube and sent out of headquarters and so the film is focused on those two characters. This was annoying because I felt they were the two most unlikable characters in the film. Sadness was just irritating and Joy was cringey and also quite irritating. They are soon joined by an imaginary friend character created by the girl whose head they are inside and he brings it to life a little more as he is more of a likable character. However the film soon dries up again.The best part in the film was *BIG SPOILER* when the imaginary friend sacrifices himself and dies and I say the best part because its one of the only parts in the film that actually made me 'feel'. The rest I didn't care much for. Ironic as the film is all about emotions and such. To sum up, this film was very boring and they could of possibly explored more with the general idea.9/10 for originality, 4/10 for entertainment value.
The 3D was awful; the glasses made this movie look gray, and for a movie that is 50% sad, that's a big problem. It looks like a movie for preschoolers, but the story definitely isn't. It should be rated PG-8 or higher. It's odd that the rare Disney movie where the child isn't an orphan would be even more down-beat. SPOILER: Two "characters" actually do sacrificial suicides. Yipes!?!?! On the positive side, the underlying intellectual concept is managed pretty well, and adults may find it "worthy," and there are some laughs. However, the story is slow, mostly action-less, and nearly empty of suspense or thrills. Worst of all, the color scheme and design are too bland; the locations are simplistic and almost never beautiful.Still, the box office on this film proves the makers right: attract adults; kids will go to anything animated.
First off, I'll start by saying that I usually judge "kid\family" animation movies by the amount of tears and tissue involved. Yes, I'm an emotional person, and I tear up easily, especially when it comes to kids animation movies.Up and Toy Story owe me 4 boxes of tissue. These movies where emotionally on point. I don't recall Finding Nemo making me tear up, but I do remember it was a hell of a good movie. No wonder it's one of the top grossing films up until this year.But this time. I was emotionally disappointed. I only cried once, and it was for a brief scene. And I'm as emotional as it gets, trust me. Kinda ironic considering the movie literally revolves around emotions.The plot is the worst part of the movie. The girl comes off as a spoiled brat with nothing better to do than make up non-existing problems for herself. Which makes sense, considering she had the perfect American girl life. Did I already mention spoiled? Oh, and she's also an only child, shocker.She seemingly got into a what you would call "clinical depression" as a result of moving out. Like seriously? There are kids out there who deal with life threatening illnesses, poverty, abusive parents and whatnot yet this girl snaps off from moving out?The most bizarre part in the movie is when she's on her first day at school. She didn't get socially rejected, she didn't get bullied, yet she miraculously got depressed\upset after merely introducing herself to the class.Not to mention that according to the time-line (she sleeps, wakes up), her so called "clinical depression" only lasted like 4 days. Are you kidding me? There are people out there who deal with clinical depression their ENTIRE LIVES.And the blue sad emotion doesn't make any sense. All these "oops I don't know why I'm doing this". How can you have an emotion that "doesn't know"? Doesn't this defeat the whole point of attempting to explain our emotions? All I got from this movie was "Why are you sad?" - "I don't know".Nevertheless, it was not absolutely horrible:The animation was nice, not over the topThere was this one scene which made me tear up a little bit. It's when the elephant-cat creature sacrificed himself to get "Joy" out of the abyss. I didn't cry because he died, but because he sacrificed himself. Sacrifices always make me emotional.there was this one adult joke about facts and opinions. The elephant-cat creature accidentally dropped boxes of 'opinions' and 'facts'. Then the elephant-cat said something along the lines of "just shove them all in this sack, people can't tell them apart anyhow". I liked how this was a political comment about people who think their opinions are facts\better than other's opinions.
The screenplay for this movie was very emotionally captivating and the voice acting was spectacular! My reason for the low rating is the ad campaign and animation style of the movie. Corporately this movie seems made for selling plush toys and the energetic style of the character animation represents this as a comedy when, in fact, it is much deeper than that. The concept for traveling inside a child's mind gives limitless opportunities for your trippy cartoon gags and abstract adventures. When watching the movie my children (3yo girl 7yo boy) were either not interested trying to get up or falling asleep with the weighty emotional scenes. Despite the lively character animation, the scenarios and sets were too straightforward and even bland. This movie would have felt better in the Blue Sky Ice Age style which is less toony. I would recommend this movie more for pre-teens and adults storywise which you would never get from the poster. Even then, Finding Nemo(9of10) is SO much better of a finding yourself coming of age adventure. If you like Inside Out I get it, it did not deliver for me or my expectations. 3d was OK.


                
This is a movie about a basic list of emotions. I guess it is important for kids to know that there is such a list of primary and secondary emotions - but there are tertiary emotions as well. It strikes me that someone was struggling to work this through a committee of some sort - it feels like more American self-congratulatory, 'WOW! Aren't we clever.' There are too many hands on the tiller of this one. It might be a worthy flick for kids to discuss in class - particularly Psych 101 or even Writing 101. The list: Love (affection, lust, longing), Joy (cheerfulness, zest, contentment, pride, optimism, enthrallment, relief), Surprise (surprise - amazement, astonishment), Anger (irritation, exasperation, rage, disgust, envy, torment), Sadness (suffering, sadness, disappointment, shame, neglect, sympathy), Fear (horror, nervousness). Yes, it is a movie about a list.


                
What a wonderfully original idea. I can't imagine there having been anything like this before. It might have been a motion picture, or a short, or an episode of a television series, or a television mini-series, or even a full-blown comedic television series. Who knows? If it had been produced, it might have been on the air between 1991 and 1994. It might have been a live action series rather than an animated cartoon or computer generated imagery animation. It might have been about a male character with people in his head representing his thoughts, moods, emotions, or personalities, instead of a female character. Just to be sure it would not have been a complete copy, it might have had a completely different title. Like "Herman's Head". Just to be sure I completely made all of this up, feel free to look that title up in IMDb.


                
Flaws notwithstanding, Inside Out is a capitalist's perverse dream come true -- however his dream manifests outside of his subconscious is commendable within itself. It's a highly-anticipated film put out by the biggest animation studio in the world, packed with enough goofy jokes to satisfy children and enough reliably maudlin manipulation in the form of homogenized adolescence to please adults. The concept explodes with novelty and the animation is brilliant. And best of all, its main characters all come in fuzzy, furry, huggable forms that will no doubt sell mountains upon mountains of stuffed animals and other such material detritus until the faces of Joy, Sadness, Anger, Disgust, and Fear are plastered by fingerpaint-stained hands onto the pages of the haplessly constructed book of icons and dank memes ("o sh_t waddup").Inside Out is blatantly artificial. The film is mired in concept and marketability, sacrificing a solid narrative - which Pixar usually promises - as a result.


                
Animation movies are made, in my opinion, to make you feel good, to get a laugh out of you and to be entertained. This movie did none of it. The trailer made me want to watch this movie for some kind of reason. However, taking a look at it again after waiting for the movie to be over I wonder why. The humor is probably too difficult for children to understand and definitely too bad for adults. The two main characters (emotions) were also the two most annoying ones. Unlike some reviewers this movie didn't make me feel depressed, it just made me feel emotionally detached. The soundtrack didn't make up for the bad execution either, although the animation wasn't bad I guess even though it didn't appeal to me either. Watched the Minions last week and it was so much more fun. This movie doesn't even come close to the Minions in terms of humor. This movie should not be mentioned in the same list as Finding Nemo, Toy Story 3, Monster Inc, the Incredibles and not even Ratatouille. The humor is poorly timed. It is as if the animated characters should get a lesson or two in acting. No original jokes whatsoever.The idea is fun, although not original what I learned from the other reviews. I went and had a look at 'Hermans head' on YouTube and in only 2 minutes in that already made me laugh more than 'Inside out'. That's exactly what I recommend to people going to this movie. Get in the movie theater and then out immediately.My lowest rating for a movie so far!


                
I like Pixar films and sat down to this not knowing a huge amount about it.I had an inkling of the basics having seen one of the very early trailers but I hadn't fully immersed myself in all the footage. This meant that I went in reasonably fresh and waiting to be entertained.Granted the concept was fresh, granted there was plenty of invention but it was like they threw them in a tombola and spilled them out into the film without any judicious selectivity.I remember watching the making of featurette for Big Hero 6 and they were discussing how Pixar don't really storyboard a film preferring it to have an organic growth. Now sometimes that can work but for Inside Out it certainly didn't.It just felt like it was made by a large group of people throwing great ideas into the pot but no one then sifting through them to see how they worked in the film. It lacked a firm director to weed out and discard some of these ideas and concentrate on the forward drive of the film.It needed someone to temper the proceedings so Joy didn't dominate the film so much. It needed someone to keep the film bouncing along without slowing down for the next great idea.I was genuinely surprised to find myself bored halfway through and having to give contemplation to leaving when my GF suggested it. As it was I carried on but my attention wasn't held and my wonder wasn't awed.So yes, plenty of clever ideas but not enough focus or momentum.


                
Depressing, bleak, boring. Characters are brainless and repetitively make the same mistakes. Couldn't wait for the movie to end which is something I never say about Pixar movies.


                
This not a 8.2 it is a 4. The acting is pretty good. The story line is just so so. I have seen worst. There are better movies out there that are nothing like this one. Godzilla is better. So is King Kong. I did not know what all the hype is about. It really is not a big deal. It might have worked as a short film. But for 1 hour and 35 minutes it gets a little trying. If you think this an 8.2 or better that is fine with me. I do not see what the big deal is here. But fine. If you have not seen this movie do not wast your time. And do not wast your money. You have been warned this is not a movie you really need to see in spite of what people say.


                
I am a young adult but absolutely love Disney and Pixar movies. I was so excited to see this film but was so disappointed. The trailer was the only funny part sadly.The sad and joy characters were very irritating and the story line got boring and predictable. There were not a lot of funny parts the best and only part was when you can see in the parents minds. Obviously I understand it is a film for children but it was not fun or a feel good film it was just very irritating and boring and unlike other films in the same category, I would never watch this again. They could have done so much better with the story line! :(


                
