I can't see what is in this show that causes so many people to give it such a high rating. After reading the reviews I thought it was going to be a gold mine of humor and off the wall funny, maybe even Monty Python's Flying Circus for kids. Unfortunately, I feel that I've been pranked, like reading awesome reviews about a movie and it turning out to be "The Room". Wait, bad example, because "The Room" was so bad it's funny, Adventure Time is just bad, no laughing, not even a single giggle.Here's my reasoning for such a low score and why I think it's so over rated. I read so many good reviews about the 'off the wall' jokes and random humor in the show, how it's supposed to 'catch you off guard'. Unfortunately, by themselves all the jokes 'might' be humorous, but the 'off the wall' jokes are failed by the random sporadic setting. For example, the Marx Brothers always play in a 'realistic' setting, so when silly unrealistic things happen it's completely unexpected because no one expects that happening in a world resembling our own. In the setting for "Adventure Time" how ever, everything is 'too' silly, leading one's mind to think "hey, I bet something outrageously silly is going to happen", and in fact when something silly 'does' happen, it looks contrary and average compared to the setting. Though, it doesn't help that the jokes either constantly fall flat, are explained, or just doesn't make sense. Half the jokes can also be described as bad fart jokes or horrible last second comebacks and made on the spot jokes. The adult humor is tame to be blunt, no risks at all. All I can say is, if you want to see some well executed adult humor, watch Animaniacs.Also, there is much praise for the creativity and such. Now, when you look at the characters, the style is quite interesting and amusing, though I cant help but think that Finn is just a de-crowned version of the main kid from "Where The Wild Things Are". Though for the actual 'setting', I must be watching the wrong show because all I see is a mixture of"CandyLand" and all the drawings made by one of those sixteen year old kids with that mental disability that makes them act like they are six writing bad fan fiction. It may be 'unique' but it isn't 'creative'. There 'are' some creative scenes, but most of it stereotypical with no real style. If you want to see an example of wild architecture, take a look at the main building from the game "Proffesor Layton and the Curious Village".The side characters are just dumb and boring, even when they try to be 'dumb funny' it constantly falls flat. All I can say are they were poorly made and retarded. Actually, I cant even say retarded because retarded people actually have character, total ignorance is in fact a complex trait. After I think about it, having a truly retarded character in the show and how these characters would react to him would make an interesting episode.That's another thing that I keep reading about, the morals, how they show complexity and how they have to occasionally 'deal with their actions', and all I can say is, "DUH". Even "Johny Test" has that, it shouldn't be considered a great 'moral'. Like advertising that your juice "Contains Juice", it's nothing to be proud about. Any other morals brought up by the show are either quickly contradicted right after or distracted by a random event that is neither humorous or entertaining or just an absolute lie. I mean, there's a part where "someone was too smart to see the correct answer", which makes NO SENSE, it's an absolute lie.Reading the other reviews, I feel like some of these people would pay $20 to see bubble gum smeared on a toilet seat and the artist explaining how it relates to "shouting out against our conformist society" and other tripe. Like they take these series of events and turn it into some kind of deep meaning dealing with 'comming of age' and such. Unfortunately, "The King Has No Clothes", there is no actual 'suggestion' of any of this. Any true moral in the story is pretty much toddler show material which is then quickly contradicted as mentioned before.This also doesn't help that the characters keep shoving different catch phrases in your face like "Show Zow". Not to mention how "Jake" the dog has no redeeming qualities, acts like a total jerk, troll, and is annoying to the point that you pray that he ends up as the villain and gets killed at the end of the show. Even Scrappy Doo got in less trouble and was less annoying.I actually 'wanted' to like this show, I saw many of the episodes thinking that I just happened to watch that 'one bad episode'. But... this 'isn't' a good show in any standard,examining it with as little bias as possible and searching for all the good things that I hear about in other reviews, I just cant find any of them. How can such a consistently horrible show get a rating of over 9/10? I have a good bet that I'm going to get many angry comments, but I have yet seen any real proof that this show is entertaining in any way.


                
First off, I'd like to state that I'm not at all trying to be spiteful in any way. I am simply stating what I see of the newly popular show, Adventure Time. Plot: Exceedingly weak. Occasionally erratic. Commonly unimaginative, simpleminded, and vapid.Screenplay: Little to desire. Pays little attention to physics (shadows, weights, and human factors such as movement)Script: Purposefully unintelligent. Purposefully irritating and awkward (characters intentionally say and do things that would be labeled as such (irritating and awkward) in the real world).Voice Acting: Meh. All of the bad counteracts any good found in this show.Animation: Ugly and lacking of quality; showing extreme lack of skill, ingenuity, and creativity. Over All: Personally, I feel like this show is intently trying to make a mockery of cartoon animation, and animation alike. A cartoon shouldn't have any of the aspects that I stated above. I give Adventure Time a 2 out of 10. With a world full of good animation, why watch this? Go watch some of Studio Ghibli's beautiful and skillful animations instead!


                
this show is one of the worst cartoons I have ever seen, I would rather watch fan boy and chum-chum it tries to be entertaining the same way as cow and chicken, (weird random and pointless) but it is even worse It has no jokes but toilet humor and isn't funny, also the animation is terrible and very ugly, cartoons shouldn't feel like reality but they also shouldn't feel like acid trips it feels like the people that made this are on drugs also the characters are not like able, Finn is a strange boy that never shuts up, Jake is a shape shifting dog, Marceline is a vampire that acts Gothic and likes to pick her nose and is a bad singer princess bubblegum is a Mary Sue bubblegum human Hebrew? Lumpy Space Princess is a stupid cloud with the voice of a guy and the ice king is a lonely sociopath that spends his days kidnapping women Onto the episodes I saw Slumber Party Picnic wasn't funny and was too silly, then trouble in lumpy space and the annoying cloud bites Jake and is now turning in to a cloud and they find an orb and Jake has to sit on it to become smooth again I also watched Prisoners of Love, Marceline's Closet and to cut a women's hair, none of these episodes were funny the only thing I liked in prisoners of love was that the ice king made Finn and Jake shut the heck up and in Marceline's closet Finn sees her naked, you know... for KIDS and in to cut a woman's hair Finn gives a witch his blonde hair and then she betrays him and uses it for evil... if someone didn't see that coming, raise your hand For some reason this show is popular and has many obsessive fans they take criticism as a personal insult and attack people for their opinions This show is bad but some shows are even worse


                
This show is awful! The first time I watched it, it had stupid, inappropriate behavior that is NOT appropriate for children. I liked watching episodes though (like 25) but most episodes might have had inappropriate, retarded, junk. The Land of Ooo? What kind of land is that? I don't care if you say I don't have a life, it's a good show for you but not for me.A talking animated dog?! Some people like talking animals but maybe for kids/teens, it's horrible. I kind of like the talking animated dog. And what now?! An ice king? Is there such thing as that? No. It will be a thing in your imagination. Even though Tom Kenny plays the voice of Ice King, I still like Spongebob (Tom Kenny plays the voice of Spongebob). And what? Princess Bubblegum? Is there a princess that's made out of gum? No.I know this show is animated but still, it has inappropriate, retarded, junk. Like 25 episodes don't have that kind of junk but I enjoy watching the 25 episodes. That's why I rated it a 2 out of 10.
What started out bad is usually expected to get better. In this case, it got worse. Much worse. The show started out as an average show of the new cartoon network,possibly equal in likability to Uncle Grandpa or The Amazing World Of Gumball. It had no backstory revealed until around the 25th episode, aside from the fact that a 12 year old kid and a stretchable talking dog that live in a big willow tree with a boat on top of it and a storyline that developed like a 4 year old wrote it. About midway through the series we see a developing backstory and a developing current story at the same time, and then just when it is getting good, it plunges into a gaping hole. Finn starts having girl problems, Jake gets kids, the grow up in a matter of weeks, Finnloses his love life, and the two characters start descending into the abyss of depression, trying to deal with all the changes in their pathetic lives, a topic most children in this show's target age do not get even close to understanding. Overall, this is my third most hated show and fan community, after #2, Uncle Grandpa, and #1, MLP/ Bronies (offense intended to you guys )


                
