A while ago, I was at work, sitting at my desk and talking to a few of my colleagues when the topic of childhood cartoons came up. Me and this other guy agreed that cartoons today really went downhill, and lack a lot of the humor that made shows like Super Chicken, Count Duckula and Grape Ape fantastic. Then Jeff Sanders from the research department piped up and said that this show, "Adventure Time" was essentially a modern recreation of what made these shows so awesome.Jeff evidently has bad taste.I went home and started watching this, but I came out of it incredibly disappointed. Whereas old classics like the Super Mario Bros. Super Show relied on genuine jokes and comedy, Adventure Time relied on pure randomness and gross-out humor. I fail to understand why the hell this show is so well liked, when it is essentially a dumbed down version of shows that pulled off this "Randomness" aspect well, such as Animaniacs. Apparently it actually has a deep plot as you get later on in the series, but if you have to sit through the drivel for hours in order to get to that, then it's not worth it. I'll admit that the animation is incredibly smooth and appealing to the eye, but it seems a shame that it's wasted on THIS. The voice acting is also notable, as the character voices definitely have an appeal in the fact that they're really fun to listen to, when they're not engaging in "random" dialog that has no relation to the plot of the show itself.Basically, Adventure Time is mediocre, disappointing, and Jeff's taste in cartoons is every bit as bad as the show itself.


                
I never really got this show. It pretends a witty and imaginative children's program that's a delight for adults and kids alike, or so it's hype states. But honestly, I find the characters very 2D and quite annoying. Yes, they have very in depth back-stories, but that doesn't make up for the total lack of personality. The female characters seem to only posses one individual trait, for example Princess Bubblegum, she 's super-smart and in to Chemistry...And that's basically it. The male characters aren't that much better either, as they rely only on funny faces and a rather staged and pathetic attempt at original dialog. Nothing about it seems particularly imaginative, it's a bit like an adults attempt at the imagination of a child, full of old, unoriginal things like Candy-Kingdoms, talking food and unicorns...There's nothing particularly meaningful about anything, as everything about the whole Adventure Time World is based on speculation.In spite of this, some episodes really drag out the creativity and originality that the series ought to have, some things quite obviously have deep meanings, for example the episode where Finn attempts to find his real father.Of course, for children, this TV show is fantastic, and I think that is it's intended audience. Teenagers or adults who watch this show, while free to do so, should not pretend to be wacky and intelligent by watching it, because really it's very mindless and immature.All in all, it's an okay show, but it does not deserve the amount of attention and viewer-ship that it currently attains.


                
I saw this finally, for the first time, this week. The dialogue is inane and the characters are beyond silly, bordering on stupid. The animation looks like something from a PBS morning show. I wasn't impressed and I wasn't alone. My wife saw 15 seconds and loudly pronounced "THIS IS AWFUL! Why are you watching it??!" Blech.This entire project needs an overhaul. Add a lot more dimensions to the characters, get some less grating voice talent and develop stories that are actually interesting to watch.Do that and you may find an audience that stays beyond the first week of premiers.
I cannot express how lazy this show is... Now hear me out, this show might be "original" (bein original doesn't make it good) and has some nice animation but the storytelling and plots (if you can call them that)are borderline stupid and lazy.Take regular show for instance. Even though regular show has some random s**t put in to it's plots (like other dimensions and out of place gods or spirits appearing)at least it has some plot to follow. For an example : Rgiby has to clean the park but first he must buy some supplies, he gets involved in some problems Jada Jada Jada then some spirits emerge (and EXPLAN THEMSELVES and why they are here) and he must fight them. Okay at least the show follows some kind of plot. In adventure time that isn't the case. For example Finn and Jake are chilling in their tree house. Nothing notable happens (just some out of place conversations and replacing every possible swear word with some other words) then something bad happens and basically the most random s**t ever goes out and they solve the problem (most of the time)and that's it. The show has so little to do with adventure (more with "comedy"). If I want to lauh at a cartoon I will watch South park, and if I want to watch adventure I will watch samurai Jack. This show is not funny and has very little adventure.


                
Adventure time has a good pilot and a good few seasons but when it reached season 5 it had very few story and it got boring Finn did not have good character development jake was a nightmare boreing character and the animations are cr**ap I wanted it to end after season 5


                
