Well Ill start from the beginning. "Adventure Time" premiered in 2010 on Cartoon Network. Now I was a sophomore in high-school when this came out, and in April 2010 it caused a widespread cult across my school. Literally someone drew a tribute on the white board of "Finn and Jake" the two main characters. So this show literally took off over night. The show centers around the adventures of a boy named Finn, a magical talking dog named Jake and various other characters. Now I will admit, I thought the show sounded cool when I was hearing about it. But when I saw an episode for the first time, I thought it was very strange. The first episode I saw was "ocean of fear" and it was a very tedious episode. My first reaction was "what the hell am I watching?". Finn was afraid of the ocean, so Jake tried to help him get over his fear. At the end of the episode Jake falls to the bottom of the sea and Finn knocks himself unconscious to rescue him. I've seen a lot of other episodes, a lot of them focus on "Princess Bubble gum" and her candy people. Apparently bug eyed cute candy pieces are common in their world. And a lot of episodes focus on the Ice King(voiced by the mighty Tom Kenny) kidnapping princesses and Finn and Jake save them.Now at first I thought this show was OK, but the more I watched it the more I started to hate it. It seems this show is literally just eye candy and it seems very childish considering its PG rating. I honestly haven't seen ANYTHING PG about this show, I think a TV-Y7 would be fine. This show also seems really girly to me, I mean it seems like the plots, design and characters would appeal more to girls. I mean its more girly than the Powerpuff Girls, and its main characters are 2 males. And in powerpuff girls they actually beat up villains and show punches and sometimes blood. In adventure time, Finn and Jake seem to enjoy playing with monsters rather than violently beat them up. I mean this show is rated PG, and other shows with lower rating are more risqué than this show.Now what really bugs me about this show is the strange art style. It looks like a drug induced acid trip drawn by five year olds. To me it looks like an Adult Swim show without any bad stuff. Also, I feel this show is EXTREMELY overrated. It is treated like its the best Cartoon Network show since ever, but I just don't see it. I'm not trying to be a nostalgia fanboy, but come on, people are saying this is better than Dexter's Lab, Powerpuff Girls, Jhonny Bravo and Courage the cowardly dog? I'm sorry but its not. I will give it this its a lot better than most mid-2000s cartoons, but its not an 8.8 and its not one of the greatest cartoons of all time. Overall I feel this show has been given too much credit. It really doesn't feel like this "Epic show" that people are telling me about. It is also being treated like its this edgy kids/adults cartoon with its TV-PG rating. Honestly I've seen TV-Y cartoons that are edgier than Adventure Time, like Rocko's Modern Life, Invader Zim and aaahh real monsters. I honestly think this show is only rated TV-PG to appeal to older audiences and because practically all CN shows now have a PG rating. What people seem to forget is that Cartoon Networks older shows were just as bad, if not worse than adventure time. You honestly can't tell me that Courage the cowardly dog, Powerpuff girls and Johnny Bravo weren't just as bad, trust me they would be PG today. But saying this show is an 8.8 is just a slap to my face. All the other cartoons I listed have lower than 8.8 and they are way better than Adventure Time. I guess you would like this show if your into weird/cute stuff, but this show is just not for me. I give it 4/10, while far from the worst Cartoon Network show, its definitely not the best
This show is what I think watching tv on acid might be like. Most of the characters are grossly fantastic or are simply talking inanimate objects, the dialogue is a mix of slang, made up words, and giberish, the potty humor is banal, and the information it presents often defies the logic the show has laid down. Honestly, it more closely resembles something found on adult swim than something that should be on a channel for 7 to 12 year olds because it is definitely not kid friendly.


                
