A few amazing episodes in its time on TV. The art style is unique and the show just breathes and lives cartoon weirdness. At its best you'll get adventure story arc and perhaps witty dialouge and memorable characters maybe a musical number or two.I think the show can get a little dull. My problem is not that these episodes are filler. Not every episode has to advance a story to be good the big popular example being Spongebob which had absolutely no continunity yet was entertaining enough to stand multiple viewing and still be enjoyable. The later few seasons pump out really great episodes once in a while, but the bulk of the filler stuff from the newer season is dull and many of these episodes have strange unclear messages with vauge interpretations.Its more of a soap opera without quirky dialouge or decent action to carry it.


                
I love this show. Adventure time is one of the deepest and most well written shows of all time. I'll review this show season per season, just like it deserves.SEASON 1 - 2At the start of the show, it was just okay. Some good episodes, some bad episodes, but always kind of "extreme". The first episodes of Adventure time try to subvert kid shows, showing some dark and violent imagery that wasn't usually shown of kids television. Stuff like the magic man turning a bird skin or Finn decapitating a cyclops show how much the show tried to be different. On here, the viewers are presented to the main cast on a very nice way. In many episodes we see different character traits, slowly adding more to the main cast. But overall, it was just an okay show, funny, but nothing great. Some episodes were kind of confusing and particularly chaotic, even for this show.SEASONS 3 - 4The same episodic stuff, but it started having a main plot on the background, including a main antagonist called The Lich. On here, the episodes started to be better written. They were less chaotic, and the plot was going somewhere. Most "filler" episodes started to indicate a Lore, and many characters started to get kind of complex, but still, not as complex like in...SEASON 5HERE is where the show starts to go somewhere. The main plot of The Lich is kind of paused, but it started having sub plots and story arcs. Here, the show started to have some VERY complex characters.
Finn is still an adventurous boy who likes fighting monsters, but he starts trying to manipulate people (Frost & fire, All the little people) and obsess over things (Dungeon train) but it also learns and gets developed, just as we see in episodes like "Too old".
We start to see a darker side of Jake's characters, where we see his lack of prioritization (Jake the dog) and bad influences to Finn.
We see a Princess bubblegum that starts obsessing with his kingdom and starts thinking she is the ruler of all and we see a BMO that confronts his past, and also gets very far from reality.
This season 5 works very well, it turns the main cast into complex characters, the plot starts to go somewhere, and it even gets very philosophical.
Episodes like "All the little people", "dungeon train" and the entire Lemongrab arc are very deep an complex. All the little people explores the mentality of people and their relationships, Dungeon train is about the repetitive nature of things and the Lemongrab arc explores in a very dark and unexpected way themes like sanity and the creation of life. This season would be perfect if it were't for some episodes that feel fillery and boring, such as Box prince, Little dude and the great bird man. I was almost felling at sleep with those episodes, that contrast a lot on this season.SEASON 6A lot of people say season 6 is a bad season because there's not much comedy. But my question is... WHO CARES? this season is great, the show is getting darker but i don't mind it because the show is getting more complex and better written. Season 6 is a second part of season 5, it has a lot of great philosophical an complex plots like in "You forgot your floats", "The comet" and "Astral plane", but it also has character development and we see new traits of the characters. Here, the show gets more and more complex, and is just great. We get to see the origin of Ice king's crown, the backstory of magic man and even the past lifes of Finn. The problem with this season is the same one i have with season 5, it has a lot of boring filler.SEASONS 7 - 9This seasons get back to what the show was in season 3 and 4, having more comedy and wacky stuff. But even with that, it manages to balance it with more complex and well written stuff such in episodes like "The hall of egress", "Imaginary resources" and the Fern arc. The thing this seasons focus more on is on the story arcs and plot lines, which works fenomenal. This seasons are great, they have their problems like the stuff with The Lich and some convenient solutions, but overall these seasons are pretty good. But like in past seasons, they have some boring filler.
Finally, the end of Adventure time is fenomenal, it gives closures to every important stuff in the series and also gives some other stuff open to interpretation. The Adventure time finale includes some great emotional moments and also a sacrifice that makes this ending not so happy.
This show, even in it's last episode, is not afraid of showing some disturbing and/or depressing stuff only to prove a point.
Some people say that a problem with the show is that it always comes back to the same place, getting stuck on a status quo. But actually, that is what makes the show great and reinforce the final message of adventure time: Thing always repeats themselves.And maybe i'm repeating, but Adventure time is one of the greatest shows on television history. Sadly, it has some bad episodes and convenient solutions, but overall is a very good show, that ventures to show disturbing, violent, abstract, philosophical, complex and ambiguous stuff.


                
Well my last review might have been way too harsh for this show but now I think I will give it a rewrite with my new thoughts.Adventure Time is about this boy called Finn (Jeremy Sheda) and a dog called Jake (John Dimaggo). They go on different adventures in every episode some episode might have to be in two parts but this show isn't afraid to do that despite being 11 minutes.This is definitely one of cartoon networks most popular animated shows. Even if never appreciated it back then but it will be missed regardless of what I thought of back then and what I think of it now.It was very colourful there were definitely some bad episodes but majority were good. This show will be missed and will definitely soul of Cartoon Network.


                
I gotta say this show is definitely overrated. People say it's like the best show ever, but they only watch 3 episodes and judge. Also it's over hyped, the cultish fanbase is so annoying. It's an okay show. I liked the first two seasons, but as it achieve popularity, it um went downhill. Like this season, we have unnecessary two-parters, that really lead to nowhere and more of LSP talking about her cussing lumps. Seriously, that's really getting annoying. It was mainly the first part of the season, but it's almost as if the show has "sold out". "Dream of Love" was really the only good episode at the start of the season. If you like this, I recommended watching Regular Show, since it's better, if not equally as good as this is.


                
