I love it. I think this show is very creative and imaginative. The characters, the writing, and the setting is awesome. I love the character designs and the dialog is hilarious. This shows not perfect, but I think it's better than some of the shows that Cartoon Network is currently airing.I can understand that everyone has their own opinions, and I respect that. But the review that was previously posted here I didn't think was fair. I think the one who posted that review didn't either watch the show all the way through, or has no sense of humor or a creative imagination.This show just started, so I can't really say much about it. But so far I think it's good. And if my review doesn't convince you, there are plenty of reviews out there online about this show that you can read, and so far this show has gotten good ones.


                
There was a time when I disliked this show. Now, I view it as one of the best animated series of all time, and one of the most creatively and boldly non-pandering shows in cartoon history, and this is why:Adventure Time does not pander to traditional or accessible story structures, payoffs, exposition, or plot constructs. It does not use traditional or accessible cartoon character archetypes. It does not use traditional or accessible humor. It does not use traditional music or voice-acting. It doesn't even always use traditional emotions or dialogue. As a result, the show feels more original than anything else seen on cartoon network since Samurai Jack. Much like Samurai Jack, this show is very immersing and has a style all its own.Also like Samurai Jack, the show takes place in a strange world, where almost anything can happen, or any kind of character can show up, and it will still feel believable and consistent. Recommended for anyone who is into experimental storytelling and music. In fact, most of the soundtrack consists of formless ambient music or IDM.Nothing about this show feels forced or phony. There are no traditional payoffs or unneeded exposition. There are lots of silent moments and strange scenes that do nothing but establish the characters and their varying types of insanity. There's lots of dialogue that can be taken a number of ways. There are no trumpet-blasts or dinky piano tunes to let the viewer know when he should laugh or be excited. The show makes it YOUR job to be entertained. It's like going to visit another world and have fun watching these characters live their day-to-day lives. No, better yet, it's like being a man from one- thousand years ago watching our daily lives. He finds them a novelty, and is intrigued, but he does not understand everything we do, or the way we talk. The characters in this show will not stop to explain anything for the benefit of the audience. For them, most of the weirdness is just commonplace. They know more than we do, but they have no reason to tell us what they know. If you are used to shows with super-tight writing where everything is conveyed to the audience, look elsewhere. This is a more challenging, atmospheric sort of show.That being said, this is also one of the only cartoons that has succeeded in making me cry multiple times. As a warning, you will not like every episode. You may not even like every season. I don't, and unless you have very broad tastes, you won't. This show has numerous fans who like it for totally different reasons. Some are their for the back-stories and mythos, some for the adventure episodes, some for the comedy, some for the romance plots, and some for the tragedies. This show does basically everything.Animation: Minimal, using bright colors and simple, easy designs. The animation may seem lackluster, but it's a pretty immersing style if you give it the chance, and some of the art direction and creativity is admirable. The simple style allows for an endless amount of characters, backgrounds, and stories without too much expense needed. The colors and production value get better over the course of the show. They won't look the best in the first few episodes.Characters: The characters here are diverse and numerous. Some of the them are annoying, but most of them have depth and dimension that will slowly reveal itself over the course of the show. Many of them are immature, and most of them are insane to varying degrees, but they often have to make hard decisions or go through strange dilemmas. Anyone who SEEMS like typical archetypes will prove otherwise. My expectations were challenged by some of them. Simon Petrikov is my favorite character. Writing and Storytelling: As I said, this is a low-conveyance show. The stories are done in a freestyle, storyboard-driven manner. The writers seem to draw from Nintendo- style fantasy games like "The Legend of Zelda" or the "Paper Mario" series. The early episodes are a bit more focused on simple fun, randomness, and adventure, but things don't get interesting (for me at least) until the show reveals its true colors a bit later on. Pieces start to come together, and the viewer realizes that the randomness actually isn't as random as he might think. Without spoiling much, let's just say that the world of Ooo has a bittersweet back-story to it that makes the show infinitely more interesting once they start hinting at it. Some of the individual characters also have mysterious, semi-disturbing origins. It's what made me curious in the first place. The show deals with its various characters and plot threads at a respectable pace, often juggling many at once and becoming more complex. The "Billy's Bucket List/Wake Up/Escape from the Citadel" three- parter is what I would recommend for people who want to see the show do some more tight, well-crafted writing. This series features passage of time, continuity, and the aging of characters.Audio: The deadpan, naturalistic voice acting can be either welcoming, or annoying, depending on the viewer or character. I like how the casting is handled. Music is experimental electronica. Musical numbers sound realistically unrehearsed, which makes them more heartfelt when used in episodes like "I Remember You" and "Lemonhope Story".You don't have to like the show, but I at least want it to be acknowledged for the risks it takes and the creativity it encourages. People who have worked on the show have gone on to make other series like that are good for similar reasons and have helped give Frederator and Cartoon Network more of an identity again, bringing them more respect from longtime fans. Also, to warn you, this show is surprisingly not for young kids. Make sure you're at least around 12 before you watch it. Trust me.


                
Adventure Time is, and always will be, a masterpiece. This show has the perfect blend of sci-fi and fantasy with a magical wonderland set in a post-apocalyptic world. Nothing is always as it seems in the whimsical land of Ooo, and there are many mysteries to be solved. I will admit, the show is very strange, and some episodes are creepy. However, the shows strangeness and slight creepiness reminds me of the original Grim fairy tales. Every character has their own backstory, so don't judge a book by its cover. The show also has a kinda warped sense of humor, but it's still funny. Sadly, the show is ending soon, but don't worry! Adventure Time is sure to live on in other forms of entertainment such as comics, video games, and maybe even in other shows. If you are new to the show, you have plenty of seasons to keep you occupied. This show is definitely worth checking out, but I will advise you that it may creep out younger children. I recommend Adventure Time to fans of Gravity Falls, Bravest Warriors, and Over The Garden Wall (vise versa if you are an AT fan looking for something new to watch). This title gets a thumbs up from CriticalBunniez <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
First off I am personal shocked that they let this show on TV, I mean the main character, you know... the one who makes those weird faces which cracks me up a lot even my mom, at times during the show he be beating up on everybody...well not everybody per say mainly the bad guys and who ever is under the suspicion of hurting the princess,especially since(from what I can speculate) the companies are trying to find the simplest approach at a storyline(non complex ed) and the least violent way possible(which spawn all these Pokémon and digimon wannabees(with of course annoying characters) with which is not looking good at times (thank you hub channel THANK YOU for bring some old favorites back on air with newcomers (detora quest amongst others)).but I sat down and watched it(before finding all that out later on) because nothing good was on at the time accept for that boomerang channel which was getting boring (since they stop rerunning swat katz for time) and much to my surprise It was one of the better cartoons... no no no it was better then that and I was desperate for a good cartoon, it's good enough for both kids and adults alike, provided that you don't take the show so seriously(I'm 21 just so you know).A couple of times on the previews(after a couple of days) however is when I first saw the the violence but wasn't really paying attention, thats when my cousin who's interested in this show tells me about how shocked he is at the fact that they've...let this one on air... I was wondering why he then tells me that(as I said above) ''the main character, you know... the one who makes those weird faces which cracks me up a lot even my mom, at times during the show he be beating up on everybody''(not to mention that one cut scene where jacks upper body becomes a foot due to some spell,curse I think ,in which takes advantage of this to squash the bad guys and eventually WHAM! right between the legs!) I reacted like..what!? seriously.. he said yeah then he meanchens some heart shape getting beat by the main character(who,s name I keep getting getting mixed up with his weird yet/but cool dog friend)I actually recall that happening in when the episode came on but I wasn't paying attention(I was on the computer while the T.V. was on because I was looking up some details on transformers war for cybertron video games on already announced systems at the time it was released)but I overheard the voices,SFX(sound effects),and understood a little of what was going on but missed the rest of the episode which sucks,BUT lets actually get to the point.(sorry everyone I.m trying to know where to began on the review) #1 the plot is actually pretty simple the main character Jake(got his name right)and his dog are out to fight evil or beat them up of course.and help princess bubble gum(yeah you heard that right)and her kingdom, as well as all the other princess's and the kingdoms(grumpy princess,space princess for example) all the while wounding up in some rather awkward situations, and they even solve problems in places they visit, and even learning more things about the characters themselves adding some funny development sometimes,and things can get rather interesting,hilarious,entertaining and cool.#2 the voice acting is pretty good and also at times a bit strange(you will know what I,m talking about when you see one of the other princesses).although a number of characters are done by kids(mostly the ones you see at the beginning episodes)and the dialog is pretty humorous which I went and forgot to mention above one of those voice actors sounds really foamier(like I heard off a certain cartoon)can't remember though.overall thats I can think about reviewing for this show but I recommend giving this show a try at least once or twice you just might find it enjoyable. especially if your a kid and or an adult.
I just binge watched all the seasons, a really great show with some really great characters. Not your average animation, revolves a human(Finn) and he's dog guardian/best friend(Jake), going through all sorts of adventures in a post apocalyptic style setting meeting these random and strange characters along the way. The voices behind the characters are also great with the legend voice actor himself having a role( John DiMaggio)
Adventure time is a very fun and inventive show, with lots of characters and stories to be told. The adventure time universe is very big and expands from the far places of lumpy space and earth like places. The show has great animations and also has great acting! The two main characters Finn the human and Jake the dog (played by Jeremy Shada and John DiMaggio) are fantastic characters and both actors are great. It's always exciting to see them each episode. Seeing them go on different adventures in this big and expansive world is always fun. Most episodes also have a great message about friendship and hope, without being to pushy. You can have lots of fun with the other characters like Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, BMO, and lumpy Space princess. Each character has there own unique personality and style. Some episodes are a bit hard to follow sometimes and are a bit complicated, but everything else is fun and the universe if built with lots of lore behind it. I do recommend Adventure time for most Kids and adults as you will have lots of fun!


                
Trying to describe the adventures of Finn and his friend, Jake the Dog, is practically impossible. The kid wears a cat-like hat and the dog sounds just like Bender from "Futurama" (because this character is also voiced by John Di Maggio). Beyond that, I just can't say much other than the fact it's good! The first time I saw "Adventure Time", I nearly split a gut laughing (it was the show involving Finn being turned into a giant foot). Why? Because the show was so bizarre and random--and unpredictable. I also loved that it had a healthy dose of cynicism. Now I guarantee that this odd mix won't work for everyone. If you have a high tolerance for the weird, then give it a try. Are you the right weird type to enjoy it? Well if you like "The Oblongs" or "The Head"? If so, then this is right up your alley. If you think "Spongebob' is too edgy, then I suggest you try "The Wonder Pets" or something similar and avoid "Adventure Time" like the plague!! By the way, it's only a 15 minute show and they've only aired four episodes. But, for Cartoon Network this is a lot! And, it's quite possible there won't be more. So, if you like it (or even if you don't), contact the channel and demand (politely) that they make more!UPDATE: Well, they have made quite a few more and the show continues with its excellent stories. So, if you are one of the polite complainers who contacted Cartoon Network, thanks!


                
There's a certain point where too much imagination becomes a weird drug trip, but good thing this show only has a few of these. Most of it is actually cute and imaginative. A lot of the characters in this show are pretty developed, even if they're minor. I like Rattleballs, Lemonhope, Lady, Lsp, PB, basically all the characters. Especially Marceline. Since Simon and Marcy and I remember you. Adventure Time has its funny moments, sad, and deep moments. No matter how cheery this show looks, it actually has a tragic past. I like Simon, but not Ice King. That gross under-wrapping. Oh god. Please get rid of it. One of my favorite episodes is Lemonhope. Nice plot, complex symbolism. Simon and Marcy was sad and deep.This show appeals to both kids and adults. This shows that kids shows don't have to be mind-numbingly stupid for kids to enjoy them. But of course, closed minded idiots will always call Mlp fans, Adventure Time fans, Gravity Falls fans, etc pedophilic manchildren. Can't stop that. It's human nature.
Love the show, but it would be better if it had less romance and deep stuff and more action. Pretty awkward watching that kind of stuff with my family, but it's good if you're into a bit of romance in your cartoons.One word, DRAGONS!! It needs more dragons, and although they have a unique art style, they should make the very few dragons that we do see look less like giant misshapen axolotls and more like traditional dragons.On that note, there are many weird misshapen things in this show, most of them are unrecognisable to me.Overall, it's one of my favourite shows, and sometimes, it's good to be random.
Adventure Time is a great show, it was superb at first, but now it's pretty much decent. I found the first two season to be almost excellent. Now, after season 2, thanks to that two part finale, it became much of a serious show and comedy was reduced. Seasons 3 and 5 weren't my favorites because of this. Season 5 was a mixed bag, but it was a slight improvement. Season 6 so far had the best new season of the show and it certainly beat the last three seasons. Story: Mediocre nowadays because the show is using too much sequels (though I really loved James II) and I hope they don't go overboard on them. 5.5/10 Writing: Surprisingly, most episodes are just outlined by the same team of writers and I don't know it's does it. I get tired of seeing the same writers name to be honest and that's why writing is another major problem on the show. 6/10 Humor: It's very low now, but the writers do know how to find humor in these recent seasons. 7/10 Drama: Terribly used. I don't care for the drama category very much and that what ruins my opinion on the show. 1/10 Characters: They're not bad, but I think AT has too much characters. My favorites are Jake and the Ice King. Lemongrab was my former favorite character until he became a big fat jerk (literally). 8/10 Lasting appeal: I will not be shocked if the show does go on but the writers need to make fresh ideas and not reuse them. Overall, AT is shaping up right now, but it's still not my favorite modern CN show. Regular Show is.


                
Cartoon Network has had a fluctuating stable of creator driven projects over the years. Some of their original series are inspired, thought provoking and fun although others can be mediocre, childish and poorly conceived. For years the cream of the crop for the CN name has been the works of Genndy Tartakovsky, Danny Antonucci and John R. Dilworth. In this new era however CN has been taking some risks and gambles; licensing series from their European development team, picking up series crafted from young up and comers of the animation industry, but no gamble has worked out so wonderfully then when they picked up a little series Nickelodeon passed on, that series is Adventure Time.From an Animation and Cartooning standpoint Adventure Time certainly has a style all its own. Pendleton Wards (Series Creator) cartooning style is deceptively simple with a permeating cuteness that has made it trendy, niche and refreshing. His simple character designs lend themselves well to the fluid animation the show puts forth. I would go as far to say that from an animation standpoint alone Adventure Time along with Christy Karacas' Superjail, are the most animated shows currently on television. The transitions are smooth, the character animation loose and full of fun, the backgrounds are full of imagination and the colour palette sensational, some of the best colour co-ordination I have seen in a North American animated series. So visually simplistic character designs aside the overall look of the show couldn't be more sharp and the animation utterly superb. For me the characters are also fun. Despite their overall lack of relatability and development, every character has a strongly defined persona and enduring quirks that make them collectively as a cast incredibly enjoyable. Finn and Jake are both incredibly fun characters and the bro dynamic between them is a prime source for great character moments and humour. The backing cast is also superb. The Ice King is a deliciously self-deluded villain that has many funny moments, Marceline is a cool vampire chick who may juts be one of the best female characters ever to be in a cartoon, Princess Bubblegum and Lady Rainacorn though lacking the dynamic punch of the other characters are engaging as well.When this series first premiered I felt it could do no wrong. The characters were superb and the animation phenomenal, even the writing had its moments. In the beginning the shows writing style often centred around adventures with our heroic tandem Finn and Jake, these adventures had the tendency to spiral off into the surreal, a trait that often led to some funny moments, WTF humour and a great deal of innuendo. The early seasons of the show are superb so why am I giving this show an 8 and not higher, well......... Currently the writing which was never a huge strong suit, but had its moments in the first two seasons, is starting to wear thin on me as a viewer. Gone now are the constant adventures and wacky scenarios, they still exist but not on an episode to episode basis, now many of the episodes that the series produces are weird for the sake of being weird. Episodes will now introduce wild and absurd one-off characters that feel lazily conceived, as though the writers were thinking of wild and funny things without putting thought into whether they would work or not. The narrative structure of the show is also declining in quality. Normally the show could go from point A to point B in a focused way with all the humour and eccentricity intact, now episodes start rushed and end abruptly or have to take many nonsensical and poorly written detours in order to get from point A to point B. Bottom line the writing is now starting to have an adverse effect on what was a well oiled machine in its infancy. Still regardless of how far the writing has declined and whether or not it continues to the animation has remained top notch and the characters interesting enough to hold my attention. Hopefully the flaws that are starting to show will heal with time. Currently Adventure Time is still one of the best animated series on television today.


                
And do you know why? Because like SpongeBob, it's only for the bad new episodes (Some of Adventure Time's new episodes were bad). You're all shocked I still gave 10/10 for Spongebob (I put my 2 lists as private because of a troll rating stuff I like 1/10, but, you'll see it on the Movies and TV show ones if I put it as public again, but I'll write a review for Spongebob later on).I give it a positive review because of how creative the creators of this show were with the Land of Ooo and Finn and Jake's tree house. I wish my tree house can be like theirs (I'm writing this review while grounded for a week because yesterday, me and 9 other people destroyed a tree house of a Marvin Marvin hater because his tree house looked like crap). I also give this a positive review because of how creative they were for the characters, too. I only give it a negative review for the bad episodes (I can't believe the first episode of season 6 got 9.3/10).Now, why is this show getting as much hate as SpongeBob? Both shows don't deserve all the hate they get. If you're gonna hate on something, go hate on My Little Pony or Regular Show, they're worse than Spider's Web: A Pig's Tale (At least that got 1.7/10, it should be 1.1/10).


                
When I first saw all the promos for this show, I was wondering what was so special about it, until I watched the pilot in 2010. I was quite surprised of how entertaining it was! This is a REALLY good show, for a variety of reasons. Mainly because the story lines are SO much fun. It seems like every episode is a work of art because of how flamboyant, fun, and most importantly, adventurous the story lines are. The show also has very silly and colorful characters, Each character has its own unique personality and abilities. (especially Jake with his stretching powers) The show also has hilarious dialog (the characters saying made-up words and random sentences.) It could have better animation and more humor that isn't hit or miss for the adults (despite the adult jokes they hide in it, which is nice) Either then that, a solid, creative, and fun show. I strongly recommend it


                
When I first found "Adventure Time", it was quite some time ago. It was OK I guess: wacky stuff to watch late at night when you are not quite sober. I have came back recently to watch many episodes of it. The show is changing. What have started as bright cartoon with characters without the background, fighting somehow random stuff in imaginary kingdom, is getting darker and more complex. The past of characters is an mystery, but some appealing flashbacks shows, that creators of "Adventure Time" have some vision about where they are going. If you are a childish romantic, as I am, you will find it appealing. "Adventure Time" mixes unrefined comedy, some fight scenes with small arms and love stories... and sad stories. There is a character development and you can really get attached. It feels like an fairytale on soft drugs for adult, yet immature people, who want to caress their inner child. Count me in!


                
