Why do people like this film?  8/10 ?!!  If you didn't know, it's about a ``quirky`` French woman who goes around doing good deeds.  Baffling how this film became so popular, before I saw it I actually expected to enjoy it. :- /Honestly, there is nothing good you can say about it, and you can't argue that the humour doesn't translate across - I can speak French fluently. The music is as annoying as the acting and the story.OK, enough; don't waste your money or time with this rubbish.


                
This movie brought tears to my eyes, bringing back long-lost childhood memories of that day when I was sharply kicked in the groin.Who can't see the sweet charm of the adorable, mischievous, pouting Amelie? Who can't shed a tear for the lost love, the lost dreams within all of us, that Je-ne-sais-quoi that we all long for can never seem to attain?Amelie is pure magic, not magic like Magic Markers(tm), or Magic Johnson, but real magic, like only the French can deliver. No, not "magique", but Magie, as I've been told by the great google translator. Those who can't see the tear-drenched beauty and pathos of this great film, the tears of thousands of us living a Lie in this angst-ridden loveless world, need to consider some serious self-examination, spiritual rebirth, or at least a different diet, perhaps with fewer carhohydrates and more fatty acids.


                
This movie tries so hard to be cute and clever that its concentrated sweetness gave me a high for about five minutes and then I crashed for the rest of it. Amalie (Audrey Tautou) has the demeanor of a spoiled little girl who grew up thinking she was ever so cute. She seems to be saying, "Look at me, can you resist me?" And then she gives off a self-satisfied smile with the hint, "You thought I was cute before, aren't you blown away by my smile?" Ugh.But the thing that really bugs me about this movie is Amelie's conceit. She presumes to know what will make others happy and meddles in their lives. Among the things this adorable girl does is break and enter an apartment to do mean things to its owner's possessions, send false letters, short out people's TV's at peak moments, lie to people about who loves them, make anonymous phone calls without having the integrity to speak with the callee, and steal one of her father's prize possessions.I know that we are supposed to accept the fantasy nature of this film where photos talk, statues wink, and people always answer public phones, but my patience for this kind of thing wore thin very fast. We are told, shown actually, that Amelie's mother was killed by a suicidal person jumping off of Notre Dame and landing on her. How are are we supposed to react to that? Is it supposed to be funny? Wasn't to me.Then there is the agonizing game that Amelie plays with the guy she falls for. She gives him hints and, given the opportunity to make contact, shies away. You just want to shake her and tell her to just talk to the guy for heaven's sake. Finally at the end they meet and the first thing they do without saying a word is kiss and have sex. What kind of message is that? The whole movie is filmed through some kind of orange filter that I suppose is meant to cast some sort of romantic candle-lit effect over the proceedings, but for me it was just one more barrier that prevented me from getting close to this movie.


                
Well IMDb insists on at least 10 lines in a review - which is probably more substance than is present in this film. The summary really says it all.The basic plot is - pretty young woman wanders around playing fairly pointless pranks with minimal dialogue. Little character development and her behaviour is not outlandish enough to be really interesting. Her life is too unreal for me to identify with her and her affections seemed shallow and unrooted. Nothing especially exciting, funny or tragic happens.A contrived film in the main, two stars for decent camera-work and a pretty lead actress.My DVD had a hiccup just before the end - it had had enough. So had I.


                
Maybe it's an age thing, but I found Amelie one of the most annoying movie characters I've met in a long time. After about an hour or so, I was rooting for Nino to drop out of the game.  The Paris scenes were lovely and some of her tricks were fun, i.e. the Gnome, but she was cruel to the greengrocer and just feckless re: manipulating the affair with that maniac.  The paper chase with Nino was just plain tiresome.  Sorry, from A Minority of one.


                
The plot of this movie is dreadful. "Amelie" is about a disturbed woman who likes doing good deeds for random people. Half way through Amelie meets Nino, who strangely collects pictures of people he doesn't know, and is just as weird as Amelie. From here on it changes from a comedy into a romance.Jean-Pierre Jeunet might have gotten away with the crazy plot if the main character wasn't so annoying. She does a scary smile, all the way through the film, which makes Amelie more scary than friendly.I almost fell asleep watching this movie, as it was slow and boring. If you want to sit through a hour and a half of a girl who likes to do good things to make herself feel better, with a soppy romance at the end, go see this movie.Ross
I cannot share the enthusiasm towards this movie. Apparently the color "blue" is almost completely suppressed. I do not see any logical reason for this. Furthermore I have problems with the logic of the plot. After a difficult childhood Amélie emerges as a sort of an angel. why should she? And, finally, can anybody explain, why she builds up so many obstacles, before she finally meets her (future) boyfriend?2 out of 10.


                
How to discribe this movie: disjointed silly unfulfilling story waste of time


                
This movie is a piece of pink cotton candy, pure spun sugar dyed an eye-catching color and mostly flavorless. It's extremely precious and at times I wanted to shout rude things at the screen--even though I was at home and no one would hear me. I just felt the need to vocally denounce the sentiments onscreen.On the other hand, if you love feel-good movies, and don't care about cavities, this is your movie. It's well-directed, and somewhat charming in places, even to me, a self-confirmed & dedicated curmudgeon. And the lead actress is lovely, even if the movie focuses obsessively on her wide-eyed innocent looks. She's an innocent! Her eyes can open THIS BIG! Isn't it charming!NO!


                
Another reason why you should never buy the hype. Aside from the Gnome, everyone is crazy or irritating or unpleasant or all three. The narration was pointless. The cinematography and editing and music were nauseating. Paris, one of the filthiest cities on the planet, is unrecognizably spic and span! But what really had my panties in a bunch was how Jeunet teases us with Nino smiling at the photo booth repairman, but doesn't have the guts to go through with the homo-eroticism he just threw in! Instead, Crazy Boy Nino finally (and I mean finally) hooks up with Crazy Girl Amélie, and they (and the Gnome) live crazily ever after!BTW, unless you get off reading microscopic print, don't get the DVD -- it'll drive you crazy!
Piece of S**t. Movie for morons, who, quite clearly from the rating of this saccharin, cloying, manipulative, bathetic, cutesy, uneven, manipulative and disturbingly mindless piece of toxic cotton candy constitute the overwhelming majority of our fellow humans. Shame on us as a race of sentient beings for accepting this poison as nourishment.As distressed as I was by the empty headed, falsely virginal simpleton of a protagonist... no, let's say central figure of this pre-adolescent farce, more distressing was her vengeful retribution on her supposed enemies, straw men set up in the childish pursuit of suitable enemies for our 'heroine' to conquer.'On a minor related note, "Amelie" is a film that wants to be quirky, it wants to be cutesy, but it fails because it tries too hard: The exaggerated camera movements and sound effects, the ultra-luminous (yet rather nice) cinematography designed to turn Paris into a fantasy world, the odd quips of dialogue on orgasms, but the absolute biggest fault of the film is with the lead character known as Amelie.'Gracias, Miura88.
This the very nice film.. please watch this film..


                
