I can't agree that this is the "most charming movie ever made," but it is one of the most beautiful. If you watch it, pay attention to the photography. Nearly every frame is a watercolor painting come to life, even the most mundane scenes. Take, for instance, the snippet where Amelie encounters the man playing the record player in the subway. Look at the colors, and how even the buttons on the man's coat echoes the peas in the painting behind him. Look, too, at the colors in the concierge's apartment and in the park -- everywhere! It is a feast for the eyes!The colors and compositions are astounding, which is a good thing because I found the characters and plot somewhat empty. It's all very cute and all, with Amelie going around trying to "fix" up people's lives, but it drags on way too long and ultimately ends on a rather meaningless note.
It's more than mere eye candy -- but less than a truly fulfilling film.


                
There are no complaints when watching "Amelie." It is pleasant enough, and it even displays a bit of depth that is the hallmark of better romantic and "feel good" comedies. However--- it isn't a great movie. It is no masterpiece. The foppish poseurs who drool over this light fare as if there were beholding some amazing jewel is getting a bit annoying. In the artsy theater in our town, I could hear the forced and hollow "salon chuckles" of the local cognoscente wannabes, as if displaying to us all that they, too, "get it." Humbug! Those folks should get out more!This is a good movie, and it deserves to be watched and enjoyed. But dang, folks... while this emperor's new clothes may not be totally imaginary, he is, nonetheless, given all the uber-hype and Oscar predictions for this cinematic bauble, severely underdressed.


                
If you've ever done something good for someone else just for the fun of it, then you can easily relate to Amèlie, the main character in Amèlie. She's innocent, naïve, and shy. But she finds an old box of `treasures' hidden in her flat and decides to return it to the boy who left it there fifty years ago. The `boy' is Bretodeau (Maurice Bénichou), and Amèlie (Audrey Tautou) decides that if Bretodeau is glad, then she will continue to do good deeds for those around her. He is ecstatic, so Amèlie keeps her end of the deal.Amèlie is sweetly touching, but goes for the low-key effect and really does feel like a foreign film. A lot of times, I forget during the course and it seems like the actors are saying the subtitled English words. Not this time. I'm thinking of Run Lola Run in specific. That seemed to be a quality American film (haha, right?).Amèlie decides to return a photo album to Nino (Mathieu Kassovitz). She completes her deed but ends up falling in love (surprise surprise). When Amèlie was delivering the album to Nino (and other times), I was surprised on how complex her schemes were. She didn't explode with talent like that throughout the film, so it surprised me.Tautou is very good as Amèlie, I love her smile. She displayed emotions very well. Kassovitz was also fabulous; people like that need to get more work that comes out here in the U.S. Everyone else involved in the picture is very gifted (including Rufus, who plays Amèlie's father) and talented. Pictures like this don't come out very often.Movies like Amèlie are sure to be crowd-pleasers. Which it is. Its crowd-pleasing attitude was taken with a little arrogance, but it still managed to keep a goofy smile on your face for 122 minutes. Speaking of the runtime, I found it very hard to sit through, for some reason. I enjoyed all of it, but seemed unnecessary. If one of the subplots about Amèlie's escapades were taken out, it would have been better.It also had a good amount of humor. I loved the beginning, when we learn about Amèlie's childhood, and we learn what everyone's likes and dislikes were. It seemed ridiculous yet true. Some of the humor, and the whole movie, faltered during the last hour-the rather quick pace of the first hour slowed down a lot and brought down my experience of the film.Amèlie is a gentle yet entertaining non-Hollywood film that's a sure crowd-pleaser.My rating: 7/10Rated R for sexual situations.


                
When this movie first came out, I was still living in Paris, my home town. There was a lot of positive buzz about the movie. As French critiques are usually not tender, I was expecting to see something great. I must say I was disappointed. Point taken, the movie is really pretty and cute, and happily creative. But I was expecting some more depth to it, as any REALLY good comedy should have. The problem with this movie is that it embraces an overly rosy, advertisement-like view of life. There is no question that it succeeds in this exercise, but you get out of there with the numbness of an empty mind.The aesthetics of the movie is very close to what I consider to be one of the best commercials EVER, namely the 1993 CNP (a French insurance company) TV commercial by Lars von Trier (yes, the one!). That commercial represented a little boy first carrying his violin, then growing older, marrying, having kids, and the next generation, and so on. All the people in the commercial are very happy and the grain and the light and the colors of the movie are strikingly close to those used in Amelie. Also the very alert pace of the action (no time to get bored!) is common between the CNP commercial and Amelie.Now, why is this comparison a critique for Amelie? As I have said, I consider that commercial to be really wonderful, but AS a commercial. I have no criticism against a commercial being really sleek and cute and happily creative. But a good movie cannot stop there! So if you see Amelie, as I see it, i.e. as a sophisticated version of a commercial, promoting Paris, the happy life and so on, you cannot possibly give it the highest value as a cinematographic work of art. It deserves at most a 7 out of 10.


                
Don't get me wrong--I enjoyed this movie. It was cute but a little too cute, it was funny but a little too silly, and it was moving but a little too melodramatic.I don't get the incredibly high rating here and elsewhere. I believe that this film currently sits in the Top 35 on the IMDb Top 250 movies list, and I'm baffled. I LIKED this film, but I didn't love it. Here's why.It's gimmicky. Yes, gimmicky is bad. Voice-over narration, considered by many to be a poor technique, made sense in this film, because it had that fairy tale/fantasy feel to it. However, the narrator discussing the random likes/dislikes of the characters was just a cheap gimmick. Showing us scenes of a fly beating its wings and telling how many times it can beat its wings, telling us about how two wine glasses danced unseen on a table--all of this was just too much of a gimmick for me, akin to artistic masturbation. Sure, you CAN do these things. But that doesn't mean you SHOULD. When a movie has to point things out like this and essentially force them down your throat with a voice-over narrator, it's a cop-out. Lazy writing. Try showing us what you want us to see without telling us and beating us over the head with them.I like quirky films. But the level of quirkiness in this movie gets too out of control for me. While I understand that there is purposely less a sense of reality in this film than in others, the characters became a bit cartoonish, some altogether detached from reality. Again, overquirkiness smacks of a gimmick. A cheap ploy to get people to like your movie.As I said, I enjoyed the film. It was original, and its theme refreshing in this day and age. But I don't quite think it rises to the level of one of the greatest films ever made. As always, take my comment with a grain of salt--I do not speak French so had to watch it with subtitles. I'm sure there could be something more than words lost in the translation. Perhaps I would have been less aware of the movie being a fake story if I hadn't had to read subtitles to understand what was happening. But then again, I was able to enjoy Apocalypto.
This movie is a pleasure to watch. It is set in a (non-existant) Paris, clean and filled with friendly people. It's sunny, and misery is only decorum."Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain" is *not* the great movie everyone says it is. Don't get me wrong: I enjoyed it thoroughly, but it's easy to score with a magical, slightly surrealistic feelgood movie, where you can leave all human troubles at the doorstep.Amélie did not "grip" me at any point, because it was so obvious from the start that things would work out. For everybody. Sure, I laughed at some points and marvelled at some technical cinematic wizardry, but that's to be expected of a comedy of this sort.The eyes of Audrey Tautou are very nice to look into, but her regular girly grins (combined with a larger-than-life zoom-in) got on my nerves, at times.This movie is not a 10. Over 4600 people thought it was, but I really can't see why. It's a good movie. It's not a great movie. The current top spot in the Movie Top 250 is, in my opinion, undeserved. Either people needed this kind of escapism - post 9-11 and all, but I sense chauvinistic voting.Do you need to see this movie? Yes, but only as pleasing eye candy. I found no deeper philosophical meaning in "Amélie", but that's not the purpose of the movie.*SPOILERS AHEAD*Two sidenotes:Some elements of the movie were nicked. The travelling garden gnome is part of an internet folklore. The part where Amélie messes with the appartement of the greengrocers was lifted straight out of a story by Roald Dahl, in which a man brings his wife to madness by slowly, but deliberately changing small elements of the house.Still, it was a pleasure to watch. Leave reason at the door, but remember to pick it up when you leave.
Everyone thinks this movie is so, um....sweet. I thought the sweetness was forced and deliberately so. Amelie skips along the surface of the world, doing good deeds to strangers whom she cannot even face or talk to. When she falls for a guy, she can't even talk to him. The whole thrust of the movie I took to be that Amelie needs to wake up from a dream world and she does so at the end, with its implications of sexuality. To really love someone is dangerous in this movie, as in the world: look at the man in the cafe who is frankly stalking his former girlfriend. His possesiveness ends up ruining his budding romance with the hypochondriac. This is the dangerous undertow of sexual love.


                
Amelie is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
I was blown away by Amelie even though there was substantial hype and hoopla surrounding the film. What is Amelie about? It is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
Amelie is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
Amelie is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
Unsocial young French woman, a waitress at a local café, has her life changed by fate one evening when she discovers a box of mementos in her apartment left behind by a long-ago former tenant; reuniting the man and his belongings sets our heroine in motion to do more good deeds--as well as play some amusing pranks. Whimsical, eccentric comedy with a romantic current, directed in a lickety-split manner by Jean-Pierre Jeunet, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Guillaume Laurant. The film's wizened cognizance of daily human behavior may strike some as precious (or perhaps as a stunt), yet Jeunet's attentive eyes and ears provide for some rapturous pay-offs. Enchanting and funny nearly throughout. *** from ****


                
This movie just can't have such a high rating when true works of art crave to surpass 7! An artificial feel-good atmosphere, some decent humorous lines, charming characters and an original directing are not enough to bring a good film to masterpiece level. From start to finish, this movie is sophomoric, pseudo-intellectual and fuzzy. Or else, "The Alchemist" on celluloid. I guess it's acceptable if you're a teenager, but it definitely can't stand towards an informed audience. Did I mention how corny it becomes in the end?


                
Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain or Amélie as it known as in the UK is a strangely wonderful piece of cinematic history. With its abnormal erotic scenes and 'out-there' filming it is a cat amongst the pigeons in terms of a classic clichéd film.Amélie Poulain(Audrey Tautou) is a keen and eager young lady.After her dad mistakes her excited but abnormal fast heartbeat as a condition she is forced out of school and becomes lonely, doing things usual kids would never attempt.After rebuilding her life she sets out to change others for the better. Whist attempting this she finds abstract love in the form of Nino Quincampoix(Mathieu Kassowitz), a 'happy go lucky' photo scavenger with a tender heart. Their undying love triggers an early awkward relationship between them and even provoking 'love games'. With help from Amelie's good friend Raymond Dufayel(Serge Merlin) or the 'Glass Man' their love blossoms. Their lips touch in an intimate and touching climax of the final scene.Although this film appears clichéd it's portrayal is unique as it pushes the boundaries of how love is achieved and how you must work to achieve the perfect kiss.
I highly anticipated this film, as it received mostly great reviews & was given many award nominations. What I saw was a picture post card of beautiful Paris & surrounding areas, nicely acted by all. BUT  where oh where was the story, The film ran over 2 hours, That was 40 minutes longer than it deserved. When are we going to see films about happy nice people living their lives & not neurotics like displayed here. This was supposed to be a comedy & I hardly laughed lightly  more than twice. Rating   **1/2     78 points   IMDb  7


                
Amelie is a film that features splashes of cleverness but doesn't have enough structure to sustain it.  The lead actress is very appealing, with a large eye-to-skull ratio for the suitable gamin look, but often she merely looks blankly and lets the audience impose their feelings onto her performance.  Visually, the film is a treat, with one eye-popping visual after another.  But what does it all mean?  I don't know. It's a very good film, but top 20 all time?  It wasn't one of the 20 best films the year it was released.


                
Amelie is an over-the-top exercise in style with a Hallmark card message. Be nice for the sake of being nice.  The last third of the film is much too long and predictable.  The film relies on zooming in on the cute smile of its lead so much that I found it annoying.  Still, I like Jeunet's use of colors.  It sucks for me that I keep going to his films looking for whatever Marc Caro has got that made Delicatessen and City of Lost Children so enthralling.But, it's an okay film.     Just    an    okay    film.  It's saccharine sweet, not profound.  It's a simple Disneyesque blast of sentimentality.  It goes against the very oddball spirit of the film to claim it's profound or enlightening.  I gotta admit, compared to A Beautiful Mind and Pearl Harbor, Amelie must look like revolutionary `genius' with its relative lack of tired formula.  But compared to the movies playing at the same theaters as Amelie in 2001, it was merely okay.  I'd put this in the same league as Run Lola Run - fun.  If MTV would go back to playing music videos again, people might stop overrating this sort of camerawork.


                
Audrey tatou is perfect as the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely in this charming French film. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
Amelie is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
Amelie is a great French movie combining the playful and eccentric nature so often deployed by period films when they're played out for fun. Audrey tatou is perfect for the titular character and the French capital has rarely looked as lovely. This film causes a stir when it was released in 2001 and you should have a look to see why. The dark comedic element, eccentric nature of the scenes and some great acting by Tatou should encourage you to do so.


                
The film is nice, it is difficult to find too many negative points, as purely subjective.
for example, personally I did not really like the mix of lights and colors, always tending to green, red and yellow. one thing that gave me a little annoyance was the presence of some funny parts too banal and pushed. The plot was too confusing, there was, in my opinion, a real plot under particularly articulate or tenuous, that made you stay glued to the screen throughout the film. the positive points are there, but in this review I prefer to write only of my antithesis, the film is still look watchable and certainly to many pleasing to the eye.
I liked Amelie because we get to fill in the gaps in the story and the dialogue is incidental really. The story works incredibly well on a visual level. This is a postcard Paris and everything has that unreal sense about it. Its almost as if too much talk will spoil the imagery. Thankfully this never happens. It is also good that some scenes are not explained like the sequence where Lucien is practising some insults (it seems.)Watch out for the gnome. This movie is also well paced and funny as well. I liked Delicatessan from the same team but disliked City of the Lost Children so Amelie was a sweet surprise.Even though this is a highly filtered view of Paris it is a fiction that was enjoyable at the time.


                
When a film shows a style for the first time, it's a manifesto. When it comes late but shows a style in depth and with all possible variations, it's a catalogue. It's hard to imagine a cutest, more cunning and more up-to-date film. Take any sequence and you'll have a good commercial, present, past and future. The girl is the archetypal french maiden we all have see in Cacharel ads. The sequence in which the quadruple photo talks is actually an existing commercial (for the Region sardinia, check out sardinian coat of arms and you'll understand). The sequence of  the old russian movie with subtitles actually talking of something else has been overused by creatives everywhere. It's not a matter of copying, it's a matter of manipulating an enormous collage of images and situations that grows every day in communication around us. And what about the travelling dwarf (I've seen it in a children book), and the blue arrows scenes that I'm ready to swear we'll see next year in a commercial at Cannes? Not the kind of movie I'd take on a desert island, but enormously meaningful of present day cinematic art, briskly paced and entertaining.


                
"Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain" is a film with a simple plot. One may think, "All right, now we have new technology and everything, from filming to post production, so everything should be majestic, intriguing..." or whatever. Well, this film is majestic and intriguing, but not for the quantity of visual effects used (which are plenty, very well done and very well placed in a time-space and script outline), nor for the shocking or violence-based manner of filming (not present here and frequently found in many "box office hit" productions, mainly in the U.S., although this way of "dazzling" film making is starting to make its way in Europe, not without major flops or hits - unreguarding the quality of the film contents). It is the subtlety with which the film came to life which shows an alternative - but not "out of this world" - way of filming, with a plain, yet excellent script, a very moving and concise sound track made by Yann Tiersen (a young and very promising artist, as I listen!), which is always in the mood of Monmartre - and you should visit the city listening to this sound track, if you may... -, brilliant, almost surreal colors, and very good techniques either in montage or photography... as far as the technical part is concerned. As far as the script is concerned, I can only speak for myself, thinking about the endless hours I spent watching my surroundings and thinking about what people do, how they act, what brings certain thoughts to their minds, laughing at myself for having thought or done certain things, being CURIOUS... and that's what it is all about, I guess... curiosity, holding to small pieces of what we learned throughout living, having small things to protect for ourselves, small thoughts, being with one foot on the ground, and the head within clouds, and feel like everything is found, not pursued, because all things found are also part of what we wanted to find, or else they wouldn't be given the importance they have for us... all of this is touching, and Beautiful, as in "full of Beauty"... Destiny? Fate? No, it's humanity. But maybe things aren't that far apart. Turn off this computer, and maybe take a walk under the sun. And then see this film.


                
I enjoyed Amelie, with its charming cast and photography, but this is not a great movie.  It's a very European look at a withdrawn young woman who starts to break out of her shell due to complete happenstance.However, if you're looking for a diverting movie that isn't populated by violence, stupid teens, and the standard moronic American script, you can't do much worse than spend a few hours with Amelie. Heck, there's even a little quiet mayhem and not-quite-so-quiet sex in this flick. And the photography is quite interesting.


                
