The book by John Le Carre is intricate and multi layered and to attempt to film it was brave of the BBC. One wishes they had such courage these days, but that is another story. It is a television masterpiece.The acting is superb. Alec Guinness was made for the part of George Smiley. From his opening scene in a London bookshop to the last shot of his face he is mesmerising. The supporting cast are the cream of British actors at the time. Some of them only have one scene like John Standing, Beryl Reid, Joss Ackland and Nigel Stock but they become real people before your eyes. Ian Bannen as Jim Prideaux is particularly moving and Hewyl Bennett gives the performance of his life.Even the actors who don't say anything look just right. It is plainly filmed but that adds to the atmosphere. On the face of it life is normal and ordinary but beneath there is betrayal, anguish, danger and pain. The motif of Russian dolls in the opening credits is good. Dolls with faces, then one without and then an emptiness. In the end Smiley solves the mystery but the mystery of life is beyond him.The music is great,sparse but edgy. I can watch this time and again and still get something out of it.


                
There are few movies that follow the book. There is no end to the comment, "The book was so much better." There is good reason for that with some films. "The Lord of the Rings" would have been five movies if you went "by the book". Interesting and enjoyable as that might be for Tolkien fans, it was impossible for film makers. Yet, "Tailor, Tinker, Soldier, Spy" as a movie defies that axiom.Having read the book and seen the movie more than "several times", they still remain interconnected and indistinguishable. Yes, the book contains more detail, but may details are covered by innuendo, scene or background detail in the movie. Alec Guinness becomes Smiley so completely that his acting gives real meaning to the idea of a "character actor", even down to wiping his glasses with his tie. (you have to read the book for that one.)That is not to say, that Guinness is a robot and the movie is stiff in the name of faithfulness to the book, just the opposite.The movie dawns the viewer in, just as the book draws in the reader, as part of the process of discovery; unraveling the mystery. As in a true "who done it" (or as one commentator put "who is it"), the viewer has no more foreknowledge than Smiley. You are introduced to all the characters, all have reasons to be the defector, all have reasons to distrust an investigation to the past, yet only one is ferreted-out.The ending is consistent with the logic of the book and film, but, you still don't expect it. It's anti-climactic yet believable. The film, like to book, leaves one wondering how this could happen. It's thought provoking given many of the suspects comments thought-out the book/film. Both inspire thought more than resolution. The story challenges the reader/viewer to think and think well about the reasons for and purpose of spying as a whole. (The film is more English in cultural orientation, but the concept is universal, as many Americans have learned as well.)A wonderful book transformed into visual. Great acting through-out, and you really hate all the right people....


                
It is rare that an adaptation of a complex novel translates well to the small screen. Often detail is eliminated for sake of time and the plot loses aspects that are key to the real story.The team of John Le Carre and John Irvin has created what may go down as the benchmark for the Spy story mini series. In six hours of television they lay out piece by piece the background of each of the characters in a slow and gentle manner enabling the viewer to capture a sense of both the person and the time in which they are placed.Irvin permits the story to move in a 'typical English manner', with George Smiley, the principal character almost rolling along from one event to another. Alec Guinness is outstanding in this role and it seems the it was either written with him in mind or he was born for it. I suspect the later is more likely. Smiley and his quirks are key to unravelling what is a complex plot with the usual twists and turns of they spy genre.The casting of the rest of the players is equally superb with an ensemble performance by the who's who of the English stage. The goodies are all flawed people while the badies, many of who are within the British Secret Intelligence Service, are bad in the way that only the English can truly be to each other.If you enjoy Le Carre and are prepared to put in 6 hours to view the entire series you you will be richly rewarded.


                
Having just watched this film again (for about the tenth time) I am moved to say that few adaptations have brought such a well crafted book to the screen so brilliantly. Perhaps this was because the author also provided the screenplay ?The acting, direction, lighting are superb and the whole is only further enhanced by the haunting music of Burgon. The pace and suspense are every bit as thrilling as the book.One tip for lovers of this movie : try and get a copy of the follow-up, namely Smiley's People. It takes over very gently from Tinker, Tailor and leads on to the ultimate conclusion of Smiley's career.Bravo !


                
Sir Alec Guinness is so good at being George Smiley that John LeCarre claims he can no longer write the character about without seeing Guinness' face.  The supporting cast is  uniformly excellent, and the script captures the novel almost flawlessly.  It takes six hours because the story is complex and ranges over many years and many characters, but it is so well-written and acted that the any viewer with an attention span longer than that of a gnat can easily keep track of who did what and when, so that the ultimate unmasking of the traitor may be a surprise, but it is not a shock.


                
Definitely in the BBC pantheon (alongside I Claudius and Pride and Prejudice), partly for its formidable cast, but mainly for John Irvin's taut directorial grip - a model of visual economy and uncompromising narrative drive.A double-agent or 'mole' is suspected at the top levels of the British secret service and retired spymaster Alec Guiness must narrow down the suspects amongst his former colleagues.  Arthur Hopcraft's adaptation, while capturing the bureaucratic intrigue and perfidy of John Le Carre's novel, will demand viewers' utmost attention if they want to stay with the unfolding plot.Irvin shoots Tinker, Tailor as if for widescreen - edge of the screen compositions, careful background detail - and demonstrates how a determined director can overcome the limitations of television(usually seen as a writer or producer's medium).  Look at how he composes and cuts the scene where Guillam (Michael Jayston) is interrogated round the boardroom table towards the end of the first half.  How Irvin provides deft little 'bookend' shots with the characters slowly walking away from camera.Not that his sparse, pared-down style doesn't translate to action scenes with equal verve.  The prologue - Ian Bannen's abortive mission into Czechoslovakia and its climatic chase through the forest - is as tense as anything you're likely to see on the big screen.  Wintry settings and a fraught music score (mainly strings) add to this bleak, cynical vision.Irvin landed the Hollywood actioner Dogs of War on the strength of Tinker, Tailor, but despite clever touches it didn't launch a notable cinema career. Look out, however, for his earlier television adaptation of Dickens' Hard Times.  (For another example of very superior television direction, check out James Goldstone's handling of two first-season Star Trek episodes - 'Where No Man Has Gone Before' and 'What Are Little Made Of').Author Le Carre may have topped Tinker,Tailor with a dazzling sequel (The Honourable Schoolboy, published 1977), but this is still far and away the best espionage suspenser ever televised.  Indeed, it's hard to see how anything else, post Cold War, could quite match this relentless, ruthless dissection of personal and political betrayals.


                
Although not as sympathetic or achingly romantic as 'The Russia House', this stunning TV adaptation is the closest the screen has gotten to the singular world of John le Carre.  Very few writers actually become so synonymous with their age that we look to their works to find out what a period of history was like.  When we think of the Cold War, and, most especially, the shabby bureaucracy of British espionage, it is le Carre we think of.What le Carre shares with Graham Greene, making him a million miles from the priapic fantasies of James Bond, is in showing how the Cold War literally degraded everyone.  Fils like 'Ninotchka' like to show the massive disparity between the dour, repressive, monotonous Soviet Union and the glitteringly superficial, gaily materialist West.  Le Carre suggests that both sides of the Iron Curtain are merely of the same coin, at the executive level at least.  You expect to see 1980 Czechoslovakia  as a run-down, provincial dump; but this film's England reminded me of Svankmajer's 'Alice', as it details a society, a system, an ethic, a code grinding towards inertia, a world becoming increasingly closed in that it can only be jabbed into life by shocks of betrayal.This England is a pure mirror image of our stereotypes of the East - a system run by chilling, amoral men with perfect manners (the most frightening thing about the narrative is that any one of the suspects could have done it, each one has so lost any kind of basic humanity, never mind idealism, that it is almost irrelevant who the traitor is) gathering together in anonymous meeting rooms, or an endless rondelay of joyless dinners; a world of cramped, impersonal decor, generally sucked in by shadows, so that we can't even be sure it's men we see, or the flickering grin of the Cheshire Cat;  a world of men, where one of the three female characters is an absent joke until the last five minutes, another is tortured and murdered by her superiors, and the third is sacked for competence, reduced to scraping money from grinds, a paralysed, blubbing outcast; a drab world where all colour and life has been seeped out, or goes by unnoticed, where jokes are bitter and grim, where the (very Soviet) elevator disrepair signals a wider, fundamental malaise.If it's fun you want, get 'You Only Live Twice' - the action here is generated from its milieu - dank, meticulous, pedantic, slow, inexorable, unsensational.  This is where a 6 hour TV adaptation has the edge on a feature film - cramming a le Carre plot into the latter can make it seem rushed and exciting; this film brings out all its civil-service ingloriousness superbly (although the figure of Karla is a little too SMERSHy for my tastes).Bill Hayden says you can tell the soul of a nation from its intelligence service, and this film, despite the go-getting yuppie 80s or the success of heritage TV ('Jewel in the Crown', 'Brideshead Revisited') is perhaps the closest representation of a kind of soul, public school, Oxbridge, Whitehall, male.  In equating this world with impotence and sterility (Smiley is childless), the material errs in equating homosexuality as the ultimate, literal inversion, a closing in, of minds, spirit etc.But the metaphor of the betrayed friendship as representative of a wider betrayal is less a corny contrivance than an indication of how fundamentally incestuous this world is.  These men slipping in and out of shadows are ghosts, fighting a war that doesn't exist, nitpicking over irrelevant ideological puzzles that have lost all meaning.  The 'good' guys are no better than the bad - Peter Guillam, though dogged and loyal, is little more than a thug; Ricky Tarr is new yuppie incarnate in all his cocky repulsiveness.Smiley, marvellously essayed by Alec Guinness - more obviously sharper than in the book, Hercules cleaning out the Aegean stables - loses even the barest traces of humanity, with vast reserves of calculated sadism and bureaucratic immorality, his thick glasses seeing all the detail and none of the big picture.  Smiley needs the rules of the game more than anyone; without them he is left adrift in life, and the stupendous final shot shows how deeply that defeats him.Unusually for TV, this is a film of rare visual imagination, not in the mistakenly flashy, spuriously 'cinematic' sense beloved of ambitious tyros, but in its exploration of the medium's claustrophobia, as it traps its protagonists, in particular the way the camera's point of view chillingly suggests somebody else looking on, spying on the spies, making everything we see provisional, especially the flashbacks, which elide as much as they reveal.


                
I can only add to the other comments:  this is a superb film.  It is absolute proof that a TV mini-series can stand beside the best cinema films with honor.  I have rarely paid $7.00 for just 87 minutes of anything this good.  If I could vote on it, it would get a 9.  The writing is rich; the acting, excellent; the theme, deep; the technical quality only slightly inhibited by a presumably small budget.  When I consider the BBC's obsession with the mass market peddling of dull costume dramas, I cannot understand why this astringent tragedy is not available, at least in the US, on video or DVD. In about 20 years, this will have the sort of mythic reputation given to lost or damaged movies of the teens and twenties--more deservedly than most of them.


                
The BBC is to be commended for making 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' (as well as 'Smiley's People') into fine adaptations for television. Being very familiar with all three of the 'Karla' novels I have a few, very minor, quibbles as to casting and editing, but nothing that gets in the way of great enjoyment of the finished product.Guinness was born to play Smiley, as others have already noted. I can't get enough of his laconic humor and monk-like habits. Simply with subtle, hardly discernible facial expressions, Guinness intimates vividly the mysterious, dangerous past Smiley has endured... and all the vile things he's had to do in the cause of, as he would put it, what is Right. Alexander Knox is fabulous as the "little serpent" Control, "No man's child" as Smiley's says of him. There are other "perfectly" cast parts in this adaptation. Anthony Bate's smarmy, infuriating Lacon is absolutely hateful at his every appearance, just as he is supposed to be; a sign of the masterful nuance of Mr Bate's performance. I also like Bernard Hepton's Toby Esterhase, though he exhibits more humor than the character actually possesses in the book.. but what a fine actor he is.Michael Aldridge plays Percy Alleline as an exquisite, bureaucratic boob who will do anything, in the modern political way, to get to the top, purely for ego reasons. I also found Ian Richardson's Bill Hayden to be a fine fit between actor and character. Some of the smaller roles are done very well too. Fawn, played by one Alec Sabin, is the spitting (mental) image of the character as described in the book. A quiet, diminutive killer.All of the acting is first rate but the actors are often a far cry from the physical descriptions in the books. Beryl Reid is wonderful as Connie Sachs, though not LARGE enough. Her scene is so fore-shortened in the film script that it hardly matters anyway. The same can be said of Ian Bannen who turns in perhaps my favorite performance in the whole thing, after Guinness's Smiley. But Bannen does not fit the description of Jim Prideaux very closely. However he is fully inside the character of the poor man he's portraying that it hardly matters if his hair is the wrong color. The only bit of miscasting (in my opinion) was that of Michael Jayston as Peter Guillam. Jayston is too po-faced and humorless, overplaying the underlying traumatic neurosis Guillam has endured in his career. Jayston's limitations stand out slightly next to his co- horts but he's good enough to hold his own, up to a point. And he does rise to the occasion when the part demands something more substantial from his character, but Michael Byrne, the Peter Guillam in 'Smiley's People', seems much more in line with LeCarré's character from the books. The great disappointment of the 'Smiley' series is that the BBC balked at filming in Hong Kong, choosing instead Lisbon. It works but it would have been so much better as LeCarré originally envisioned the story. By the same token it is a great loss to our lives that they skipped 'The Honourable Schoolboy' altogether, choosing to jump ahead to 'Smiley's People'. I assume that filming in Hong Kong (primarily), Vientiene, Bangkok, Phnom Pehn and Saigon was financially too daunting. A great shame all the same, especially when they had such a fine Jerry Westerby as Joss Ackland in 'Tinker, Tailor...' In sum... the Smiley mini-series is a keeper to watch again and again.


                
I wish that the producers could have dealt with the issue of Smiley's marriage in a more satisfactory way. This is the only criticism that I can think of: that Guiness had to put on the same face about a dozen times whenever Ann's name was mentioned.That said, I believe this is the best television that I have ever seen. There is a pervasive feeling of solemnity throughout, reinforced by the several tragic characters, the invisible backdrop of the cold war and the ineffably beautiful and solemn signature theme. This is a story about spies. It is also a story about humanity.POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW. As to the acting, note the masterful way that Guiness uses his spectacles throughout the series. Note Michael Aldridge's (Alleline) timing between Ian Richardson's tea and biscuit fiddling and calling the meeting to order in Episode Three. Just the right touch. In a really good movie you get those serendipidous unforgetable moments. Here there is no serendipidy. It is all just brilliant and inspired acting. Note Richardson's simultaneous laughing and crying.I have read all of LeCarre's spy novels through 'The Honourable Schoolboy' and have read Tinker Tailor several times. This series is not just true to the novel, it is also 'of the LeCarre spirit'. You get the feeling that the man who told you the story is now revealing the characters to you visually. Read the book and then see this series and you will see what I mean.
I first saw Tinker Tailor twenty years ago. When I found out that it is available on DVD, I used all of my powers of persuation to convince my wife to make this my Christmas present. We have sat through it twice since then and after I blast this review off into the ether, I am going downstairs for another go at it. It is a jewel.
This is not your usual spy / action story, . . .this is a story of ordinary men within an extra-ordinary world that few, if any, of us will ever be exposed to.This is a thinking person's film, there are no setups, no story voice overs, you are required to really "watch" this story as it unfolds.This story is an exploration of desire, anger, hatred, fear and respect, . . .it is a story of belief and manipulation, it is NOT James Bond.This is "The Spy Who Came In From The Cold" many, many years later, after a bitterness and loss have become a way of life.This is one of the best films you will ever see.


                
Although it helps to love John le Carre's novels, particularly those set during the Cold War, this series and its sequel, "Smiley's People," should be seen for their quality, which may be unsurpassed by anything on television before or since. Alec Guiness as George Smiley is the principal attraction, of course. He could do more with an eyebrow or a subtle change of expression than most actors can do with their entire bodies and vocal skills. But these two series are also distinguished by casts that are superior from top to bottom, products of the Royal Shakespeare Company and other British companies and academies. Ian Richardson is the best known member of this particular cast, other than Guiness himself, and he does an absolutely remarkable job. "Tinker, Tailor..." also offers the first glimpse of Patrick Stewart as "Karla," Smiley's chief antagonist, a leading figure in "Smiley's People." Americans used to see BBC films as part of the "Masterpiece Theatre" series on PBS, sometimes on "Mystery," another PBS staple. And the BBC is still turning out remarkable work. But "Tinker, Tailor..." and "Smiley's People" are unsurpassed -- complex, brilliantly plotted with characters (and not just Smiley) who challenge actors to do their very best work. While many of John le Carre's novels have been made into feature films (some of them quite good), they lend themselves better to the series mode, which allows for more detailed exposition and fuller development of character. They may be great literature (as le Carre's admirers insist) or polished pot boilers (as his critics argue), but they make for wonderful television. And you come away from these two series with the conviction that Smiley was MADE for Alec Guiness, that no one alive (or dead) could have done half as well.


                
The set is an office on an ordinary London morning, in the mid seventies. Four men enter,once at a time, four members of the highest British intelligence and sit at a table. We do not know their names but their attitudes ,wether nonchalant, overeager, or plain indifferent are already a clear illustration of their characters Then one of them claims "Right, now we shall start". And hence starts one of the most fascinating spy movies ever made , let alone on TV.Adapted very faithfully from John Le Carré wonderful book, TTSS is about betrayal, loss, difficulties to understand each other, disillusions, and thus succeeds in overcoming its genre. The Circus (codename for MI6) represents a small society with its human tragedies, its political compromises, its hierarchy corruptions. I'll add this is also incredibly riveting and entertaining, full of witty and tongue -in- cheek humor even in the darkest of situations. The action is not the main thing here, that's why some viewers might find it slow, but it's definitely not absent either. There are a few danger- explicit scenes ,although most of the time, danger is implied rather than showed: in a terse search among forbidden documents, a clandestine meeting, an evocation of painful memories. There is also a very subtle but very moving drama, in the exposing of various and broken lives; in which a look, or an apparently innocent word , may play an important partThe story really begins with two events set about a year apart: in the first, Control, the old chief of the Circus suspects there's a traitor (a "mole") among his closest collaborators and sends Prideaux, a reluctant yet loyal agent, to investigate about it. But Prideaux gets shot in the back in Czecho, in a apparent trap from Moscow Centre. In the second event, late Control has been replaced by Percy Allelline, when the mole theory comes out again with a British agent learning by chance that Karla, a high officer of Moscow Centre, has settled one of his most reliables sources right in the Circus headquarters. Yet who can spy on the spies? The answer is George Smiley, a middle aged agent who's been fired from MI6 after Control's death. Forced to go back on the field by a Whitehall representant, he begins investigating, reading old files, meeting old friends remembering the past and its deep buried secrets that some people, including himself would like to be able to forget.One of the most lovable aspects of this film, apart from the beautiful sets - from sunny Lisbonne to gray London's streets and pictorial English countryside- and the fine, atmospheric music by Geoffrey Burgon, is simply the characters; how they are described, directed and acted. They are numerous yet unique, each of them unforgettable in his own way. My personal favorites are: George Smiley, the little old man lost in the crowd who turns out to be a terrific watcher and listener, the apparently harmless witness who fights to get the truth; Alec Guiness, who was really Smiley, gives him wit, warmth and sensitivity, particularly in the way he reacts to his wife's unfaithfulness, and the mocking he gets from people about it. Also, Jim Prideaux, the brave, suspicious but desperately loyal agent broken down by betrayal and torture, who becomes a school master after his coming back to England. The fith episode, in which Prideaux relates his captivity to Smiley , told from biting irony, to irrepressible pain, is one of the most powerful moments of the series. Ian Bannen was just amazing in this part. But there are also other noteworthy characters; a frustrated fortyish agent who has still to learn to grow up, Peter Guillam (Michael Jayston), an alcoholic Head of research with an incredible memory, who's been fired but hates the real world and only loves the Circus, Connie Sachs ( Beryl Reid), an incompetent upstart full of himself, Percy Allelline ( Michael Alridge), a cynical dilettante with charm and charisma, Bill Haydon ( Ian Richardson), a Hungarian immigrant who has suffered from his colleagues's xenophobia and overacts his British behavior, Toby Esterhase ( Bernard Hepton), a pompous yet smarter than he looks Cabinet Secretary, Oliver Lacon ( Anthony Bate), a womanizer, streetwise little spy who gets hurt, Ricky Tarr ( Hywell Bennet), a bureaucrat from lower classes turned skeptical by too much hard work and not enough promotion, Roy Bland (Terence Rigby) a Russian agent completely devoted to his cause we never hear talking, Karla ( Patrick Stewart), an elusive, ever fascinating wife, Ann Smiley (Sîan Phillips), a tired but reconciled Russian agent, Irina (Susan Kodicek), a mysterious, taciturn, dying Boss, Control ( Alexander Knox)... TTSS is probably the most faithful adaptation ever: those who have read the novel by Le Carré will find back his terse sense of narration, colorful dialog and ultimate bitterness. Though ending with the discover - and death- of the mole, it is by no means a successful tale à la James Bond. The characters have been confronted to the shock of their deepest values, forced to look at an unpleasant truth, to discuss their principles, and to cut off definitely with their youth's ideals - symbolized by the Oxford drawing of the end titles, where most of the characters were recruited during the thirties. And in the case of Smiley and Prideaux, to cut off with a love they had once given everything to. When Ann claims to her husband, in the end, that "life's such a puzzle"to him, it seems no one has succeeded in solving it. The mystery of deceiving and trust will remain as deep as ever. And I'll remain watching this great TV series, as exciting and human as any story should be, until the end of my life.
Le Carré says on the DVD interview that this production "came as near to my imagining as any film has come" -- and he's had eleven. He says that after Alec Guinness was signed up, getting the rest of the cast was easy: "We could empty the National Theatre and the Royal Shakespeare Company." It shows. Some of the best, most subtle, believable, and faithful acting I've ever seen.One example: Alexander Knox was not my mental image of Control (I pictured someone more like the 70-year-old Joss Ackland), but he was fantastic. He plays a secretive, brilliant man whose mind is declining when he needs it most. The camera stays on him silently for what seems like minutes as he tries to make sense of a catastrophic betrayal. No groans or sighs, just real fear in his eyes; he seems to fight the urge to burst into tears. I could watch his scenes over & over. (And have.)[Possible spoilers for those who've read the novel & want to be surprised by any differences]Bernard Hepton is also terrific. His Toby Esterhase doesn't speak in the zigzagging, English-as-a-fourteenth-language manner of the novels' Toby, but as if he were a native Brit. I assume this was due to the clear impression that Toby is treated as an inferior by the other spies and the creators didn't want to make the British spies seem merely xenophobic, just dreadfully classist. Despite the de-colorized language, Hepton's Toby is wonderful. His interrogation by Smiley is a scene worth watching again & again, also.The only miss in the whole 5 1/2 hours is perhaps Mendel (played by George Sewell). The TV Mendel was compressed from 2 characters in the novel (Mendel & MacFadean) and in the process, I think, lost all personality. Mendel is now a silent, well-dressed, apparently brilliant spy, not a lonely, old, bachelor cop. He has no imaginable history, no wrinkles, no flavor. He's like the nameless FBI agents who come in at the end of a B movie to take the bad guy away. This character-combining also leads to a couple of plot holes (submitted).Other than Toby's ironed-out speech, Arthur Hopcraft lifted most of the dialog verbatim from the novel. A few new lines (as when Peter surprises George at his house) are perfectly in keeping with le Carré's style and even add to the characters' depth. The novel's timeline was compressed from 18 to 6 months, which leads to a few discontinuities (also submitted), but it still works.The 1982 sequel SMILEY'S PEOPLE is visually brighter and has a simpler plot. Sort of a 'Tinker Lite', but in some ways I enjoyed it more. It also has great performances.
This is real class. Everything about this is superb - source material, adaptation, acting, even the music. The acting is especially wonderful: totally convincing with not a dud note anywhere. As pointed out by many others, Alec Guinness IS George Smiley. If you see the TV series before reading the book, then it's impossible to think of the Smiley character in any other way than as played by Guinness.This is how I imagine the espionage world to be - painstaking research, surveillance and investigation, interspersed with occasional moments of high excitement. James Bond it ain't. Boring? Not a bit of it, unless all you want is minimal plot and maximum 'action'.In this age of dumbed down TV, I don't think we'll ever see the like again on the BBC. So savour it.


                
Since I first saw Tinker Tailor in 1980 on Public Television in the USA, I have wanted to see it again and again. It remains one of the best adaptations of LeCarre, and the best mystery filmed.Recently I was able to order the PAL version from Black Star video in the UK, and have it converted. It was a lot of money but worth every penny -- A Christmas present to myself.Guinness gives one of his greatest performances, and the rest of the cast, especially Beryl Reid, Ian Bannen and Ian Richardson, more than hold their own against him. As another viewer said, it is a terrible shame it is not available in the US. I hope that changes some day.I have a web site for Alec Guinness that IMdb had kindly linked to their page on him, and I plan soon to add a review there of both Tinker Tailor and Smiley's People. Bravo to all concerned for both series.


                
I do understand the folks here who don't appreciate this series. It was a product of its time and, what a product. All the things that make it so difficult for a wider audience - sedate pace, lack of action, etc are all intrinsic to its construction.Le Carre wanted the world to know - guess what? Being a spy is a job and it's largely just as dull as being a bank manager or anything else. It's bureaucracy, internecine feuding and bloated ego's getting in the way. What action does occur tends to be fast, unpleasant, confusing and immediately smoothed over... Smiley is so brilliant because he has no ambition beyond getting the job done and only academic interest in the power plays of others. This is a spy movie for chess players.How a new film version is going to deal with this I shudder to think. If Smiley starts shooting at people I'm off.


                
I originally watched this on television in the late 1970's and was enthralled. This was the book come to life and every one of the actors seemed perfect for their roles.Later on I bought the series on video and have now moved to DVD as the tape is worn out. I can watch this time and again as the plots and characters develop without the need for gadgetry and elaborate action scenes. This is the best of BBC drama and I cannot recommend it too highly.The sequel, "Smiley's People", follows on like an old friend you lost touch with for a few years. Everybody looks a little bit more crumpled round the edges but, underneath everything, they are the same.As a child of the cold war, these two series capture the period quite perfectly.


                
`Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' was wonderful.  It is finally out on DVD and I've rewatched it.  I am a fan of John Le Carré's book and I've read TTSS several times.  The show's characterizations were spot on.   The cast headed by Alec Guinness was superb.  One of my favorites was Joss Ackland as Jerry Westerby.  I wish they would have made `The Honorable Schoolboy' into a series starring him.   He would have been great.    The TTSS series is an example of a perfectly made miniseries.   I cannot read the books without picturing the characters as they were portrayed in this series.  Maybe someone will think about putting Len Deighton's `Game, Set, and Match' out on DVD.   Two quintessential portrayals of spies, other than the James Bond types, are Alec Guinness as George Smiley and Ian Holm as Bernard Samson.


                
Although more schematic than its marvelous sequel, Smiley's People, and carrying less emotional weight, the BBC adaptation of John LeCarre's Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, which aired in the colonies on PBS, is still superb. As purely a suspense piece, Tinker, Tailor actually wins by a nose. Although hints are dropped throughout, and are fun to see after the initial viewing, the outcome remains up in the air until the climax. This was never quite the case in Smiley's People. There, the suspense was delivered by other means and played a lesser role in the overall plot. One requirement for really appreciating Tinker,Tailor might be having lived through at least some of the Cold War. This will allow one to read more between the lines as it is there that the story really lives and breathes. Barring that, even post-Cold War mystery fans will relate well to Tinker,Tailor, Soldier, Spy.As in Smiley's People, George Smiley, now and forever in the minds of most John Le Carre aficionados Sir Alec Guiness, is no longer with British Intelligence, termed by Le Carre `The Circus', although the plot periodically flashes back to times when he was still active. Smiley did not actually retire but was sacked from his post as head of personnel, despite his long and meritorious service. Smiley's dismissal had nothing to do with the performance of his duties but was the result of a manipulation of truly remarkable elegance, orchestrated by the Dracula of espionage, the Soviet spy master, Karla. The Soviets may have failed to produce a viable nation but could they ever spy. They punched so many holes in the American nuclear weapons program that it ended up looking like a screen door. In this vein, Le Carre fashioned an espionage that almost takes the breath away with its beauty and scope.Spying is, apparently, like playing the stock market. To profit, one must usually be in for the long term. On the eve of WW II, while still a junior intelligence officer, Karla recruited an Oxford student who eventually became one of the half-dozen senior officers in the Cold War-era Circus. Once in place, Karla's recruit, Soviet code-name Gerald, proceeded to eat the organization alive from the inside out. The head of the Circus, known only by the designation `Control' (played wonderfully by Alexander Knox) was subjected to a particularly cruel manipulation; a ploy driven by a profoundly cynical understanding of human nature. Even more sphinx-like than Smiley himself, Control had been detecting markers of Karla's intricate scheme for months and had narrowed the mole's identity to five senior officers. To stop him, Karla fashioned a set-up in the form of an offer that Control could simply not refuse. Control's necessarily unsanctioned operation to exploit the offer failed catastrophically. Of course, it never had a chance. Control, disgraced, was forced out, taking with him Smiley who, as Control's most trusted ally, was found guilty by association and also banished. When the dust settled, Karla had the West's two most effective intelligence services, The British, and through them, the American, working for him. Anyone who might have put the pieces together is either out or dead. The Circus is gutted but does not really know what has hit it. Control is replaced by a politcally astute but otherwise incompetent functionary whom Karla had been priming as a superstar by providing him with bogus intelligence lightly salted with just enough real value to make it stick. But when a resourceful, low-level field agent (Hywel Bennet), thought to have defected, turns up in Britain with solid evidence pointing to the existence of the mole, thereby validating Control's long-term suspicions, Smiley, the sole remanent of the old order who can be trusted, is called in to `spy on the spies'.Here, the incomparable, dialog-driven, Le Carre plot engine begins its juggernaut roll as Smiley goes to work. Like Smiley's People, the story proceeds as a series of superbly written and acted one-on-one encounters. Included in these is a fascinating flashback in which Karla (Patrick Stewart, yes the Jean-Luc Picard guy) and Smiley actually meet. Tinker, Tailor doesn't wear its heart as much on its sleeve as does Smiley's People and has an almost clinical quality, at least on the surface. Once Smiley understands that the mole is real, he seems to know that he will eventually unmask him. Smiley simply connects the dots, moving ahead like a snowplow. The beauty resides in his meticulous process. For Smiley, the truth is absolutely out there, just out of sequence. The acting, set against the production's shadowy, gray-scale backgrounds, is flawless. The two tragic figures, Control, and the agent Jim Prideaux, the other pawn in Karla's game (Ian Bannen; his final role was the leprous Scottish nobleman in Braveheart) are especially good and provide this very cool production with its beating heart. Tinker, Tailor is not a Whodunit but rather a Whoisit; a classic mystery with the added cachet of espionage and is one of the very best things to have ever appeared on television. It's bloody good stuff, old chap, like the best single-malt you ever sipped.


                
John Le Carre's early spy novels were sparse affairs: his later books, rather overblown and clichéd. But in the mid-1970s, he wrote the best novels of his career, and 'Tinker Tailer Soldier Spy' was perhaps the best of them all: at heart, a character study of his long-time enigmatic protagonist George Smiley, wrapped in a detective story itself wrapped in an espionage thriller. It also made one of the best television series ever made. The spirit of Le Carre's material is utterly respected; the screenwriters were unafraid to construct an essentially talkative script, with only moments of "action" in the conventional sense; the music and lighting are both excellent; but above all else, a superb cast was assembled to fill the lead roles. Much is rightly made of Alec Guinness' brilliant performance as the quiet, meticulous Smiley: every gesture or intonation speaks a thousand words. But this was also one of Ian Richardson's best works as well, he literally steals every scene he appears in as Bill Hayden, Smiley's old colleague and adversary. Hayden is a very clever man, but Richardson's portrayal of him is no less clever. Although in some senses the themes of this story: the cold war, and England's post-war loss of confidence, may no longer seem as relevant as they once did, you'll rarely see a more riveting piece of television. And having seen it, when you watch a modern drama, with it's slick dialogues and high-paced editing, you'll have a sense of something lost as well as something gained.


                
It's an extraordinarily faithful adaptation, although there is a change of tone: scenes that are only related post the event are actually dramatized here, which lends the series an interesting measure of toughness that I dare say isn't to be found in the original novel. We see somewhat less of Jim Prideaux and rather more of Ricki Tarr and Roy Bland, which emphasizes the action/mystery aspects a bit more -- though there is still plenty of ruminations about the nature of betrayal.A fine cast all around with Guinness and Ian Richardson at career highs: Richardson is especially fine in the tough role of Bill Haydon. Seems to have been mostly shot on location, which gives the production an aura of authenticity: they must've spent a bundle on it. An unsparing adaptation that will cut the viewer no slack: it'll help if you know something about Le Carre's world before you venture inside. I'm not sure how accessible it'll be to novices. To fans of the book, though, this is a must-see.
I've lost count over how many times I've watched this brilliant adaptation of John Le Carre's novel. Each time I watch it I find something new to marvel over. Guinness was perfectly cast for the role of George Smiley, and seemed to play the part almost effortlessly. The rest of the cast are also superb.Audiences initially found the film slow, baffling or indeed boring. But the truth is that the life of a spy is so far removed from the 'James Bond' image that a more down-beat approach was needed to tackle the adaptation. It is through this film that we realise that the creation of George Smiley is a work of pure genius, and Guinness so perfectly portrays this, simply dominating every scene.The plot seems quite simple at first, but as I have watched and re-watched the work (and read the novel) I realise that it is much more complex than it seems.In conclusion, a first class cast giving superb performances throughout. Dominating the entire film is Alec Guinness, who deservedly won the BAFTA for best actor.


                
I hired this from our library, and was agog. I saw the latter half of Tinker in 1980 when it was televised and always wished I had seen the whole thing. Now that I am older, I have developed a real interest in espionage, and consequently, rented the video set. The cast list is simply unbelieveable. The BBC could at that time, get so many big names together to do a major series, see for example "I Claudius". Sadly, the BBC today is a shadow of its former glory, and we in the UK have to either watch the old shows and dream, or watch the BBC in the present and be so disillusioned. I prefer the former. I can't pick out any performance in particular, because everyone was marvelous. Ian Richardson, who I have always admired, from seeing him as Neuheim in "Private Schulz", is possibly the very best, if I *have* to choose. If you are in any way interested in spying, or just love a really good intelligent thriller, this is for you.


                
I sat in a marathon run with my DVD player heated and spinning off its blinker, chewing nervously on cigarettes, mimicking the habits of the characters on screen. It was a particularly dreary night, and I couldn't have imagined a better way to spend six full hours of my life and strangely enough it was glued to a television. This film would have rated a perfect ten on the IMDb, with only positive comments if it wasn't for a few kids who might have accidentally been forced to sit through it with their le Carre obsessed fathers, it is as flawless a masterpiece as I've ever seen, or ever will see. Smiley of course is a household name among cold war enthusiasts, history buffs and anybody who ever paid any close attention to Alec Guinness's career post Star Wars will always see him as Smiley, and only Smiley.. it was the performance of a lifetime, to last a million lifetimes...
