The DVD which I've just acquired serves to inform and/or remind, depending on one's age, just how good the BBC once was at 'literary' adaptations. The actual 'action' and/or violence occupies at most a tenth of the 315 minutes running time which is eloquent testimony to 1) the source material, a novel by John Le Carre who, like Raymond Chandler before him, is a 'real' writer whose subject happens to be crime and espionage respectively and 2) the acting, led by Alec Guiness as Smiley, head and shoulders above the supporting cast, none of whom are to be sneezed at and include Michael Jayston, George Sewell, Hywel Bennet, Patrick Stewart and Sian Phillips. With The Spy Who Came In From The Cold, this represents the cream of Le Carre adaptations.
I traversed to this series in a descending order - I saw the 2011 film adaptation and was impressed with the plot and the presentation. I went on to read(I rarely read novels) the novel and found it captivating. After years, I decided to watch this series. I couldn't help but compare this series with the film and the original book.The star cast is apt and the performances are solid. Except Roy Bland, I vividly recall every character and their countenances, personas. The bleak English climate, the somber and choking atmosphere in the Circus and the lives of the people involved, the no-nonsense portrayal of the events, a non-invasive background score are a perfect treat. One can actually feel the emotions and the tension e.g: when Control learns about the disaster, his face reflects 'All is lost'.The series does leave us desiring. While some techniques like checking for the 'baby sitters', delivering secret messages by hand etc. are depicted, how the spies evade surveillance, the transistor sound used by Smiley in the hotel(read this in the book) to avoid eavesdropping and so on could have been covered, even at the expense of adding another episode.To summarize, this is a series not to be missed, especially, if espionage is your interest.


                
After 34 years I've finally got round to watching this highly acclaimed UK BBC TV series, and saw all 7 episodes in one day too. Was it because so many people over the years had recommended it to me as something special, or was it because I was being held as an immobile prisoner to gout in front of the TV? Either way I thoroughly enjoyed this doleful meander through 1970's British high politics.Ex secret agent Alec Guinness is called upon by top brass to unmask the top traitorous mole in the Russians pay in the British secret service, he does it his way with a little laconic help from agent Michael Jayston and a lot of cynical opposition from his old bigwig friends in the service. It's a lot more complicated than that of course, and it's the unfolding story itself that counts for me, not the supposed denouement which is as flat as last years rice pudding. The character interplay, although sometimes laboured and obvious is wondrous to behold – what a bleak and dreary world it successfully conjures up for us now. They were simply crying out for smartphones and scanners to be invented. Guinness was as impeccable as he was in Last Holiday from 30 years before, the omnipresent Jayston perfect as a sidekick – has he ever spoken in a non-documentary voice? It would have been nice for George Sewell and Joss Ackland to have had a few extra minutes each, though as the series repeatedly indicates nothing and no one is perfect. But even Hywel Bennett turned in a good performance in here! The camera work was stark and static capturing the talky bitterness precisely.So what does someone who's never going to read the book or even interested in mundane espionage make of it all? I forced myself to stay awake through parts of the first episode but soon found the rest of the series to be totally engrossing stuff – therefore try to stay with it. The way all the civil servants were two or three-faced and the civil service routinely requiring and arranging meetings to discuss anything rings very true. I find it amusing to think that all the niggling bigwigs depicted in Tinker presumably drew large salaries and amidst all their cloak and dagger doings would've still had the time to check their payslips were correct every month. That the rival capitalist countries of the world including Britain and the USSR could expend such vast sums of money on such a pointless industry, and still do, beggars belief.What a shame UK BBC can't make TV mini-series as good as this any more.


                
This is very much a piece from its day, 1979. For modern viewers the clash of sour violin notes and off kilter pipes, the soundscape, particularly to those points of tension, will be too far away in time. For older viewers who grew up to classical versions of soundscapes it won't bother. It is nicely restrained, and may not be such a hurdle. Similarly the action is only given here as very rare highlights, and even the classic English dialogue can be hard to follow if one doesn't quickly make a note of the names of each player as introduced. If you've read the book and want to see a video version then this one is probably better than the modern movie. I grew up in England and can attest that this adaption is probably close to the aristocratic nature of civil services of that time. The locations match the action, such as it is, dank and dark and full of secrets, and, even if it is a bleak version of England, it does ring true, and if you are interested in the period then this show would be a plus. It tends to paint backwards to the 1960s rather than forwards. Tinker is a marvel intellectually, and all the stellar cast do it great justice, and if there is such a thing as English noir, then this would have to be it.


                
I've read the book three times, so when I found the DVD pack at the public library, I just had to try it. I wasn't disappointed, although I wished for a little more inspiration, a bit more risk-taking on the part of the writers and director. The dialogue you read in the book finds its way almost invariably into the film, so there is a certain feeling of deja-vu.Alec Guinness fits the part of Smiley very well, but he makes hardly any impression on me. His performance may be called clinical. Michael Jayston as Guillam is nervy and sometimes angry; he convinces me he is a dedicated agent. Bernard Hepton as the foppish Esterhase has some wonderful scenes. Alexander Knox gives a moving portrayal of Control, a man who has kept on doing his job long after he should have been pensioned off. The best work is done by Michael Aldridge; his Alleline is so pompous and tiresome you wonder why nobody has beaten his head in with a poker.


                
this i an all time classic TV series but it certainly needs a couple of viewings if you really want to get into the story. i would certainly recommend reading the books as they give an insight into the TV series.of course Alec Guiness was superb as George Smiley and the entire series was stuffed full of British actors, including star trek's Patrick Stuart. this is a wonderful story which really brings the Cold War into vivid perspective, especially the situation with the Eastern Block. the plot was absolutely supreme and is a decent intellectual spy series which is so far from Ian Flemming's James Bond. this is certainly well worth watching if you enjoy being intellectually stretched, of which there is so little on TV at the moment. not all Drama has to be laid out on a plate and this certainly adheres to that. if you enjoy this series then you must watch the other one, Smiley's People. i would only say that the one drawback of this series is that as soon as the characters are given their code-names i simply can't remember what they are!


                
I had not heard about this series until the film with the same name was screened in 2011 - and that I liked a lot. Now, years later, I took the time and opportunity to watch this that was a kind of basis. Although the series seems slow at times and around 10% of each episode are dedicated to credit titles, the thrill is there, with several distinct performances (particularly Alec Guinness as George Smiley/"Beggarman"), but overall quality and outdated aspect ratio do not enable to enjoy the series "in modern manner", and the 2011 film excelled at the cast and screenplay. Luckily, I did not remember well the Russian spy´s name who was hunted, so I could follow the series in full (I am not a man who is eager to compare books and productions, focusing on determining the similarities and mismatches).


                
If I was asked to run a film class, this would be one of the paramount examples I would use. This in conjecture with the recent film adaptation. The exercise for the students would be to look for the controls.Just to get this out of the way first, this is an excellent production that comes with all the staples of BBC and the British narrative tradition in general; good old-fashioned storytelling, superb acting, reliance on allegory, attention to the nuances of character and dialogue. The works. So if you are looking to be told a great story, you have no reason to miss this. The added appeal is that you may have fun unraveling the allegory about 20th century Britain, faded glories, regret, self-pity, tatters of moral and social despair, etc. A Britain that looks every bit as we were told was on the other side of the Curtain, pallid shambles. But this comment is in conjecture with the recent film adaptation which I recently saw and was deeply impressed by. Playing both over the course of several days, I was struck by how far our cinematic devices have come. The story is as gripping in both cases. The structure as well. The whole point is that we are a chess pawn in a game between opposing forces of massive infrastructure and cunning ruthlessness, and try with each new move to apprehend the controls of this game and world. Our effort is to rise to the level where unseen a highly complex narrative is being tinkered and tailored.The world of difference between this and the film is the level of abstraction that permeates the story. This one is fine. We just have to be patient as the various pieces click into place for us. But the film, I maintain the film to be in another league. Watching that is not enough, in fact many viewers have been completely puzzled after a first viewing. We have to be the spy to make it work, actively so.Nothing better illustrates this difference than this very simple import. Here we get to see Karla. There we have to piece together his image controlling from afar. I believe this transference of the manipulator out of frame so only the strings leading there remain visible was taken from the second Mabuse film Fritz Lang did back in '33.So exactly because a lot of story has been trimmed or condensed that we need to unravel in a short time; because each of the many points-of-view that together form the overall picture are not sourced out to us in a different episode; because the rationales behind the whole sordid enterprise are not cleanly recapped after every episode, or the many justifications delved into with so much clarity; so exactly because this one is complicated but clean and orderly whereas the other is muddled and abstract, you will have to see like a spy to absorb it. You have to shift your own gears there.They go into more detail in the TV series about this, in the Lisbon segment. The shift in the gears of watching that a spy must perform. He needs to be able to see everything while remaining effectively unseen in plain sight. This is something that deeply interests me in connection with meditation. So for clean, gripping storytelling come to this. Save the film for when you decide to really cultivate an abstract eye. Taken together they make for indispensable viewing in my estimation and one of the best exercises developed from film noir. Each one has its own strengths, it's just a matter of how you overlap with the world as a viewer.


                
