Is it me, or is Viggo REALLY over-acting in this film? I found his portrayal of Tony to be a one-note caricature of a numb nutted Itailian slob. Not only that, but the whole movie was like a bad TV movie. And that description no longer holds up because it's Television (specifically cable television) where all the truly great storytelling takes place now. The writing in this film was trite at best, and overly dramatic at worst. This is the second movie starring Viggo I couldn't stand. The other film was, The History Of Violence. Not sure I will pay to see another one of his films.


                
Couldn't watch this beyond the 50 minute mark. No chemistry between the leads and their dialogue felt scripted and forced.


                
They keep trying to redempt the white guy the whole movie. Also funny how a Nick Vallelonga's tweet came up supporting Trump and Muslims banishment, even though the star of his movie is Mahershala, a Muslim. By the way, Mahershala is one of the few good things about the movie.


                
How did this film even get considered for an Oscar? This is low grade pap, unchallenging, unbeleivable, dull and so cliched its difficult to believe a fine actor like Mortensen would get involved. And why cast a Scandinavian as a Bronx Italian? Mahershala Ali has done himself no favours either creating a cartoonish 'sophisticate', though the hand doubling during his piano playing was impressive. This is heavy handed populism, shallow and self-righteously preaching, reducing a complex social struggle to simple stereotypes. The cinema landscape of 2018 must be very lacking for this to be lauded as it is. But then in reality it is not, with Masterpieces like Roma on display, its just that the Oscars is not really as important as it would like to be.


                
I had high expectations based on the positive reviews but was quite disappointed.The story had a good potential to explore a relationship between a sophisticated black pianist who employs a white working class driver as they travel through the US south in the sixties. They have seemingly nothing in common, from the way they were brought up, the way they speak and eat, their family backgrounds and financial situations, their way of treating other people. As they spend time together on the road trip, they start to appreciate each other and learn from each other.What bothered me was that the characters ended up being caricatures instead of being believable. The film tries to depict their differences to the point that it did not make sense. For example, we are supposed to believe that a black musical genius pianist never heard of Aretha Franklin or Little Richard? Or that he never tried fried chicken? I also thought that Viggo Mortensen was slightly over-acting.... The racial problems were not depicted in an authentic way.The movie just received an Oscar nomination for Best Picture, likely because of the social commentary and not because of great film-making.


                
The whole time I was watching this I kept thinking of Driving Miss Daisy. I think the Academy will honor the movie because they feel guilty about all the racism that is going on in the country right now. They aren't honoring the best film of the year , just a film that makes them feel less guilty about what is going on right now.
