Ernest but flat. Inter-racial friendships have been a topic in American films for over 50 years. The emotions between the two main characters here came across as forced and inauthentic. Why choose the Danish-American Viggo Mortensen to play an Italian-American from the Bronx? His portrait was an amateurish embarrassment. Almost grotesque, but supposed to get laughs. And Ali's character, Don Shirley, does things down South that would most likely get him killed---I doubt the incidents in the movie truthfully matched the real-life happenings. It looked like a movie about Americans that was made by Canadians. Full of false notes, with no real flavor.
This movie wasn't even a crowd-pleaser where I saw it (NYC). Don't expect Tony to beat-up every racist we see, Buford Pusser style. Just lame confrontations that didn't satisfy or really address the racial problems in a believable way. So here's one lone knock on a movie that got a mystifying amount of good reviews.


                
There is nothing new in Green Book. The same story has been told many times by the Hollywood propaganda machine - improbable interracial friendships where the black man has to do all the emotional heavylifting in order to make our white protagonist slightly less racist. This "friendship" is ultimately portrayed as a mutual exchange of perspectives, where both sides manage to find common grounds with each other and come to understand their shared humanity.This is the archetype of the liberal humanist narrative, where power structures are conveniently ignored, and where political oppression and economic exploitation is reframed as nothing more than differences in culture and perspectives. As a result, according to this ideological narrative, the purpose of (liberal democratic) politics is reconciliation and compromise, as opposed to struggling for emancipation. The problems of structural violence and economic exploitation is reframed as individual prejudice and actions, which can be changed by respectability politics ("they go low, we go high") and this bland humanist appeal to the oppressor's conscience.This is the deeply ideological narrative of Green Book and countless other stories, from Driving Miss Daisy (1989) to The Green Mile (1999) to Gran Torino (2008) to The Help (2011), where the real problem - the irreducibly structural problem - is always erased in favor of a feel-good humanist drama that appeals primarily to middle-class white guilt. Year after year, middle-class white audience can walk out of these Hollywood films with a smug face, complacently declaring that they're glad that "racism is finally over."Many people defend this film by saying that there's nothing inherently wrong with a comedic and light-hearted approach to serious social and historical problems. What they're saying is not wrong. In fact, some of the greatest works of cinema (and art in general) is about people finding humor and spirit in extreme positions of subjugation and poverty. Yet these artworks depict poverty and oppression with acute social awareness and compassion, instead of flattening them into bland archetypes or straight-up ignoring them, which is what Green Book is guilty of.Here we have two characters - an educated upper-class black man who is completely isolated from the culture and social conditions of his people, and a racist working-class white man who is portrayed as a misguided good-hearted person. The class dimension is never explicitly challenged or fully confronted, especially Don's bourgeois sensibility. Instead, the film focuses on how the two can learn from each other and become better persons - Don becoming more down-to-earth and in touch with black popular music, and Tony becoming less racist. Yet the film never backs down from its pedagogy of respectability politics and never challenges its narrative of black exceptionalism. What does the film ultimately show about Don and Tony's friendship? It shows that only an exceptional, upper-class, respectable, talented black man can change the racist attitude of a white working-class man, and the film invites the audience to participate in its complacency, its classism, and its outrageous reductionism.The problem is not the humorous approach, but the absolutely reactionary myths about racism and racists that are perpetuated in this film, and the bourgeois complacency that this film engenders, which does nothing but reinforce the continued whitewashing and cooptation of the civil rights strategy, and the perpetuation of assimilationism, respectability politics, and reconciliationism.


                
Good film when you ignore the blinding historical discrepancies and the overarching white saviour trope.
Ali was the strongest actor of the bunch and sometimes you couldn't tell if he was in character or just fed up with the film itself and honestly, mood.
The soundtrack outside of the actual music was generic at best and outright annoying at worst, mainly towards the end of the film.
When their road trip is ending it kinda takes a weird tonal shift and starts to feel like a hallmark Christmas movie, I understand that it is Christmas within the timeline and they wanted a nice heartwarming ending but it felt forced.
The film tries hard to be a feel good movie but ends up leaving a bad taste in your mouth, Had potential and would be better if it were in the hands of a black director and writers who actually consulted dr Shirley's family instead of just Tony's son.


                
Is no one giving to mention the shameless product placement? Not satisfied by simply showing the KFC bucket, lines were written extolling the virtues of this 'artery clogging' foodstuff.How did this confection warrant the Golden Globe award when it appeared to be devised to sell fried chicken? Enough is enough!


                
