Deals with racism and other sensitive subject matters far better than a lot of other movies I've seen recently. The two leads Mortensen and Ali have great chemistry together and the movie has a warm vibe that movies use to have in years gone by.


                
Right off the bat I want to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.the cinematography was beautiful with such rich color pallets. The score was wonderful and set the tone very well. Lastly the acting was incredible. Viggo and Ali shined in their roles and did a great job at portraying their characters.That said, in my mind the movie was nothing special. It was all very predictable and had a very similar feel to many other civil rights movies in which a black man and a white man start off the movie with a reluctant relationship and slowly warm up to each other as they begin to appreciate their similarities and eachothers troubles and eventually defy all social norms and become good friends. I'm not saying that they shouldn't have become friends because you can't rewrite history and this movie was based on a true story. I just wish that story telling was a bit more ambitious and delved into some of the ideas deeper rather thank making a well made but otherwise mediocre civil rights movie.
"Green Book" is a sure fire crowd pleaser, but you probably knew that already.We've all seen this before: two people from totally different worlds meet, clash at first, learn to like each other, and realise they're not that different after all. That's the lesson for us cretins in the audience: it doesn't matter what colour we are or where we're from or blah blah de blah blah. It's a lesson that used to be exclusively sold to preteen kids, but in the world of the new millennium, this stuff is considered acceptable to preach to adults and nobody gets offended at the condescension.But how bad is it, really? Not bad at all, of course. It's the performances: two of the finest actors in the movies up there on screen, and most of the action in the dialogue. There were times when I forgot how trite it was, but the movie had a way of reminding me.


                
I like this film but I could see EVERY cliche coming a mile away!
I liked their acting very much. Their chances are very high for oscar. Akdemi members like social problems.


                
Regardless of its veracity, Green Book offered a tame but warming story of race relations in the 60s. Viggos character felt a bit like an overly wholesome stereotype, but nevertheless like able, while Ali's role seemed very dependent and vulnerable. Nothing is spectacular about the film but still a well done, feel good fick.


                
It's a good movie, but it's definitely not the best movie of the year ('The Favourite' is, obviously). It's quite entertaining, but I don't see it Oscar material. Viggo Mortensen, however, SHOULD win the Oscar. He is incredible in this movie.


                
Based on a true story, this drama retells of how Italian-American bouncer-turned-driver Tony "Lip" Vallelonga and African-American pianist virtuoso Dr. Don Shirley became friends during a 1960's concert tour of the Deep South. The plot may be relatively simple but the road trip these two embarked on couldn't have been more difficult. A turbulent time for African-Americans (when isn't it?) - particularly down south - Dr. Shirley faced constant racism in his pursuit to spread the splendour of his music. Written by a trio including Nick Vallelonga, the screenplay has some issues. Operating in the well-worn 'odd-couple' subgenre (it's essentially a flipped Driving Miss Daisy), it relies heavily on cliché to progress their relationship along. Dr. Shirley is the hard-nosed, cultured artist who at first is dismayed by Tony's uncouth behaviour, however, after bonding over racist cops, pub beat-downs and eating fried chicken (that Tony introduces to Dr. Shirley), their vast differences become the glue to their friendship. Yet the familiarity of the plot beats and character developments is largely surpassed by two powerhouse performances that elevate proceedings beyond the midday-movie script. Mahershala Ali imbues Dr. Shirley with layers of hidden guilt and regret, not least over his ostensible distance from the black community, whilst his stiff upper lip veneer subtly wavers through a plethora of emotional tribulations. As the other half of the duo, Viggo Mortensen's no-frills wiseass is also a complicated beast; his desire to do the right thing and be a more well-rounded person constantly battles with his overt masculinity and lack of formal education. Showered with awards nominations and wins already, Green Book overcomes its narrative shortfalls through commanding, complex portrayals by Ali and Mortensen.


                
Mahershala Ali and Viggo Mortensen are the heart and soul of this film. Along with the great cinematography and direction. Green Book confronts racism in a way that is relatable, people keeping there mouth shut instead of confronting what is going on the front of them. You know that this is a great film when you just want to punch that racist guy in the face but you know that that's not what the other character would want. In this film, it's not black and white. If a character makes a decision you take into account how the other people will be affected by it.


                
Based on the lives Don Shirley (A Pianist) and and Tony Vallelonga (A Bouncer), 'Green Book' is a surprisingly pleasant effort by Writer-Director Peter Farrelly, who delivers his most sensitive film to date. Farrelly known for madcap comedies, takes a different route this time, and delivers a road-film, that explores friendship and racism, with heart.'Green Book' Synopsis: A working-class Italian-American bouncer (Viggo Mortensen in a showy performance) becomes the driver of an African-American classical pianist (Mahershala Ali, mastering in subtlety) on a tour of venues through the 1960s American South.'Green Book' works because this is a truly heartening story of diversely different people who formed a bond, despite their differences. And Farrelly, along-with Co-Writers Nick Vallelonga (Tony Vallelonga's real-life son) and Brian Hayes Currie, makes sure the ride is memorable. Though the film does get monotonous at times and also feels about 15-minutes longer than should've been, 'Green Book' is a charming road-film, that is, in equal measure, humorous and serious.Tony and Don's relationship is nicely captured, as it begins from awkwardness to true friendship as the story progresses. The entire ark of its characters is well-done, like Tony's racial attitude towards Don initially and how their friendship forms, to Don realizing the power of being himself, deserves credit. Even the entire backdrop of Racism subjected toward Don, offers some hair-rising moments, that definitely leave you angered. The Writing, though imperfect, is well-aware of the times the story is set in (1960's) and presents a story that appears authentic, rather than frothy and artificial.Farrelly's Direction is competent. It's good to see the otherwise zany director, explore his subtler side here. Sean Porter's Cinematography is excellent. Patrick J. Don Vito's Editing is decent, but could've been crisper.Performance-Wise: Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali are in fine form, yet again. Viggo, nailing the Italian accent and gulping down food like a true foodie, has a blast playing Tony, and it shows in every frame. Ali, on the other-hand, portrays the subdued Don, with grace and restraint. And the on-screen camaraderie between the two, is infectious. Of the supporting cast, Linda Cardellini as Tony's Wife, is extraordinary.On the whole, 'Green Book' charms. Make time for it.


                
Viggo Mortensen definitely gives a fine performance in this movie as Tony Vallelonga, a man who shares the racial prejudices of his Italian-American world but then learns to overcome them during the eight weeks that he drives gay Black piano player Don Shirley through the 1960s American South. It's a great role - as it should be, since the script was written by the real-life character's son, Nick Vallelonga. Granted, it's hard to imagine that a man who came from that much prejudice so easily overcomes homophobia - he's even willing to spend the night in the same bedroom with Shirley - but the script was clearly written to make Tony Vallelonga look good.Granted, it's a little hard to accept Mortensen physically at times, since the original Vallelonga ate astounding quantities of food - and was a very big guy as a result - but I guess there was no point in putting him in a fat suit.My problem with the movie, which I enjoyed, is that the script did not do a very good job of developing Don Shirley's character. Anyone who has seen *Midnight* knows that Mahershala Ali, the actor who plays him here, could have handled a complex character, but he isn't given a lot to work with. It's a shame, because it would have made for a more interesting movie.The whole movie is really the relationship between these two characters. The rest is all fine, but peripheral.


                
I'm all for crowd pleasing movies. I'm the guy that loves The Intern, Eddie the Eagle, and this year's Instant Family. Green Book falls into a similar category to an extent, but it attempts to be a little more than it may have earned. The crux of Green Book is the bond and chemistry between Tony Lip (Viggo Mortensen) and Dr. Shirley (Mahershala Ali), and in this vein, it succeeds immensely. It's their back and forth that proves to be a powerful viewing experience in the theater. However, what the film tries to save about race, sexuality, & class feels very surface level and cliched. It works consistently but not to the point that other films have in recent years about similar subject matters. And perhaps it's not trying to be anything more than a crowd pleasing movie about friendships and criticisms like mine won't seem fair, but if it's going to be considered for best picture, then it should be brought up. In the end, it's about how everyone in the world has something to learn from somebody, no matter race, gender, nationality, or sexual preference.7.5/10


                
Protagonist are caricatures of themselves. Performances are overrated and way over the top. Entertaining movie, better on DVD or on demand


                
Of course, it is a good movie embracing beautiful music, good imagery, good acting, etc. But it is still a slow-running road movie whose storyline can be expected well from the beginning.Can Green Book be a bit overrated?


                
Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali give stellar performances in this true story about a NYC club employee and bodyguard who is hired by a classical pianist from Carnegie Hall to drive him through his performance tour across the South in the early 1960s, during which they develop a solid bond, despite their considerable educational and socioeconomic differences.I would call this film decent, light entertainment. It definitely offers a glimpse into how impressive Mortensen's range is an actor. The same actor who gave compelling performances in films like "A Dangerous Method" and "Captain Fantastic" is thoroughly riveting to watch here as he disappears into the role of "Tony Lip" Vallelonga and Ali is impressive as Don Shirley, a Jamaican-American musician who became well-known in his era.This film doesn't break too much ground, in all honesty. It's good diverting cinema but as a film released during Oscar season, it's fairly run-of-the-mill with no real surprises. But I do give Peter Farrelly a lot of credit for stepping out of his usual repertoire and giving us a different genre to look at within his filmography. Recommended.


                
Green Book faces the difficult task of marrying comedy with the heavily racist American 1960's. The film wisely strays away from outright violence for no sake but entertainment, opting instead for exposing the emotional torture experienced by African Americans of the time within the deep south. Characters seem to follow specific stereotypes and caricatures of people of the time, though it does add a level of charm to the film.


                
The review title pretty much says it all...don't get me wrong, the film has a lot going for it - but........SPOILER ALERTHere is the thing - there are two main characters - Don Shirley - a world class concert pianist who basically is the Miss Daisy. Then there is his chauffeur, Tony Lip - the lower class Italian who gets a temporary gig driving Don Shirley around. In the course of their road trip, the two interact and wind up changing each other - sound familiar?So the movie alternates between serious scenes and more whimsical scenes. The thing is - Don Shirley comes across almost like Sheldon in Big Bang Theory with times of extreme arrogance and needing things to be just right during the whimsical moments. Really, if you are a fan of Big Bang Theory, you will see echos of Sheldon and it is distracting as all get out.The movie becomes serious when it talks about race relations in the 60's in the US. Don Shirley is a highly talented black person in an environment where a black is expected to be uneducated and eating fried chicken - like Hidden Figures, it becomes necessary to break that stereotype. These scenes are powerful and meaningful - but we have the same sort of conflicts we have seen in Hidden Figures and The Help - basically black people trying to do things like use the bathroom, eat in certain restaurants and stay in certain motels (the title - Green Book - refers to a guide to establishments that allow black people to use their establishments). OK - I get it - this was actually the way things were and it is an easy way cinematic way to bring the discrimination up the but this is getting well tread.And as I write this - it becomes obvious that I don't talk about Tony Lip much. He is really a foil for Don Shirley - but taking that out - he is a stereotypical uneducated Italian - hooked up with the mob apparently, smokes and drinks, and will throw a punch in nothing flat.At the end of the day - OK - we got a necessary history lesson about race relations in the Sixties...with well acted performances to be sure - but it is still a largely formula buddy/road film. Certainly worth a look, but don't expect too much you haven't seen before or new if you are familiar with race relations in the Sixties....
The film's attempts to address racial issues are flimsy, formulaic, and awkward, but when it focuses on the positively hilarious and often heartwarming odd couple dynamic of the crass but warm blue-collar Tony and the classy yet aloof Dr. Shirley, it succeeds (see the chicken-eating, letter-writing), though considering Tony's relatively flat arc, the latter should've been the lead (see his speech on identity in the rain and hints of a troubled backstory that receive no further treatment).


                
While this is an interesting movie, somehow, I can't say that it is great. Sure, the actors are flawless, the images are splendid, the editing is impeccable, the sound is perfect. There are no dull moments when the action seems stalled. Yet, I had a constant impression of déjà vu. I constantly thought of Driving Miss Daisy, Intouchables and, up to a certain level, Planes, Trains and Automobiles. Not to say that the movie is copy-paste of proven hits, but the result just wasn't as striking as I hoped it woud be.


                
There is much to enjoy in the first half of GREEN BOOK, solidly anchored in the performances of the two leads, Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali, in a competent direction, good script, excellent photography, and excellent recreation of the 1960s.Sadly, the second half becomes increasingly moralistic and schmaltzy, and Ali's performance increasingly manneristic. GREEN BOOK also boasts a happy ending, which is bound to help its box office but which struck me as downright dishonest in light of what was actually happening in the US at the time.Mortensen's performance is the only consistent quality item in the film.


                
