A journey of reawakening in a Country like ours - Gore Vidal called it the United States Of Amnesia - the absurdity of the behavior in the Southern communities even the kindest ones have a jarring effect. Viggo Mortensen is sheer perfection as the all American Italian. The opening of his heart and of his mind is a total joy and Mahershala Ali provides another magnetic character to his already rich list of magnetic characters but what makes this film fly so high is the humanity that Mortensen and Ali infuse their characters with. I loved them and Green Book provided me with one of the most satisfying endings of 2018. It leaves you with the hopeful thought that perhaps we're not there yet but that we are on our way. Happy New Year!


                
Outstanding true story film showing that color doesn't define us, but how we act ourselves and towards others, does.Great performances from the entire cast, especially Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali who were perfectly cast and convincing in their roles. It was also great to see comedian Sebastian Maniscalco in this film as well.Writer, director and producer Peter Farrelly nailed every aspect of this biography.The score, cinematography, sets and visuals were all on point.I'm not a fan of slow paced long films, but this was was close to an exception. I feel if the pace was picked up a bit and/or the 130 min run-time edited down to around 110 mins, this would have been a perfect 10 from me.Excellent drama and comedy perfectly positioned throughout the film.A well deserved 8/10 from me.


                
This is not a typical road movie, funny in parts, hard to accept in others.Green Book has so many layers - family, culture, honesty, dignity, genius, respect, acceptance, stereotypes, racism, music, class, friendship, and fried chicken. Viggo Mortensen brilliant performance.


                
Well its hard to ignore that this looked like Driving Miss Daisy with the races of the characters reversed. It was also hard to ignore that Peter Farrelly along with his brother, is normally known for bringing often crude comedy films. While Green Book does have a ton of humor it was definitely a step in a different direction and a true story to adapt at that. I'm amazed at how much I liked this film. Every minute of this film is thoroughly enjoyable and it touches on every emotion.The film is about a loud mouth Italian American named Tony Lip who gets a job driving and being protection for a jazz pianist named Don Shirley. Initially, it is seen that the two come from different worlds and are at odds with each other but as time goes on and the two realize how different race relations are in the south, they begin to bond and become closer than they expected they would. Starring Viggo Mortensen and Mahershala Ali in the title roles.The film has a lot of laugh out loud moments. Especially through the eccentric nature of both leads. Whether its Tony's hard headed but uncultured nature or Don's particularities , the chemistry between the two is really off the charts. The film touches on many important concepts that still reverberate today, mainly in race relations and acceptance of sexuality. Farrelly and the real life son of Tony Lip do such a fine job writing a film that knows when to be funny and when to be serious.I think the performances from both leads is also fantastic. We are about done with the year and I don't really care what other people say this should be getting nominations is a few categories at the Academy Awards. Was really surprised at how good this film was, as the trailers don't really show off the true excellence that this film was capable of. Urge everyone to go see it, about as good as a buddy road film will be.8/10


                
The chemistry between our two protagonists was a joy to behold, as both are very different men from first glance but they soon learn a lot about each other and discover they are much similar than they ever imagined. This is due in part to the excellent performances of the actors, the script, a compelling true-life story that is handled very well by the filmmaker.Overall a heart-warming film that hits the right note.


                
The best work of Peter Farrelly's career as a solo project after 24 years of sharing the director chair with his brother. And a reminder that Viggo Mortensen has never won an Oscar.
I mean... how on earth you people say that Green Book is a feel-good movie?! This is so dark and infuriating!Seriously though, despite its heavy themes, this movie is, surprisingly, supremely delightful to watch. Partly, thanks to the electrifying chemistry between Mahershala Ali and Viggo Mortensen, whose equally phenomenal performances prove that they are two of the most talented actors working today. But largely, thanks to Peter Farrelly's nifty direction. Not only has he shown maturity as a director, but Farrelly also completely understood how to blend his sense of humour with a dramatic movie, and hence more earnest tone and more serious subject matter, way more serious! If he sticks with this refreshing style of filmmaking, and collaborate with excellent screenwriters, such as the writers of the screenplay of this movie, I bet that he will be one of the most popular directors in the coming years. The way he handles his performers, or shots a comedic scene here were really out of the ordinary.The relatively deliberate pace couldn't have been more challenging for Peter Farrelly to stick with a particular tone, and find balance for this movie, but besides his palpable capability of doing so, the script, which he also co-wrote, offered sincere and genuine smart dialogues, and extremely likable reasonably fleshed-out characters, made this task way much more easier. Let alone the astonishing performances from the entire cast.The screenplay is what to blame, however, for these two points I took away from my rating for this movie.First, there is an action Mortensen's character, Tony Lip, take at the beginning of the movie that didn't add anything to the movie. This action also had some consequences that took some time. Adding insult to injury, this action, along with its consequences, was nothing but a cheap trick to make the viewers make a wrong judgment about the character.Secondly, there was an abrupt change of mind made by the same character that, however understandable it might be, I still found it hard to swallow.Thirdly, and most importantly, the illogically symmetric pattern of the storytelling; the plot keeps moving forward in a very unrealistic by making every phase in the movie seemingly predictable. It's safe to say that a movie with a fairly familiar themes like this one can easily suffer from such problem.That said, Green Book is undoubtedly one of the most 2018 movies that I've enjoyed watching. Peter Farrelly miraculously managed to make a movie that tackles such sore themes, a breezy crowd-pleaser.(8/10)


                
This film tells the story of two men, who are polar opposites of each other in every single way, going on a trip together.I find the story really incredible. It's touching, funny, disturbing and heartwarming all at the same time. It's a thought provoking film, yet entertaining at the same time.


                
While I enjoyed this film. It was just a reminder how primitive backwards US was just 50 years ago and still an ongoing progression. From ignorance to racism and bad people. I'm surprised it didn't turn out to be a nightmare when people who lived the harshness in life can break a person. I felt mad at some points but the movie was rather entertaining. It was more of a feel good movie and friendship when reality is different than what people endured.


                
Green Book is a road story, telling the relationship between a racist Italian-American bodyguard and his boss who is a famous black piano player.
Viggo Mortensen who is playing Tony Lip, the Italian bodyguard, shines as a leading actor. Tony Lip is an uneducated but a practical person. He can even eat 26 hot dogs for money or steal the gangster's precious hat and sell back to the gangster again. We see his racism in the scene he puts the glasses which black workers drank lemonade, to the garbage. He became unemployed when Copa, the nightclub he works, closed for renovation.
At that time the famous piano player Dr. Shirley (played by Academy Award winner Mahershala Ali) was looking for a driver for his tour to the southern cities of USA. He needed not only a driver, but a practical man getting things done in the tour program. He was well educated, can speak at least 3 languages, but his social skills is not well developed. He hires Tony Lip and the the tour begins.
We know the director Peter Farrelly and his brother from absurd comedies like The Dumb and The Dumber or There's Something About Mary. Even though there are many scenes that we have laughed in Green Book, we cannot say that is a comedy. Peter Farrelly made a good job with blending comedy, dram, road movie and even romance.
As a summary Green Book is a very good film with solid performances. You will enjoy every minute of this 130 minutes film. One more note, the film was based on a true story. After watching the film, find some Don Shirley music from Spotify or whatever, and listen him and his trio with a glass of whiskey.


                
A beautiful and well-written movie, with strong messages.
It gets you to think, and that is the best cause one film should have.
You will treat your loved ones much better after this one, especially because you will surround yourself with people who are basiclly kind to others and that's all that matters.


                
So despite my reservations about watching another racially driven movie, I checked out green book. First, let me say that the Italian rhetoric made the film genuinely enjoyable to watch from beginning to end. The 1960s based film is about Tony Lip who is a rough around the edges back streets Italian who is hired to drive slightly eccentric Dr. Don Shirley who is a classically trained black pianist on tour with his trio through the Deep South. Despite being socially accepted in the north, Dr. Shirley takes on this tour where he knows he will encounter issues along the way. Without spoiling the movie, the film explores an unfamiliar narrative of a white person hired to do a job of somewhat servitude for a black person, which I don't remember seeing on this caliber since the body guard. What's interesting to note are two things, the development of the relationship between the two characters from the time they first met to the end of the film and why Dr. Shirley even made the decision to perform in the south which I will leave you to figure out. Both Mahershala ali Viggo Mortensen put on a great performance and the movie definitely has a well-developed storyline.


                
Watching the friendship build between an uneducated racist white Italian and a well educated master black musician was entertaining and heart warming. And all the more poignant knowing it is based on a true story. At one point there is a discussion between the two about the wisdom of peaceful versus violent reaction to racism, a timely lesson or reminder for us all to hear in a time when an entire political party is being hijacked with extremist views (the press are our enemy, the Honduran caravan is an invasion, and "there were good people on both sides").


                
I really enjoyed this movie. Great cast especially Viggo who played his role with perfection. Based on a true story with humour and some serious moments. This story brings together two men from very different worlds who come to understand and support each other on this trip. Recommended.


                
What a very nice and moving film. Viggo Mortensen shines in this movie. And maybe he deserves the Oscar for his role. You can tell the film was made with a lot of love for the story. Inequality treated with dignity. Well played.


                
The first thing that struck me on watching the movie unfold is how much it follows the structure of France's 2011 buddy flick, The Intouchables. It has all the exact beats: two people from different backgrounds bonding with each over the course of a few months as they learn to mutually change each other's perspective for the better. However, the filmmakers were able to add several other touches to make it stand out as its own unique thing.The movie takes place in 1960s America, still a bit rife with racial tensions. However, the film intends primarily to entertain and delight the audience, so while they do touch upon very significantly on the plight of minorities , the message is conveyed in a way so as to not shock the viewers but rather as a gentle reminder of our torrid history. So overall, this movie is pretty safe to watch and enjoy for any demographic and age. Every member of the family will have a hearty time in the theater.


                
Went into this film not knowing anything about the storyline - Brilliant performances by the 2 leads - Strong storyline about a road trip to Deep South USA and the racial tensions at the time - Great film which develops along the trip - Worth a view


                
Good review of the many types of racism of the 50's and 60's. Cleverly done by wrapping it together with a great story line. No wasted scenes. Moves along and makes many points.


                
I went into the cinema for 10 minutes and saw a lot of people leaving. I thought the movie was definitely not good, but to my surprise, the film was not bad. Maybe the film was opened for more than 10 minutes. Character has been laying the ground for too long.
The Green Book is a distinctive road movie. I never imagined that a black people affirmative film would be conceived from the perspective of road movies. The road movies have a strong characteristic as narrating a story.
The emotional relationship between characters becomes strong with the increase of mileage, and the personality of the characters is clearly revealed with the increase of mileage. Dr.Don Shirley and Tony Lip are gradually becoming friends on their road of tour.
Some people think that road movies are very simple, because the clues are clear and the narrative is simple. Just make clear what is happening on the road. In fact, road movies are the easiest to become a self-speaking film without any focus. In fact, this movie has not completely escaped this threat. It is true that there is a constant episode in the film on the road, showing the relationship between the two, and then Tony understands Don's practice for him to come forward. But after all, there is no major outbreak, and the whole story lacks a core chapter. Several equally important chapters have made the film without any major ups and downs.


                
Green Book is litterally the celebration of Friendship and Humanity in 2 hours! It just melts Your Heart to see the mutual understanding between the two main characters in the film that It really goes out of the screen! Green Book has a simple storyline but a strong message to share: That despite differences and diversity, we are all humans. Farrelly tells it perfectly in the film. What I like in Green Book that I might not like in other films, it's that It goes straight to the point, to what It should tell first. Mahershala Ali's acting is stunning, that I think he's a true contender for a second Oscar; Mortensen's performance is breathtaking as well. Green Book is the proof that you don't have to bring tons of technics to have a good movie, or to be recognized at the Academy Awards for example. A strong story is enough, and stories are the main power of movies in our society.


                
This movie was surprisingly good, well worth the watch!


                
This film takes place in the 1960's. It examines the controversy of Black discrimination in a very unique way. Vigo Mortensen plays "Tonylip". A tough and rough bouncer at the Copa in New York city. He takes a temporary job as a bodyguard / driver for an up and coming concert pianist as he embarks on a tour of the deep south. Needless to say these two individuals could not be more different having come from two contrasting worlds. Thrown together they learn to appreciate one another and the life lessons each brings to eachother. There re more than a few laughs and many moments to ponder and reflect. All in all I highly recommend this film as something of substance. Excellently written and cast, a very good watch . PS the very last line of the movie made me laugh at myself. Tony's wife thanks Dr. Shirley for helping Tony with the "Lettuce " ( cash income). It took a few seconds to dawn on me she was saying " Letters" with a bronx accent .


                
Much of this movie isn't very realistic. Otherwise I would've given it a solid 10. But the way the relationship develops between these two men who are culturally opposites, is just pure joy to watch. It reminds me so much of military life. I entered the service during the Vietnam War, and back then these situations were very common. What I found to be true in those days, was that young men who were loyal to their own values were eager to learn the values and customs of others. I was born and raised in SoCal and with all races. But interacting with southerners and east coast street ppl was always interesting and a joy. This movie definitely reflected those good ol days for me.


                
A very good feel good film that tackles a familiar territory. But its a good film about friendship, a very unlikely friendship and the way this friendship is developing. The magic lies in the performances and especially the chemistry between the two leads.
Viggo Mortensen is fantastic. There is no other word to describe his performance. I know he got a lot of backlash lately, mostly due to some comments he did. Anyway, his performance is undoubtedly fantastic. I mean look how versatile that actor is... this was Aragon! A very unlikely character he marvelously brought to life and delivered one of the absolute top performances of the year. Academy Award winner Mahershala Ali also did some magic with his role. Especially in the scenes when "Doc" lost his facade and showed his true emotions and struggle. Excellent work as well. The rest of the cast is servable but nothing too outstanding. The screenplay is surely very good. Peter Farrelly's direction better than with most of his comedic gigs. The film is entertaining and has an important story to tell. I am not sure if it is 100% accurate or not but as a film it entertained, moved and emotionally challenged me.


                
Green BookFarrelly's meticulously planned trip goes every way as it was anticipated; fun, lighthearted and awe-inspiring. This already overridden concept on film-making, narrows down the finite possibilities of the makers where they are cornered in the familiarity, and Farrelly's heartwarming answer to these accusations is simplicity. Carrying out the usual theme with a typical textbook structure, there is an ease, almost impenetrable by any of the weakness, that helps bubble up the best possible outcome from this journey. In fairness, Farrelly is not challenging himself. He is playing way too safe, convincing but never a stranger.His fear over going an avant-garde vocab wrong is won over by his brilliant execution. His world, no matter how unfair, is perfectly balanced. Raising questions and clearing doubts, the trajectory of all the sub plots is predictable and yet entertaining. These old methods of intertwining two opposite personas in a room and working its way up to an imperishable friendship by accepting the difference of opinion, just works, it flows.And we may have already encounter the usual, narrow minded and open minded, coy and bold, rich and poor debate over the years in cinema but with a performance as such from the cast, you cannot stop yourself for being giddy up for more. Mortensen as a free spirited Italian-American living at the brisk of his life is the teddy bear of the film. His adorable feature may as well be funny, but a world so tiny and shiny with his eyes is something the viewers connect with instantly.And balancing the other side of the coin, Ali as a poised artist that quotes "dignity", is the huskier bit of the film. Portraying an infamous persona as such, Ali's performance is a testimony to his marvelous career, from performing an act on stage through resisting the urge to be parental with Mortensen, his performance craves your attention. But nevertheless, Mortenson's buoyant expressive nature is much more three dimensional and cinematic to share the applause, from his body language to his sense of humor, he slaps other artists on screen with an unflinching portrayal. Your usual montage sequences like helping each other with something they are natural with, this half and half team makes a complete ten on screen.Mortensen preaching on the practicality and ruggedness of the street is hysterical whilst Ali's genuinely moving descriptions over the letters, humbles your opinion as it ages on screen. Clocking at more than two hours, narration flows like a smooth vivid fluid that keeps encouraging you for more of these stops. Has Farrelly managed to make his best film till date? Definitely, but what surprises you, is that it is his funniest too. He is just natural in his comic tone. And the dramatic part is relied upon the performance which never disappoints. The toe-tugging conversations in a car cruising over the locations is the ultimate peak of the film that is delivered at multiple orderly stages. Green Book is an already-read open book, but it never hurts to revisit those pages, the perspective has evolved.


                
Love these types of movies, although heartbreaking in parts, nice buddy movie


                
