'3 Idiots' tried to walk the same path as Hirani's debut 'Munnabhai M.B.B.S.' but while 'M.B.B.S.' was entertaining in parts and stays consistent, '3 Idiots' is a mess. The film itself lacks direction and the story tries to tackle too many issues, each of which are poorly and superficially handled. It is easy to notice that the film tries to be another 'Munnabhai M.B.B.S.'. While some of the jokes are funny, most of them are ripped off from unacknowledged sources (mostly European commercials). I suppose it's become a new trend in Bollywood to rip off old and obscure commercials since the writer lacks an original idea. The songs are easy on the ears but forgettable. Aamir Khan is miscast. He is too old for the part and does not convince at all as a university student. Madhavan too looks old for his part but not as poorly cast as Aamir. Sharman Joshi may look the part but he does overact. Boman Irani is irritating and Kareena Kapoor is strictly average. I'm surprised that so many people are calling this the best movie of the decade. '3 Idiots' is bad.


                
When I look back at the films I've watched working my way through the top 250, and I see the over rated bollywood films, I feel a bit of shame for the few of these I watched before realizing none of them belonged on the list. There was all the promise of a top 250 film. After all, it was on the list, it had the rep. But then the experience of watching was painful. It felt wrong. Not like a top 250 film should. At first I thought there was something wrong with me. Maybe I just wasn't doing it right. But then in the end, after asking around, I realized that this film was just awful, and it had played the exact same trick on countless other viewers. Don't be a victim! Rate these films 1 star and keep the list clean!


                
Being an Indian I have seen a lot of Bollywood movies which do not live upto international standards. 3 Idiots is no different. It's a masala movie, which will draw only mainstream and dumb folk. It might be attractive to the viewers outside as such experiences are new to them, however the truth is that this movie doesn't deserve any place in any top lists on IMDb. I'm sure that the people who have given it a 10/10 have never seen any other movie on the top 250 list. It was a major hit in Indian theatres and any rational,logical and a real movie buff can never like this sort of an impractical movie. To be honest, for an Indian movie I'd give it a 6/10 , however on an international scale it would barely get a 5. If you want to watch a good Indian movie, I'd recommend watching Dev.D which I rate as an 8/10; and I feel should be on the top 250 list. Make a wise decision


                
It is only if I had not lost my movie sensibility, I would have been placed better. The best part about India is that everything has a following and Aamir Khan with his histrionics and verbal spats is in the midst of a great purple patch. Everything he is touching is turning into gold and it takes a modern day genius to do that. He is more like a good salesman then an actor. If you can sell the same college song after 21 years, you sure have to be awarded the best salesman in your industry. Well, the real disappointment is not Aamir, as he frequently makes bad movies...Fana and Ghajini to name just the latest 2 but he also carves out little gems like Taare Zameen Par every now and then. And the disappointment is also not from the fact that he is still playing the college Romeo. The disappointment is with Raj Kumar Hirani who in trying to accommodate Aamir's star power did what Shubhash Ghai did in Yaadein. The Box office verdict has been starkly different for both the movies because young India connects to the message of 3 idiots well. Critics with a few exceptions did not speak their mind because they knew that this movie was going to do colossal business. But the fact remains a fact....the ending was manufactured and seriously pretending. It was like that the script writer was superficially trying to make everybody smile while walking out. It is the first time Hirani has erred and hope that he does not slip again, as he has given 2 most memorable movies in recent memory. This does not even come close. The point of view was excellent, the treatment not.
What can I say, when the whole world is pouring accolades on the movie. Going by the reviews I too ventured to the movie with the whole family. In return what we go was crude jokes, tasteless scenes, senseless situations. The climax aptly summarizes the misery.At the end we realized that they almost re-made Munna Bhai MBBS all over again. This time around they just replaced Doctors with Engineers, Medical college with Engg College & Munna Bhai with Rancho. However at least the former was a clean comedy.If you are still curious about the movie, leave your kids behind & go watch at your own risk


                
This particular film is atrocious.I went to see it with my friend hoping to see a good film.It turned out I wanted to leave the theater in around 15 minutes.It has crass humor.jokes on rapes.I don't know why the idiotic Indian audiences rated it so high.This film shouldn't be rated at all.I hate this film,with all my heart.I never thought Aamir Khan would do such a horrible film.This film ensured me to not go out and watch Dhoom 3.I know people have hated chetan bhagat a lot but he wrote something very mediocre that deserved a mediocre film.Five point someone had drugs and music.This film had crap and more crap. I would rate this film as the worst film ever made in Hindi language.


                
I don't think this movie deserves to be rated so high which is why I'm giving it the lowest rating to try and balance things out. I think most people rating it so high must have seen it just once, if you give it more than one viewing you will start to see the flaws.The movie is just average in my opinion as the story is predictable, most of the jokes are copied and even the social message in the movie is quite broad.I will say this the movie is definitely worth watching and is a feel good movie but does not deserve to be up there with the best movies ever made.


                
I feel like a fool wasting three hours on what practically is the Indian equivalent of the Three Stooges. With some context, this was the first Bollywood film I had seen, and it doesn't make me want to rush back and view more. The jokes are pretty unfunny, almost inline with unintelligent slapstick comedy and weird foreign comedy. Nothing in this film made me want to continue viewing; poor acting, a poor script and horrible cinematography are among the worst I've ever seen.3 Idiots may be a favorite in it's homeland, but as a foreign viewer to India, I had a huge problem with viewing it. The jokes fall flat, very flat and the story feels juvenile and childish. 3 Idiots is among the worst in IMDb's top 250 and I discourage viewing at all costs.


                
my god this movie is made for idiots only, we bunch of friends gone for it and could't even survive the second half of the movie. the most idiotic & stupid scene is the pregnancy of Karina's sister, Amer khan is just idiot. how can peoples like dis disaster.ya but 1st half is well due to DAT speech of a idiot, it was hilarious.... but overall don't deserve good rating.if you are having real taste of movie den u'll also say d same, if u r immature in movies den i know what u r gonna say..... dis is very boring movie it costs me 150rs and a headache if u want d same den go and see and enjoy
OK, now i really don't understand why people are so obsessed with the movie. Aamir khan made it so that does not mean it has a great story. The story is a munnabhai mbbs ripoff. As acting goes a 40+ man pretending to be in college is a pathetic idea. The story is so predictable and annoying.The movie is full of sad jokes which are so not funny. i totally hated the movie. 2hrs 48 mins of my life wasted which could be so better used.The only good acting done was by boman irani or sharman joshi. And i don't care whether chetan bhagat wants credit for the movie because the movie completely sucked. i wasted my money on the movie ticket. And just don't get me started on the songs.
Simply Amazing! I never knew that public was so gullible and so easy to deceive. This movie has songs with no charm. Producers and the Actors claim over authenticity of the movie, giving no credit to the author Chetan Bhagat is disappointing.Rocket Singh is a far better movie having original concept. Throughout the movie (3 Idiots) it has bored the public by giving same message over and over again that the obtaining high percentage is not the deciding factor of one's talent. However, we all have passed through or are going through the education system and we all are already aware of this fact. Even if some may be unaware of this fact, there are many iconic personalities which provide same message through their life achievements that education is no hindrance to one's success.Dhirubhai Ambani and Sachin Tendulkar are such iconic personalities.Rocket Singh gives same message in the earlier part of the movie without boring the audience.This makes Rocket Singh a must watch movie.


                
Review contain awesomeness of the highest caliber that once read, you wouldn't regret in agreeing with the following.The horrible humour and the irritating characters, this film is nothing but another Bollywood tripe that been overrated by the larger majority look for the ultimate escapism with bright colours and artificial environment and settings. The music so loud and blatant at the time, it become unstable. Aamir khan is charming as having a hernia, why he in so many Bollywood that are so well received that i think we forced to believe he will be the next Mahatma Gandhi. Never been so appalled that i felt that i was the idiot for ever watching this film.


                
I have no idea how this movie managed to score an 8.3 on IMDb.It's a complete mockery of the novel "Five Point Someone" by Chetan Bhagat.This is a complete spoof of the novel.A child that hasn't been breathing comes to life on chanting the words "Aal is Well"..I say..What the Hell?? Delivery of a child via a Vacuum Cleaner?? 2 of 3 good for nothing kids join a prestigious university & the 3rd one has only 1 line to say to them for the entire movie..& that's do what your heart tells you to do & a bad definition of the word "Machines" as opposed to the novel glorified as "Simple is the way to go".. This is by far one of the worst movies Aamir Khan has done till now..& there aren't many..
honestly - it took me 3 days to get through this two hour plus tale of three guys and their memories! this story could have easily been told much more effectively in 45 minutes or one hour.the plot line is like crabgrass! as soon as you think you have pulled it all up there's yet more and it all looks alike! endless and repetitive and predictable!the 'emotional' scenes are just laughable - then it is suppose to be a comedy - but the funny parts are few and far between. and if this film was a hit in India - then i do not know what would be considered a Bollywood flop.i have seen few other Bollywood movies and none are as miserable as this idiotic movie.


                
first of all i'm aware of free choice. i can choose to not to watch this... thing. as a twist of things i had positive reviews from several people, i heard that this... piece is a good comedy. but this... - i can't even name it- is just a mixture of several boring and not funny sketches. There are 30 years old human beings pretending to be 18 years old students. All of a sudden they started to shake and spin. Also those men cries for nearly everything. woke up in the morning, starts crying. every possible solution for any kind of difficulties they encountered is suicide or dance. after that they cry. i agree it's their style. everybody is free to have things in the way they like but please just don't overrate it. i mean, i think transformers is awful but at least there are some cgi is going on there. man, i can't imagine i will say this. one last thing, it's unbelievably long. Although it has no story, just an idea, it transforms several different kinds: teen comedy, mystery, drama, road trip... and then they cry. at one point i thought it will never end. after that, they cry a little more...
3 Idiots is a Bollywood film directed by Rajkumar Hirani, it stars Aamir Khan, R. Madhavan, Sharman Joshi, Kareena Kapoor,Boman Irani.Is loosely based on Chetan Bhagat's novel Five Point Someone.And this time Rajkumar Hirani failed. Munnabhai series was much better than his 3 idiots. Nothing fresh, contents are outdated and its a shame to five point someone.Film is about the story of Farhan Qureshi (R. Madhavan), Raju Rastogi (Sharman Joshi), and Rancho (Aamir Khan) are three engineering students who all share the same room in a hostel at one of the best colleges in India. Farhan and Raju are from modest backgrounds, Rancho is a wealthy genius who studies for joy(So weird). Threatened by Rancho's talent, ViruS(Boman irani) labels him an "idiot" and attempts on a number of occasions to destroy his friendship with Farhan and Raju. Meanwhile, Rancho falls in love with ViruS' daughter Pia. Farhan and Raju dare Rancho to tell Pia he loves her, and when they go to her house, Raju gets drunk and makes sure the mailbox says "ViruS" and peeing on it. ViruS sees Raju and they are caught in class, he tells Raju that either him or Rancho gets rusticated, unable to make a decision, Raju attempts suicide, only to be saved by Rancho, Farhan, and Pia. Finally, dramatically Farhan's dad lets him become a wild life photographer, and Raju gets a job.The story is framed as a flashback from the present day, Farhan fakes a heart attack to abort a plane because he gets a call from Chatur(Silencer) saying Rancho has come. Raju leaves in a hurry without any pants getting the same call.All three of them search for Rancho. They come to a village and find out that Rancho was actually a gardener's son and when his father died, a rich man took him in. The real Rancho is Javed Jaffrey and their Rancho's real name is Chhote. When Rancho couldn't pass his exams, his father not wanting him to fail in life sent Chhotte as Rancho to get his son a degree and leave. Farhan and Raju interrupt Pia's wedding and take her along to find Rancho. They find he is a teacher. Also, chatur be more richer when he signs a deal with Phunsukh Wangdu, a world famous scientist. But everyone realizes that Rancho is actually Phunsukh Wangdu himself.This movie offers nothing new, a typical bollywood film with no creativity, u will get irritated when Boman Irani speaks, also in Pia's sisters delivery scene. Engineering students with the help of a webcam and vacuum cleaner they take out kid from her stomach. What a disaster.Only during first half of the movie you can enjoy, Raju Hirani's dialogs are excellent and Shantanu Moitra's music cool.Performance wise, Madhavan and Kareena Kapoor did a justice to their role. Both Aamir and Sharman overacted. In every scene you can find Aamir khan crying. Aamir didn't even tried to deliver 5% of Lagaan or DCH, very badly imitated walking style of college boys. I give 5 out of 10 for Rajkumar Hirani's 3 Idiots.
My sister came around for a visit, we would like to watch something for a laugh. Even the jokes are really cliché, I remember we laughed a lot of times. However I didn't like the idea of suicide. I assume people shouldn't give up so easily. Because of the bad marks 2 people hang their selves. There would be difficulties in our life. Probably worse than bad marks. I don't know my little brothers opinion after watching movie. But because of the movie I had to have a chat with him. I don't wanna talk about the plot. Good guys get everything and always wins. It was fun nothing more. My real point is 5. However I will give 1. Because this movie do not deserve 9 point.


                
I heard about this movie from friends in office and outside and everyone wanted me to watch it even though I am not a fan of bollywood movies but the expectations were set high and finally after couple of years of thinking I decided to watch this movie, well it starts with what I can say is Cliché filled Bull Shiiit, I mean there is no attention to any detail paid in this movie, it is like a work done without Post production, personally I feel it is for people who just don't go into details and just want to have a stupid laugh, yeah maybe for them it is a good movie, but for people who crave for movies which provide near realistic experience , please stay away from this crap, as this is nowhere near that standard, I just was shocked to see the first scene, but I thought, well this is bollywood such things are normal, it can only get better, But damn then the college scenes nothing but boring and lame clichés, I felt wtf after 45 minutes and stopped the movie.Some might say oh wow, reviewing a movie which I watched only 45 minutes, well yes that is because I couldn't stand it or more, thank you very much for your pathetic try to entertain me. Every detail matters not just the theme they are bragging about. Movie experience should be complete 3 idiots is very idiotic as if made by some idiots.


                
Its been while that this movie is out. There are many better movies made in the Indian film industry which have a far better script and a story line than this movie. I was quite surprised to see this movie of IMDb 250 list, doesn't deserve it at all. Probably a movie like Lagaan or Jodha Akbar might have been a better choice over 3 Idiots which basically is for the younger generation and like most of the movies delivers a common message. I am not quite sure how it got 8.1..The most ridiculous part was the delivery of a baby using a vacuum cleaner, common people who are watching not dumb, can they point out a single instance. That scene almost ruined the movie. Overall, it is just an outright commercial movie for the youth and the masses, nothing fantastic.


                
Words cannot even describe how crap this films is....let me just outline why it is so bad!!!!!! Firstly, the acting by the cast is awful!! As much as I like Aamir Khan generally, I would have to say his performance as a 22 year old Engineering student is absolutely appalling, however it is not as irritating as Boman Irani's performance as your stereotypical principal who has least favourite students.Secondly, the storyline is just boring (I am not only saying this because it is a different storyline) - it is not at all realistic and to be perfectly honest it has little to it.Thirdly, the songs are just annoying...especially the stupid 'All is well!!' If I could rate this film below 1 I would rate it into them minuses!
I´ve read some of the reviews here and the majority of the positive reviews are either from people in India or neighboring countries. From an objective point of view this is one of the most cheesy films I've seen in a while. It felt like a horribly long episode of the Big Bang Theory with it´s dated and predictable humour. The dialogues felt like they were literally being read off of a script and did not flow and they may might as well have not spoken english at all because the accents were so poor. Ridiculously overrated. Don't waste your time with this film if you are really into cinema.


                
I watched this movie after searching for "inspiring movies". 3 Idiots was several times mentioned so i tried it. But sorry i couldnt get past the first hour (the movie is about 3 hours long): 
the humour is really low level, mostly below the belt the acting is ridiculously exaggerated, characters are screaming, jumping, making big eyes, ... not subtle at all, it's more miming for kids than acting. the scenes are very slow and not interesting


                
