I was not willing to watch this when it came out but after seeing all the great reviews I thought of giving it a try, which I REALLY regret! This was nothing like I expected and it does not deserve more than 5/10 rating if not less. I usually don't review movies but this just made me so p****d off.Lets start off of acting: It was mostly overacted, especially Boman Irani and Omi Vaidya (aka 'Silencer'). Boman Irani was too bizarre and on the other hand, Omi Vaidya, who was supposed to have a good English accent (or did I get it wrong?) had an accent of a typical South Indian person. In fact, South Indians usually have a better accent from my experience. Aamir, Kareena, Sharman and Madhavan were OK (almost overacted), nothing special.Screenplay/script? Bad. Very bad. Repeats the old boring jokes and offers nothing unique. Looking at the fact they had an advantage of getting the idea off a novel, makes the movie even worse. The whole movie was a combination of stupid jokes which didn't make me laugh one bit (maybe hardly 2 seconds). It almost made me asleep.And about people actually rating this movie high, clearly they don't have much sense about how to judge a movie. Its a shame to see a movie like this getting so much attention while there are many others which are WAY better don't get what the deserve.May be I'm not looking this from a Indian-movie point of view. When you compare to other Indian movies, its actually not bad. But seriously though, if you're gonna include your brain while watching this movie, don't bother.I guess I'm off to watch some good movies now, if you're gonna watch this, good luck getting p****d off.
Pardon my ignorance.When an actor of Aamir's calibre decides to act in a movie after a year from his previous release, and when you have a massive production house backing your movie with a director whose had two back to back hits, You tend to expect a lot from a movie.But instead what you get is 3 hours of absolute rubbish.The facts are simple. Add a Lil bit of humour to a pathetic story and publicise it well and let the cash registers ring, because its the year end and there a billion fans of Aamir, who have been waiting so impatiently for his next movie for over a year, so anything he signs is bound to be an instant hit. And that has been the case for most of his movies for the past decade. Even MANGAL PANDAY cashed in a lot in the first week. What mystifies me more is the way Aamir went about publicising this movie? I am still confused and a bit dazzled as to what was the link between the story of the movie and Aamir touring India as your everyday people.What mystifies me even more as to what made choose him this movie. There was nothing even close to what you would call challenging in this film, considering his previous performances.Lets start with his character Rancho, a college student . Lets be honest, he has played that in so many movies that he could now do that in his sleep. A free thinker who studies and preaches education by his own rules and practicality. Funny why does Patch Adams just keep springing to my mind. The only difference being Robin Williams and Rancho was that Robin was practising medicine in that movie and Rancho is practising engineering. There were many one-liners that i heard giggles in the theatre, but not many of them realise that they are so 2 thousand late.Like for instance the NASA pen scene or even the best gag of the film the Omi speech are lifted from either stand-ups or foreign movies.It was like watching a blend of Patch Adams, Rang De Basanti,Patch Adams, Munnabhai (the first one because that too was inspired by Patch Adams), Patch Adams & Taare Zameen Par together.And it was Shambolic mixture to be honest. Even the English song " give me some sunshine" is inspired by an old Hindi ghazal. And i am really annoyed that nobody else realised that. Probably because the language has changed. So i will have to spell it out to you, compare the lyrics of this song and a timeless classic by jagjit singh, "Woh Kaagaz Ki Kashti", and u will begin to realise, that every bit of this movie is either inspired or lifted from one or the other, in the same manner Ghajini was inspired from a certain Christopher Nolan film.Yes i did find something that i liked in the movie, and that is only one shot from the entire movie, although very predictable, but the scene in which joy is shown hanging to his ceiling fan was a brilliant piece of direction. Its the way that it was shot in that amazed me.With Lage raho , Hirani stamped his mark of brilliance in many ways. As a director, a story writer and a story teller. It was refreshing and unpredictable. Even the first of the Munnabhai series had plenty of laughs and frowns although that too was mostly an indianised version of Patch Adams. Mr, Hirani, move over the patch Adams hangover now. Its high time. I am sure you might find many other movies in Hollywood, that still haven't been indianised.And once again pardon my ignorance.
I really tried to like this. And just to be fair, there are a few entertaining moments, it's professionally produced, and the performances for the most part aren't that bad. Heck, I'll even go so far as to say all the protagonists are pretty good. But good lord, what an awful script. Melodramatic clichés galore, terrible humor (why so many pee and fart jokes?), simplistic messages, a hero who can absolutely do no wrong and villains for whom the phrase "one-dimensional" is generous. It's as if someone marathoned through the absolute worst Hollywood has to offer and took notes. The sad scenes are laughable, the comic scenes are painful, and all of it is predictable (except the final little twist, which I admit was kind of a nifty surprise). Much of the film resembles REAL GENIUS, from the unflappable, infallible hero to the evil professor and the suck-up rival. And that's not a movie you want to aspire to. And there's a scene I know I've seen somewhere else before, but I can't place it. Teacher tells student his exam/paper won't be accepted because it's late, student asks if the teacher knows his name, teacher says no, student stuffs paper/exam in the middle of the stack. It'd be a clever bit, if not for this nagging feeling it was lifted from something else. Even the songs aren't that great, although the accompanying spectacle is sometimes charming. In the end, it's the three leads (Aamir Khan, Sharman Joshi and Madhavan) and the romantic interest (Kareena Kapoor) and their endearing performances despite the horrible material that save this from being a complete waste. But I certainly wouldn't recommend it.


                
It's good in parts but Okay as a whole. Aamir Khan this time comes up as an engineering student and does it not so convincingly. He seemed to have been through college not once but many times over, as he started telling 'Say your heart All is Well and things will fall into place'.The movie is about giving freedom to kids and a message to parents, let them be what they want to be do not enforce things on them. This is conveyed in a light sense and in a comical way. Yet, at times it becomes preachy, like the confrontation of Rancho with Virus where Rancho says 'Yeh Marks mere ko samajh aaye hi nahi' and yet not at many other times. It is a parody of itself take the black and white scenes of Raju's family or the scene of Chatur Lingam where he says that after 5 years lets see who will be where. But the good moments are far and only between as a few drizzles in a tropic summer.The cinematography is good only in parts. Like aerial shots of Shimla road and Ladakh scenes otherwise it was just good. The art designing is commendable with the look of college, hostel and other things done well. The editing was not precise as I thought there are lot of things that could have been cut out like the pregnancy sequence in climax. The casting was not apt except Boman Irani as Principal, Chatur Lingam guy the others were clearly not apt. The 3 main protagonists and the heroine were clearly a misfit as none seemed to be students. Acting was average as nothing was so great and so original as if it was never seen. Chatur Lingam was the silver lightning in the otherwise dry acting. Also to mention is Boman Irani as principal.The writing was mediocre as their previous ones were well written and witty Munnabhai movies. And this was an adaptation of Five Point Someone having read that, I can say that the whole backdrop and the characters and only a few situations were picked but the point that was told was different from the book. That book is much worse than this movie. I am not detailing any instances as mostly, I found them silly and stupid.And in parts, hardly a couple, the originality came out. The speech by Chatur Lingam is the saving grace otherwise it was merely pathetic but such instances took it to at least average level.All is surely not well and it's strictly Average - 2/5.


                
I did not have high hopes for the movie in the first place given the way in which Amir Khan's last movie Ghazini (another over hyped movie) disappointed to the extent of giving a headache with unnecessary violence and loud sound effects (not to mention the copied storyline). 3 idiots disappointed too...! It has all the ingredients of an entertaining cinema, however it just goes overboard with so many clichés that by the time you are 30 minutes into the movie, you can predict the next turn of events that will happen. Heck! you could even predict the jokes! The most annoying parts were the supposedly funny moments - something which you have seen hundreds of time previously. Many of them seems to have been taken from email forwards that we regularly receive (remember the scene with mixing the examination papers, then pencil-pen astronaut scene, etc etc). Talk of originality .. !(the Five point someone controversy) The movie goes to extremes with emotions - why can't the story be slightly subtle? Everything had to be so loud, including the funny scenes - we are not in the Johnny-Lever/Govinda era anymore. Remember Khosla ka Ghosla anyone - that is funny and original."All izz Well" seems just an extension of "Jadu ki Jhappi" - no originality here as well..! Hirani must have thought if something worked so well earlier why not reuse it. Boman Irani disappoints too with a very a very annoying accent which I suppose the filmmakers thought it would add to the film's humor. Why couldn't we have some "fresh" face - choice of Boman as the professor was obvious.Only good and refreshing was Omi's role as Chatur's - he did really well. Amir did pass off doing a 20 something college student - however his antics to play an overtly honest guy was really overdone in most parts.Just an overall average movie - how it managed to do such business, I will never understand ! May be the hype helped. Again.


                
Could not decide movie is definitely made by and for 3 idiots. If anyone seriously did not guess what was going to happen in the movie from the start, you need to watch the hundreds of similar movies like this one. Lazy writers using old email chain letters as jokes, gosh use your own brain and be creative. Most of the people that like this movie are individuals that have been forced into a profession they dislike (take a guess not all the engineers that are mass produced want to be engineers and like the fact that actors in a movie vocalized their emotions), guess what the few of us who dreamed of being engineers all our lives have nothing to despise, There's nothing else to the popularity of the movie.I must say though that some parts of the movie are funny, but none of the jokes are original.It does not look like anyone is even trying to act....... Give me my money back V Chopra....


                
Farhan and Raju are eager to reunite with their college friend Rancho. They find Chatur instead who have worked hard to brag about his success since his challenge 10 years ago. They go off in search for Rancho but there's a secret. In flashbacks, they are freshmen as mechanical engineering students. Rancho refuses to submit to hazing from upperclassmen and the dictatorial teaching methods of Dr. Viru Sahastrabuddhe. Rancho's rebellious nature win over Farhan and Raju. He rails against Virus' pressure after a student's suicide. He falls for Virus' daughter Pia.I don't think Rancho works completely. He's too perfect like a mythical creature. He's a magical nerd. The movie needs to build up this high pressure world a lot better before it can tear it down. I can guess at what this movie is striving for but I don't see it as funny or compelling. There is also a great twist in the middle and one at the end which is easily foreseeable from a mile away. The middle twist should be a better exposition. There should be a better story and a better journey to find Rancho. Ultimately, I don't think this speaks to me although it might be lost in translation.


                
Personally I was totally shocked by the stupidity of this work, for I had heard so many people praising it like anything.It has been made with a social agenda which is very much genuine and praiseworthy. But nothing goes correct in the representation. They have picked up some stars and gone for more glamor than realism. They have made a perfect hero and a perfect villain which itself a trait of poor film-making. A really good film should not tell clearly "hey this is the 'good guy' and look that one is the 'bad guy'". It should be able to see some good in the 'bad guy' and also some bad in the 'good guy'. Real life does never have perfect heroes and perfect villains, all people are imperfect. This film has has stooped to that cheap superficiality of a crowd-puller. From the beginning till the end they have gone with a motive, there has been no spontaneity. Only redeeming feature has been probably the pleasing musicals. My rating : 4/10 - rotten
I can say this film the best movie. I love the film. There are comedy, drama, love everything in this film. The film is educative, tutorial, fluent and entertaining. While I was watching the film, I enjoyed. The is criticizing the education system of the India because the education system is teaching memorization and competition but Ranchoddas Shamaldas Chanchad is finding wrong to the education system. Three friends are studying the best school of the India in ICE: Raju Rastogi, Farhan Qureshi and Ranchoddas Shamaldas Chanchad. Raju wants business owner because for the maintain his home , buy his father's medications and her sister's marriage. Farhan is going to the best engineering school of the India in ICE because his father wants but Farhan loves photography and Farhan wants to be a photographer. Ranchoddas Shamaldas Chanchad is very different character. There is a school manager . School manager is evil- minded, hard, snappish. There is a manager's daughter. Manager's daughter is beautiful, optimistic a girl. Ranco is giving direction to the lives of everyone. Follow strictly the film. The film is very beautiful.
