I was lucky to see the first day show of 3 idiots on Thursday in Dubai. Well the title of this post says it all. The movie is an example of classic film making. brilliant and highly entertaining.Watch 3 idiots for a) amir khan's incredible acting b) intelligent and highly energatic screenplay & direction (Rajkumar Hirani has done it yet again!) c) amazing chemistry among actors, d) some of the best comedy scenes coming from Indian cinema in a long time and e) a heart warming story which keeps you spell binded right till the end.I would rate it as among the best from amir khan (which obviously means among the very best from bollywood. I would also give a lot of credit to the director rajkumar hirani, who after this movie (and his previous munna bhai series) should rank as among the top in bollywood too. 9/10.


                
I'm from the Philippines. For years, I have always been curious about Indian cinema. I've seen clips of Indian films on cable TV and to be honest...I just don't get it. I don't get all the silly dancing and singing in almost all movies. I find it so corny and irrelevant to the story. But don't get me wrong, Philippine movies back in the 80's were also filled with corny singing and dancing. But we have gone past those and transitioned into movie-making based on good scripts...rather than cheesy story lines. When a friend of mine recommended this movie, I haven't really heard of it. I thought it was a Hollywood release but it wasn't. It was a Bollywood movie. He said it was really funny, so out of curiosity, I got hold of a copy. My first thought was that it was nothing but a silly story of 3 guys doing slapstick comedy that I have all seen before. When they started singing "All iz well.." I told myself... I knew it! Just what I thought.But as the movie progressed...I was amazed at the intelligence embedded in this movie. I was so impressed with the smart dialogues delivered by Amir Khan. It was so mature and thought-provoking. The life crisis all of them were in... the pressures at school..the pressures from society and the pressures from family as well... they rang so true. I was even at one time crying my heart out. I can't believe it! All the preconceived notions about a Bollywood movie were obliterated. I was so moved by this picture and I have no regrets seeing it.


                
In a country, where over-achievement is expected & anything deem a normal life is look upon as the idiotic or lazy failure. A lot of Asians feel, that slaving away, their lives, for the chance of extraordinary wealth is the only way, to live, even if it's does not suite their personality. Indeed, the hunger for success and wealth is so engrained in Asian culture, that it's hard to escape, such burdens. It's true, that Asians societies, do put extreme pressure on its members. Often, weighting down on them to a point, that some people feel, that it's too much; causing them to common suicide. So, I can see, why people would want to see this film directed by Rajkumar Hirani. It has a more healthy and positive approach when it comes to a country's wants and don't wants, when it comes to the individual member. Set in an India academia world, 3 Idiots revolves around three students studying in the Imperial College of Engineering, in New Delhi. The first idiot, Raju Rastogi (Sharman Joshi) comes from a poor family and is desperate to pass and get a good job, but lacks the self-esteem to go with his plans. The second idiot, Farhan Qureshi (R. Madhavan), comes from a relatively better family, but has joined engineering to please his family, while he really wants to become a wildlife photographer. The last idiot, Ranchoddas Shamaldas Chanchhad (Aamir Khan) is a radical-thinking young man, who more willing to challenges the educational system at every step he takes, rather than accenting the harsh-crude teaching practices of the college, often infuriating the headmaster of the school, Viru 'The Virus' Sahastrabuddhe (Boman Irani). However, Farhan and Raju lost contact with Rancho after graduation. Ten years later, Farhan gets a call from an old enemy colleague of theirs, Chature 'Silencer' Ramalingam (Omi Vaidya) who says he has found Rancho. Abandoning everything, Chatur, Farhan and Raju set out on a road trip, to find him. But all is not as it seems. Can the idiots find their friend or will the search end up as a wild goose chase? Watch the movie, to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to look at the film, in a western world view set and say, the Animal House style college scenes, far out-live the present day, road trip movie. I really felt, those scenes were far, more effective, even if the social message was somewhat too broad. I like that, the modern day teaching standards are called into question. It made a very interesting film. Sadly, the movie takes the often funny yet brilliant Patch Adam like, school challenges, and mixed it, with below average Bollywood film dramatics. The movie often moves into such clichés, that it become somewhat emotional jarring to watch. One minute, you're listening to a Bollywood musical dance number, and then, you cut to an emotional, over the top preachy death scene. The pacing for the film is all over the place. It really drags at times. Some of the film's greatest twist comes inappropriate mistimed. You'd know that Raju will survive his suicide attempt since he's alive and well in the present day scenes. You know, that the men will end up, being successful, regardless, what the Virus pull onto them. Don't get me wrong, the twist about Racho's past was pretty good, but the film was pretty predictable. Then, there are the unrealistic over the top scenes that are absolutely nearly implausible in any universe, like the whole stubborn baby scene. Anyways, the acting, throughout the film was pretty good. Each character had a moment to shine. My only problem with the acting is Kareen Kapoor as Pia. She was so disappointing, most of the film. I really don't get her character. Why would she still go after, Suhas (Olivier Lafont), after three-times, where characters warn her, not to!? It doesn't make sense. Plus, that noise ring, she wore, during the film was so distracting. Another thing that kinda hurts the film is the songs. Shantanu Moitra's score is a bit too gimmicky. The song, Zoobi Doobi sounds entertaining, but sounds too similar to other Bollywood songs. The song 'All Izz Well' sounds like it should had been, put in the credits than in the middle of the film. Anyways, I love the over-the-top childish humor. While, the jokes are simple and old. They work mostly within the means of the story. Chatur's engineered speech is by far, the funniest scene in the film. Still, the movie does seem, a bit, one-sided when it comes to condone misbehavior. I'm deeply surprise that the three men, wasn't kick out of the school, within the first couple of minutes in the film. Much of the film's controversy, comes from the fact, that the movie is loosely based on the novel, Five Point Someone by Chetan Bhaget. Any fan of the book, would know, that the film is way different. The suicide message of the book, get somewhat lose in the film. Yes, within the last five years, India has one of the greatest absolute numbers of suicides cases, but here is where the movie get some of the information, wrong. Other countries have the highest rates, overall. It's also untrue, that extreme pressures of academia cause most of India's suicide rates. Farmers are more likely to kill themselves, versus any other professions in India, as list by the World Health Organization. Despite that, the film is fun for the most part. The film is distinctive for featuring real inventions by little-known people. The cinematography is beautiful to look at. I love the aerial shots of Shimla and Ladakh. The film felt like a typical masala film. It's good to eat, but a bit too spicy, at same moments. No wonder, why this film is one of the highest-grossing Bollywood films ever. Overall: While it's kinda overrated. It's emotional, entertaining and enlightening. In my opinion, it was a somewhat above averaged Bollywood film.
I just finished watching 3 Idiots and was rather glad I gave it a chance! The high rating on IMDb roused my attention to its existence, however the title seemed to suggest some slapstick tale (of which I am also partial too from time to time), though as I read the synopsis I became intrigued with the premise of a comedy/drama/Bollywood/musical set mostly in a college campus. I couldn't think of anything I'd ever seen before falling into all of these categories simultaneously and I also felt I needed to give Bollywood a bit more of a chance as my repertoire is quite slim in this department to date! I won't say much about the plot (my summary is about as much as I'd like to give away), as I watched the movie pretty blind of what was to unfold and I really felt swept away in what at times felt like an epic journey of twists and turns; nothing too ridiculous to prompt a 'WTF?!' response, I felt the pace of the film moved really nicely along with realistic and believable scenarios interjected not for shock value but to aid the storytelling. The characters were well fleshed out and I really came to feel a sort of camaraderie with this not altogether hapless but lovable bunch with the main character Rancho, especially likable despite his bad-boy status with the Director of the college 'Virus'. Sometimes I felt a few scenes played out a little like a spoof, feeling slightly cheesy, however I have a feeling some of this vibe came from the cultural gully you often find with having to rely on subtitles (though as another reviewer said, pidgin English is used throughout the film so sometimes you don't need the subtitles). If musicals make you cringe then I guess you may feel a bit like the scenes with sporadic bursting into song are unnecessary, but you have to not only expect this from Bollywood films but also value it as an important part of the storytelling in its own right; plus, the songs in this film are catchy, well crafted and appropriate for the mood attempting to be set. As a final note, if someone was to ask me 'what makes a great movie?', I'd probably answer something like this; It should make me laugh and maybe cry, then come away thinking more about the film and its underlying meanings. Characters should be well formed enabling me to fall in love with them (or even begin to hate them) so, caring if they live or die; to feel their pain and joy and be able to absorb myself into their adventure as though just one of the gang. The look of a film should make me want to make screen-shots just so I could take a closer look at the subtle fleeting beauty that is a single frame, and together, the mosaic of images creating a flow so appealing to the eye that it lends a resonance to the script and plot without distracting you from the deeper message. With that in mind I'd say '3 Idiots' succeeded on many levels and left me feeling satisfied, unlike many highly praised blockbusters of late which have left me feeling jaded and apathetic. There are a couple of scenes where, should I dare say it, 'The Sound of Music' came to mind, though I won't say why other than perhaps the beautiful scenery and the innocent feel to the actions of the characters in comparison to the overly sassy and promiscuous teenager of many Hollywood films these days. Overall, I think my score of 8 is fair given how the movie made me feel, it's lasting impression on me and the fact that I could easily watch it again- perhaps even adding it to my favorites list. I would recommend others to give it a go, even if you're not partial to musicals or Bollywood, or subtitles- so what?! You can always be surprised and I have a feeling you might be!


                
This is my first real exposure to Bollywood and I gotta say it's a lot of fun! A lot of what is portrayed in this film about life in engineering school is very real and true, and I think this is what makes this movie very easy to relate to for a lot of people. Yet at the same time, there are moments of comedy, sheer fun, Bollywood dancing and falling in love. Whether you regularly watch Bollywood or not, I think this is a great film regardless. Original and interesting storyline mixed in with some moments of cheesiness. It's nearly 3 hours long, but it's certainly not a drag. A good movie for if you're looking for something fun and light-hearted.


                
I have heard about the movie since its first release in China, but my friends always despise Bollywood movies because their style is not original. But 3 idiots is intriguing enough to shatter my bias. Character building is successful enough to make the three idiots, Pia, Virus and even Chatur seems authentic and attractive to me. I love the bright, joyful color of a school comedy that lightens up the mood before the characters even appears. Twists and turns in this movie is so cleverly arranged that the excitement they creates are perfectly maintained by the next. Rancho, the legendary guy, happens to leak his whereabouts when Chatur declares victory over the other 2 idiots, and they happen to seize the opportunity to make the real Rancho spill the shameful truth, and Pia happens to get married at the same day, so they can restore the poetic justice for Rancho/Wangdo and embrace the perfect ending. Along with the genius student character that challenge the virus and seniors and get away with it, the audience's expectation for this older Rancho climbs to the peak when the car reaches his school, so that the final enlightenment of his true identity push the satisfaction to a climax. The screenplay writer must be a genius.Actors for the the main roles are also outstanding. There lively expression break the leash of staid Indian faces in our perception. Also I was a little disappointed by the first appearance of Rancho, this extraordinary actor present the image of a genius student and a successful scientist. The one point that touches me the most is their tears, which cooperate with their sincere glittering eyes and pretty smiles. Every time when I am about to leap out of the drama because of the "I will stay here until your dad gets well"cliché, I am pulled back by their facial expressions. Pia is beautiful and attractive all right, also I don't understand why she attempted to married the price tag after dumping him once. Is it really that important for a Indian woman to get married? Virus is ugly and ridiculous with his huge big belly, I started to like him after he offered Rancho his pen unwillingly after he saved his daughter. He was an ossified elitism asshole until I detected his unyielding love for Mona and his deceased son.After all, it's a brilliant piece. Love it, 8 stars
I watched "3 Idiots" upon the recommendation of my cousin. I believe this is the first complete Bollywood film I have seen. "3 Idiots" is a film that goes from the present time, to flashbacks of the lead characters' college days in engineering school. Pals Raju (Sharman Joshi) and Fahran (Madhavan) are looking for their best friend Rancho (Aamir Khan) with whom they have lost contact since graduation. Amidst the juvenile school jokes and musical scenes in bathrooms, the story is sending a serious message that learning is more than just rote memorization. Life is about following your own dreams. It also tells us not to face life with fear, overly relying on religion and charms.There are so many over-the-top scenes in this film which runs more than 2 and a half hours! There was a long scene about a speech where the word "served" was switched with something considerably more vulgar. Funny but went on too long. This may be funnier for people who speak Hindi than those of us who rely on translation. There was a very long scene about a storm, a brownout and someone giving birth. Dramatic but again overstretched and unbelievable. There was also an unexpected sequence about suicide that did not sit well with me in this supposed comedy.I personally liked the simpler poignant scenes that deliver a bigger punch, like the scene with the Prof. Virus and the pen, the scene with Fahran and his dad, the final revelation scene at the end. There were also some nice scenes with Rancho and the young doctor Pia about her fiancé who seemed to be more concerned about how expensive things were, than about her. "3 Idiots" is generally fun to watch, except when the jokes became too toilet or too mean for comfort. There was a lot of suspension of disbelief at the time sequences of a lot of what happened, sometimes not too logical. I could not believe that the actor who played Rancho, Aamir Khan, was actually already in his mid-40s, and yet there he was still credibly playing a college student. Overall though, I did enjoy this, my introduction to Bollywood film. Time to discover more about movies from this part of the world.


                
The film was very successful in every sense It's players , dances , winding key was too perfect You can laugh and cry in this film the film is entertaining ,feeling and meaningful There is perfect an Indian dance such as in every Indian filmNot cry is impossible in some produce Not laugh is impossible in some produce :)really ,players is too successful There is very nice friendship in film .devotion ,affection,confidenceThe scenario of the film is fascinating and the and the film is really too surprising India is too beautiful and , extraordinary Certainly ,Complete teachers should watch the film There is realist promise "when your friend get bad mark you was sad but when your friend was the first you was sadder ":)its too true promise :)
When I was looking for a movie, I reviewed here at IMDb for 3 Idiots. I was surprised to see that it was so popular. I now understand. The movie takes you in a ride of different feelings. It starts maybe as a common University comedy, but soon reveals to be much more.The whole educating system is put under question, behind what is a maybe not so reasonable argument, cause even if there are loads of people that are GREAT for their profession and don't get GREAT grades, the system evaluates only how a person adapts to a standard system to measure knowledge. All the same we can see a very different culture and values. Even in religion.The movie is all the time mixing deep feelings and thoughts, with a laugh and a joke. The songs also give the movie a pleasant touch.All in all, a movie to watch with A LOT of time, but a great movie to see, even with children to give them something to think about.


                
When did the last time you had the feeling while watching a Bollywood movie that you are watching the best film ever and then suddenly after the movie gets over you start to get mixed feelings about the movie you saw. Admit it; it has frequently been this way. And then what do you do, you go to watch the movie repeatedly to reinstate your earlier feeling about the movie. The hysteria and invincibility that Bollywood makers manage to create in their storytelling, is what makes it so special. '3 Idiots' is the latest of such hysterical movie with such aura around it.Rajkumar Hirani's latest offering is based on a popular cult novel '5 point someone' by Chetan Bhagat'. So, it's easy to have lot of expectations for this film right? Wrong! See, this is not Chetan Bhagat's first novel adaptation to the big screen, it's his second. The first one was a disaster called 'Hello' based on his book 'One night at a Call Center'. Hence, there were lots of apprehensions about his latest book to screen adaptation. But hopes were there for the creative team for the film production and the star of the film Aamir Khan. Both Rajkumar and Aamir have impeccable record and status in the industry. Hence, the opening they got for this film was not surprising, even with the steep Ticket prices. But, when the word of mouth began that this is the best bollywood movie ever made, the expectations crossed the limits. And the film about three engineering students in Imperial College of Engineering (a.k.a. a reference to Indian Institute of Technology) does not disappoint. The story is with difference, but the characters are clichéd and true stereotypes of their species. Even the several of the movie sequences that make us laugh in the movie are far beyond being original. But the story is new and relevant to today's youth. Engineering and medical fields of study has started to take a toll on today's youth and the more than half a dozen student suicides that you would witness and hear in the movie is not at all a overreaction. It is turning into an epidemic; hence this film is definitely important. The young India is lapping up the support this film provides to their cause with great hysteria and is enjoying the many jokes and potshots the movie takes on the countries rigid educational system and social norms. The quirky and over the top turns that the lives of these idiots take is bringing joy and happiness to the young India. I should mention the best written character and surprisingly the best actor of the film 'Chatur'. Chatur is the typical Indian student that one sees around the campuses of Indian Colleges. Played by newcomer Omi Vaidya, it is the character the audience loved to see fail. Though he does not, his sequences have brought cheers across college campuses in India. The hysteria of '3 Idiots' becomes easy to decipher for the Indian audience and hence they are flocking the theater with large numbers and are cheerfully encouraging the next person to go watch the film.For rest of the world this film is irrelevant and has nothing new to offer in terms of the movie flow and character development. But if they are able to put that aside, they would too probably enjoy the funny moments that this movie provides and would end up saying that this is the best Bollywood film they have ever seen.


                
I watched this movie yesterday with my family. To begin with, I quite liked the concept about engineering college and the pressures. There were a lot of funny scenes which had the audience in splits. The comic timing of all the actors Amir, Sharman Madhavan and Boman Irani was really good. Chatur is just remarkable, what a launch for him. And when I came out at the interval i was pretty happy. I thought the film would continue in the same way in the second half.But the second half was too filmy. I mean what was Javed Jaffry s character doing in the film? His character was most confusing and unbelievable. I felt that the romantic angle was totally unnecessary and a bit forced as if just introduced to put some masala in the flick. Had the writers stuck to the basic plot about fun in college and avoided romantic side-angles, it would have been more crisp and slick.I thought the film would focus also on all the fun in other years, college fests labs etc. But they missed out on all that. And, the pregnancy scene could have been avoided. That was too "filmy". But otherwise, good story with a nice social message about the lopsided educational system in India. Hope some teachers and people involved in the education industry watch this movie and try to do something to correct our outdated, one-sided education system.There is another thing that stands out in this movie- the cinematography. whether its the college ambiance at IIM Bangalore or Shimla or Ladakh etc. has been nicely captured. Music is also good and keeps you entertained.That said and done, this movie is just an entertainer.Just leave your brains at home while watching this, especially the in the second half.


                
An experience to behold. This movie evoked the extremities of my emotions. Most here on IMDb have appropriately lauded this flick, so any more appreciation on my part will simply turn out to be quite monotonous. I have penned this review to ponder aloud on the narrow lives of those who hated this flick enough to give it a one star rating.Frankly, I did not find more than one or two of the one-star reviews genuine. There is this one guy that compares this movie to the other top 250 movies on IMDb. How lame is that! I mean I have known only professional critics juxtapose movies just so that they could rank them; they are simply forced to compare movies. And judging by that particular person's command over the language and his lack of technical knowledge, he was not even remotely associated with any major critic; why then that absurd comparison? This same guy also cited something about the movie liked by 'mainstream dumb folk'. This comment in itself is dumb. Did he know that Shawshank Redemption was a mainstream flick, and that it was rated highly by the same 'mainstream dumb folks'? You are on IMDb for Satan's sake; this is the place where people other than professional critics rate movies. If I was forced to think like critics, I would say that there are more than a couple of movies better than 'Shawshank..'; Pulp Fiction, The Dark Knight, City of God, The Godfather, to name a few. Hope you get the point.There were a couple of other guys who actually slammed the acting. I wonder, do they even know anything about acting? Being an actor of a small repute myself, I would have no qualms against the acting prowess of the performers, apart from a negligible few areas that needed improvement. And from a consumer's eyes, they made me believe, and there is no higher praise than that.Well, if they are hard-to-please enough to rate the movie a one, why didn't any of them comment on the direction? That is because either there were hardly any points in regards with direction that they could criticize, or they are not literate enough to even know anything about direction.There was this other guy that liked 'Five Point Someone' more. He felt that the movie didn't do justice to the novella. I can only say that the person's list of favorite books would most certainly not be to my taste. I obviously won't say this unless I had read the book, and I wonder how it was successful commercially. The movie is way better than the book. Hell, I shouldn't even be comparing the two.Some other guys claimed that the movie wasn't realistic. Now, since when has the Dark Knight, The Lord of the Rings, The Godfather, Shawshank, Psycho, or Casablanca - I could go on and on - been realistic. Some of them may have been based on a real phenomenon, but they certainly were not out-and-out realistic. We watch and appreciate these movies just for the cinematic experience they offer. So don't give that realism crap. Movies are meant to be a figment of someone's imagination depicted artistically.Some even quoted the movie's similarity to Munnabhai MBBS. Wow, I don't see where that has come from. It's like 'Django Unchained' is 'Reservoir Dogs' all over again. Wake up call! They are two entirely different movies.Don't even get me started on other haphazard criticisms. There were only 2 or 3 people in the one-two star club that convinced me in regards to their rating. Others seemed more like wannabes or trolls, or simply sad souls. I gave this film 8 stars, and dropped 2 stars primarily because of the songs, and its unnecessary larger-than-life portrayal. Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.


                
Released around Christmas 2009 in over half a dozen countries '3 Idiots' , reportedly the highest grossing Bollywood movie of all time, earned $70 million worldwide within 18 days of entering theaters. It was also officially released early to YouTube, another first. In the US, where it's being being shown at AMC/Regal theaters, it made $5.5 million in its first 17 days, the highest US take for a Bollywood import.So what is this paragon? No 'Slumdog,' it's much more a standard commercial Indian film product. That means it's long, it's got tears, laughter, excitement, music and dance, and homilies about work and family. It's got romance, a beautiful girl who finds the hero in the end, and it's got running pee and fart and bum jokes. The screenplay of '3 Idiots' is drawn from Chetan Bhagat's 2004 bestseller Five Point Someone, a novel initially published in English and later reissued in Hindi. Bhagat's novel deals with the college exam angst and romance issues of three student buddies. But the film goes further afield, including childbirth during a blackout due to a monsoon flood, travels through gorgeous mountain landscapes of Ladakh seen from the air, trips back and forth over the period of a decade, one marvelous scene when a professor's mass of equations and symbols float off the blackboard up into the lecture hall, caressing the students. There are several full-dress Bollywood song-and-dance numbers, one in a hospital. The bright-colored cinematography is pleasant to look at. '3 Idiots' is virtually an epic of shared coming-of-age experiences with wholesome messages. These are: be true to yourself, live your dream. Be positive: the hero's mantra is "Aal izz well." Don't cheat -- unless you have to in a good cause. Don't rely on memorizing stuff; think for yourself. Avoid obsessing about the price and value of things. Remember where you came from. Remember your friends. The pressures of school in India where it may be the only way out of poverty are made clear, including the high incidence of suicide among students.And learn Hindi. There's a sequence when a nerdy materialist who lived abroad and didn't study it much is chosen to give a public address in a high-falutin literary form of the language, ending up with some lines in Sanscrit, which he's even more ignorant of. The buddies inject naughty substitute homonyms like the equivalent of "screw" for "serve" and he becomes a laughing stock.It's this materialistic memorizer bloke, Chatur Ramalingam (Omi Vaidya), who starts off the pre-title sequence by calling Farhan Qureshi (R. Madhavan) to say he's located their engineering school pal "Rancho" (Aamir Khan) who disappeared after graduation. Farhan has to take the annoying and materialistic Chatur along as he rounds up best buddy Raju Rastogi (Sharman Joshi) to drive from New Delhi up to the mountain town of Shimla to find Rahcho, the pal who influenced and inspired them so much. Much of the film consists of flashbacks along the trip of all the many incidents that happened in engineering school, many involving the annoying and sadistic school principal Viru Sahastrabuddhe (Boman Irani), AKA "Virus," who has a beautiful daughter, Pia (Kareena Kapoor).The mercurial and diminutive Khan is so talented he gets away with playing Rancho as a student even though he's forty-something. Rancho is a compelling character: he's the inspiration, the catalyst a young person needs to move beyond his origins and live his dreams. Farhan is from a middle class family and has a huge talent for nature photography; his dad has pushed him toward engineering but he hates it. Raju comes from a dirt poor family -- images of his sick father, unmarried sister, and failing mom are in old-movie black and white -- and the way the family's future is resting on his engineering degree so terrifies him that he continually panics and fails the school tests. But he's a tremendously decent, soulful fellow whose rigorous honesty ultimately wins over potential employers. Rancho, whose origins are as obscure as his brilliance is evident, bows to no one and gets away with all kinds of infringements of the rules because or his inventive mind and fundamental decency.This summary barely scratches the surface. '3 Idiots' moves with precipitous speed through a dizzying array of incidents. A puzzling surprise comes just before the mid-way "Interval." And I said it was long. With that "Interval," the movie keeps you in the theater for three full hours. That's a lot of Hindi, and only a little English. But this feels like a cleansing, warm bath after Judd Apatow and Eddie Murphy. This is good entertainment, and it's neither mindless nor nasty. But is it art? Is it groundbreaking? No, one couldn't say that. It's just a breath of good humor and good sense from a more innocent place.


                
LVUWAASAAAglE+oHFnl+NwoXhNCpDSJok0l7o+4zbMfFLDbla5LKI6lR0zdzVvr8 RxYiDZUrCVZB7KFAtQFo5loFZrWM9u3j741RheTlMOtsQBW6Y7HwQ6ki5f80ZV7n a7N58ButZlPy2q2pjbkgWhCjGtQvT081rgzmzKOO0VYT5BDZtLP4Lpr6CH82WfWE ItG4PES5TgQ2iQtErjK8LOaAYNnQDRzHZtTSiCieIrN8NDEIS4SAR9dRTpDAb8Vy 9e/XY/N16NfxfSRT8HnntRva+br4llNf4wLpwkS0hy8oo8tlEPYvBTLkPS5AveMC vDIG2dk5q90u/F1HzJps8U97vEFhtzhx1/DmHFea3XkddhR/MDm4I9/Z9Bt2BUvu bZGfne0sgl4fD86B12C/xUXSbDSgbpkp


                
LVUWAASAAAglE+oHFnl+NwoXhNCpDSJok0l7o+4zbMfFLDbla5LKI6lR0zdzVvr8 RxYiDZUrCVZB7KFAtQFo5loFZrWM9u3j741RheTlMOtsQBW6Y7HwQ6ki5f80ZV7n a7N58ButZlPy2q2pjbkgWhCjGtQvT081rgzmzKOO0VYT5BDZtLP4Lpr6CH82WfWE ItG4PES5TgQ2iQtErjK8LOaAYNnQDRzHZtTSiCieIrN8NDEIS4SAR9dRTpDAb8Vy 9e/XY/N16NfxfSRT8HnntRva+br4llNf4wLpwkS0hy8oo8tlEPYvBTLkPS5AveMC vDIG2dk5q90u/F1HzJps8U97vEFhtzhx1/DmHFea3XkddhR/MDm4I9/Z9Bt2BUvu bZGfne0sgl4fD86B12C/xUXSbDSgbpkp


                
LVUWAASAAAglE+oHFnl+NwoXhNCpDSJok0l7o+4zbMfFLDbla5LKI6lR0zdzVvr8 RxYiDZUrCVZB7KFAtQFo5loFZrWM9u3j741RheTlMOtsQBW6Y7HwQ6ki5f80ZV7n a7N58ButZlPy2q2pjbkgWhCjGtQvT081rgzmzKOO0VYT5BDZtLP4Lpr6CH82WfWE ItG4PES5TgQ2iQtErjK8LOaAYNnQDRzHZtTSiCieIrN8NDEIS4SAR9dRTpDAb8Vy 9e/XY/N16NfxfSRT8HnntRva+br4llNf4wLpwkS0hy8oo8tlEPYvBTLkPS5AveMC vDIG2dk5q90u/F1HzJps8U97vEFhtzhx1/DmHFea3XkddhR/MDm4I9/Z9Bt2BUvu bZGfne0sgl4fD86B12C/xUXSbDSgbpkp


                
Watched this movie yesterday - after hearing about the great box office reports, and insistent friends who were pretty vocal about calling it the movie of the decade. Its a hilarious movie, laugh-out-loud funny, and some scenes leave the tummy hurting. There's enough zing for mainstream cinema - which probably explains its amazing business in a couple of weeks of release. While Aamir is fantastic and totally believable as an engineering student (Defying his real age) and everything else about the movie is great, it's the attention to detail that got me hooked enough to decide giving it a second viewing. The plot is reasonably well thought out while originally "adapted" from Chetan's book. There are a lot of great things going for the movie - but i was sort of surprised to not see Chetan Bhagat's name anywhere on the credits. After getting out of the screening, got online to figure out what the deal was - and got wind of the huge controversy brewing. As nice a movie as this adaptation is - it is still an adaptation, and having seen the movie, and given the book a second read to get my facts right - i can honestly state that a lot more than half the movie is a lift from the book, so the claim that the screenplay is original does take something away from the whole experience (The film makers claim that the end rolling credits have Chetan Bhagat's name is pretty funny - because frankly, how many stick around to watch the rolling credits!?) Note: I am in no way related to or have any affiliations with Chetan Bhagat. This is just my opinion after having read the book, and watched the movie - to make sense of the lack of credit where its due.


                
When Munnabhai's satire meets sensibilities of Taare Zameen Par.. you get 3 idiots! Hirani and Aamir seems to be trying hard to out do each other with their excellence. That's why they have so easily been able to portray what this movie is all about "... chase excellence and success will be a byproduct..". Music of Aamir movies has always been situational and generally doesn't pick up unil one sees the movie. That's true even for this one too and "All Izz Well" will certainly going to play new tag lines for youth since they last changed "Chak De".Movie tries to cover a lot of issues plagueing our higher education system especially in context of Middle class aspirations. Engineering and Medicine are like religion. Although idealism shown in favor of innovation and out-of-box thinking is certainly need of the hour. Boman Irani may be getting typed in "Director/Professor" cast; but then you always feel like a breath of fresh air whenever he is on screen. Sharman joshi had done good justice to his role. Madhvan could have done more justice to his role, but i feel his passion for photography was not aptly portrayed either; in order to have a convincing concluding scene. It was great to see Parkshit Sahni after so much time and a couple of dialogues from Sharman's mother were excellent; especially "Pizza ki 30 minute delivery ki guarantee hai, par ambulance 2 ghante mein bhi nahin aati".Aamir has proved it again that till the time he is around, intelligent cinema will be around.


                
I've been using for a while a rating system that considers a "Watchability Factor", Acting and plot... The rating system goes from 1 to 10, with 5 points given to the "watchability factor", 2 for the acting and 3 for the plot.The scoring works as follows:Watchability Factor 5 - Spectacular! Worth watching over and over again4 - Outstanding<U+0085> will watch several times 3 - Really good movie<U+0085> will watch more than once 2 - Good movie<U+0085> may watch more than once 1 - OK movie... but once is enough.Acting 2 - spectacular, Oscar worthy 1 - Really good, enhanced the plot0 - movie wasn't about the actingPlot 3 - Spectacular, nothing else like it in the genre, nominated for Best Picture (Oscars) 2 - Makes you think well after, unique 1 - Interesting idea / story 0 - Run of the mill3 Idiots??? Four points for "watchability", one for acting and three for plot... for a total of 8 out of ten. Really Good Movie!!!... A must watch!!!


                
Innovative, Inspiring, I loved it.. December seems to be a month when Bollywood wakes up from the much dreaded sleep and releases it's 'Good Cinema' for the tired audience.. Maybe that's why it's one of the reasons we can bid 2009 a warm farewell with a smile..Rajkumar Hirani is the guy with the magic touch. After the enormous success of Munnabhai series, he takes another chance and delivers, and surely he delivers well, winning the heart of his audience again. He's definitely the "Undisputed King of Comedy".. Shortly following him is our Rancchoddas Shyamaldas Chanchad. No Spoilers please. Yes, I will follow the advice and proceed. Music is not extraordinary but it fits the movie and situation perfectly to the limit that you may even start enjoying it. Plot, loosely based on Chetan Bhagat's 5 point someone which I have not read and I do not really intend to read. For me as a viewer, it's Hirani's and Abjhijat's Joshi's screenplay that made me enjoy the movie and I would like to keep it that way.I don't enjoy bollywood cinema a lot. 10% of movies which gain commercial success and amidst all the hype can be 'in real terms' can be said good, one of this kind is 3 Idiots. You will enjoy 170 minutes of this movie that I can assure you. And 70% of the time, you'll be laughing. If you enjoyed Munnabhai's humor, this movie is definitely your cuppa coffee. Don't miss it but if you've got small kids, enjoy the movie at home. Yes I'm venting out my frustration at this point. And I'm sure I'm not alone in this.I give this movie a 8. I hope Bollywood delivers more such movies which we can enjoy and understand at the same time.


                
Before I start heaping praise for the movie, let me point out to a few,very few average points of the film. The movie at several points turned too obvious , so obvious that I bet half the audience in the theatre could guess what was coming next . I don't imply the director always has to pull out a rabbit out of the hat or do the unobvious ,but I strongly feel not letting the audience see through the curtain is the best way to keep them glued to their seats . Also I feel there was a bit of Munnabhai hangover casting its shadow on the direction of the movie.There seems to be a certain monotonicity in the three films Hirani has to his name, but this is still pardonable.I would have to say a few scenes like "the Baby Delivery scene" were a bit off the hook .. nevertheless the audience loved it. Well enough of biting now let me write something good , very good about the movie .Rajkumar Hirani Take a Bow !!!! You did it once again you gem of an artist ,you in fact ended up bettering the Novel.The most beautiful aspect of his direction here is the perfect blend of portrayal of Humour and Emotions he achieved. One moment you are fighting hard to keep those pearls grilled in your eyes and the other you actually spill them out laughing . The movie comes up with a beautiful message , I mean what more can the audience ask for ? Another very beautiful aspect of his direction was the ease with which he geared in & out of present and flashback.The screenplay of the movie (which is a combined effort of Hirani ,Bhagat and Joshi(Mission Kashmir & Lage Raho Munnabhai Fame) ) is top notch. The music by Shantanu Moitra though might not appear to have hit the bull's eye initially but goes very well with the Movie.Watch out for the track " Gimme Some Sunshine ". Sharman Joshi was just the perfect cast in the role of Raju and did complete justice to the role, but as one of my friends pointed out the character resembled the character of Sukhi from RDB. But still here is one guy who has a perfect timing for comedy and still shoulders emotional scenes with similar ease.The duration of role Kareena got might not be long but the character leaves her effect well.Madhavan too does complete justice to the role. Boman Irani is one of those people who just doesn't stop getting praises every time enters the screen , he does a marvellous job portraying Virus, The Director. In the end I must admit this movie belongs to Aamir Khan. Hats of to you sir!!! May be its his Incapability to do bad that always works for him . Not a moment in the whole movie would you feel that here is a 44 year old man playing a 21 year old boy..... and has looked younger than ever . I bet he would have made the odd 30's and 40's feel like being 20 again ... No doubt he in response to Shahrukh's King status Claims to be the Ekka (Ace) of Bollywood.Time for rating , As a critic I'd rate it 4/5 , as i thought the editing could have been better , and for the few momentary lapses here and there in the direction .But as a viewer who wants entertainment I'd rate it a 4.5/5 . Amazing movie , go watch it , you'll laugh , you'll cry and will in the end, end up walking out of the theatre with a message. A Must watch for every age group :)


                
First off, take note of the length of the movie (IMDb here says 170 minutes). You got that right, just shy of 3 hours. But don't let that scare you from watching the movie - it is a really emotional movie which will grip you for the full 3 hours.Second, it probably does not need to be 3 hours. I hear there is an American remake in the works. I am anxious to see how it will be done, and what will be cut because there is a lot of stuff in this movie which probably can get the boot. We Americans generally believe that all Indian movies have dance numbers, and this movie doesn't disappoint, with several useless numbers (useless in my opinion).Third, the IMDb synopsis, while accurate, refers to like...one quarter of the actual movie. In other words, it is a lot like "Forest Gump" in that the "present" that is initially presented (which involves Forest finding Jenny and his son, and then moving to Alabama, etc. etc.) is setup through the telling of the whole back story, which takes up the majority. Same deal here with "3 Idiots". The IMDb synopsis covers the present, in that three guys are on a journey to find their lost friend, but the real meat of this movie is the whole back story which is not mentioned in the least. So just keep that in mind before starting the movie. I say that because when I read the synopsis I came in with this mentality that this was going to be an Indian version of "Road Trip" or something, just based on the title, the cover and the synopsis (it really isn't).Fourth, this movie is nothing like your vulgar/sexual American comedies involving some good buddies and their adventures. There really are some useful messages in this movie, especially some that will really touch home with anyone who has gone through engineering studies (like myself).With that aside, the movie was great. The emotions are really powerful, the acting is really good - a very touching story. The dean (Viru Sahastrabudhhe, played by Boman Irani) really touched home with me. I had a teacher exactly (Yes, EXACTLY!) like this guy in my engineering studies. Thankfully for me he was just a teacher of a couple classes and not the dean of the school (whew!).The three hours really flies by because the advancements in the "present" story (the three guys on the journey to find their friend) are made after finding out the back story. For example, the movie starts out with a guy feigning a heart ailment to get a plane to turn home, rushing to a friend's house, waking him and rushing his good buddy out of his house (so fast that he forgets to put on his pants) all to arrive at this random location where they meet the third buddy. The third buddy tells them that they all made a promise to meet there 10 years prior. The next (very long) segment of the movie goes back to square zero to introduce everyone and educate (pun intended) as to the significance of the location. After that, the "present" advances to the next location. In my opinion, if the movie just focused on the "present" without giving any life to the characters, it would be very hollow. I mean just think if "Forest Gump" just started with him talking to that lady who tells him that Jenny's address is around the corner and he just runs off - you would never learn of Jenny's issues, Forest's history with Jenny, etc.My only complaint is that the movie is just too damn long, and there are things that probably don't need to be elaborated multiple times. I get it, Rancho is different from everyone else, and will excel at everything. I don't need it to be reiterated 10 times. I also don't need the dance numbers, they provided nothing to the story. If you have seen the movie "Men of Honor" I think you can understand of what I speak (Cuba Gooding's character keeps pushing through the barriers to achieve his successes over and over to the point where the movie is longer than it needs to be. OK, he beat the racist general. OK he beat everyone else in their times underwater. OK he beat the racist who cut his tool bag. OK OK OK OK...heh).All that aside, it has some really powerful messages that you can really take home as a future (or current) parent. I'd say that if you are current or prospective engineering student, this is a *MUST* watch. No joke. For graduates of engineering studies, I'd say you should definitely check this out to get a few chuckles, reminiscing about your days in engineering and to gather an idea of the Indian culture with engineering (if what they portray is true, I'd say it is eye-opening).If it was more to the point, and not as dragged out, I'd give it a 9 or a 10.


                
One of the best Hindi films ever made. yes, there is some lacking in direction and editing but whatever! 8 star is the perfect rating for this movie. excellent casting. Best thing about this movie is that this movie is full of good messages.


                
One of the best movie on the social thinking of indian subcontinent. Nicely done by Amir Khan


                
Amazing & full of fun
Really heart touching story. With the combination of three amazing actor.


                
