I cannot believe this film is so highly rated! A terrific disappointment. It is impossible and unrealistic, but not presented as fantasy. The dialogue for twelve year old's is corny and stupid at times, or else ridiculously adult and philosophical. It is for the most part poorly acted, predictable and badly directed. Kids in Oregon in the fifties didn't behave like New York hoodlums. The cheesy ending, telling what happened to his friends was a cop-out and there was no resolution of the threat from the Cobras leader. There was also no resolution of Gordie's problems with his father and dead brother either. Altogether boring and a waste of time.
A complete waste of time. From the opening to the end, a narrator (it sounds like Richard Dreyfus's voice) utters cliché after cliché.I could parse it and present several examples but one will suffice since it isn't worth more time than that. When a junk yard owner insults a boy and his friends drag him away he calls for them to come back. For what? This would not and does not happen in real life. The mean old man should laugh. That's how it happens in life and how it should have be written but since the "author" had to present us with the bonding of the boys (saving one from suicide wasn't enough) he couldn't leave "the plan," the plan he no doubt read in his copy of "Screen Writing For Dummies." The author seems to know exactly nothing about people except this: he wants to be a writer. In one pathetic scene (author's massage!) one of the boys suggest he might write about their pathetic little souls if he grows up to write.Why not? There was quite an important event they were witnesses to and, if you can't write about that, what can you write about?... assuming one can write.But this author can't. Still, the movie is something of a miracle. How did someone with such a bad script get the money to make this high-school level fluff? It's one thing to write about childhood but shouldn't the writer grow up first? Shouldn't he, at some point along the way, have learned something that can inform his important event with meaning?


                
I was disappointed at the end of the film and my wife too. I didn´t think that it could end so simply. The story is very thin and lives especially from typical kid stories or adventures. The movie never gets really chilling and also the time till they find the dead body is too long. Too easy and no big surprises when finally the kids found the body. In the whole film there were one or two funny scenes but believe me that´s all. I noted this movie from imdb critics and i have to say that they are partly too overrated. Rent it before you decide to buy it. Fortunately I only rent it but you won´t miss anything and it´s better you save the money for another good DVD. For these reasons we gave for the second time a 1/10. The other one was for "Memento".


                
Jerry O'Connell has done some pretty good projects (Sliders season 1, season 3 of Sliders, season two) but earlier in his career he also made a few missteps.Case in point this average at best movie that gets tons of attention, Stand By Me.Not sure what people see in this film. It's all a bunch of white guys running around trying to find a dead body of some other white guy. Spoiler alert! Sure there are some OK actors in this like Q-Ball and Kiefer Sutherland and that other kid whats his name and the kid who stunk on Star Trek. Daniel Stern is in this too and that guy's a cut-up, he once took a BM at a pool party I threw.Anyway there's no real actors in this for Q man to play off of. No Rembrandt Browns.It's also very disappointing that at no time in the entire overlong two and a half hours of this film did any kind of vortex to another dimension open. No inter-dimensional travel at all. No musical numbers. No Kro-mags. No Wade.This movie is a real boring waste of time. Check out Sliders season five instead.
It's hard to put in to words how much I honestly despise this film. It wasn't funny, it wasn't touching, it didn't show any "coming of age" at all, it didn't show much bonding....... and don't even get me started on that ending!


                
