In 1959, in Castle Rock, Oregon, the boys Gordie Lachance (Wil Wheaton), Chris Chambers (River Phoenix), Teddy Duchamp (Corey Feldman) and Vern Tessio (Jerry O'Connell) learn that the teenager Ray Brower, who is missing, was hit by a train and is dead in a nearby river. They decide to find the body to become local heroes and along their journey, they disclose secrets and learn the importance of their friendship."Stand by Me" is another nostalgic little gem from the 80's with a coming-of-age drama, with funny and heartbreaking moments. The plot is simple but realistic and supported by a group of promising young actors. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Conta Comigo" ("Count on Me")


                
Stand By Me is probably the best film ever to come from a Stephen King story. (The Green Mile sucks, by the way.) The story is told from an adult writer's point of view as he recounts an adventure he shared with his three best friends in the waning moments of the summer before junior high school began. We see the four boys head out into the wilderness to see the dead body of a boy who was apparently hit by a train. The boys encounter bullies, other trains, leeches, vicious dogs, and many other things on their trip. And they have some pretty deep and emotional conversations along the way.This is a very awkward age in the life of a young man. You can tell by listening to their conversation topics which range from boobs to whether or not Mighty Mouse can beat up Superman. The youngsters are portrayed flawlessly by four terrific young actors. Who would have thunk that Jerry O'Connell would turn out to be the most successful of them? At times they laugh, other times they pick on each other. Sometimes they seem on the verge of fighting, but when challenged by the older gang of bullies, they stick together. Richard Dreyfuss, who plays the adult writer, narrates the action as things move along. Their trip is full of surprises and emotional insight.Stand By Me is not quite a classic in my book, but it is very memorable. The script is a little too pessimistic for my liking. Right down to when River Phoenix describes an incident where he's caught stealing milk money from school, and his teacher ends up keeping it for herself. There is also a complete lack of positive supporting characters during the scenes set back when they were kids. Only John Cusack, in a cameo role, is shown as a positive older character. No wonder these kids felt so unwanted! All the adults around them were jerks! The script uses more swear words than are actually necessary to convey the anger these kids sometimes feel. And you'd think any dead body that had been hit by a train would be more damaged than the one they find out in the woods. Wouldn't this kid have heard the train coming in time and jumped well out of the way? If he was trying to kill himself, then you'd think he would have stood in the way and been completely pulverized. I know these may seem like petty beefs, but they are enough to knock the review down a star or two.It seems like the film is trying to portray the dead Brower boy as the death of these kids' innocence or something to that effect. As someone who's been their age, I can understand some of what they were feeling. And I totally agree that some of the people you thought were your best friends eventually just turn out to be faces in the crowd at school a few years later.Despite it's faults, this is a powerful film you aren't likely to forget. It's one of Reiner's best, and the outstanding cast does some wonderful work themselves.8 of 10 stars.The Hound.


                
This film is a brilliant, well-acted masterpiece! What touched me the most was the late River Phoenix's acting, but all of the young actors performances were incredible. They are why you should see this film. 'Stand By Me' is not a bubblegum Disney film, nor a dry Hollywood film; it is a movie that captures childhood in a poignant, non-candy coated manner that is dead on. I saw this movie only a couple months ago and was blown away by it's style and acting. It is rare that you see such fresh, relaxed and deep performances that the actors in this film offered. Although this is not a recent film, it is a genuine, inspiring film that is so refreshing-being so different than the films Hollywood often gives us. I give this film a 100+ and recommend it to everyone. You will benefit from it's message and it's wonderful acting.


                
The most amazing film, truly one of the best i have ever seen, Incredibly funny and the performances from the young boys in the film were just the best i have ever seen in my life. I'm very surprised that they are not as famous as i would of thought they would be to this day. There is a lot of bad language in the film but it just makes it seem more realistic. There were also some tearful moments in it too especially towards the end but i think that just made the movie seem even more special to me. This film has everything, its funny, its adventurous, its tearful and it has a friendship based plot. every time someone asks me what my favourite movie is i always say this one. Don't miss out watch it!


                
After the death of his friend, a grown-up Gordie, now a writer, recounts a childhood journey. Gordie and three friends travel a long way to see the body of dead boy, and have several adventures on the way. I thought this movie was excellent. I thought it was a really nice, simple, unpretentious movie with themes that were really great, and really relevant. The characters, and some of the actors playing them, were amazing. River Phoenix stood out especially, he was a fantastic actor for his age, but the same applies to the other child actors; they brought the characters to life so well. I felt like I knew them all so well, and I suppose I do have friends, or know someone just like each of the characters. Although the characters were great, the one criticism I have about them is that they were a bit cliché and stereotyped. For example, the quiet artistic child whose brother died and whose father hates him. Or the fat, loser, woosey boy. But I suppose the characters are like that so we do relate and feel like we know each one of the characters. Apart from that, everything else was great. It wasn't too long or too short, and the story never seemed to lag. It's funny, hilarious even at times, but it's still touching, and sweet. The filmmakers and the actors manage to capture every aspect of childhood without being one of those awful, lovely, candy-coated, happy, Hollywood movies. The movie makes me feel lucky that I'm still young, and that I still can make the most of my life, but at the same time, it made me wish I was 12 again, that I was still innocent, and had friends like Vern and Gordie and Chris.


                
There were so pretty great children actors. River Phoenix is the best out of them all. Steven King is a great writer but this book, "the Body", I feel, didn't translate well on the big screen. There was a good deal of funny moments and the music was a good touch. Some parts were very visually appealing. This movie lost points for me because I wasn't entertained by it.. This movie reminds the viewers that friends are what really matter in the world.


                
I loved Stand By Me, a great childhood adventure film which shows how growing up can be tough, fun, exciting & life changing. Now i'm a bit older the movie reminds me about how great it was being a worry free kid with so much to explore, and how the word boredom barley existed. I guess watching it these days could make me a little jealous & depressed that my childhood is over, but in the best possible way. Its always good to look back and smile, even if you can't turn back the clock.The acting was great, especially from Corey Feldman & Keither Sutherland who both have roles within other movies in my top 20 list as well, i really think it deserved an Oscar and not just a nomination but an 8.1 on IMDb is just as rewarding i guess :)i too give it an 8/10.


                
Good story about childhood. Parents, freedom, dreams. And friends. Real friends.
This scenario is simple. After watching the film, there remains a slight aftertaste of losing something important. Something that will never return.


                
Friends somehow understand you more than anyone at times. They've got your back through thick and thin. And even if it might get ugly at times, be it tears or a crime, your friends are there. And this movie truly encapsulates that very journey of getting even closer to one another by how the events unfold themsleves. The sassy diologues and witty sarcasm add to the very authenticity of this movie. At the end, you get to know, no matter what happens, you're not alone.


                
River Phoenix, Wil Wheaton, Jerry O'Connell, and Corey Feldman play best friends in Stephen King's coming of age story, "Stand By Me." In the 1950s, four boys leave their rural town to search for the body of a missing boy who is rumored to be rotting near train tracks. Their two day adventure will test their bonds of friendship as they encounter a vicious junkyard dog and his owner, killer trains, wild animals roaming at night, leeches, bullies, and of course, themselves.My most memorable, movie moment is **SPOILER ALERT** the scene when Wheaton points a gun at Kiefer Sutherland. Sutherland asks if Wheaton is going to shoot him and his whole gang. Wheaton answers "No, Ace, just you."Director Rob Reiner does a good job with this non-horror story from King. Add to this a very young and talented cast with some breakout performances by Phoenix and Sutherland, and the result is a very entertaining movie in a subgenre that is usually boring and predictable.Mannysmemorablemoviemoments
Many claim this to be the best adaptation of Stephen King. I will refrain from such claims until I saw them all (so far I have seen 14 out of around 80), but it sure is great. The story is not a typical King, but, even if I didn't know what I'm watching, I would recognize King by the overall atmosphere. This adventure is placed at the end of the '50s, also one of King's signatures, and followed by an excellent choice of music from that period. Fans of horror, fantasy and suspense adventure may be disappointed by the lack of all, cause this movie almost has no plot and it's based on characterization and human relationships. For just an hour and a half, that summarize two days of boys adventure, we get to know those four twelve years old boys so good that we get the impression we grew up together with them. Besides King's writing and Reiner's directing, great merits for such an impression go to four boys that will soon grow up into famous actors - star of Star Trek Wil Wheaton, prematurely deceased River Phoenix (who, strangely, dies prematurely in movie too), less famous but very productive Corey Feldman (Gremlins, Goonies, voice of Donatello in TMNT), Kiefer Sutherland and lots more of more or less known faces. All in all, if you don't expect a typical King and know how to enjoy good family drama, this movie would be a shame to miss.8/10


                
In Stand By Me, Rob Reiner has perfectly captured what it means to be a adolescent male among adolescent males. The story is built from the ground up, through anecdotes, gossip and whispers that may or may not be hard truths. Reputation is everything to these boys. We may never see the addled war veteran that is Teddy's abusive father, or the alcoholic criminals in Chris' family that give him such a bad reputation, but we feel their presence through their pained, clipped dialogue and the taunts of others. And still these bad people become dysfunctional male role models; Teddy fiercely defends the man who held his ears up against the oven, although he does not know why, and Gordie is fighting for the approval of parents who could not care less about him. So what do they do? They lean on each other, of course. They have neither the knowledge or maturity to excel at the job, but momentarily prop each other up and distract themselves with fantasies of fame and fortune that might come with discovering a dead body. And even as they find it, and realise that it has little practical use, they stubbornly fight for their right to the corpse because their reputation and face is at stake. It is a symbolic victory, but while the real objective of the journey is scarcely valuable, what it does it open up emotional crevasses that have been hidden deeply by layers of development masculinity, sarcasm and ineffection. These are boys who think the most important truths of the world are that if you flinch you get punched in the arm, and what lies deep underneath takes the strongest of bonds to not be immediately deemed 'pussy'.The acting reflects this mindset. It is full of performances that are doubly layered; they act braver than they admit, and as tears are finally shed they are already hurriedly trying to brush them away. River Phoenix is unsurprisingly the stand out; his sharp features betray a youth that has already been corrupted and hurried along, and the forced stoicism in each word of his dialogue reminded us that he has been asked to grow up much sooner than he should have to. Reiner captures that moment in between - in a few years or so they might become like Ace and his goons, nearing adulthood and wielding the prime days of their physical dominance and irresponsibility with evil relish. In King's original novel the adult Ace makes another appearance in the future epilogue, no longer the bully he once was. The framed narrative is where it slightly stumbles. It allows Reiner some room to breath - to make a two day trip seem like an epic odyssey in the eyes of the boys, to wink as chopper's true nature is revealed, to subtly suggest that Lard-Ass is really just Gordie's attempt at comforting his friend. But ultimately the story-within-a-story structure somewhat tames the screen's events; they have been filtered and sanitised for what will be another bestseller for the future successful writer. The voice-over at times sounds bored, and robs the moment of true emotional poignancy. I'm reminded of the final words that show at the end of American Graffiti, and how they hit like a truck. But there's enough here to definitely strike a powerful chord with at least a few, in particular those who have never forgotten the urgency and intensity of their troubled teenage lives, and the friendships that keep them afloat.
Stand by Me is a coming of age film starring Will Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman, and Jerry O'Connell. The Movie is based upon the novel by Stephen King, "The Body." Four childhood friends embark on an adventure to find the body of a missing boy. The four friends are different from each other and each have their demons that they are battling. Throughout the film, their issues are unfolded which lead to the choices they make. Will Wheaton plays the lead, Gordie Lachance, a quiet, reserved character who is living in his late brother's shadow and with a resentful father, he bears guilt. River Phoenix plays Chris Chambers, who came from a bad family and is known as a thief. Corey Feldman plays Teddy Duchamp, a known physically abused kid. Jerry O'Connell plays Vern Tessio, the pathetic, easily teased, "fat kid". The editing effectively guides the audiences' thoughts, associations, and emotional responses right from the beginning sequence. In the beginning, we see the storyteller, played by Richard Dreyfuss, sitting in his pickup, looking into the distance as two young teens pedal by on their bicycles. He looks at a news article telling of a person's death. The camera zooms in slow motion focusing in on the expression of Dreyfuss' character who looks deep in thought. The zoom transitions into a start of a flashback as the narrator begins to voice-over the story. This one scene involves a massive amount of editing in such a small amount of time. The music in the background also sets an emotional tone. The kids on bicycles riding by, perhaps foreshadows that the story is about kids that age. And who is the person in the article of the paper? Will we find out? This scene is a great example of smooth continuity and coherence.During the scene at the junk yard, involving Chopper, the infamous, scary, guard dog, sound effects come into play. The invisible dog sound effects are effective. These sound effects of a dog barking evoke a mood and atmosphere of fear for Gordie and the others which creates drama of what's to come next. The camera angle is also focused on Gordie's face and it's only after he makes it safely over the fence that we see that less intimidating Chopper. This same effect reminds me of the scene in the movie, The Sandlot, where a similar effect was achieved. The sound effects along with the filming of the scene creates the mood of suspense right before the object, the dog, is shown. It achieves a greater effect by leaving it to the audience's imagination. The movie is a great coming of age film, riveting, and nostalgic for many. I grew up loving this film at about the same age as the leading characters. I also am a fan of the fantastic soundtrack that was included in the plot line.
I've seen this movie many times but still love it as much as I did 30 years ago!! Stephen King writes awesome stories which turn into awesome movies for the most part. This movie about boyhood friends who decide to become heroes by finding the body of a boy hit by train. As they travel they learn the true bonds of friendship. I love the soundtrack and the fact that Richard Dreyfuss narrates is a plus! It stars most of 80s-early 90s crushes. River Phoenix and Wil Wheaton are wonderful as Chris(Phoenix) and Gordie(Wheaton). I loved Corey Feldman's Teddy and even overweight,naive Verne(Jerry O'Connell before his days as a slim cutie Derek from Scream 2). Keifer Sutherland always made a great bad boy and of course that made him more attractive in this. My favorite character through the whole film has to be Gordie's deceased brother Denny played by John Cusack. I have this movie on a 2-disc set DVD set but I still have it on my DVR for easy viewing access. If you enjoy coming of age movies or Stephen King I really believe you'll enjoy this.
A young boy and his misfit friends are the main protagonists of this movie as they go off to find a dead body and collect a possible reward from the cops. However, although this is a Stephen King film it isn't his usual horror stuff, this film takes place in the 1950's and is just a coming-of-age adventure film.The acting was great especially for child actors, the plot was interesting and it had both sad and funny moments, as well as some great nostalgic soundtrack.My one complaint? Well, I was a kid once, everyone was, and I've never heard kids swear as much as they do in this film, even when they're alone... maybe in the 50's swearing from kids was more common? That's just a minor thing though; overall this film was entertaining from start to finish. I can't say it was thrilling or suspenseful but it was pretty cool.
An authentic portrayal of childhood, a heartwarming rendition of friendship & a pleasant shot of nostalgia, Stand By Me is an elegantly crafted coming-of-age drama that today ranks amongst the finest examples of its genre, and deservingly so. Packed with sincere performances from its young but terrific cast, this film's real strength lies in the right balance it finds in each of its filmmaking aspects & the manner in which it captures the time that memories are made of.Based on a Stephen King's novella & told in flashback by a writer recounting his boyhood journey after learning of his friend's demise, Stand By Me is set in the town of Castle Rock and concerns a group of 4 adolescent boys who take a hike across the countryside to find the missing body of a dead kid in order to become local heroes. The adventure turns out to be life-changing experience for them as they learn more about themselves, the nature of friendships & the need to stand up for what's right.Rob Reiner's direction is admirable for the film is beautifully structured from start to finish & has a serene atmosphere that adds an incredible amount of warmth to the whole story. Screenplay keeps the innocence of its characters alive while managing to subtly deal with its underlying themes. Cinematography is beautifully carried out, editing provides the drama its required pace to connect with the viewers & the choice of music is tastefully done.Coming to the performances, Stand By Me features a young cast in Will Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman & Jerry O'Connell in their respective roles of Gordie, Chris, Teddy & Vern. And although everyone delivers fabulous performances, it's Wheaton & Phoenix who end up impressing the most and played their part extremely well. The film is bookended by the shots of old Gordie, played by Richard Dreyfuss, who also chipped in finely in his short role.On an overall scale, Stand By Me is an ingenious example of a coming-of-age story that hasn't aged a day despite being nearly 30 years old and its themes remain as relevant today as they were during its years of release. A celebration of childhood, friendship, young passion & the time when we were always curious to discover new things, this nostalgic masterpiece is an ode to those years in everyone's life when friendships is at its most pure, innocent & selfless. Delightfully recommended.


                
Another adaptation of a short novel by horror writer Stephen King, although this time around the original story, The Body is not a scary one but a drama about preteen boys growing up in a small town.Rob Reiner; formerly well known as meat head on All in the family, does a marvelous directing job turning Kings work into a first rate film depicting the journey of four friends looking for the body of a missing classmate. He was apparently run over by a train. River Phoenix, Jerry O'Connell, and Corey Feldman play the youngsters and Wil Wheaton is Gordie, the narrator of the story told through flashbacks with Richard Dreyfuss taking over as the adult Gordie. The four encounter the local bully, Ace(Kiefer Sutherland) and his cronies along the way and they also learn a great deal about each other on their adventurous quest. Stand by me is one of the better Stephen King inspired movies.


                
This movie combines the best of so many truly gifted artists. It's based on a Steven King short, directed by Rob Reiner and stars 4 perfectly cast and directed young actors. It runs the full gambit of emotion, in no way lessened by the youth of the characters of actors portraying them.No matter what your youth was like, this movie has some of your past in it. Anger, confusion, coming of age, finding independence, camaraderie with peers, standing up to bullies (or not), misunderstood or abusive parents, and most dramatically, finding the friends who get you through whatever you may face.And if you have the opportunity, you should definitely view the 'featurette': Walking the Tracks. The interviews with the actors, director and Steven King are as informative and entertaining as any special feature you'll ever watch. Among other things, hearing Rob Reiner talk about how he took 4 very young and completely inexperienced actors and made this movie is a true vision into the art of being the "Actor's Director".This one should be on everyone's favorite list. A solid 8+.But that's just my two scents. :)


                
An simple story that is delivered perfectly.The four boys acting is brilliant, especially River Phoenix who was the star of the film. All Stephen Kings books are simple and are able to be read by anyone and the films are the same, simple but magnificent.This is one of those feel good movies that you'll watch on an Sunday evening. Its tells the story of four boys searching for an dead body which is located in an remote area. That all there is to it but thanks to the engaging characters and acting, the film is an joy to watch. It all about the good times of childhood while at times it shows the hard times also.Overall it an great film. It to hard to pick an memorable scene, there not many that you will remember and love but still, every scene is fun and exciting to watch.


                
Lots of intense drama and loads of side splitting laughs. Equally as good as King's short novel. The 4 boys interplay was flawless; their boyish actions realistic. The pie eating scene was one of the funniest things I've seen on film yet. Wonder what happened to good old Ace Merrill?


                
The beauty of "Stand By Me" is how well it captures the small moments of adolescence, the cheap jokes, the time-wasting card games, the pet phrases of the kids you hung around with. It's not necessary for you to have spent a summer weekend on a long hike to see a corpse to relate. Hell, it's not necessary for you to be male.Based on the Stephen King novella "The Body," part of his 1982 collection "Different Seasons" (along with another IMDb top 250 film, "The Shawshank Redemption"), "Stand By Me" moves at a pace so languid it should almost be in French with English subtitles. Wil Wheaton stars as a youngster named Gordon Lachance, seriously neglected by parents in mourning for his recently killed brother. Gordie finds himself on a journey with three friends to find the missing body of Ray Brower, a boy about their age who disappeared while collecting berries, but who they hear is lying beside the railroad tracks on a back road miles from town.This was one of those films you remember well if you were around when it came out. For a long time in the 1980s, it seemed like movies were either suffocatingly serious excursions into what it all meant with Meryl Streep debuting a new accent, or else popcorn fluff. "Stand By Me" was that rarity, a serious film that dared to be popular, and was it ever. Even the old Ben E. King song that inspired the title was trotted out after 25 years to become a hit again. Everywhere you went, people told you how great it was, even a professor in the middle of a lecture in my Asian history class.The film is still great. You watch four young actors, all of whom have recognized public identities beyond the film, and still get totally submerged in their created reality. River Phoenix as Chris Chambers is the obvious leader, wearing an aura of sad maturity that you gravitate to as much as Gordie does, while Corey Feldman is perfect as buggy Teddy Duchamp, a self-deluded 'wet end' spoiling for a fight. Jerry O'Connell, the only one to transfer his acting career into adulthood, is a welcome laugh magnet as the fat and hapless Vern. They play off each other so well, you forget the E! True Hollywood Stories and just focus on the to-and-fro, hearing echoes of your own childhood in what seems improvised dialogue.What else is perfect about this movie? The camera work, the narration by Richard Dreyfuss, the clever use of period music, the attention to detail (like the old Hills Bros. coffee can the kids pitch rocks into at the junkyard), the pace and rhythm. The juxtaposing of the main storyline with detours like Vern's penny hunt and the sad but hilarious tale of Lard Ass Hogan is brilliant, and makes this a hard film to get tired of, no matter how much you see it.Comparing this to the original King story is interesting. On the one hand, whole sections of dialogue are carried over into the screenplay without change. But there's a less rueful tone to the movie, a lighter touch that is welcome. We don't need to hear about Vern and Teddy's awful aftermaths after enjoying their company for 90 minutes, and director Rob Reiner wisely gives them somewhat happier fates. There's more joy here, but its not stupidly happy. That final line, pulled from King's text but not the end of it, brings it all back home.If there was anything I'd change, it would be some of the adult casting, especially Gordon's father and the junkyard guy. Both overplay the hostility. There's a bit too much hugging and male-bonding (when I was a kid, this would have been grounds for "mowing" and an early exile), and the flashbacks with Gordon's brother are a little contrived.But this is a great big enchilada of a movie, full of vigor and fun, and some deeper questions. What did the body really mean for Gordon and his gang? How did it change who they were, and how much were they changing already? It's like that scene with the leeches. You can see Gordon pull that bloody thing off his scrotum and think there's something being said there about the crossroads between sex and death, or else you can say 'That's one big ugly leech.' You are on the money either way. Seeing this movie makes winners of us all.


                
I've seen quite a few comments questioning why this movie is so highly rated. I remember it fondly from my childhood and re-watched it recently after seeing a spoof of it in Season 7 of the Family Guy. I didn't recall the movie being so short (though I like 1:30 movies), actually kind of boring, and an ending that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. But to answer the question about why it is liked, I suspect many of the individuals who rank this movie very highly are men and possibly were kids in the 80s. That fits my description. The 4 kids in the movie were just a couple years younger than me, though at the time they acted my age. Every kid had a group they hung out with and being 12 or so is about the most carefree time of your life. I never had an adventure quite like this, was never bullied to this extreme, but we did explore the woods, uncover cool stuff, admit our vulnerabilities, joke around, and even cry. Add in a narrator, and some cool 50s music, 4 kids you would want to hang out with (even if they would never be actual friends in real life) and you pretty much can't go wrong. Thus the 8 star rating I gave the movie. Sentimentality wins in this movie.However, in terms of actual entertainment, it falls a little short. It is interesting, sentimental, and overall a neat story that is worth watching. But it does not deserve a 9 or 10 rating in my opinion.One big question I've never seen answered anywhere is why did the kids want the body so bad? Why were they willing to be terribly beat up or even killed for it? Then willing to kill others for it. Only to then just leave it and call it in? This makes no sense. Why did the bullies not just wait and jump the kids or sneak up from behind, there were over 7 of them?!? Finally in the recap there was no mention of Kiefer's character getting revenge (thanks, Family Guy). He said this is not over, but did he just move on with his life? Did he suddenly have a religious experience and forgiveness? Did both cars crash on the way back home that day and all of them died? There's a huge hole in the end of this movie that really frustrated me to the point I almost lowered this move that was treasured in my mind down to 7 stars. Well, ultimately many movies have plot holes and the positives of this movie and the very last scene where Richard Dreyfus types the final 2 lines of his book convinced me to keep it at 8 stars so that is that.
Stephen King is synonym with horror stories and rightfully so, but two of my favourite stories by him don't have anything to do with that genre. The first of course being Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption and the second being Stand By Me. He as the ability to not only tell great stories, but to create such tremendous characters and that what this film is; a heavily character driven movie with child actors who can act.I've never felt such a strong connection to any characters before than this group of friends. Either you were one of those four kids or you knew someone who was one of those four kids. The dialogue is top notch and the scene that really hit me hardest was right at the end when it is discussed that they went to high school and none of these really spoke to each other again. It rings true that at one point you had these friends as a child and sometimes you just drift apart. They played such important roles in your growth only to be end up being distant memories. This film is the epitome of a story about growing up, there is none better in my opinion.
Movie Review: "Stand By Me" (1986)A fine little screen gem delivered as Academy-Award nominated adaptation from a Stephen King novella as director Rob Reiner navigates calmly and precise with his youngster Hollywood cast, led by late acting talent River Phoenix (1970-1993) and his faithfull fellows Will Wheaton, Corey Feldman coming along on a trip "Into the wild" of summer 1959 within the woodlands of Castlerock, Oregon when nemesis character portrayed by Kiefer Sutherland and his street thugs friends are in pursuit of finding a dead friend's corpse, which then eventually happens at well-location-scouted riverside as teenage confrontations down to the knife thickens, putting my mind into reminiscene of last year's "It: Part I", where director Andres Muschietti had been able to create the some kind of morbid, nostalgic; summer heat atmosphere within scenes of encircling as struggling teenagers in search of life's answers, making it as "Stand by Me" a major success to audience attendance in terms of revenue margins as here Columbia Pictures can rebound up to seven times the production budget in releasing U.S. movie summer of 1986. Copyright 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
Review: 'Stand by Me' 'Stand by Me' directed by Rob Reiner adapted from Stephen King is a coming-of-age film starring River Phoenix, Wil Wheaton, Corey Feldman and Jerry O'Connell. Released in 1986 it is about four boys who find out that a stranger has been accidentally killed near their homes, they decide to go to see the body, on the way they learn more about each other's lives. I really like 'Stand by Me' because it makes you want to be a twelve year old all over again. As it fittingly says at the end'I never had any friends later on, like the ones I had when I was twelve<U+0085>.. Jesus<U+0085><U+0085>does anyone?' One of the main reasons I enjoyed watching this film apart from how it brings you back in time making you want to be a twelve year old again is how it brings back the 1950s seamlessly with the slicked back hair, fast cars and its soundtrack which also was very good. The acting of the four boys is what makes their relationship believable and helps you to identify with them. There is a sense of camaraderie between the boys especially. River Phoenix steals the show with his portrayal of 'Chris Chambers'. The 'milk money' scene is where he really pulls on the heart strings. Corey Feldman also puts in a good performance as 'Teddy Duchamp'. Corey Feldman is a good actor because he has great variety in the sense that he can play a serious role as in 'Stand by Me' or a comedic role as in 'The Goonies'. Saying that, I found some similarities between 'The Goonies' and 'Stand by Me'. Similar themes like friendship and standing up to bullies, a similar setting with both being set in a small town in America. Also the camaraderie. The themes, at first glance, are friendship, standing up to bullies and growing up but the film is more about learning from an experience and making a positive change to your life. In conclusion 'Stand by Me' is a great film for bringing you back to your twelve year old self and it's without a doubt my favourite coming of age type film. I would recommend it if you liked 'The Goonies' even though 'The Goonies' is more of a fun, family film I found some similarities between them like the theme of friendship but 'Stand by Me' is in no way a 'kids' film and is to be taken seriously. I give it an 8 out of 10


                
