Steins Gate managed to get a top spot in my anime collection.Why?Because it is simply brilliant.I have to give a special thanks to writer and director of this series since I hardly wait every week for a new episode.Well enough flattering and let me give suggestions why you should watch this series.Firstly the plot is awesome.I haven't seen any 'time-travel' topic like in this anime.With every passing episode,you left with wanting to see and learn more.Characters fits the show perfectly.Their relation with each other and their progress through the series is worth watching. Voice actors did their job very well.And I love the combination of comedy-drama-action trio.They pulled it so good.All in all,it's a worth watching series and highly recommend for anyone who wants to see something different in an anime,you won't regret it.


                
I don't have words to express my love for this Anime. Simply put, one of the best Animes to ever appear. I actually feel blessed to be able to watch this.The show starts off slowly but steadily. Each episode makes you yearn for more and more. About halfway through the series, the show takes a turn from its simple and slow style to a massively emotional and intellectual one. With near perfect pacing, amazing writing and direction, deep and involved characters and spectacular voices, this show is one you will remember for a long, long, long time. I would have given 15/10 stars if possible. El Psy Congroo.


                
After Death Note and Code Geass, I finally found another show worth calling amazing.Starts slow and immature. But soon plot develops great as well as the characters and their relations. Amazing and very realistic characters. Great plot. Great sound and animation. Very emotional. I was skeptic when heard that this show was about time travel but it exceeded all my expectations. It's amazing and must watch show. Consider that I gave 10 starts for this show and I am very hard to get impressed. 9 of 10 movies or series I watch I'll probably consider boring, stupid or simply bad but this one is simply amazing.


                
This is an amazing anime no doubt. Outstanding story and unbelievably unique characters that will stay with you forever. Unbelievably strong character development and plot structure. This is one of those anime's that you could easily re-watch the early episodes and every time you do you will end up connecting more dots - "oh, so that's why that happened! I get it now!", you will think to yourself. The first 11 episodes are slow paced but for a reason. Don't give up watching because the early episodes are necessary to set the context for the outstanding story that follows. If you stick with this anime past the midpoint, you will not regret it. Episode 12 is where the action starts and from there the action doesn't stop until the end. Okarin, the main character, is amazing in the English Dub. You will laugh with him, cry with him, and feel with him throughout his journey. Some characters seem annoying at first, but they grow on you too, so be patient. Honestly, everything about this anime is unique; the characters are unique, the plot is unique, the writing is unique; it's unlike anything I've ever seen before and that is what makes it so wonderful.One of the best anime's I have ever seen. If you are looking for a compelling story and strong character development, look no further. 10/10.


                
Im not that of a crazy anime fan or such, i just like amazing stories. Well, you got one of the finest here.At first the show starts slow and kind of childish, but as soon the story develops, it transforms into a quite deep and emotional one.The pacing of the story, the way they play with time in both storytelling and the plot itself is just superb.This show got all packed just right: drama, romance, sci-fi, action and comedy. The music is good. The animation is quite nice and i agree that the voice acting is outstanding, specially with the "Mad Scientist", he will become in one of your favorite characters ever, i can tell you, he is incredibly well developed. And for that matter, all the other characters are very well made too, you will feel emotionally connected to them. The premise of the show has some deep philosophical meanings: If time travel would be possible, Could a man escape his fate? What would a man do with almost divine abilities? What does the time really mean? At the end of the show, i was left thinking about the immanence of our existence and many other mindf*cking stuff.If you want a really, really outstanding show, you don't have to look to another place.


                
Wow, what a fantastic series. This anime will definitely leave a massive impression on you if you give it the time and chance. I almost gave up straight after the first episode due to not being able to follow what was happening, but in retrospect this is necessary to allow a brilliantly constructed story to unfold to a climactic and satisfying conclusion. At first some of the characters can seem fairly annoying when looked at individually, but their personalities and chemistry makes the group cohesive and vibrant. This is the first sci-fi anime I've seen and the time travel concepts and the physical laws imposed are thought through in great depth. I love how they relate to modern physics at some points to add depth and realism to the plot. All in all... Great looking anime, quality soundtrack and voice acting, and amazingly written story.


                
First off, I will say that the comments the series starts off slow are misleading. True, it takes awhile to get to the main point, but "Steins;Gate" never fails to engage on any level, and in fact engages on all levels beautifully. Humor? Gut busting. Intensity? Oh yes. Drama? Undoubtedly. Starting out as the misadventures of a self proclaimed mad scientist who may have stumbled upon a means of time travel, this series can shift gears in the blink of an eye, without any sense of whiplash, because it can do every tone so strongly. It's rare to see such a mishmash of genres pull off all of it's genres. You have a sic-fi thriller with elements of Haruhi Suzumiya esque club based slice of life dramedy, with elements of political thriller to boot. I don't want to say any more. This one should simply be experienced with as little foreknowledge as possible.


                
First of all let me warn you though : the first say 1.5 episodes are a bit slow, but then it is taking up speed FAST, so be patient till it does. SPOILER :It is also a bit confusing how reality changes a few times in the first 1.5 episodes ^^ But as soon as they did teleport the banana everybody should be on board for the ride ^^ Well, that is the latest point at which you start loving it, usually you will start even earlier.END SPOILER But once you are getting a feel of the land, so to speak, it get's really awesome ! You just need a bit to get into it at first, once you are in, it is one hell of a ride (at least the episodes I have seen so far). What else can I say about it without any spoilers ? It definitely belongs in the top 5 Anime series of the last 5 years. I gave it full 10 stars, and I do that extremely seldom ! Just don't be discouraged cause in the beginning you get the feeling it is all confusing and no fun. Give it 2 episodes,by then you should start loving at, 2.5-3 at the most. I know I had to start it 3 times (3rd time was the charm, I guess), and was discouraged the first 2 times, but then I read one good review after the other, and people there also said it is a slow starter, that I should give it a little time to warm up to it, and BOY am I happy I listened to them and gave it a 3rd chance !!!Just have fun with a wild&crazy ride
Firstly a thank you to the director and producers of Steins Gate.This Anime is now set fast at number 1 on my list.I love the idea around the time travel in this series, the story starts off very playful and foolish almost idiotic, but as it develops is almost as if evolution itself is happen in front of your eyes it turns into something masterfully absolutely beautiful.The idea of moving between time lines(almost like string theory describes (multiverse)) mental rather than physically is brilliant. The characters are amazing, the story itself leaves no holes. It really gripped my attention all the way through, i found myself tearful and laughing out loud.I will forever now recommend this be viewed by anyone and everyone. This truly is an Absolutely Beautiful Master Piece <U+3069><U+3046><U+3082><U+3042><U+308A><U+304C><U+3068><U+3046><U+3002> Hiroshi Hamasaki & Takuya Sato (bows)
This is one of my favourite anime series of recent years; it features a good story, a great cast of characters as well as moments of both comedy and tragedy. The story follows Rintaro Okabe a self-styled mad scientist who has invented a time machine from a microwave and a mobile phone<U+0085> he can't transport people but figures out how to send text messages back in time, which can cause time to change; each time it changes only he can remember the previous time line. Itaru "Daru" Hashida a computer hacker and Kurisu Makise a girl who died in the opening moments of the first episode but came back to life after one of his experiments assist him along with his old friend Mayuri Shiina. In the early episodes he sets about using the machine to improve the lives of his various friends but becomes aware that he has come to the attention of SERN and they want to stop his actions. One day they find him and in a shocking moment one of his close friends is killed. He repeatedly tries to change the past to save her but whatever he does she dies. If he is to save her he must undo everything he has done<U+0085> and ultimately that will mean Kurisu will die again; will he be able to make that sacrifice or will he find a way to save her? As stated before I really enjoyed this; I was quickly pulled into the story and eagerly looked forward to seeing each new episode. Rintaro was a great lead character as he was both funny and sympathetic and the rest of the group were fun to watch too. I had thought it was a comedy until the 'tragic moment' when I was genuinely shocked! The animation style is more realistic than many anime series and a more subdued colour palette gives it a distinctive feel. I strongly recommend this series to fans of anime and science fiction alike and hope that it gets a DVD release here one day.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
I logged into the account I never use to write my very first review on IMDb because THIS IS DESERVED of it. Steins;gate is a sci-fi, maybe even on the noir side, epic, that will have you crying, laughing, cringing (in a good way), and laughing again. If you like anime, and you have not seen Steins;gate, this is the thing you should go watch. Steins;gate the series. I have not played through the visual novel, read the manga, or seen the movie. I just know how spell bounding the anime was.Some say it starts off slow, but it actually does kick off to a relatively good pace in the first episode. It just seems slow compared to what lies beyond it, which was very fast paced for me (and I loved it). The English voice actors did a beautiful, beautiful job. The character depth and progression had me hooked very early, and up until the end it was such an emotional journey to be on indeed. The music was just heartwarming and also sad (in a good way).the main character, mad scientist whatever his name is, is a goofy little guy with a love for gadgets and trinkets, and math and physics. In a turn of events he gets himself caught in some kind of time paradox, in which the world goes to ruin, mostly because of the accidental invention of a time machine. Without knowing yet what lies at stake, he rounds up more friends to share in the glory of being able to harness the power of time itself BUT soon enough everything falls apart, and he has to like, y'know fix it, and now I've said enough.This is THE anime epic I had waited to see, and I'm so glad I did. If you haven't seen it, go watch it now!


                
You don't get many pieces of entertainment that does justice by picking up the cliché time travel concept. Steins;Gate was made by the objective of 99% science and 1 % fiction. The first 11 eps may make you believe that its just a light hearted sci- fi , slice of life , but after that it picks up its pace. Some of you might not understand fully what science they're babbling but you can just try to comprehend whatever you can do and if interested , get the visual novel for detailed experience.Steins;Gate is THAT roller coaster which will make you cry , smile and shock altogether. A well crafted story+ believable theory + awesome characterization + perfect time loop = masterpiece .


                
Discovered anime late in life and was pretty much gobsmacked not only by the quality (usually high) but the variations. As with any other production most usually do one thing better than another, some have better art, some better scripts, some better voice actors, etc. And then we have Steins Gate, pretty much a 1-of, where every aspect is well perfect. (Yes, I know, a very controversial statement. I have seen anime fans say the same thing in chat groups, only to elicit responses of contempt, suggesting perhaps their parents never married). But folks this is I think as good as it gets. Superb art. Super voice actors (in Japanese of course, but after a while it doesn't matter). Characters so real you think you know them. And a story unlike any other. No crazy wars, no crazy magic, no crazy fantasy world, just a young man with delusions of being a mad scientist, with his own Scooby gang, who actually invents a time machine (sort of) and then has to stand by while his world comes apart. This series is nothing less than extraordinary. And oh yeah I almost forgot. In an entertainment universe of a million love stories (with my favorites being, in no special order, HERE COMES MR. JORDAN, LADYHAWKE, and the Buffy TV series) the love angle in this is nothing short of spectacular. Especially for animee.


                
well to begin with the concept itself is really amazing and the animation is top notch,the starting might be kinda slow but further down the road it makes you stay on the edge.Overall a fantastic anime easily in my top ten.I would give this show 11 stars if possible hats off to the writers.It might come as a new concept believe me its worth every millisecond of your time but it has only 25 episodes which is kinda sad u might finish it in a few days, i think you cannot continue these thriller anime for long so nothing to blame.Coming to the plot , one word "amazing" it mainly revolves around a student who thinks that he is a mad scientist and it moves on to all his research and experiments and how he meets new people during the course of time.Nonetheless i wish you enjoy this anime as much as i did.


                
Best anime in the world
10 /10 the best
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Perfect combination of emotional,practicality ,science .
It is story about commitment to science
,Love between friends and tragic story of
A couple.Never seen anything like it.Beter than death note ,code geass and all the best rated anime in the globe in matter of storyline.


                
People who voted 1/10 or 2/10 are people who watched one or two episodes and stopped. This anime is really really good. They kept the story simplified , short and the characters are awesome. I really enjoyed the anime and it gave a lot of inspiration for my life. The protagonist's character is one of the best ever.


                
OK, I decided to write my first review, because I am so amazed by this show. Now, I am not really crazy anime fan, but I like time travel and everything that goes with it. It is a very difficult and intriguing subject to explore and it is often poorly done. But this, this is one of the best time travel TV series ever, with great story, great characters and very smart, mind blowing plot. It starts very slowly, but I didn't mind it, because it is needed for character development. You will be rewarded for your patience. Animation is great, just like the main character's voice (please watch Japanese version). Enough talk, go watch it.


                
This is an anime that I include on my few of "must-watch." Not only is it really beautiful animation-wise (I would say is nothing out of the ordinary, but on some details it excels). The plot of this anime is beyond words. It has an air of seriousness and playfulness. Jokes are high quality. Each character is on point and even though they might result cliché up to certain points, this is not the main aim of this anime. Yes, in some parts it lacks, but it's up to taste. I feel that it gets its message through and does it really well.This anime is something you must watch first and re-watch for a first time, too. It's plot can be described as a maze and a fortune cookie because you don't know where you could hit a dead end or simply you don't know what you could get out of it.Watch it!
Every fan of anime has their favorites, and this is mine. A complete story is told with unique and engaging characters, choices that challenge the viewers imagination, and a full palette of great science fiction ideas.The story begins from a position of innocence and naivety. Goofy characters in a makeshift lab, attempting to make useful inventions - mostly out of caprice. The journey ahead can not be predicted, twists and turns taken in the fabric of reality - with time playing a huge role as a true 4th dimension.All the characters have texture and flaws, and their imperfections bring them together like members of an extended family. The story progresses with excellent use of time travel and multiple realities, but I was struck by the choices the characters make, often forced into sacrifice to protect friends for sake of the greatest emotion: love.Real life technology and occurrences are cleverly woven into the story, and this intricacy of detail is present throughout the entire story arc. Anime (generally speaking) is famous for awesome beginnings and terrible endings - or radical shifts in tone that break continuity for the viewer. Steins;Gate is the rare exception that maintains excellence from beginning to end. Meaningful questions are asked, explored, and solved. Who hasn't wanted to change the past? What might be the cost? To yourself? To people you care about? Ultimately, are people in control of their own destiny?So what have I communicated? Very little actually! I loved it, and I know I'm not alone! There is also a 25th episode worth watching after series completion, and a movie as well. The movie really is fan service, and depends upon content from the series to be enjoyed, understood, and appreciated. I have not often encountered media with such heart, that also entertains with the best of it's genre and medium. A masterpiece 10/10


                
This Is An Amazing Anime The Japanese And English Voice Are Both Amazing You Will Enjoy this show Any Way It Doesn't Matter Which Langue You Watch.The Charters Are very Likable And Your Grow A Bond With Them Over The Course Of the Series. The Graphics Are Amazing the Story Is Breathtaking And Confusing At Times But after An Episode Or 2 It starts To Make Sense. This Is A Must Watch. This is one of the best anime of all time 9.5/10. :) Graphics 9/10 Story 9.5/10 Audio: Sub:9.5/10 Dub:9.5/10 Charters 10/10.I have Only Watch Half Of The Series But It Is Interesting And Will have You Stuck To Your Seat The Whole Time It Is Amazing.


                
As far as i'm concerned nothing will ever live up to this show. I found myself watching two episodes late at night and was slightly confused on the first episode and slightly more intrigued in the second, so i went to sleep and the next night i watched another three episodes. I planed to go to sleep after the third episode and upon finishing it my exact words were "welp looks like i'm not sleeping at all" i never slept that night and watched the next 15 episodes in one sitting. Thats how into this show i got, its spectacular in every aspect. Twists and left turns that your just like OMG i can't believe how great this is!!! I can almost guarantee every person that watches this will absolutely love it and it will become an instant #1 favorite. It reminded me a lot of a mix between "Death Note" & "Future Diary", it just keeps you guessing and freaking out all the way to the end. This should be at the top of any "plan to watch" lists you have, trust me all the hype and praise this series has has earned it through and through. Note: I've also seen the special(just episode 25) but I've yet to see the sequel movie at the time of writing this.5/5 Why? Its just so perfectly put together from start to finish, an absolute masterpiece there's no better words other than this. Character design is great, the music & sound effects are great. You can cut the tension with a knife in so many scenes, you really just get completely submerged into this world its like your right there in it. You'd be a down right idiot to not give this a try, what every you do don't drop it before episode 5.
I've seen many anime series and I've never written a review before, but after watching this show i felt I just had to. When starting this series, I was initially confused as to what was going on, and even until almost midway, I was failing to see the point of the show, as nothing really exciting was happening (in my opinion). But in hindsight, this was necessary for character and story development, as around the midpoint, the show just exploded and from then on I was glued to screen. It might not have the best animation or the best music, but in terms of story and character, there is nothing like it (not even the mighty Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood compares, although it comes close). This story and it characters will stay with me for a long time, and I highly encourage everyone to watch the series to its conclusion. You will not be disappointed.
In my opinion, Stiens;gate is by far one of the most amazing animes of all time.(This is just a brief review) The start of the show is rather slow but contains a far bit of good humor that convinced me to continue watching. One of the best decisions of my life.Once you reach the end, you might understand as to why this anime had such a slow start. The start of the anime gave a right amount of introduction of the characters. As the show went on, I realize that if not for the first few episodes, this anime would have great character development.At about episode 9, I started to get goosebumps. The show was starting to get amazing and it convinced me to keep watching. After even half of the anime, I started to get addicted. This anime is truly a masterpiece, the animation and the soundtracks are fitting for the plot and give it an aura of suspense. If it was just more popular, it would definitely stand out in IMDb's list top TV series. Even after finishing it, I still get goosebumps thinking about the show. The show may not sound interesting, as I also once thought it was just one of those boring and overrated anime, but if you take the effort to watch it, it will be a journey you will never forget. Don't take my word for it. Start watching it now.


                
To put it in simple words ,there are few characters which match up with each other and the plot deepens each character role and the character are awesome... a mad scientist,a cute little girl who always follow him, a super hacker who is funny as hell and a smart and cute female scientist , a guy who is mistaken for a girl because he dress up like one , and etcAs the plot gets deeper u will get to know the complexity of each character and how much they play a role in bringing the series to the next level..The story is about time travel, time line, time machine and how manipulating time effects the people around them ...24 episodes with an ova and a full movie... watch all of it to get a full picture and trust me it is worth it... Story(Plot):10/10 Character:9/10 Animation(graphic):10/10Music(soundtrack and sound effects ):9/10 overall:10/10 #


                
