Steins Gate managed to get a top spot in my anime collection.Why?Because it is simply brilliant.I have to give a special thanks to writer and director of this series since I hardly wait every week for a new episode.Well enough flattering and let me give suggestions why you should watch this series.Firstly the plot is awesome.I haven't seen any 'time-travel' topic like in this anime.With every passing episode,you left with wanting to see and learn more.Characters fits the show perfectly.Their relation with each other and their progress through the series is worth watching. Voice actors did their job very well.And I love the combination of comedy-drama-action trio.They pulled it so good.All in all,it's a worth watching series and highly recommend for anyone who wants to see something different in an anime,you won't regret it.


                
I don't have words to express my love for this Anime. Simply put, one of the best Animes to ever appear. I actually feel blessed to be able to watch this.The show starts off slowly but steadily. Each episode makes you yearn for more and more. About halfway through the series, the show takes a turn from its simple and slow style to a massively emotional and intellectual one. With near perfect pacing, amazing writing and direction, deep and involved characters and spectacular voices, this show is one you will remember for a long, long, long time. I would have given 15/10 stars if possible. El Psy Congroo.


                
After Death Note and Code Geass, I finally found another show worth calling amazing.Starts slow and immature. But soon plot develops great as well as the characters and their relations. Amazing and very realistic characters. Great plot. Great sound and animation. Very emotional. I was skeptic when heard that this show was about time travel but it exceeded all my expectations. It's amazing and must watch show. Consider that I gave 10 starts for this show and I am very hard to get impressed. 9 of 10 movies or series I watch I'll probably consider boring, stupid or simply bad but this one is simply amazing.


                
This is an amazing anime no doubt. Outstanding story and unbelievably unique characters that will stay with you forever. Unbelievably strong character development and plot structure. This is one of those anime's that you could easily re-watch the early episodes and every time you do you will end up connecting more dots - "oh, so that's why that happened! I get it now!", you will think to yourself. The first 11 episodes are slow paced but for a reason. Don't give up watching because the early episodes are necessary to set the context for the outstanding story that follows. If you stick with this anime past the midpoint, you will not regret it. Episode 12 is where the action starts and from there the action doesn't stop until the end. Okarin, the main character, is amazing in the English Dub. You will laugh with him, cry with him, and feel with him throughout his journey. Some characters seem annoying at first, but they grow on you too, so be patient. Honestly, everything about this anime is unique; the characters are unique, the plot is unique, the writing is unique; it's unlike anything I've ever seen before and that is what makes it so wonderful.One of the best anime's I have ever seen. If you are looking for a compelling story and strong character development, look no further. 10/10.


                
Well i think i probably haven't added anything to what the other have wrote but actually here are some of my thoughts about the animeThis anime contains almost everything needed, it has a good and captivating story-line. It stays on the story-line in every show and has its good combination of sci-fi, romance, comedy and mystery. the proportions of these factors are chosen in an expert way which makes this anime keep you watching it till the end while keep you guessing from time to time. I felt like it had a little slow start but i'd say it doesn't affect the richness of the series.This anime is actually one of my favorite one. and i hope to see if they make a second one. but chances seem pretty slim.Oh and a personal request please if any of you know some good anime specially in Sci-fi and mystery a reply would be very much appreciated


                
Im not that of a crazy anime fan or such, i just like amazing stories. Well, you got one of the finest here.At first the show starts slow and kind of childish, but as soon the story develops, it transforms into a quite deep and emotional one.The pacing of the story, the way they play with time in both storytelling and the plot itself is just superb.This show got all packed just right: drama, romance, sci-fi, action and comedy. The music is good. The animation is quite nice and i agree that the voice acting is outstanding, specially with the "Mad Scientist", he will become in one of your favorite characters ever, i can tell you, he is incredibly well developed. And for that matter, all the other characters are very well made too, you will feel emotionally connected to them. The premise of the show has some deep philosophical meanings: If time travel would be possible, Could a man escape his fate? What would a man do with almost divine abilities? What does the time really mean? At the end of the show, i was left thinking about the immanence of our existence and many other mindf*cking stuff.If you want a really, really outstanding show, you don't have to look to another place.


                
WOW, now this was an amazing anime. Its been a long while since I was this interested in an anime and enjoyed it this much.The characters in this anime are just AWESOME. They are so well made and you just get to love them immediately. The main protagonist is a great one. I immediately liked him and he just kept on getting better and better. Loved his dialogues and character. I self proclaimed evil mad scientist who is a actually a good guy. You get to feel for and love every main character, and even some of the side characters. Their meetings, bafoonery etc etc, its just fun to watch.The writing and dialogue in this anime is another thing I really liked, its just awesome. The anime might seem slow paced to many because it is basically dialogue and interactions for the first few episodes but not for me. It was so enjoyable that it didn't even seemed a tad bit boring or slow paced. Story is also a great one. It is not everyday you get to see a take on time travelling in this way, which is very personal and emotional. You get to see and feel that messing with time, even a tad bit is no joke and shouldn't be taken lightly. It can have great consequences. Even when the plot thickens and gets big, the anime never lets go of its personal touch and feeling instead of pursuing grandeur scenes. The anime is really humorous too at times. But it doesn't get way too much that a person starts cringing or groaning, which is the case with many animes. In fact, the humour in it is one of the best displayed I have seen in an anime which is not specifically a Comedy anime. It doesn't get childish or too animeish etc. It just stays right. I had a pretty good laughs at some scenes while in others a smile was always present on my face.Animation is really good, well defined and detail and pretty to look at. Soundtrack is also really good. Sets the mood in emotional scenes and is rightly appropriate for funny scenes. I do wish that the anime was a little longer so that they could have shown some background of some of the main characters. Overall, I would say, a really great anime and of the best take on time travelling I have ever seen. 9.25/10


                
Wow, what a fantastic series. This anime will definitely leave a massive impression on you if you give it the time and chance. I almost gave up straight after the first episode due to not being able to follow what was happening, but in retrospect this is necessary to allow a brilliantly constructed story to unfold to a climactic and satisfying conclusion. At first some of the characters can seem fairly annoying when looked at individually, but their personalities and chemistry makes the group cohesive and vibrant. This is the first sci-fi anime I've seen and the time travel concepts and the physical laws imposed are thought through in great depth. I love how they relate to modern physics at some points to add depth and realism to the plot. All in all... Great looking anime, quality soundtrack and voice acting, and amazingly written story.


                
I just binge-watched the whole series in a few days. It has one of the most compelling story arcs of any anime I've seen. The early episodes are interesting but not exceptionally so, with an unstable protagonist, a schlub, and some idiot cosplay girl. But it's amusing, and various characters are added. The time travel story starts slowly, but this is necessary, and the series becomes incredibly compelling as the results of small time shifts create big problems. At times I got a little lost in the story, but the series does generally catch you up again, and while I would need to see some sort of elaborate diagram to see if this all holds together, in my mind it seems to.The series is swimming in time paradox issues, and at times I think it's closer in spirit to fantasy than to sci fi, especially since there seems to be a rather unscientific concept of fate, but it's incredibly absorbing throughout, and the characters become surprising likable and nuanced as the series progresses.


                
First off, I will say that the comments the series starts off slow are misleading. True, it takes awhile to get to the main point, but "Steins;Gate" never fails to engage on any level, and in fact engages on all levels beautifully. Humor? Gut busting. Intensity? Oh yes. Drama? Undoubtedly. Starting out as the misadventures of a self proclaimed mad scientist who may have stumbled upon a means of time travel, this series can shift gears in the blink of an eye, without any sense of whiplash, because it can do every tone so strongly. It's rare to see such a mishmash of genres pull off all of it's genres. You have a sic-fi thriller with elements of Haruhi Suzumiya esque club based slice of life dramedy, with elements of political thriller to boot. I don't want to say any more. This one should simply be experienced with as little foreknowledge as possible.


                
It's been some time since I've seen an anime that I enjoyed so much. Especially when I thought I was done with the genre because of the repeating themes and motifs.Steins;Gate is a cleverly written anime revolving around Okabe Rintarou aka the self proclaimed mad scientist Hououin Kyouma and his meddling with time. I can't tell more without giving the best part of the story away.I started watching the show after seeing that it had favorable reviews and I must admit that the beginning is kind of slow. The spark that ignites the main conflict only shows up later, which is a rather peculiar structural property of the plot. However, I will say this: if you're somewhat appalled by fan-service characters, overly dramatized reactions, childish characters and anime stereotypes, wait patiently because a beautiful story is about to unfold and the necessary plot preparations must be done. For this story, a careful setting of the stage is very important.What I enjoyed most was the chemistry between the two protagonists and the way these character develop. Also, the execution of the time travel story was well done, time travel being a genre that many have failed to illustrate properly.And now, the bad parts. The pace of the show is rather irregular with a slow start and a somewhat abruptly orchestrated (yet satisfying) finish and many of the characters lack depth; they just fill a designated role. Also, science part behind the time travel gadget did not really convince me.I would rate this show with an 8 but in the end, I really enjoyed the characters and the interactions between them. Also, the big WTF moment was really... WTF. That's why I'll be a bit subjective and add an extra point. I would be more specific on the extra point but I do not want to spoil you.I really hope that I will have the opportunity to watch more anime of this quality. Truly, a job well done.


                
First of all let me warn you though : the first say 1.5 episodes are a bit slow, but then it is taking up speed FAST, so be patient till it does. SPOILER :It is also a bit confusing how reality changes a few times in the first 1.5 episodes ^^ But as soon as they did teleport the banana everybody should be on board for the ride ^^ Well, that is the latest point at which you start loving it, usually you will start even earlier.END SPOILER But once you are getting a feel of the land, so to speak, it get's really awesome ! You just need a bit to get into it at first, once you are in, it is one hell of a ride (at least the episodes I have seen so far). What else can I say about it without any spoilers ? It definitely belongs in the top 5 Anime series of the last 5 years. I gave it full 10 stars, and I do that extremely seldom ! Just don't be discouraged cause in the beginning you get the feeling it is all confusing and no fun. Give it 2 episodes,by then you should start loving at, 2.5-3 at the most. I know I had to start it 3 times (3rd time was the charm, I guess), and was discouraged the first 2 times, but then I read one good review after the other, and people there also said it is a slow starter, that I should give it a little time to warm up to it, and BOY am I happy I listened to them and gave it a 3rd chance !!!Just have fun with a wild&crazy ride
Firstly a thank you to the director and producers of Steins Gate.This Anime is now set fast at number 1 on my list.I love the idea around the time travel in this series, the story starts off very playful and foolish almost idiotic, but as it develops is almost as if evolution itself is happen in front of your eyes it turns into something masterfully absolutely beautiful.The idea of moving between time lines(almost like string theory describes (multiverse)) mental rather than physically is brilliant. The characters are amazing, the story itself leaves no holes. It really gripped my attention all the way through, i found myself tearful and laughing out loud.I will forever now recommend this be viewed by anyone and everyone. This truly is an Absolutely Beautiful Master Piece <U+3069><U+3046><U+3082><U+3042><U+308A><U+304C><U+3068><U+3046><U+3002> Hiroshi Hamasaki & Takuya Sato (bows)
This is one of my favourite anime series of recent years; it features a good story, a great cast of characters as well as moments of both comedy and tragedy. The story follows Rintaro Okabe a self-styled mad scientist who has invented a time machine from a microwave and a mobile phone<U+0085> he can't transport people but figures out how to send text messages back in time, which can cause time to change; each time it changes only he can remember the previous time line. Itaru "Daru" Hashida a computer hacker and Kurisu Makise a girl who died in the opening moments of the first episode but came back to life after one of his experiments assist him along with his old friend Mayuri Shiina. In the early episodes he sets about using the machine to improve the lives of his various friends but becomes aware that he has come to the attention of SERN and they want to stop his actions. One day they find him and in a shocking moment one of his close friends is killed. He repeatedly tries to change the past to save her but whatever he does she dies. If he is to save her he must undo everything he has done<U+0085> and ultimately that will mean Kurisu will die again; will he be able to make that sacrifice or will he find a way to save her? As stated before I really enjoyed this; I was quickly pulled into the story and eagerly looked forward to seeing each new episode. Rintaro was a great lead character as he was both funny and sympathetic and the rest of the group were fun to watch too. I had thought it was a comedy until the 'tragic moment' when I was genuinely shocked! The animation style is more realistic than many anime series and a more subdued colour palette gives it a distinctive feel. I strongly recommend this series to fans of anime and science fiction alike and hope that it gets a DVD release here one day.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
I logged into the account I never use to write my very first review on IMDb because THIS IS DESERVED of it. Steins;gate is a sci-fi, maybe even on the noir side, epic, that will have you crying, laughing, cringing (in a good way), and laughing again. If you like anime, and you have not seen Steins;gate, this is the thing you should go watch. Steins;gate the series. I have not played through the visual novel, read the manga, or seen the movie. I just know how spell bounding the anime was.Some say it starts off slow, but it actually does kick off to a relatively good pace in the first episode. It just seems slow compared to what lies beyond it, which was very fast paced for me (and I loved it). The English voice actors did a beautiful, beautiful job. The character depth and progression had me hooked very early, and up until the end it was such an emotional journey to be on indeed. The music was just heartwarming and also sad (in a good way).the main character, mad scientist whatever his name is, is a goofy little guy with a love for gadgets and trinkets, and math and physics. In a turn of events he gets himself caught in some kind of time paradox, in which the world goes to ruin, mostly because of the accidental invention of a time machine. Without knowing yet what lies at stake, he rounds up more friends to share in the glory of being able to harness the power of time itself BUT soon enough everything falls apart, and he has to like, y'know fix it, and now I've said enough.This is THE anime epic I had waited to see, and I'm so glad I did. If you haven't seen it, go watch it now!


                
You don't get many pieces of entertainment that does justice by picking up the cliché time travel concept. Steins;Gate was made by the objective of 99% science and 1 % fiction. The first 11 eps may make you believe that its just a light hearted sci- fi , slice of life , but after that it picks up its pace. Some of you might not understand fully what science they're babbling but you can just try to comprehend whatever you can do and if interested , get the visual novel for detailed experience.Steins;Gate is THAT roller coaster which will make you cry , smile and shock altogether. A well crafted story+ believable theory + awesome characterization + perfect time loop = masterpiece .


                
Discovered anime late in life and was pretty much gobsmacked not only by the quality (usually high) but the variations. As with any other production most usually do one thing better than another, some have better art, some better scripts, some better voice actors, etc. And then we have Steins Gate, pretty much a 1-of, where every aspect is well perfect. (Yes, I know, a very controversial statement. I have seen anime fans say the same thing in chat groups, only to elicit responses of contempt, suggesting perhaps their parents never married). But folks this is I think as good as it gets. Superb art. Super voice actors (in Japanese of course, but after a while it doesn't matter). Characters so real you think you know them. And a story unlike any other. No crazy wars, no crazy magic, no crazy fantasy world, just a young man with delusions of being a mad scientist, with his own Scooby gang, who actually invents a time machine (sort of) and then has to stand by while his world comes apart. This series is nothing less than extraordinary. And oh yeah I almost forgot. In an entertainment universe of a million love stories (with my favorites being, in no special order, HERE COMES MR. JORDAN, LADYHAWKE, and the Buffy TV series) the love angle in this is nothing short of spectacular. Especially for animee.


                
well to begin with the concept itself is really amazing and the animation is top notch,the starting might be kinda slow but further down the road it makes you stay on the edge.Overall a fantastic anime easily in my top ten.I would give this show 11 stars if possible hats off to the writers.It might come as a new concept believe me its worth every millisecond of your time but it has only 25 episodes which is kinda sad u might finish it in a few days, i think you cannot continue these thriller anime for long so nothing to blame.Coming to the plot , one word "amazing" it mainly revolves around a student who thinks that he is a mad scientist and it moves on to all his research and experiments and how he meets new people during the course of time.Nonetheless i wish you enjoy this anime as much as i did.


                
Best anime in the world
10 /10 the best
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Perfect combination of emotional,practicality ,science .
It is story about commitment to science
,Love between friends and tragic story of
A couple.Never seen anything like it.Beter than death note ,code geass and all the best rated anime in the globe in matter of storyline.


                
People who voted 1/10 or 2/10 are people who watched one or two episodes and stopped. This anime is really really good. They kept the story simplified , short and the characters are awesome. I really enjoyed the anime and it gave a lot of inspiration for my life. The protagonist's character is one of the best ever.


                
Too-Ta-Roo! This anime is number one on my list of top anime's next to Attack on Titan/Shingeki no Kyojin This anime was introduced to me through a picture of Makise drinking a Dr pepper and I asked is," that was from an anime?" Sure enough it was so i looked it up and saw that it was about time travel,wow actually getting deja vu about this, Anyways I started watching And I got intrigued more and got farther into the series soon enough [4 Hours later] I got to the ending parts They were so sad but romantic. I surly recommend this anime to everyone and give it a shot!El-Psy-Congroo
OK, I decided to write my first review, because I am so amazed by this show. Now, I am not really crazy anime fan, but I like time travel and everything that goes with it. It is a very difficult and intriguing subject to explore and it is often poorly done. But this, this is one of the best time travel TV series ever, with great story, great characters and very smart, mind blowing plot. It starts very slowly, but I didn't mind it, because it is needed for character development. You will be rewarded for your patience. Animation is great, just like the main character's voice (please watch Japanese version). Enough talk, go watch it.


                
This is an anime that I include on my few of "must-watch." Not only is it really beautiful animation-wise (I would say is nothing out of the ordinary, but on some details it excels). The plot of this anime is beyond words. It has an air of seriousness and playfulness. Jokes are high quality. Each character is on point and even though they might result cliché up to certain points, this is not the main aim of this anime. Yes, in some parts it lacks, but it's up to taste. I feel that it gets its message through and does it really well.This anime is something you must watch first and re-watch for a first time, too. It's plot can be described as a maze and a fortune cookie because you don't know where you could hit a dead end or simply you don't know what you could get out of it.Watch it!
Every fan of anime has their favorites, and this is mine. A complete story is told with unique and engaging characters, choices that challenge the viewers imagination, and a full palette of great science fiction ideas.The story begins from a position of innocence and naivety. Goofy characters in a makeshift lab, attempting to make useful inventions - mostly out of caprice. The journey ahead can not be predicted, twists and turns taken in the fabric of reality - with time playing a huge role as a true 4th dimension.All the characters have texture and flaws, and their imperfections bring them together like members of an extended family. The story progresses with excellent use of time travel and multiple realities, but I was struck by the choices the characters make, often forced into sacrifice to protect friends for sake of the greatest emotion: love.Real life technology and occurrences are cleverly woven into the story, and this intricacy of detail is present throughout the entire story arc. Anime (generally speaking) is famous for awesome beginnings and terrible endings - or radical shifts in tone that break continuity for the viewer. Steins;Gate is the rare exception that maintains excellence from beginning to end. Meaningful questions are asked, explored, and solved. Who hasn't wanted to change the past? What might be the cost? To yourself? To people you care about? Ultimately, are people in control of their own destiny?So what have I communicated? Very little actually! I loved it, and I know I'm not alone! There is also a 25th episode worth watching after series completion, and a movie as well. The movie really is fan service, and depends upon content from the series to be enjoyed, understood, and appreciated. I have not often encountered media with such heart, that also entertains with the best of it's genre and medium. A masterpiece 10/10


                
