Steins;Gate is a show that is made up of many disparate parts: a dorky harem comedy, a (fairly) hard sci-fi time travel story, the narrative of a man losing his humanity in order to save another... somehow, all of these elements hold together fairly well. The strength of the ensemble and the interactions between the characters is great, and Okabe's mad science lab has to rate up there with the best series spaces.This is not to say that it's a perfect show -- some of the more minor characters feel like two-dimensional fanservice, and the last two episodes are a pretty blatant deus ex machina for the hole the writers dug themselves. But there's also a lot of genuine emotion running through it, and the same time of joyful geekiness that, despite all of the urban blight and tears, Steins;Gate is ultimately about celebrating. A solidly above average anime.


                
The problem with pulling off a good time travel series or movie is that they have to establish their own rules and then not break them, otherwise turning the plot into a bit of a contrived mess. Steins;Gate almost avoids this, but unfortunately, I felt it fell a bit short in that respect - I don't want to ruin anything so I won't discuss it further, but it was a decent effort. The voice acting is good, the story is alright, I don't have any complaints about the pacing, and the series was definitely funny when it wanted to be - perhaps its strongest point. It does the drama-comedy mixture well, not going to far in one direction at a time.I loved the protagonist, he was a really likable character, and amazingly voiced. Most of them were, but I didn't enjoy Mayushi as much as the series wanted me too; just not my cup of tea. I'm not a fan of over-the-top cutesy characters just for the sake of being over-the-top cutesy characters. It just felt a bit lazy and forced here. I mean, maybe if they made her younger, as I don't think the age disparity between her and Okabe would really affect their sister-brother relationship. I mean, she was cute, but also came off as having some kind of medical condition at times.It also bothered me that the other characters were as young, but at a completely different level of maturity, I'm not sure what making them all of high school-aged accomplished, they're never shown going to school. One of them, who is 17, even owns a cafe. Maybe it's a cultural thing, maybe in Japan people of that age are REALLY independent and do things like rent out a place as a pseudo lab, give lectures to doctors thrice their senior, wear their jacket halfway on, and open cafes. But for me, it was a lot of these small things that just pull me out of the story a bit.With that said the story was intriguing and clever at times. It definitely kept me watching until the end, although I felt the series lasted two episodes too long, I was still okay with the final conclusion; it wasn't bad by any means, nor was the series. I'll say it was good, but it could've been great.


                
Steins;Gate is the anime adaptation of a visual novel made by 5pb and Nitroplus and it tells the story of Rintaro Okabe and his group of friends when they discover a way to send email messages to the past. This is one of my favorite anime of all time and it is probably because of its amazing characters and brilliant story.The anime shows us a very unique time travel story that has a perfect mixture of drama and comedy. Sometimes it is hilarious and other times it is sad and it is able to handle this both tones perfectly. As expected from a time travel story, it uses some clichés we all know but it gives its own twist on it so that the story never appears boring or predictable. The anime may start boring for some people, but the first episodes are crucial to introduce all of the characters and if you give it the opportunity you will be amazed. What makes me like Steins:Gate the most are their memorable and likable characters. They are the first thing I think about when someone mentions Steins;Gate. Every character is unique and special in its own way and their interactions are what keeps this anime interesting from beginning to end.Compared to other animes the animation in Steins;Gate is not very good, but it doesn't mean it is bad. The animation gives the characters and the environment a very realistic look and this helps a lot when watching the series. It isn't remarkably good, but it isn't bad either.Overall, Steins;Gate is an amazing anime and I totally recommend it to anyone who is a fan of time travel stories and science fiction.It was one of the first animes that I enjoyed and it deserves to be watched by more people.


                
I found the beginning very confusing. Like for me getting into a series,in the very begininng, I'd rather know what the hells going on and why the reason any type of situation is happening. Steins gate was just rather complicated at first, although as I went on, it was getting to be better because you kinda know what mad scientist Okabe is up against. His character does have a mix of both Rick&Morty plus Marty & Doc haha. 
As well J Michael Tatum was good in his role as him also!Steins gate does have likeable characters such as Okabe himself, the beautiful redhead he has a lover, Makise and Okabes hilarious friend Itaru. I was so glad that Okabe and Makise did kiss in this because they were adorable even if they were two different people with two different personalities. I loved how Itaru always was this sarcastic buck that just can come out with anything, seriously they need to get that guy a seperate new show from Steins gate, he'd just make you laugh so hard at times lol!Steins gate was pretty ok but I wouldn't call this the best anime I've come across but I have to say the voice acting in English Dub, was pretty well done!
