I would have given this movie more stars if it had been appropriately cut and the music eliminated or toned way back. (Probably something akin to what was originally released in 1927.) About 30 minutes into it I muted the sound and started to fast forward on the lower speeds so you could still read the titles. This turned a complete torture into something more enjoyable (it is still boring). It also turned 153 minutes into about 53 minutes. The elaborate sets and choreography were riveting I guess is a good word. As another viewer put it unforgettable visuals.The story = a quasi Frankenstein robot labour rights religious mêlée is a theme that didn't age well to our times. I especially am bored by class struggle dystopias. And that was the central element of this one.9.3 stars... I have to laugh there. Especially if you watched it with the sound blasting and the glacial pace of the action. Must be the kind of people who can sit through all day language classes.I would like now to compare it to other big productions of the time to see how the sets stack up. The ones in this movie were artistic and first class.


                
I first saw Metropolis 5 years ago on TV. It was the Moroder version and it blew me away. I believed that it was one of the best science fiction films of all time.Last year a copy of the new restored 140-minute version was given away free with a British film magazine. I bought it and watched it eagerly. It was DIRE. The music (by a British composer I hadn't heard) was terrible, totally removing all interest that remained after the utter tedium of watching the film was overcome. It was at least 3/4 hours too long, and such a painful slog that it took two attempts to watch all of it.I can only conclude that the 1984 version was simply a lucky fluke and credit must go to Georgio Moroder for having Van-Sant-like guts for defying establishment and turning this utter disaster into something just about passable.


                
The movie is best described as pathetic. It may be good when people had nothing else, but not today. Not even after sound appeared in films. I wonder what the film is doing so high up in the ratings when it was a galactic effort to even sit through it. Metropolis is a complete waste of time. Ever since dialogues appeared in the films, there is not a single film that is considered good without good dialogues. Take any of the top films, even the IMDb top 250 list. There is not a single film that has won its place with run of the mill dialogues. And this one is without sound. Today's audience wants a story, strong dialogue, good acting and effects. The acting is stiff and out of fashion in Metroplis. The excessive use of expressions to make up for lack of sound may be understandable back then, but today it just looks a bit too funny. My recommendation: Don't watch it!


                
Well i was watching this movie for whatever reason. And it was so boring and the people don't even talk in it. and i don't see how film was entertaining in 1927. i never fall asleep on the couch but i did while watching metropolis. A rich guy wants to be a slave so he can be with a girl. Thats about the time i fell asleep when i woke up i put in Edward Scissorhands instead and That was a good movie and i didn't fall asleep to it. I don't know what else to type for ten lines i hate this stupid rule do i have ten lines yet no i do not ahhh! I need ten lines to finish this review i think i almost have ten lines i think i do!Botom Line In 1927 maybeNow a days Terrible movie who watches these kind of movies anymore!
This film has to be one of THE most boring films I have watched in a while... It is in black and white for a start, which I personally find really annoying, and the music that has been put on it really does NOT suit it, without the cheesy music, it might have been alright... I guess that I also don't like the film because I have had to watch the beginning of it sooo many times (coursework on the opening sequence). The opening of the film is enough to put anyone off the film, as it is so tedious and it just drags on for what feels like forever... A lot of the shots at the start o the film all look the same, and it is very, very repetitive.


                
This film is rated very highly as a futuristic sci-fi story made in 1927 setting the example how future sci-fi would be made some 40 years later.As a silent movie, albeit with a music sound track added to it, it remains an extremely difficult movie to follow, as the limited interspersed written sections in between scenes are all in German, though the film has been updated with previous lost parts and supposedly, addition of English translations.The movie I saw, was indeed on BluRay with an on-screen written explanation in English, giving the movie's history and how lost parts had been recovered. But the movie itself was still completely the German version.A classic movie? No way! After an hour I scanned through the rest and found nothing of interest in this overlong movie. It should have remained on the rubbish heap.


                
