If your looking for an awesome black and white science fiction film with great acting and an excellent story...well keep searching because you will not find it here in Fritz Lang's "Metropolis". Most people would shun my harsh opinion against this "classic" movie but if you are seriously looking for a good film that was made before your time then there are way better choices than this pitiful excuse for a movie.I will began by talking about the techniques in shooting the movie first. Since the sets were so elaborate and they went so overboard with props they expected that to carry the weight of entertaining the audience because it was something nobody had really seen before in a movie this long. Well yeah so what. Star Wars had ground breaking effects but they didn't just say, "well guys, good job. I think that will do the trick. You can forget about the whole epic story and all that." No. They combined mind bending science fiction with an awesome story and made a movie series that changed the American culture. Metropolis just films all the shots at these really flat and boring angles with makes the already boring movie a complete snoozer. Its almost like your watching a play thats not live action. And i wouldn't want to see this if it were a play either.The acting is horrible. Once again your watching a play with bad actors. You can't really grow attached to any of the characters because they are so goofy and annoying.The music is tasteless. There really is no main theme even for a movie this long. You would think they would have multiple themes like Lord of the Rings or something. But they don't. The music does't add to the experience.The story? It seemed to be pulled out of the wastebasket and pieced together. It was not interesting at all.In conclusion, don't watch this movie because if you do you will be saying, "dang I wish this movie would have ended 2 hours ago." That is, If your not already asleep.


                
If this movie were shot in 2007 instead of 1927, would you still rate it so high, you IMDb clique of "classic" movie fans? Here's the thing: it was a great movie for its time, no doubt about that. But time has moved forward. Nowadays acting actually looks real, films have dialog instead of caricaturist intertitles and exaggerated facial expressions, and, like it or not, special effects are done using computers and look much more realistic.Look, we don't wear 1920's clothes any more. We don't decorate our houses as we did 80 years ago. To say nothing of technology - we've moved so much ahead.Please stop rating this movie so high just because it was good 80 years ago. As of today, it's pretty bad.


                
