I really hate it when I don't enjoy a classic film. I really want to enjoy it but I just can't. I want to understand some people's love for it, but I just can't. Metropolis falls under this category. An unbearably slow film, (I watched the restoration which is over 2 hours long<U+0085>that may have been a bad idea) that starts off with interesting ideas but then seems to not really do much with them. It is the year 2026, the wealthy rule the city of Metropolis, while the lower-class work for hours on end underground in awful conditions. The Master of Metropolis is Joh Fredersen (Alfred Abel) and his son is Freder (Gustav Frohlich), who spends his days with other rich people in a place called the pleasure garden where he truly does nothing at all. A woman named Maria (Brigitte Helm) brings a group of working children up for a visit in pleasure garden and Freder is quickly enamored by Maria. Freder decides to explore the underground part of the city only to be shocked as an explosion goes off and kills multiple workers. He reports this to his father who is disappointed his son was the first to report it over his assistant, Josepha (Theodor Loos), and his assistant is quickly fired. This does an immediate job of showing the coldness of Joh but they never do much else with his character. In fact, very little of the characters are developed in anyway. Most of them are completely uninteresting and the setting itself is compelling at first but quickly loses anything interesting halfway through the film as the film moves at a snail pace. Anyways, the main aspect of the plot here is that the workers are led by Maria to stop this feud between the rich and the poor with nonviolence and the eventual arrival of a mediator to make it happen. My real issue is that the film starts with such a great idea and had potential to become something like 1984 (I'm aware it came out afterwords (and that it's a novel), but still, just an example) but it instead becomes filled with strange religious allusions and becomes a witch hunt essentially by the end. They never really do any decent social commentary at all. If any at all. This wouldn't matter if the film was actually entertaining, but it only is in spurts and then quickly becomes a repetitive bore. I do think the special effects were impressive and this film is obviously important for being the first full length science fiction film<U+0085>well, ever. That doesn't mean it holds up because it doesn't. In fact, it'd be hard for me to believe the film was entertaining in 1927. I still wonder if I had watched the shorter version of the film how much more I would've enjoyed the film. It certainly would've have been paced better considering so much of this film is unbelievably uninteresting. But, I don't think that changes the fact that this movie doesn't really do anything. It isn't entertaining. It doesn't really have a message. What is this movie? I guess, good special effects for 1927? Whatever. I'm glad I gave this classic a chance, but I highly doubt I'll revisit it anytime soon.


                
I typically don't like silent films, but I decided to watch this one for two reasons.  First, I usually like sci-fi movies, and second, Metropolis had received so many glowing reviews that I couldn't pass it up.  However, my opinion of this film is below what most reviewers have been saying.Kino's digitally remastered version on DVD is very impressive.  The sound and picture quality are both excellent.  However, I have to conclude that favorable reviews of this film are likely based on nostalgia, on the film's influence on future films, and on the incredible visual effects, given its year of release.  Film history buffs and silent film fans should see this movie.  I thought this was a good film, but not a great one.  A rating of 8.3 is much too high, and at #93, there are plenty of better films ranked below it.First, the good parts of the film: 1) The special effects are excellent for a pre-1930s film. 2) The mindlessness of the working class is portrayed well in how they work, the decisions they make, and in how easily they are led/misled. 3) The main character is well developed throughout the film, and the audience can relate to him well. 4) The film is visually stunning and impressive. 5) The story of the working class, vision of the future, "machine-men," etc. have had a very strong influence on many films which came later.
On the other hand, here is a list of what could have been done better: 1) Many scenes dragged on too long and were tedious.  I can't imagine it being any longer than it already was. 2) The differences between the thinking class and the working class were not clear; both seemed to be pretty mindless. 3) The themes and ideas in the film have been explored better in other productions. 4) The set design and special effects are not as good as they are in the 1936 film, Things to Come. 5) Things to Come also has a far more interesting and creative vision of the future. 6) Joh Fredersen is not well developed, and his motives and decisions seem illogical for the leader of the "thinking" class. 7) There is no explanation for how the spiritual and motivational leader of the working class became so intelligent, capable, and/or competent.  More background on Maria would have helped develop her character, and improved the film.
In its defense, it could be that I was not as impressed by this film simply because so many films which came after it have copied, borrowed, stolen, or re-worked ideas that appeared here first.  Metropolis certainly was a trend-setter.  Like I said before, I don't think this is a bad film.  It's simply overrated, and I've seen plenty of films that are better but are rated lower.


                
Hard to put stars on Metropolis in a general sense. For pure entertainment, I'd give it 1/10. For its role in the history of the cinema, it'd be 10/10.As with other innovative films of the pioneering era, such as Birth of a Nation, The Odessa Steps, Citizen Kane and so on, aspects of Metropolis did a lot to advance the medium of motion pictures. There's even a solid message behind Metropolis (though I believe it'd be spoiler material to go into that). But... how can I put this?... it's unbelievably boring. The other film school classics I mention above were all much more entertaining by comparison. No film I viewed in film studies had more students asleep than this one, and we're not talking about kids obsessed with car chases. These are genuine film geeks who have amazing patience for films made in an era when entertainment was defined quite differently. This is one of those films that you're ready to be over after 30 minutes, looking at your watch at the 60 minute mark, pleading with it to be over at the 90 minute mark, and it just... keeps... going. After the two hour mark, amidst the snores around the classroom, I was wondering why I didn't have the ability to fall asleep in class like other fortunate souls.Yet if you study film you cannot deny that this film is important in the evolution of cinema. That's why they show it in film school.If the evolution of cinema is of paramount importance to you, I would recommend most of the innovative classics before this one. And then after seeing the others, if you're still not satisfied with seeing how the evolution developed, then grab yourself a pot of coffee and rent Metropolis.It gets great ratings because of its role in the evolution, not because it's great entertainment.
Metropolis screenwriters utilize silent and black and white effects to present a post-war, Marxist critique. They highlight not only class dualisms, but basic temptations of human knowledge. Metropolis' construction of fragile human nature echoes Nietzsche's paradigm of the over man as well as the Biblical account of creation.Freder's naive portrayal embodies the fragility of human nature. His previously exaggerated facial expressions lose animation when he is caught with the young woman and banished from his father's house. His entrance to his father's boardroom in a white shirt symbolizes innocence. The terror in approaching his father, asking what it's like to be dismissed, shows childlike sensitivity and desperation.Freder's acting style seems minimalist by today's standards. Yet his exaggerated facial expressions, gaudy make-up, and melancholy demeanor at the beginning position him as a catharsis for understanding the World War I generation.This once genteel young man is shell shocked to see machines operating and exploding. The utopian, frivolous garden world he once enjoyed is a burden as greater knowledge makes him aware of the workers' plight. Similarly, World War I was initially perceived as a swift triumph of intellectualism and military might to end all wars. Trench warfare and combat machinery developed, but Germans were surprised when the war and its consequences lasted much longer. References to war trauma are conveyed as workers march facing the ground and drag gurneys through an explosion site.These scenes carry generational messages subtle to today's audience. The film accurately portrays the identity struggle soldiers faced within the expectations of urban economized culture. Within this context Nietzsche's over man paradigm developed, conveying man's joy and suffering as the same in an unequal world. The quest for knowledge to resurrect Freder's mother as a machine echoes Nietzschean impulse for man to take vengeance overcoming social adversity.As a man-made machine intercedes for the plight of underground workers, characters expect knowledge and machines to replace God's vengeance. The Tower of Babel is referenced as Freder flees his father. Such symbolism awakens understanding of the temptation of man made machines and presumptions to address social inadequacies.


                
Metropolis was a two and half hour long silent movie. I was hoping to have my socks wowed off by an incredible classic movie (because of the way our professor hyped it as the silent era's Avatar). Nothing could be farther from the truth. After an hour or so I could barely stand it. Another thirty minutes go by and I begin to seriously contemplate walking out. But I couldn't just leave. It wasn't that I was interested in the movie but I had already invested too much time to leave and not get credit for being there. The last hour was a test of my will. I was antsy and I was jittery but I stayed and I got my damn credit. The movie was not that awful it just didn't warrant two and a half hours of screen time. So far the silent movies we have seen have been one hour maximum. This was just too much.Like I said the movie wasn't all awful. If I forget the agonizing length of the silent Metropolis I can see a few positive things it had going for it. I loved the machine woman Hel. I think her name foreshadows what she does in the movie because she basically lets all hell loose on the city by inciting the workers.The story spends a lot of time on the workers and the machines. The time it spends up top deals almost exclusively with the mastermind behind the city Joh Fredersen. The workers are basically rising up against and destroying the system he has built, but the two never come into direct contact. It is as if such a confrontation of the lowly with the high brow is unthinkable and that is why there must be a mediator. I would have rather seen an invasion of the upper-class lifestyle by the rioting workers.
