For its time, this movie has stunning visuals, kind of Kubrick-esqe in appearance, especially the opening scenes of workers going and coming from work. It's very strange, with the group leaving walking with their heads down like zombies.The set designs in here are also something that might draw your attention. This really has a futuristic look. I thought the visuals were fascinating. This was "German expressionist" filmwork at its height, I would think. Director Fritz Lang went on to become a very famous man in his profession. This wasn't his first effort but, I think this might have been the film that put him "on the map," so to speak. Several years later, he gained a lot more fame with "M." At any rate, with the photography, sets and overall Flash Gordon-type sci-fi look, this must have been a real eye-opener to movies viewers 80 years ago. I still think they look very cool today. The music was also very dramatic, at least in this restored 5.1 surround sound restoration DVD, put out by Klino.Obviously, the eye makeup on men and the exaggerated motions by actors in silent films look a little hokey but I was mesmerized by Brigitte Helm, who plays "Maria" and her evil clone. She is something else! I also appreciated Klino's explanation of lost footage and how they did the best they could do to still make the story flow together. They did an outstanding job. I wouldn't attempt to watch this on anything less than this DVD, which looks pretty darn good.This is a "worker" story about a man wanting to trade his comfortable life to join the oppressed workers, who do their thing beneath the earth in "Metropolis." Workers are seen as nothing but replaceable robots. If someone gets hurt, they get carted away and replaced immediately but some other zombie-like human. Of course, people being mistreated can only take it for so long before rebellion. That's history, from the days of the Jewish slaves in Egypt to today, so that's part of this story, too. I won't say more to ruin it.I don't want to mislead people on one major point: today's audiences watching this. Few people in 2008 watch silent movies. To ask them to sit through two hours of a silent film is, obviously, asking a lot. I had to break this up into several viewings, myself, but that's okay. I still enjoyed it.....but it a silent movie this long is not easy to sit through. You have to be a student of film, or a big film buff, to watch this....but those people will be rewarded. Over 250 reviews in here show you this film has enough to offer, or at least take a look. Now that this restored version is available, check it out!


                
Spoilers herein.Definitions about what this is and is not. And a statement about what it defined.I do not consider this science fiction. SciFi is a subset of a genre based on the creation of a coherent alternative world. In the case of SciFi, the framework is science, or in lesser efforts sometimes technology. The idea works because it can depend on the mind's extrapolation according to the rules of the world set up according to by now well defined conventions. That way, the viewer or reader can enter an alternative world (not just a story) and `understand' it. Understand the story in the context of a world that differs.Metropolis is expressionism, something that depends on THIS world as its basis. The images are dreams, always tied to our reality. That means that everything seen here is an abstraction of our reality, which is completely opposite to the SciFi dynamic. In SciFi, we take a few familiar things into a different world. This is anti SciFi. There is no science here, just a golem. There is no alternative world, just an abstraction of our world. That abstraction is great in one respect, as I'll say below. But it is abstraction, not extrapolation. Symbolic art, not science fiction.It is also not purely cinematic either. In my book, for something to be valued cinema, it has to use a visual vocabulary that exploits dynamic narrative -- which is to say it has to be more than a filmed play or an illustrated text. The narrative has to be placed in the vision.What we have here is a heavyhanded symbolic text of a morality play that is illustrated by a genius who somehow convinced financiers to give him sufficient resources. And I do mean genius, but as a designer of images, not cinema. What's really interesting is that many of these images are so original, so powerful that they have been adopted and used by many who followed. And some of those who followed really were cinematically grounded: Kubrick, Scott, Greenaway, even Kurosawa. The point is that Lang is no Eisenstein but a source for Eisensteins.But he is a visual genius, no doubt. See this for its historical import in the development of visual grammars as well (if you are interested) as a factor in shaping (or reflecting if you wish) the Nazi horror.I love it when films are self-referential in a straightforward way. Lang himself was much like Fredersen, and the heavihanded way he threw the story around (not to mention the cast and crew) is much like the totalitarian manner of the city. That heartlessness, of which much is made in the story, is apparent in the film's stance, even central. That's because abstraction of this sort is by definition intellectually unemotional.The Madacy DVD has horrible transfer.
The first great sci-fi film is still amazing for the sets and special effects--primitive as they may seem to day's fans--especially if viewed in the sort of pristine print seen on TCM these days.German expressionism is in full swing from the opening scene of workers reporting for a shift change in the city of the 21st century before switching to the opulent world above where men enjoy a playboy existence devoid of work and concentrating on play. There's such intensity to the surreal images on screen that it defies your ability to turn away--in other words, director Lang knows how to hook you into the story from the very start.It's not the story that's significant here. The startling special effects and costumes and images of a mechanized society are what capture the attention immediately. The main story has the young man abandoning his life of luxury to join the oppressed workers that he observes caught in a mighty explosion--and wanting to do something by joining the workers in the depths.Pretty heavy-going at times and the acting is strictly from silent screen technique--very melodramatic with broad gestures. The plot takes an interesting turn when the inventor is instructed to give the Machine-Man the image of the girl--whom the manager's son has fallen in love with. The manager is still bitter because his son has joined the oppressed workers. This leads to all sorts of mayhem among the workers climaxing in some of the most astonishing set pieces ever conceived at this time in German film-making.An extraordinary viewing experience, original in concept and dazzling in execution. A memorable performance by BRIGITTE HELM, especially as the mechanized Maria.


                
Story Line:Joh Fredersen is the leader of Metropolis, a sunny, towering city full of energy and commerce. Freder is his son who revels in the libertine freedom that he has as a son of privilege. One day, while cavorting in the Eternal Gardens with a dozen scantily clad women, Freder sees a school teacher bring a group of dirty, poor children into the garden. The staff and the women are shocked and annoyed, but Freder is captivated by the teacher's words that "we are all brothers" and, of course, her beauty.Freder sets out to find the school teacher and investigate the world of the workers. The workers live deep underground operating the machines that keep Metropolis operating. The workers are not like the Morlocks of Wells' The Time Machine, they do not terrorize the upper dwellers, but they are rarely seen on the surface. He is searching the underground for her when he witnesses a terrible accident where dozens of workers are scalded with steam. Freder comes to see the machine as a god demanding sacrifice. He rushes to see his father to tell him of the horror, but his father is only upset that his own people didn't tell him first.We are introduced to Rotwang, an inventor who was a suitor of Joh Fredersen's now dead wife, Hel. He has created a Machine Man whom he says is Hel still living. But before we can work that out, we find the school teacher, named Maria, leading a religious service with the workers. She tells them that a mediator will come to set them free peacefully. Rotwang and Joh Fredersen decide to make the Machine Man look like Maria, and trick the workers into attacking Metropolis so they can be put down with brutal force.Unknown to Joh Fredersen, Rotwang is still bitter about Hel and has set Machine Maria to not only destroy the workers, but Metropolis too. Machine Maria not only convinces the workers to destroy the machines that power Metropolis but also those that keep underground water from flooding the worker's living areas. At the same time, she uses her body as a dancer to keep the people of Metropolis too distracted to know what is going on. The workers storm the machines to the strains of La Marseillaise.The result is the destruction of the worker's homes and the imperiling of their children. When the workers realize the folly of their acts, they turn on Machine Maria and burn her at the stake as a witch.There is a silly chase at the end (the acting has been very good up until this part), where Freder saves the real Maria, then brings both the workers and the city dwellers together to fix their city.Metropolis as Christian Allegory:The most obvious example of Christian symbolism is the Whore of Babylon story from Revelation, with the Machine Maria playing the part explicitly while she is distracting the city dwellers. But there are others, too.The teacher is named Maria, a variant of Mary, the mother of Jesus. Maria is the one who finds the mediator between head and hands like Mary brings Jesus, who is said to be the mediator between God and man, into the world. In Mary's religious chapel in the depths, the symbolism is strongly Christian, with crosses and fish. One of her prayers is that "The mediator will come" just like prayers in the Bible that the messiah will come. The movie opens and closes with the quote: "The mediator between head and hands must be the heart." Freder is placed as that heart, that mediator, that savior figure who beings healing. Even pagan gods mentioned in the Bible are alluded to. The word "Moloch" flashes up in the scene where Freder sees the machine as a god demanding sacrifice. The Catholic Encyclopedia notes that Moloch is named in the Old Testament of the Bible as one of the pagan religions stamped out early on: "The chief feature of Moloch's worship among the Jews seems to have been the sacrifice of children, and the usual expression for describing that sacrifice was 'to pass through the fire,' a rite carried out after the victims had been put to death."When Joh Fredersen's right hand man is fired because of his incompetence, he is sent into the depths with the workers like a person being cast out of God's sight and being damned to Hell. Freder acts the part of the Jesus the savior by offering a job and allowing him to stay. The depths where the workers live and work look like Hell with smoke, steam, and heat. Metropolis as Foreshadowing of the Holocaust:Although Mein Kampf was published the year before the movie was released, but it would still be several years before the Nazis came to power in Germany. Nevertheless, Metropolis is an eerie foreshadowing of the work and death camps to come. Just like prisoners in a concentration camp, the workers do not have names, only numbers. They have been dehumanized to the point where they not only look and act like a part of the machines they operate, but they are numbered like parts in a catalog. When his son tells him the plight of the workers, Joh Fredersen comments that "the workers are where they belong, in the depths" -- sounding much like the Nazis saying Jews and other undesirables belonged in ghettos and camps. During the metaphor of the machine as Moloch requiring human sacrifice, there are dozens of men marching into the gaping, flaming maw of the god like so many concentration camp victims marching to the crematorium. Finally, during the story of the Tower of Babel that Maria tells the workers, there is a depiction of thousands of nearly naked workers who were shaved bald that looked just like concentration camp workers from the Nazi era.
First of all Metropolis is at it's best when you watch it with the right score (music).  Stay away from the "MTV version" that music is awful and doesn't do justice to the movie.  I recommend the newest version on DVD with an attempted recreation of the original score, though that would be next to impossilbe because in the days of silent films the score was provided in the theater live.  Anyways I think that many people have a hard time getting used to black and white films let alone silent ones (speaking of people in my generation), so this movie can't be judged harshly or unfairly on those 2 prerequisites.  If you watch Metropolis with an open mind you will be blown away.  It's a science fiction movie that effectively deals with themes of class, politics, and religion.  The sets and design are amazing to me, because the film was made in 1927 and in fact it's creation almost brankrupted the studio (UFA) which funded it.  The imagery is what Lang is a master at and even if you watch the crummy MTV version you have to appreciate the symbolism and at the very least the sets and imagery.  This movie has made a profound influence on Blade Runner, Star Wars, the Matrix, and many other sci-fi movies that are themselves highly influential. Without Metropolis I doubt any of those movies would have come out the way they did.  In fact I think it's highly suspect if they would have been made at all, especially Blade Runner or the Matrix.  NOTHING was like Metropolis before it's creation and even years after it's creation it stands as unique. I think for it's style and imagery alone it can be considered one of the most important movies ever.  It's story isn't the best, but this is a must see for any movie buff.  Once you watch it, you may be surprised at how many films actually "borrow" from it.
Zoopansick


                
Metropolis is something I have never seen before: first it is a silent film which I am not at all familiar with, and also it is such an epic told in the 1920s. No wonder why it is called a classics. Just judging from its visuals, this is much better than films coming out even 30 years later. The storytelling and performance style are a bit old for modern taste, but are not entirely outdated. Most characters feel real and relatable, though from time to time I fail to connect because of the incredibly long time elapsed between me streaming and the movie being made. Overall, it is a great futurism film, probably has created that genre, and I am genuinely amazed at almost every aspect of it.
People in large groups have been stupid and cruel for a very long time. At the very least, they have been stupid and cruel since the mid 1920's. Fritz Lang's Metropolis captures very well the essence of this insanity of the mob mentality. Painted against the backdrop of a dystopian society, Metropolis tells the story of a Marxist type setting where class conflict exists between the planners of the upper city and the workers who toil underground to keep the city's machines in order. The heart of Metropolis is one where the privileged rely on the work of the oppressed and the only two people with any strength of will are nearly spurned by the ignorant masses.One of the main assumptions throughout the film is that the workers are miserable, but given hope through the peaceful preaching of Maria. Essentially, in realistic fashion, the thinkers and planners take advantage of the workers and care not about how difficult it is for them to live as they operate the machines below the surface. The film contends that correspondence between the "brain" and the "hands" or the thinkers and workers is impossible without the heart acting as a mediator. There must be one who understands both sides to mediate because alone the two are too different from each other as evidenced by Fredersen's attempt to further control the masses with the robot, and the ensuing attempts of the workers to destroy the city, despite their better judgments.The film's greatest strength lies in its ability to skillfully portray the tendency of people in large groups to follow the voice of a leader. The workers quickly flock to Maria's words, though why they choose to follow her is not exactly explained. Perhaps it's because she acts as the only positive presence in the workers' lives. At any rate, it is a bit strange that every one of the workers continues to follow the robot Maria even though she essentially goes completely against the real Maria's previous ideology. It is thus both commendable and disturbing that the film manages to assume that none of the workers can think for themselves. What's more, the film doesn't do the best job of differentiating between the Marias and it can become a bit confusing to follow which is which.Metropolis is a film that largely succeeds, especially when considering its time. The cinematography is well done, as is the expressive acting, and it should be given that it is a silent film. The film had the potential to be a bit more interesting: Perhaps instead of the robot Maria being burned at the stake, it could have been the real Maria, only to have the workers find out that the robot was the real malefactor. Something like this might have prompted the workers to take a bit more care before deciding foolishly to destroy their city. As it stands the ending is a bit cliché, well-suited to mainstream audiences, but stands as the finale to components that are mostly well-done.
Set in a faltering Utopia, the governor's son, Freder, is drawn to seek out the underpinnings of his existence. He descends into an abysmal underworld of man-eating machinery that is nearly indistinguishable from his fevered hallucinations. Despite the film's hyper-drama and viciously precise arm movement, it is a riveting study that compellingly mirrors the French Revolution and yet eerily foretells the rise of Fascism. It invokes distinctly Germanic art styles as we see Freder become a black-uniformed living transistor, fully 20 years before transistors were invented. No movement, no lighting change is extemporaneous; in legendary Teutonic vision, every frame is set exactly as it must be. As an example of the film's relentless angst, the governor, Joh Fredersen, beholds his son breathtakingly idolizing a Joan of Arc character, Maria, to the revolutionary strains of La Marseillaise. Maria's gaze is mesmerizing.To regain his son and control a worker's revolt, the governor beseeches an old nemesis to turn the first robot into a Maria automaton, but a Lorelei-type emissary. Joh's desperation is Freder's undoing and, later, his own. As the great city begins to hemorrhage, a fight for the future of the republic ensues. It will be impossible not to see Metropolis' incomparable flavor within dozens of other movies, not the least- George Lucas' entire Star Wars saga.Despite issues inherent to early movies and having lost a large portion of its substance to fledgling Hollywood meddling, Metropolis is the watershed cinematic experience that every dedicated film-maker must acknowledge.


                
Luis Buñuel saw Lang's "Metropolis" (1927) as not one but two different films with deeply different spiritual needs: the story is overt romanticism, yet the images are full of great power. This has become a kind of critical paradigm that I tend to side with.I would prefer Lang's "Die Nibelungen" (released in two parts, "Sigfried" and "Kriemhilds Rache", in 1924) if I had to select an an ultra-epic from his filmography, but this is a great ride, nevertheless. It's ultramodern, as well, in its manipulativeness and sense of scope and destruction (very much like the "modern" blockbuster), and best works for me if I let the story to fade into the background (which doesn't make that much sense as a story, but makes all the sense in the world as a film) and let the stream of images wash over me.This might sound arrogant, but the story feels just too heavy-handed for me. I think I understand its implications as a modern-day allegory of modern times as a kind of Orwellian counter-reality, but it takes itself so seriously – as any epic will, mind you – it's difficult to make amends with. I don't see it as science fiction, instead as a continuation of the high fantasy of "Die Nibelungen" into the modern day, a kind of societal prophecy for their time and place. It's because of this gravitas that the film is so full juxtaposition between cultural heritage and religion and nationalistic idealism, and it's this gravitas that lends the film its rather clumsy narrative, but on the other hand it's this gravitas that lends such potency to the imagery.Whenever I'll revisit the film I'll have to see it with Chaplin's brilliant "Modern Times" (1935) that refers to it in divers ways and speaks of the same things. It's rather heavy for Chaplin, but still rather obviously lighter in tone than this.


                
(We saw the 148 min. Kino 2010 restored version) The plot is very complex and interwoven with many Biblical allusions (Tower of Babel; a prophet; people waiting, hoping for a Mediator to come; catacombs; Gothic cathedrals; 7 deadly sins) along with class struggles, romance, eroticism, hoochy-koochie dancing, and science-fiction futurism.Metropolis society is divided into 2 classes: the rich masters whose families live privileged lives above ground while the workers live below ground keeping the infra-structure running. Freder, son of the ruler of Metropolis, happens below ground and sees Maria who compassionately cares for the workers' children and he's smitten by her attractiveness. In the catacombs, Maria urges the workers to be patient, prophesying that someday a Mediator will come and relieve them of their burdens. We get a hint that Freder may be the answer to that prophesy? But the workers' unrest is growing. When the ruler becomes aware of this unrest, he visits Rotwang, a genius inventor, for help. Rotwang shows him a robot which is nearly completed and, when done, will be indistinguishable from a real person. The two decide making the robot in the image of Maria will help identify and thwart the leaders of potential rebellion.But Rotwang, envious of his leader's power, changes his mind and decides to use the Maria robot to foment an actual rebellion. Suddenly we have two Maria's--the usual sweet, compassionate Maria and her robotic look-alike who is brazen, sexy, and provocative in many ways. And Freder struggles to save the real Maria.This undoubtedly is one of the most significant early films ever made because of its special effects and technical achievements. But whether your transportation is on foot or in a rocket ship, your home is a lean-to or a crystal palace, still motivations, issues, and principles have to be appropriately human. In this latter phase, IMO, "Metropolis" was deficient with a mish-mash of religious parallels, governing structures, and eroticism (possibly inserted to increase box office appeal?). For vision, for filming, Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" is stunning. But for reasonably appropriate human reactions and motivations, (IMO) Lang's reach exceeded his grasp.My ratings: 10/10 for film, historical & technical significance; but only 4/10 for plot/narrative. I'll compromise on 7/10. (And I'm VERY glad to have seen it -- I've heard about it for years.)
The future. In Metropolis people are divided into a working class and a rich class. The working class has to do heavy jobs which last up to 10 hours a day. All that the rich class does is pretty much party all day. Freder, the son of the rich industrialist Joh, falls in love into Maria, the leader of a group of revolutionists. The scientist Rotwang kidnaps Maria and makes a robot twin out of her in order to create chaos inside the revolutionists...Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" from 1927, considered one of the first sci-fi films in the motion picture history, is a classic with a high reputation ( it's no. 81 on IMDb's top 250 films ). Still, despite having many brilliant sequences, the film seems a little dated today. The biggest problem is that it has actually very few sci-fi elements and too much dry drama, while the pace keeps getting slower and slower near the finish. Lang's visual style is impressive ( the sequence where a story about the tower of Babel is told, the hallucination about one of the skeleton death statue's coming to life, the waking of the female robot, the flooding of the town ) as is the composition of the story, but they can't hide all of the flaws. For example, F. W. Murnau's silent fantasy "Faust" looks much more spectacular. -------- A very good piece of demanding storytelling which criticizes the government's decision of people being divided into working and not working classes, analyzes the nature of capitalism and offers a not so bright vision of the future. And the set design looks even more impressive when you think about it that it was made in Germany in the year 1927 and probably inspired "Blade Runner", while Rotwangs black glove probably inspired the looks of the mad scientist in Kubrick's "Dr. Stragelove". It's a classic, but a very dry one.Grade: 7/10


                
Metropolis is considered one of the first science-fiction films ever. The general plot consists of a man raised in the upper class, Freder, who sees the troubles and suffering of the lower, working class, and he works to fix the unfairness in this futuristic dystopia. Freder falls in love along the way, he falls for a revolutionary named Maria, who helps him fix the injustice that the working class has been suffering through. 
 Throughout the film, the director, Fritz Lang uses many different cinematography tricks to make the audience experience the feelings that Lang intended. One of the most heavily used techniques was camera angle, low angle, high angle, eye level, bird's eye, oblique, all of them were used throughout the film to influence the emotions of the audience and the story itself. The city of Metropolis was a gigantic one, that was shown through the use of a bird's eye view of a miniature model of the city; the camera angle combined with the shot size, in this case it was a wide or long shot, gives the audience a taste of the sheer size of this city. The bird's eye angle and the wide shot make people think that even from way up here they still can't see the whole city, even though it's a model, it makes the audience believe that this is a real city that's bigger than they can imagine. The wide shot doesn't really allow for people to focus on one thing because there is so much in the shot that most people want to see everything there, they don't want to miss anything, it is used incredibly well to show the size of the city. There are a couple of scenes where either Freder or Maria is talking to a crowd of people and the speaker is raised above the crowd, this is a great example of how Lang used low angles and medium shots to put the audience in the place of the crowd. The camera is looking up at the speaker, who is standing on top of something so that everyone can see them, the camera shot isn't zoomed way in or way out, it's in the middle, just about what most people in the crowd are seeing, this allows the audience to become a part of the movie. This could probably be argued that it's an eye level shot that's angled up since the camera is at the same height as the crowd, but the effect is the same no matter what angle you call it. There were several chase scenes throughout the film that used camera movement, angles, and editing to add suspense and anxiety to the scenes. When the camera moves with the people running it makes the audience feel as though they are running along with them, varying camera angles adds a little bit of confusion, which is a feeling the people being chased most likely feel. The editing was quite good, for the time period, quick cuts from one alley to another road from a different angle sometimes with a gap before we see the characters in order to make the audience feel anxious as those involved in the chase. The emotions created with these techniques are the part that draw people in to movies, the feeling that we are connected to what is happening. Lang does a good job of drawing people in emotionally even when there are whole scenes from the original film missing; the missing scenes only make it harder to understand the story since it is a silent film and most people now are accustomed to movies with dialogue and soundtracks and sound effects.
Metropolis (1927) is a silent film about a young man named Freder who seeks to unite the underground society of workers who keep the utopian city of Metropolis running, with the wealthy elite that control it. A woman named Maria is seen as a leader of the workers underground and is portrayed as an angel. Freder follows her and is appalled by the worker's situation. Freder's father is essentially the mayor of Metropolis and wants to keep the working class a secret. He tasks a wild inventor named Rotwang with giving a mechanical human the appearance of Maria. From there, the film picks up quite a bit and conflict starts brewing. This is one area that the film does very well. It is plain for the audience to see which Maria is the real one and which one is the automaton, but the workers cannot tell a difference. The city begins to collapse due to the influence of the robot, and Maria is stuck trying to save the worker's children who are effected. Throughout this whole sequence we lament the fact that the workers cannot tell that this is clearly not the way Maria would behave but it is understandable as the workers are fired up and ready to revolt.  It is easy to see the influence of Metropolis on other films. The Matrix for example also depicts a sort of utopian society kept alive by the masses. In both films the hero falls into his role by mistake. Metropolis also featured special effects that were ahead of its time. I would not have expected a film from 1927 to have the same fidelity and special effects work that Metropolis flaunts. All of this however comes with a caveat. I believe that the movie could have had about half of its runtime and still told the story effectively. For modern audiences a two and a half hour silent film is daunting and as a whole Metropolis is pretty slow. It is without a doubt one of the best films of its time in terms of production quality and writing, but the pacing really leaves a bit to be desired. I believe this film is best experienced in hindsight. The premise is cool, the setting is very cool, and the characters are done reasonably well, but sitting down and watching the film is actually kind of boring. If I could give the film two ratings I would say that the beginning is a five and the ending is a nine. In the beginning it drags its feet quite a bit and is not super engaging. By now we all have seen plenty of utopias with a dark secret and this one feels like just another one. The second half of the film however takes a much different approach and has all of the action unfold quite rapidly. The main antagonistic force towards the end is the mass of workers that are capable of destroying everything in their path. The workers are not inherently evil but are being manipulated by the false Maria to cause havoc and terror. The frustration felt by the viewer works perfectly to create an atmosphere of desperation. Despite not being exciting enough for modern general audiences, I do think that this film is very well suited to science fiction and movie enthusiasts. If you are someone who is looking for a meaningful and impactful film and not just a fun flick this movie will satisfy you.
Metropolis is considered one of the first science-fiction films ever. The general plot consists of a man raised in the upper class, Freder, who sees the troubles and suffering of the lower, working class, and he works to fix the unfairness in this futuristic dystopia. Freder falls in love along the way, he falls for a revolutionary named Maria, who helps him fix the injustice that the working class has been suffering through. 
 Throughout the film, the director, Fritz Lang uses many different cinematography tricks to make the audience experience the feelings that Lang intended. One of the most heavily used techniques was camera angle, low angle, high angle, eye level, bird's eye, oblique, all of them were used throughout the film to influence the emotions of the audience and the story itself. The city of Metropolis was a gigantic one, that was shown through the use of a bird's eye view of a miniature model of the city; the camera angle combined with the shot size, in this case it was a wide or long shot, gives the audience a taste of the sheer size of this city. The bird's eye angle and the wide shot make people think that even from way up here they still can't see the whole city, even though it's a model, it makes the audience believe that this is a real city that's bigger than they can imagine. The wide shot doesn't really allow for people to focus on one thing because there is so much in the shot that most people want to see everything there, they don't want to miss anything, it is used incredibly well to show the size of the city. There are a couple of scenes where either Freder or Maria is talking to a crowd of people and the speaker is raised above the crowd, this is a great example of how Lang used low angles and medium shots to put the audience in the place of the crowd. The camera is looking up at the speaker, who is standing on top of something so that everyone can see them, the camera shot isn't zoomed way in or way out, it's in the middle, just about what most people in the crowd are seeing, this allows the audience to become a part of the movie. This could probably be argued that it's an eye level shot that's angled up since the camera is at the same height as the crowd, but the effect is the same no matter what angle you call it. There were several chase scenes throughout the film that used camera movement, angles, and editing to add suspense and anxiety to the scenes. When the camera moves with the people running it makes the audience feel as though they are running along with them, varying camera angles adds a little bit of confusion, which is a feeling the people being chased most likely feel. The editing was quite good, for the time period, quick cuts from one alley to another road from a different angle sometimes with a gap before we see the characters in order to make the audience feel anxious as those involved in the chase. The emotions created with these techniques are the part that draw people in to movies, the feeling that we are connected to what is happening. Lang does a good job of drawing people in emotionally even when there are whole scenes from the original film missing; the missing scenes only make it harder to understand the story since it is a silent film and most people now are accustomed to movies with dialogue and soundtracks and sound effects. 
-Connor Holl
Metropolis is regarded as one of the first great science fiction films and its influence is clearly seen on some of the most popular films from its genre throughout history. Despite the gaps in the story and missing segments, it still manages to entertain nearly a century after its original release. Metropolis broke barriers in the special effects department as well as the genre of science fiction. Its influences can be seen everywhere throughout film history. The film however, isn't without its drawbacks. A bland story and soundtrack mixed with some subpar acting are the few blemishes on the otherwise stunning project.
 Star Wars, Blade Runner and High Treason are all staples of the science fiction film genre. After viewing Metropolis one can see how heavily they are influenced by many elements of the film. Mad scientists, humanoid robots and futuristic cities are all common elements or any sci-fi film you might see at the theater in modern times but back in the 1920s, Lang was pioneering these symbols. Think about how many sci-fi heroes or villains who have had prothetic hands throughout film history: Dr. Strangelove, Luke Skywalker, Captain Hook, Peeta Melark, etc. Also the signature mad scientist lab with curly test tubes, an operation table with thick leather straps, and of course the evil laugh as their experiments unfold. Common troupes viewers take for granted in modern fils were revolutionary ideas back when the Metropolis was released. 
 In the 20s when the film was being produced, all special effects had to be done without the assistance of computers, this led to Karl Freund and his special effects team to come up with some revolutionary ways to create the effects. They used mirror effects to make small models appear large while the actors are still able to move on the set. This created some epic scenes with towering city backdrops. The special effects with the transformation of Maria into the machine were also revolutionary with the glowing rings moving around her body. Director Lang was know to have his actors stand in cold water for hours during the flood scene and even have the actor of Maria being "burned alive" by real flames for authenticity.
 Its also worth noting Lang's unique directing style. Fritz Lang placed the workers in a visual patter for two main reasons. The first is to show how Joh Fredersen uses them as objects not humans. By giving them robotic, ornamental movements the viewer can see how the workers are stripped of their humanity when they are forced to work under the city with the machines. The second reason Land uses these patters is to show the development of the workers over the length of the film. The viewer can notice how at the beginning of the film, the workers are placed in patters. However, later in the film they are placed randomly and act erratically. This is to show the chaos caused my the Machine Man. As soon as this chaotic character is introduced to them they not longer move in an organized formation. The best examples of this are the two elevator scenes. In the first elevator scene, all of the workers are marching head down, in even rows. In the second elevator scene later in the film, all the workers are running out of order and climbing over the railing of the elevator. There is no longer any order to their movement. At the end of the film, there is one scene where all the workers march in a triangular pattern. This is after then Machine Man is burned and order is restored when Freder links the "head" and the "hands".
 Metropolis isn't without its drawbacks. The acting is out of date and exaggerated. Examples of this include the chase scene between Rotwang and Maria in the catacombs and the fight scene between Freder and Rotwang on the church roof. These scenes are very drawn out along with an outdated style of acting potentially bores the viewer. The story is also quite bland and confusing to follow. Missing segments may contribute to this but it is evident that the original story is not very original or full if twists, suspense or surprises. The music is also average. For a silent film, the music is all that the viewer hears for over two hours straight so having an excellent music selection and production for the film is crucial to keep the viewers engaged. 
 As the films tattered history came together over the years, film aficionados are lucky to be able to view the work in near completeness. In contrast, when the film was released, most film experts disregarded the piece as it received unfavorable reviews by confused critics such as HG Wells. Although the film is slightly dated, it can still be enjoyed in its original form and through its countless influences in the history of filmography.
This film is great from a technical standpoint: the visuals, composition, idea, cinematography. But i found myself bored, despite the beautiful imagery. I don't know why however, there was so much to see, to analyse. It was iconic nonetheless. And I still recommend this to anyone who loves sci/fi, even if I didn't have much entertainment from watching.


                
METROPOLIS is perhaps the most famous film in German director Fritz Lang's long career and it's certainly an iconic movie. Who can forget the sight of the mad scientist bringing his machine to life and giving it the body of Brigitte Helm? The film as a whole is iconic and hugely influential in its depiction of a dystopian future, but what's most interesting is just how many genres are packed into one film.Don't let the lengthy running time put you off: this is one of those fast-paced epics in which you lose track of time and forget the minutes stretching out. It's a little slow to start off as it carefully depicts a futuristic world with some great surrealist moments - Freder's vision of the terrifying Moloch is straight from Bosch and completely fascinating. Later, the film draws in romance, Frankenstein-style scientific experiments and apparatus, adventure and derring-do against a master villain, and even a disaster film.The special effects are doubtlessly dated but still look absolutely great to this viewer, particularly the futuristic city set and the destructive scenes in the second half. Helm gives a tour de force performance in a dual role. Lang remembers to give his film a human heart, which is the crucial thing about it, making it accessible even to viewers watching some ninety years later.


                
Considering the good reputation this vintage classic enjoys today, it's a little strange to think that in its heyday its popularity was restrict. I don't think it was because people weren't prepared for such a revolutionary movie. As far as I know, even then few were the ones who weren't marveled with the futuristic and highly stylish visuals. I can't say for sure, but I think it was because it combined futuristic scenarios with still primitive cinema techniques (which were what was available at the time). And quite honestly, the ancient cinema techniques is the aspect which this film is most dated. The stunning futuristic visuals haven't aged at all. I'd dare to say that they wouldn't do ugly now. They are still surprisingly fresh even for today's standards: the "avant-garde" mega-city of Metropolis and the fantastic Tower of Babel, all part of the director's vision for the future.The final cost would probably be far from being overly expensive today, but for 1927 this was a very costly film to make, which you can tell from its advanced ideas.Some futurisms aside, this movie is not for everyone because it is very old, silent and in black and white. Adding to all that, it is very long and can be quite repetitive. A movie with these characteristics this long can push some to the limits of their patience. One has to have in mind that "nobody" watches movies like this these days.Aside the greatness of the futuristic stuff, the best thing is the sequence of the overflown reservoirs and inundations caused by it, putting many children in danger who are rescued in time before any disgrace.The movie has become unexpectedly famous over time. To prove how much its popularity grew over time, let me just say that musical artists like Queen in the videoclip for the song "Radio Ga Ga" and Madonna in the videoclip for the song "Express Yourself" payed some homage to it in slight details of inspiration.


                
Metropolis could have been even better had it been released the following year, in 1928. The first film with sound in it was released the same year it was made - and a film of its type would need sound to be even better. But it is by no means bad. Who cares about words when you've got a good idea for a film? And Metropolis is a good idea - two societies in a city - one hell-like, one heaven-like. The film is great for its day - the scope is massive for a film nearly 80 years old - possibly the biggest ever at that time. And in terms of quality, it probably beat most films in the 50s and 60s. But Fritz Lang had a huge budget to play with - at that time, two million dollars was enough to send a film corporation into bankruptcy, nowadays being s*d-all. And though the budget is used well and every penny is put up on the screen, you just can't help feeling that this film needed words, and that it would just be taken the p**s out of by stupid young idiots in schools today. Though the odd title card every 30 seconds or so does do a good job of keeping everything on track and the musical score throughout the film does kind of substitute for words and sound, this film, I believe, would have been better if dialogue had been used. But b*lls to that - this film is something that should be respected, and an early realisation of a future society. This film is, in every sense, an epic. 7/10


                
Metropolis features huge, wonderfully designed sets, a cast of thousands, and great visual design. The story details a collision between classes, the poor working class, consigned to the depths, and the industrious living in the bright city above. The city is beautifully realised given the effects of the day, lights, automobiles, aeroplanes, and vast crowds living and breathing in the city, machines are superimposed on top of another in a series of endless work, the workers move in a tired trance, synchronised as if in a slow dance to the death.The move is a little too long and dawdles, instead of justifying its entire two and a half hour length. Despite this the images are captivating, the social commentary is justified, well reasoned and well presented. The references to the Tower of Babel are welcome, if a little obvious, and completely unnecessary to actually detail. Fritz Lang has particular skill at telling a story with just images, and directing his actors to give well considered performances. His visual metaphors, as workers struggle with giant clocks, or are sacrificed to the hunger of the machine, are particularly evocative.The acting is expressive, as the actors struggle to say so much, without saying anything at all. The editing and effects are good, obviously dated, but in sync with the film as not to be awkward or distracting. The costumes are designed well, and Maria the robot is superbly designed.


                
first of all Star Wars is the most overrated movie with Titanic. Metropolis is one of biggest movie hits of all time,but it's not my favorite movie far from that,but i like it.one of the mysteries in cinema.it's silent movie,but it is visually stunning.truly a great silent movie,but not the best of the year 1927(Napoleon - 1927 was the greatest movie of year)both are of course timeless. it's still the future so futuristic even now.no doubt this has changed forever the face on future movies.The film time year is 2027.in this movie there a lot of massive scenes.it's 50 years before Star Wars what a shame to Star Wars what is crap.the main person in this is Maria who is beautiful and takes up the cause of the workers.


                
Set before the time of the Eloi and Morlocks. Fredrick stumbles upon the workers in their underworld and falls for their spiritual leader Maria. While Fredrick's father sees her as a threat and tries to destroy her. The classic Sci-fi movie of the '20s that that still resonates today.


                
Haven't seen it in ages. I'm trying to watch the 2010 version. I'm watching it in parts and watched 1.5 hours (out of 2.5 hours). This version is WAY too long. Really hard for me to rate/judge this movie. It's classical, it has some great achievements and visuals - and obviously it influenced a lot of movies afterwards - but I can't say I enjoy watching it. The movie doesn't "flow", the editing (especially in the 2010 version) is way too slow with shots that are way too long and the entire structure of the movie seems to be problematic.The acting is very "expressionistic" and highly unnatural. I know it's the genre and the fact of it being silent, but it's still weird. There are a lot of silent movies (e.g. Chaplin, etc.) that aren't acted so unnatural. I don't think even "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" (which came out 7 years earlier) is that unnatural in acting (only watched it once, years ago, so I really can't remember).Rating this movie is very difficult. Based on its achievements and influence it should get a very high rating. But based on enjoyment from today's point of view, I can't give it a high rating.BTW, "Star Wars" reference - Obviously, the robot is a direct influence, but I was surprised to listen to the (original) score of Metropolis - parts of it reminded me of John Williams' score to "Star Wars". Is that a coincidence? Was the original score available before 2010? Could Williams have heard it when writing the score to "Star Wars"?


                
I must admit that I saw this movie mostly because I thought it would be cool to see an old movie. Although visual effects and sound are areas that have improved a lot since the early years of film-making, I thought that the plot, the directing and the acting of an old movie might be as good as it is in films made today. But unlike other areas of art, like photography or literature, the art of film has really changed to the better over the years.
Although Fritz Lang's movie is worth seeing, it is not nearly as well-produced or well-directed as many movies are today. In fact, Metropolis is somewhat of a disappointment. The acting is almost non-existent and the movie focuses far too much on the big scenes, missing out important details.I should say, however, that the political message of the film never gets out of date. If the scenes of Metropolis are considered being symbolic, the futuristic vision of Lang's movie has in some ways become reality.


                
If today, the 1926 futuristic vision does appear a bit dated, it's still staggering.Often criticized because of it's "stupid" plot, the original plot was censored and butchered to make it more acceptable for audiences.I still marvel at the impressive art-deco lines of the robot, still unsurpassed in sheer elegance, the gigantic buildings and the geometric choreography of the masses ...And is the ending really false ? Don't we live in age where cold reasoning and the pursuit of pure profit has won over the common decency and compassion that we could call the heart ?


                
