First, the good things about this show.I love the cast. Jeff Daniels is brilliant, and plays the role perfectly. The writing of this show is excellent when it has to do with personal relationships and comedy.The rest of the show is ruined by Sorkin thinking that its viewers are dumb. After the fourth episode, I can no longer watch this show because it just feels like a propaganda piece now. I had no problem with Sorkin and some of the things he wanted to talk about in the first 2 episodes. I don't mind him coming after conservatives at all, I am a libertarian so I share some of his beliefs in these stories. But I have waited for him and his "fair, truthful" newsroom to cover a story about something other than evil conservatives.Sorkin's premise is solid. There isn't any fair news in this country, and hardly any around the world as far as I know. Agreed completely. It is all affected by money and personal opinions. But just calling your character a Republican and having them not care about ratings does not mean you have a newsroom trying to fairly inform the electorate about the important matters of our country and world.If this show really presented that, this would be a wonderful series. However, political propaganda is never that great....and that is all this is.


                
So sad to see this show undermined by pithy romantic B-stories. The strength lies in the show's editorial charge to produce news that is factual and relevant, and not driven by ratings. Was Aaron Sorkin dumbed down by execs to ensure a romantic office subplot appear as relevant as the show's main thematic power points?Casting is also questionable with a lead female who does not project what it takes to be EP on a cable news show.Such a shame to see the show dabbling in almost teen melodrama, when soliloquy's like the opening monologue in Ep 3 are so powerful. 'Meh'.Such I shame I can't say 'More'.


                
Jeff Daniels keeps this from being dreadful. He's sublime as a powerful and sadistic, unfeeling news anchor. His screen time (and there's plenty of it) is great telly. The cast is talented and obviously there is much investment into production values. The stories that pertain to the news (although liberal in a loud and pompous way) are something to sail along with while Daniels is at the helm.But that's where it ends.The absolutely dreadful melodramatic dross that underscores this series makes it close to un-watchable. Feeble minded workers with feeble minded love lives and dreadful characters (that I hoped would get shot) ultimately wreck this ship.There are so many examples of the stupidity of this show but here's the one I found the most repellent... one chap likes a girl but is sleepwalked into dating her room-mate. The room mate likes 'Sex In The City' so the chap who doesn't really like her decides to gen up on SITC by taking an open top tour bus which travels around New York telling all the insipid fans of the show how great having sex in New York is when you are getting old. The girl of his dreams gets emotional and just happens to come across this bus and unleashes a loud and annoying diatribe at all the CITC fans and wouldn't you know it... our hero hears it all and pops up to save the day. WTF!Anyway - it's over now and hopefully there won't be any more!
I have to say the first three episodes of season one are brilliant. There was not even one character that I disliked and I loved how all of the characters were intelligent.Then, it seems as if they are trying to point out what they don't like about the far right leaning Tea Party and Conservatives. After a while, if you pay attention to politics, you can see that they are using talking points that the left always uses. Often Will McAvoy talks about how he is seen as a RINO (Republican in Name only), which I can say he is. The only thing about himself that he points out, while saying he is a Republican, is that he is pro life. Through the whole first season, that is the only thing he can point out to try and distinguish himself as a Republican. The rest of the season, he is attacking only Republicans he does not agree with, while preaching everything the left preaches to the right in real life.At first, when you start watching, you hope that the show will point out the weaknesses in both parties, because they are there, but this show only attacks the right. I watched the full first season hoping it would finally point out problems with the left too, but it only continually attacked the right for many things that I even agree with the right on. Will is a Donkey in an Elephant suit. Just being pro life does not make you a Republican.


                
The NewsroomSorkin's admirable attempt to dramatize the news section with a gut wrenching anatomy on behind the scenes of this show business, is one of the biggest upset ever to come across the screen. And not because of its failure on various aspects, it still falls under mediocrity but the expectations that it brought with such caliber of cast and makers, it is surely a swing and a miss. Sorkin's signature writing patterns is clearly visible as it is brimmed with competitive arguments and too many verbal sparring that moves with ferocious pace, he always keeps his audience on the edge of their seat trying to keep up with the narration.But as much political galore this vision is, the actual content, the core of the drama that it has to and does rely upon is the real culprit in here. The conversations are chalky and the connections of the plots to pass the storyline forward is poorly weaved out. It seems like the venue has changed but the usual love affairs and breaking and mending of equations, is still their, the seen-this-seen-that details are outdated and audience is much smarter than this. The execution too isn't appropriately handled along with the camera work that is more pretentious than it is productive.The only responsible man that makes your time worth is Daniels, in his morally complex and socially challenged coat that he is in, which too may seem like your usual anti-hero, but has much to offer as the character ages on screen. Supporting parallel-y is Mortimer whose quirkiness is easily absorbing, than her drama is, to be fair she isn't given the range to factor on a larger scale. Other supporting cast like Pill, Patel, Munn, Sadoski and Gallagher Jr. are the weak links to the series. The Newsroom could have been much more than just news, and this time even Sorkin couldn't convince us to watch the news.


                
Aaron Sorkin is my favorite writer and A Few Good Men is my all time favorite movie. Unfortunately is everything in this show great on paper, but poorly executed. You can almost taste what the show was supposed to be. All the way from the flashy intro that looks good but just doesn't stick in your mind, to the dialogue which is genius but it just doesn't break through, for some reason.A very forgettable show.


                
The Newsroom follows the behind-the-scenes events at the fictional Altantis Cable News (ACN) channel. The show centers around the news anchor Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels) and the News Night executive producer MacKenzie McHale (Emily Mortimer). Other key characters include Jim Harper (John Gallagher, Jr), Maggie Jordan (Alison Pill), Sloan Sabbith (Olivia Munn), Neal Sampat (Dev Patel), Don Keefer (Thomas Sadoski) and Charlie Skinner (Sam Waterston). The news room deals with themes of media ethics, affect and emotion, loyalty, trust and idealism. McAvoy is a self-confessed Republican yet he never really adopts this identity in any of the episodes. It is as though Sorkin, the executive producer of the show, marked McAvoy with this Republican title so that he could pass the show off as an idealistic news network that does not exhibit any bias toward a particular political agenda. The show is riddled with heated discussion about the actions of republicans, but I am yet to see any liberal views be critiqued on the show. The show to me feels like a propaganda piece. The show is an exploration of a Utopian news environment, a template for how reporters should act when in pursuit of a story. Many reviewers of this television series have even commented that "this is how the news should be done". One reviewer stated that "Sorkin's premise is solid", and I do tend agree. The current media environment severely lacks news that is objective and transparent, and there is a dire need for journalists with greater sense of morality. I would argue, however, that the news discourse on the show does not deviate from the norms of mainstream. Instead of identifying the issues within mainstream media and offering a solution, this show merely contributes to the problem.


                
Aaron Sorkin, like David Mamet, has some great stories to tell. The Newsroom, a behind the scenes look at politics, infighting, and the sordid scandals that occur in a major network news show, has some. The stories are great. In fact, the stories justify eight stars out of ten rather than merely four. Throw in a mix of great actors. Veterans Jeff Daniels, Emily Mortimer, and Sam Waterston; relative newcomers Olivia Munn, Alison Pill, or John Gallagher, Jr. All portray compelling interesting characters. Coupled with the great stories arcs, and this show is easily worth nine out of ten stars. So where do they go wrong? Writing, editing, and direction. Like The West Wing, Charlie Wilson's War, or almost everything else he writes, Aaron Sorkin writes incredibly intelligent dialogue. The characters never have to stop and think. They cut each others' dialogue off as if they know exactly what to say to provide a cogent, witty response. There's no pause in the dialogue like normal people. They are so smart, all the time, that it literally becomes a distraction. By the end of a conversation I just don't care anymore. The realism was lost in the writing and direction, and the cuts from one actor to another. One character remembers every detail of a historical event; the date, the time, the exact number of casualties. Everyone remembers, word for word, exactly what someone said in a fifteen second meeting months before. What does it feel like to watch every episode, every week, and leave thinking it could be so good but fell short? Another Sorkinism.


                
At best, there's a love-hate relationship with Sorkin's stubborn insistence on sticking to the same tropes for every TV show of his: Characters that have three conversations at once talking 50 miles a minute, male protagonists with godlike egos, characters indistinct from each other in their level of intelligence and temperament, romantic relationships and flirting based on an intellect (even when the participants are friends with benefits), and the list goes on and on.If people are still watching Sorkin, however, there are things to love: If there's anything that dramatically hooks the viewer, then the stakes and tension can get high. The dialogue itself can be grating but there can be something majestic at times about watching intelligent people passionately go toe-to-toe with each other.But there's a big catch here: At some point, Sorkin will wear thin. Around "Studio 60," Sorkin's inflexibility with writing even a single character different from the standard Sorkin prototype reached a boiling point and he suffered backlash before moving on to success with films such as "Charlie Wilson's War", "Social Network", and "Moneyball" (one suspects the greater control allocated to directors in filmdom tempered Sorkin's voice).In "The Newsroom," Sorkin essentially recreates "Studio 60" with a climate more appropriate--a cable news channel--to Sorkin's voice where characters don't look out of place walking around with a sense of urgency and spouting off facts about economics.The end result hardly looks less ridiculous and at this point, I'm at my Sorkin saturation point. On the plus side, the cast is amazing and in the two episodes I watched (the first two of the third season), this show has the potential to launch some meaningful discourse on various news issues (which I'm a sucker for as a journalist). In one episode, for example, Maggie Jordan (Alison Pill) overhears a conversation by a government official and considers using it as breaking news. This is the kind of ethical dilemma that one hopes the public actively thinks about in order to appreciate the news.However, as previously mentioned, there's so little differentiation between them. And it's a shame because that's all I'd need to consider the show watchable.


                
What was it about this ridiculous show that kept me watching, even when I found it to be the most insufferable waste of time? Was it the prestige of its creator or the studio behind it? Was it the frenzied tone, with its whizzing, whirling cinematography and cartoonish characters? Was it the intrigue of which real-world scenarios it would wriggle around?I have no idea. All I know is, I hated it just as much as I wanted to see where it went.It was very soon into season 1 that I began to hate-watch The Newsroom. The melodramatic, overwrought hysterics that the writing, direction and acting presented was can't-look-away car crash comedy, unintentionally hilarious in all the wrong places. It was certainly very funny when it wanted to be, and Sloan Sabbath was the most successful character in this regard.The rest of the cast are likeable, except for John Gallagher Jr, who was the biggest What The? casting choice. His character developed into a complete creep over time which actually suited his performance very well, in the initial stages however, the love triangle was a complete misfire. In fact, most everything was a misfire.The third season sought to raise the stakes with a very dull conspiracy plot that had Dev Patel disappear for most of the season. Absolute dross, and a waste of his loveability.However the most painful episode for me is the highest rated on IMDb. Shenandoah?? Seriously? How could this possibly be in the high-90s? It was abysmal from start-to-finish, absolute trash television with the most hackneyed ending you could imagine, which set the stage for a soapy series finale like no other. This penultimate episode was, for me, the most embarrassing hour of The Newsroom (no small feat), and yet it is beloved on this website? HOW???
