Rarely does a television show come along and sweep you off your feet with brilliant writing, an amazing cast and an actual message that is relevant and inspirational. Aaron Sorkin has done it again with The Newsroom! This show is truly a display of what television can achieve if we have the right people who are willing to break the rules of the mundane drab to make an engaging and intelligent show. Jeff Daniels plays Will McAvoy, the cautious, veteran news anchor tiptoeing with his career in order to "play it safe", concerned more with keeping his ratings than stepping on toes. He has the smarts, the background and the ability to be something more, a challenger of beliefs and a defender of ideals, but lacks the motivation until Mackenzie MacHale (played beautifully by Emily Mortimer), a woman from his past, reenters his life. She is the spark to ignite his flame and gets him burning with an unquenchable passion once again.Within the first five minutes of the show, Jeff Daniels delivers a speech of Aaron Sorkin's words about the state of America that is extremely touching, stimulating and brutally true for a vast majority of the population. It's reminiscent of his West Wing days, but with even more flare and aggression. I only hope he can keep the pace that he has set with the pilot; the bar is set high.


                
I watched this show after watching True Blood, which I watch out of habit on Sunday nights with my wife. I am SO glad we kept HBO on. I remember hearing about this show from different promos and snippets of interviews on the computer, but wow. Aaron Sorkin leaves his mark all over this show, right from the intro, which was very reminiscent of The West Wing right until the ending. Fantastic creation by him.Without mentioning any spoilers, the show is about a news anchor (Jeff Daniels) who is beloved by his viewers but not so much by his co-workers and employees due to his aloofness, biting sarcasm, and general malaise. His character has a turning point in the opening scene and it is phenomenal. The writing, acting, cinematography, and tempo of the show are excellent. I fell in love with it right away. And how great is Sam Waterson on this show? I hope that this show has a domino effect and REAL news anchors take note and feel inspired. Hopefully, this show may lead to REAL NEWS STORIES by REAL NEWS ANCHORS. 9/10. Emmy's are DEFINITELY in this show's future.


                
Beyond the IMDb storyline, you need to know the series takes that new team of smart, highly motivated driven news people through their paces, bringing us into the newsroom and in the network back-offices. The team is lead by MacKenzie McHale, played by Emily Mortimer, a very experienced news person, who's also a former girlfriend of the anchor Will McAvoy, played by Jeff Daniels. Their history is something that ought to have made it impossible for them to work together, yet here they are working as professionals do, overcoming the past; well that's not quite it, but the bumps in the road, make for interesting dynamic. The lead character, does not eat up most the screen time (after 14 episodes that's clear) and so we have plenty of other characters to find interesting and become addicted to, just as Sorkin did with West Wing. By the way, Will does most everything one could imagine would make you despise him, but his experience, wit and intellect keeps you engaged. Daniels is just outstanding in this role.Charlie Skinner, played by Sam Waterston, is Will's boss, an executive who has a very non-executive view of things and cares very much about his new news team, to a fault. I just love Waterston in this role, more than I did when he had his long run on Law & Order; the dialogue for him is so much more interesting and ordinary person, refreshing. There are too many characters for me to go down the line, but one thing is sure, there are some for most every picky viewer to like and dislike, starting with the occasional appearances of Jane Fonda as the network owner. The series, now in its second season, already shows ratings increase humble as it may be, and user reviews are still strong both on IMDb and Metacritic. The critics though, for reasons I'll attempt to explain, have not shared the public enthusiasm. From the critics reviews I've read, the displeasure stems from such things as, unrealistic portrayal of one thing or another and they go on to explain those reasons in details. A series is not a movie, and viewers make up their own opinions based on whether they like what they see and hear. The series West Wing, another Aaron Sorkin production, also did not fare well with the critics but nonetheless scored big with audience and won awards to boot. I see the pattern repeating, which may be good news for Sorkin. The audience was in both cases moved by the characters depicted. And this is probably why critics and viewers don't see eye to eye; us viewers are quite content with interesting and engaging characters, we don't need all our 'i's dotted, 't's crossed and every details to be real if there's humour, drama and moral questions left for us to ponder.The stories the newsroom covers is a mix of recent past events and make believe ones, so there's something for the viewers to relate to on many of what the crew covers. I'll likely edit this review at the end of season two, but I trust I'll feel just as I do now, a fan, a happy one.
I am very disappointed in the IMDb users that reviewed this show. They either have it a 10/10 after the first episode, or a 1/10 after the third. What's wrong with this picture?Every series has bad episodes, even great shows like Lost (ie. the finale). Should the whole show be rated low just because of that one episode? No. Before you judge the Newsroom, you should watch at least what's our already. If the first episode was perfect, rate the episode itself 10/10. If there was an episode you DIDN'T like, rate that specific episode 1/10. Don't knock back the score of the whole show just because of the one episode you didn't like.If you'd like to judge it right then, fine, but adjust your rating as time goes on and new episodes come out. I rated this show a 10/10 after the first episode, a 7/10 after the second, an 8/10 after the fourth, and so on. Right now, after catching up and seeing the brilliant Red Team III, I have changed my rating to 9/10.This is how reviews and ratings should be done, just so that shows like this with a few not so good episodes suffer. The other episodes make up for it 200%.Currently, this is my favorite show on the air, and I'm excited to see more from Mr. Sorkin.


                
We actually need this back badly (not "bigly", though if that word existed that too). It's 2017 and especially season 1 resonates more than well and could've fitted right in. Anyone could predict the direction things were taking, but both parties could not stop it. For better or worse America has a president now who'd accuse the Newsroom of being Fake News. They're not (mostly that is) and they actually have something to tell.The show is more than well written and sometimes slips into straight out comedy (almost stand up situations), but it works well ("welly"?). The very first season and especially the very first scene is amazing and warrant a 10/10. The following 2 seasons fall shorter, not by much (unless you count the number of episodes in each) but that's why I decided to go with 9/10. Still more than amazing and maybe one of the best shows made in the 21st century. If you don't mind it's very "talky" mindset, you will love it


                
In the wake of all the criticism that, well, critics have been doling out for Sorkin's new show, I admit that I was a little wary about watching the premiere. While I pray at the altar of Sorkin (a little creepy, perhaps, but I aspire to be the man so let it go), I'm not so naive as to think that in his long career of quality television and films, he won't one day come out with a dud (even though he hasn't yet)."The Newsroom" stars Jeff Daniels, who plays news anchor Will McAvoy. McAvoy loses his cool during a university panel discussion when a young woman asks why America is the best country in the world. Understandably, the rant goes viral, and after a vacation, McAvoy comes back to an empty newsroom and a show in need of an executive producer. As expected in the world of 24-hour news coverage, the internal drama collides with reality as they fight for their jobs.Let me just start by saying that I still pray at the altar of Sorkin, and don't think he's lost a single bit of the razor-sharp wit that he is known for. The writing of "The Newsroom" hearkens back to the days of President Bartlet and his White House of young, idealistic staffers working to make liberalism classy again. He has lost absolutely nothing in the quality of the production, and while he's working with a brand new cast of actors, he has not lost the ability to weave a brilliant arc of dialogue.I'm not ignorant to the fact that critics these days tend to be either cranky old people who've taken it upon themselves to enjoy absolutely nothing of substance, or hipsters who live to tear things down because it gets their click-through numbers up. It's the name of the game these days. That said, I'm not blind to some minor speed bumps that could've contributed to the almost unanimously negative response "The Newsroom" has been receiving.The first, and I think the most outstanding for me as a longtime Sorkin fan, is the cast. I'm not saying that the cast isn't good. It's an outstanding cast for television, as HBO gets incredibly talented people to step away from lucrative movie careers to participate in their shows. Hence Daniels, Emily Mortimer, Allison Pill and Dev Patel, all of whom have had fantastic film careers. So I'm not in any way criticizing the cast.There's a rhythm to Sorkin's writing; a lyrical quality, if you will, that is not easily executed. In fact, there are very few who have been able to sustain it because it's so quick and sharp. But this is why Sorkin has worked with those actors over and over again. Actors like Allison Janney and Felicity Huffman, who I am convinced could have played Mortimer's role. Actors like Bradley Whitford, Matthew Perry, Timothy Busfield and Joshua Malina also round out the Sorkin crew that can handle the fast-paced dialogue that Sorkin is known for.Mortimer and Daniels have not yet reached that level. I have every hope that they will. They are talented, adaptable people who have been able to master comedy and drama with grace and aplomb. They just haven't yet. But I hold out hope because some of the younger cast members, specifically Patel, Pill, Thomas Sadoski and John Gallagher Jr. have been able to catch onto the admittedly-difficult flow.Major comedy props also go to Sam Waterston, whose venerable, if slightly dysfunctional, grandfatherly mentor character added both gravitas and levity to the episode.This rough start, however, can easily be sandpapered as the series continues and the cast becomes more familiar with Sorkin's dialogue. I look forward to the upcoming episodes to see if this hypothesis runs true. This is, however, not the only hurdle that the show needs to jump. Something else exists that may not be as easy to fix, though I hope Sorkin has remedied in the upcoming episodes as well.McAvoy's news anchor persona seems trustworthy and affable to his loyal viewers. However, to his staff and, frankly, everyone, he is cold, snide, dismissive and an utter pain-in-the-ass to be around. His attitude is infuriating, and hearkens to another brilliant Sorkin work, "The Social Network." Jesse Eisenberg's Mark Zuckerberg had the same ruthless, calculating disregard for his fellow human beings as McAvoy, but the difference is that McAvoy is old enough to know better.This isn't the first time an supremely unlikable character has graced our screens. J.R. Ewing, for example, brought millions of people to a halt for an hour a week to see what evil he'd contrive next (and, it seems, is attempting to do it again 20 years later). Will McAvoy, however, is not evil. He's not understood to be "the bad guy." He's just mean. And when he's surrounded by a cast of characters who are relatable and loyal to him, it makes his meanness less palatable.People don't mind rooting for the bad guy, so long as he's identified as the bad guy. McAvoy is identified as the good guy, who is mean. That's not as easy to stomach, especially in an age where bullying is being dragged to the spotlight (kicking and screaming, but still there). And McAvoy is introduced as one heck of a bully.Now, I find it hard to judge a television show merely by watching one episode (most of the time). And when it comes to Aaron Sorkin, I like to give the man the benefit of the doubt and trust in his brilliance. But I do believe that unless these two issues are ironed out, a renewal for a second season may be less of a sure thing as one would expect. Even from HBO.
It feels so good to write this, especially after all those bad reviews I read before watching the pilot. First off, its way off HBO's platter.... that said, its a very welcome & needed addition. So here goes, In all the shows or rather all the pilots that I have watched so far, mind you I have watched a hell lot of those, at least a minimum of 500, nothing comes close to this, Aaron Sorkin, a genius by all counts just shows why he is called one, if u thought he was great in The West Wing(Im talking of its good days), The Social Network, The American President, then he's in outstanding form here, its like the years never rolled by, its like 'A Few Good Men' for the small screen. It makes u feel alive, its as if u are part of the show, & once ur sucked ie less than a minute in, u just never come out till the end. Moffat can now take a back seat, he's no longer the best on the small screen, Sorkin's back to take his crown. If u thrive on awesome awesome writing then this is the show u need to watch, It takes u back to the good old days of dramatic television without even making u feel like its a soap, not even for a second. The cinematography & the editing need a bit of work done, but hey its only a pilot. Be warned, its not ur Breaking Bad's, 24's, Lost's, The Wire's, The Sopranos's, GOT's etc., its that other genre of television, the one which leaves a sweet pleasant taste in your mouth after the episode. It was as if I was watching one of those political movies, though this show still hasn't been political per se, whats its been is a complete opposite, picking up/mocking on everyone. The pilot left me content & still wanting for more, how often does that happen, never! Its always been wanting for more & never content. What would have made this show even more great, or rather epic from the word go would have been casting George Clooney in the place of Jeff Daniels for the role of Will McAvoy, but hey, thats just me & my wishful thinking. Anyways Its Sorkins show all the way, u can feel he's the soul of the show, if the writing continues to be anything like this, then its a sure shot for many Emmy nominations & wins. I rate it 9.5 out of 10, I would have given it a 10 if Will McAvoy(Jeff Daniels) had kissed Mackenzie MacHale(Emily Mortimer) by the end of the episode...., so yeah its that good, stop listening to the critics & watch this one, calling it a gem is an understatement.


                
I thought that the first ten minutes of the first episode would be the most intense and best ten minutes of the entire show. Oh boy was I wrong. This show has exceeded my expectations by constantly bringing you fresh original suspense in a form that you wouldn't have expected it. I found myself constantly on the edge of my seat wondering how the team was going to overcome each mountain of problems. Other then the brilliantly written script and storyline, the acting is phenomenal by everyone. Not once was I disappointed by an actors portrayal of their character in this show.If you are looking for a show with a fresh take and great acting, then this is the show for you. I guarantee that you will be eager to follow the lives of these reporters through their journeys and you will not be disappointed.


                
This show was never even on my radar, but i got HBO on promotion from my TV provider, and found this show randomly browsing the ondemand. I am a television news and politics junkie, and this show offers a brilliantly acted, albeit dramatized, look at the world of TV news. The cast is dynamic and each one brings their character to life in a believable manner. The fact that the story line is frequently rooted in real world news and politics adds to its appeal, and the show does a good job of portraying the emotions of those that bring us the news, or at least one interpretation of that. Overall this show will not only appeal to those people who are regular consumers of cable news and politics, but those that just enjoy a good and well acted drama.


                
The first few episodes of the season take a while to develop, but the strong character development and intricate details of the story lines are nicely woven and incorporated with each other throughout the entire series. It's a show that takes a step back from the usual HBO nudity, but it takes a step forward in pushing political boundaries and actually making the audience think about what's going on in the world and how news reporters can relay that information in various ways or biased ways. Each episode seems to be very carefully written and full of entertainment, spanning from humour, drama, and of course politics. I'd recommend this show to anyone who's interested in watching something that's different than the norm, and to those who are interested in not just watching a show, but being immersed in it and actually connecting to the minds of the characters themselves.


                
Some have complained that this show ended with too many happy endings or that it should have ended like it began, with a rant. Everyone should consider that first of all, this is a TV show. It was meant to be about more than the news or the problems in the world. It was a story with a lot of character development and to wrap it up while giving the viewer some sense of closure, those characters' stories had to be told. Secondly, a rant would have made no sense from Will's perspective. The entire reason for his rant in the first episode was due to a bubbling over of his inner frustration with his performance and integrity as a journalist not over the state of the Union. He knew he had mailed it in and his rant was the little voice inside his head bursting forward and saying so many of the things he knew he should have been saying all along as a professional. That said, the ending showed that his and all of the characters development by the end of the series had made for a better and more informative news broadcast which is why there was such a positive ending to the show that some viewers didn't care for. I'd agree that there are too many happy endings in TV but this isn't one to complain about. These characters wanted to do something good with their profession and found great bonds with their coworkers in their common missions. As for the finale, Charlie began it all. Remembering and highlighting his role was a fitting end to the series. This should be remembered as a very well written/very well executed TV show and I am grateful that I chose to pick it up.
Welcome back Mr. Sorkin. TV has missed you.The Newsroom is the story of Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels), a TV news anchor who is notorious for remaining neutral on all party lines when it comes to the news he's reporting. When asked, "Why America is the greatest country in the world?" during a Q&A at a college, he gives a painfully honest and scathing answer. Needless to say, this has mixed results with his newsroom staff, and most of them jump ship. The fact that he's also an infamous pain in the ass to work with isn't helping him. Mackenzie MacHale (Emily Mortimer) is brought in to be his new producer and to revive his show, but the problem is they had a past romance, and he's hesitant to work with her again. There are of course more characters at work, but spoiling any more would just ruin the fun.Aaron Sorkin has an amazing talent with dialogue and in the way he draws his characters. This is only the first episode and these people already come across as familiar and charming. Some writers are lucky to hit this level after an entire season, if at all, and he does it in an hour. His prose and his flow are unmistakable, and all of the players handle it perfectly. The conversations between Emily Mortimer and Jeff Daniels are especially mesmerizing. Their chemistry is palpable, and I can't wait to see where their relationship goes (hopefully not too far too fast).It's hard to judge the future of a series based on the pilot. Sorkin's own Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip started incredibly strong, but flopped just as fast. Based on the first episode I certainly have high hopes for The Newsroom. Using the news as a platform allows all sorts of angles with subject matter, and I hope he really digs in to everything that's happened in the previous few years. The cast is also exceptional all around, and so far excels at making Sorkin's words resonate and take shape. Daniels and Mortimer aside, Sam Waterston, Alison Pill, and Dev Patel round out the excellent ensemble.The comedy is whip-smart and the drama is substantial. I'll be back for more, and I hope you will too.Follow me on Twitter @Mrhuffsmyfather for more reviews!


                
Two words to start with...Jeff Daniels. The show starts with him on a stage, and I'm not giving anything away here, but the monologue he spouts is one of the best I've seen in a show or a movie. The cast seems to work really well together. I don't want to say too much, because this is only the pilot episode, but it's worth a try. If you liked West Wing, you will like this show. The other character that is really standing out to me is Jim Harper. So far, he seems to be stealing the show from the rest of the cast with the exception of Jeff Daniels. The plot, although maybe not original, is very nicely laid out and planned. It's also a fairly easy show to follow for those who just want an easy watch.


                
Part of me wanted to give this a 5 or a 6. Another part of me wanted to give it a 10. So, I settled on 8. The opener was riveting and attention getting. I've watched it four times now (not purposefully - it keeps coming on with not much else to choose!). West Wing - the early years - were great and unique. Newsroom is basically West Wing 2.0 except the setting is a newsroom. The one negative with Sorkin is also his strength - the rapid-fire dialogue. Sometimes it is too perfect and too fast (who thinks that quickly? When has anyone been in a real room with that many quick responding people? It just doesn't happen that way in real life). On the other hand, that's what makes it so fascinating. With Sorkin it is almost always about one thing: great dialogue. That said, there were some poor lines. The whole "Wait, I have a blog?" Line was just too forced an attempt at humor (From a character that showed little real humor or for whom such a line was simply not within the personality). THere are natural lines and there are unnatural/forced lines. That was the latter. Will be interesting if the future programs have a similar feel (very likely) and level of drama / intrigue (going to require a great deal of work to reach that).


                
Overall, the pilot episode has certain elements that are definitely Sorkin. The camera work, the long diatribes, and the 'ethical high ground.' That being said the acting is well done, the material is well written, and for an hour he makes me believe that cable news could be meaningful. The show tries to portray news as it was in the days of Edward R. Morrow. Unfortunately, it is an era that will never and could never return, because unlike 50 years ago we have more than three sources of news. We have hundreds that cater to our limited world views, FOX, MSNBC, and CNN. I applaud Mr. Sorkin for his show. I hope this show will be able to continue. This would never make it on network TV, HBO or Showtime is the only place for it.


                
I admit my bias.  After "SportsNight" and "West Wing" I am pretty much presold on anything Aaron Sorkin does with real elements of social commentary - and he fails at most everything that doesn't.The first episode of "The Newsroom" (HBO) leaves us hoping it's more "West Wing" than "Studio 60 <U+0085>" but it could go either way.However, we do get a few great lines on the opener that make it worth a taste test.On the framing roll, Jeff Daniels (as Will McAvoy at that point a burned out milquetoast anchorman alá late days Dan Rather), is on a university journalism panel.  In response to a student question, he is goaded into the most fiercely descriptive, spot-on oration on the intellectual paucity of the current American Left and Right in recent memory.  Leaving no stones uncrushed, he sweeps us all up for our increasing cowardice in an age of accepting mediocrity, exalting mendacity, and governing from fear.Who but ourselves to blame for his ultimate conclusion - "That America is no longer the best country in the World.  Leading only in percent of our population incarcerated, percent of adults who believe in Angels, and defense spending per capita."No point in spoiling the plot of the show here but there are at least two more stellar lines worth teasing:"Speaking Truth to Stupid." - An absolute gem in context. And"I'm too old to be governed by the fears of dumb people."Watch the premier. If it fails to offend at least one sensibility or gore one of your favorite oxen - you must have the TV on mute. And if you watch TV not to be challenged, Will McAvoy was talking to YOU.
Overall, this show is great.Unavoidably, the later season is usually not as good as the previous one like other shows (can be told by the episodes reduced).The lamest/worst/most boring part of this show is what's going between Maggie and Jim. I really think she has seriously ethical&psychological issues until the last episode of s3 - severe down to significant, which is the only and main reason of no perfect rating


                
This show was excellent, would liked to have seen a longer run but watching it on HBO Go, it was worth it.


                
Vintage Sorkin. Many of the elements from Sports Night are reprised here and I'm perfectly ok with that. The cast is superb, and there's plenty of rapid-fire dialogue to please the purists.  I found the political rants in S1 a bit sanctimonious and heavy-handed (think Toby Ziegler on steroids) but he dials it back in S2-3. There is some non-linear storytelling in S2-3 along with a full-season story arc in S2 which was well done.  I was sorry to see it end. I've grown attached to the characters and wanted to see what was next for them.


                
Quite possibly one of the amazingly best shows on television, right from the 1st episode, when Will McAvoy, played by a curmudgeonly Jeff Daniels, launches into a justifiably righteous tirade, that arguably takes his character, and those around him into a vicious tailspin of sorts, this series, written powerfully, and executed even with more vigor than I'd have thought possible, never rests, and takes us from one powerful sequence to the next with breakneck pace, and those among us starved for quality storytelling and in for the ride from start to finish. While Season 1 deals with how the main characters have an arc of sorts, having known 1 another before, and relating to each other differently now they know the other in completely altered circumstances, it, like the subsequent seasons, intersperses live footage of true political events in the world's pop culture, with fictitious amounts of what each of the main leads does, to deal with those revenue in a way befitting an almost legitimate news channel, while skirting an on- the-nose preachy tone about the responsibilities of doing something like News night, every night. Like its subsequent seasons, it also provides a fantastic/fascinating insight into what goes behind how the news is delivered to us on TV, and, if that weren't enough, it gleefully puts our lead characters through the blender more often than not, and we cannot flinch away after. Make no mistake though, it's not all perfect. When dealing with the open threads of relationships that the leads find themselves in, it takes so many missteps and falters so many times that it even becomes intended comedy, and a self parody of sorts, even venturing, surprisingly into vaudeville territory, that thankfully never detracts from the main tale in play. All the technical departments, including the production design, Thomas Newman's score, the camera-work, the cinematography, all fall over each other in the telling of this tale, but make no mistake, this is one of the finest examples where the written content lords over everything else.
What is missing among the cacophony of facts termed news is 'NEWS' itself. Aaron Sorkin and Will McAvoy's 'NEWSROOM' with its lucid depiction of events in season 1, 2 and 3 attempts to separate the chaff from the wheat. The series opens with Will, considered one of the best anchors in the news-world , explaining why 'America is the greatest country in the world?'. He denies, to everybody's bewilderment. Subsequently episodes go on to show how ACN tries to fulfill Charlie's vision of transforming ACN into a news-house making real news. In the news- house there are two parties. The newsroom and the news-maker. The news-maker selects the news of the day after a thorough research. This research consists of facts backed by credible sources. To maintain the integrity of the news-channel if sources are not confirmed or are not credible the news is not reported. Based on this logic ACN works along with its news-researchers to get the facts right. In the process sometimes the news-house is mocked, sometimes it is objectified in order to call spade a spade and sometimes pushed to be sold. It saw its ratings to plummet,it's viewer-ship rate to decrease and it's news-anchors to be abashed in public blogs, chat-rooms and forums. So much in order to maintain the integrity of the news its viewers watch. ACN wants to be traditional and not trendy. It wants to be a news-mediator, and not a news-manufacturer, or a news aggregater. Social media as a bane has prodded the prodigious to produce what the society wants. ACN wants to flow against this tide. The seasons are a roller-coaster ride of emotions, actions and speeches which takes you into the real world of news-making. A part from Will's opening speech and the trial, I would like to give the credit of NEWSROOM to almost all the actors who has an idiosyncratic role to make what ACN is.Neil's hold over technology, Maggie's never say die attitude to learn, Don's passion to prove himself, Jim's acumen on facts, Sloan's knowledge of the financial world and last but not the least Mckinsey's vision of ACN make the series a reality rather than a fiction. Yes this is not fiction. If it is then what is news


                
Boy, some people did not like this show.Someone here said the first five minutes of the pilot were fabulous (I'm paraphrasing) and then it was downhill from there.This is what makes the world go round. In the beginning, I found "Newsroom" too chaotic. I wasn't connecting with the characters and it was all too much.Then I really got into it, and I found it fantastic. I loved the acting and the characters, and I don't understand why it went off the air. I also loved the witty dialogue, and I liked the fact that it showed the interpersonal relationships within the newsroom as well as out. The whole Genoa thing was particularly chilling, when you absolutely know what's going on - fascinating to watch.This is an Aaron Sorkin show, along the lines of The West Wing. And what actors - Sam Waterston, Jane Fonda, Jeff Daniels, Emily Mortimer, Allison Pill, Marcia Gay Harden, everyone top-notch. Even though I haven't been the age of most of the newsroom characters for many many years, I could still appreciate their lives and what they went through.How bad can something with Sam Waterston in it be, I ask myself. Certainly worth checking out.


                
LEGEND! Aaron Sorkin is a legend! I could just re-type that over and over, but you would get bored fast!If you like drama, tear jerking moments, real life situations and people responses, comically dark humour, great characters that balance out each other, a 'few good men' style speeches every other episode, a few not so good 'men' speeches every so often, then this is for you!If you liked the west wing, but felt it lacked some humorous touches, then this resolves that (let me be clear I loved the West Wing!). From start to finish, its a roller coaster, but not a get off and end it one, more of a never stop going one. Mr Sorkin has a talent, its a balance talent, he knows just how much needs adding here and there to ensure the viewers are hooked and cooked, but never overdone. I loved this show, for the tear jerking moments, the rousing speeches, the funny failed speeches (which are actually just as effectual), the romantic twists that are not in my face (cos I'm a bloke and we don't do that stuff!), but most importantly, the uncompromising look at some of the most important news stories of any living persons generation. It's quite ironic, and I am sure intentional, that all the news covered is factual and is unbiased yet opinionated, but works like a dream. If this is not in your boxset, errrr really it is not in your boxset, have you lost the plot?!


                
Great plot about Will and the underlying, rough under-belly of 'the public forum/toilet' we all live in today. ALL the swill, in some form or the other, seems to surround us. Since this mechanism seems to be the only way we communicate now days, it seems relevant to highlight as many sides of it as possible.The REAL star of this episode was Olivia Munn..... Outstanding work. Use of her Asian upbringing was great... And the lesson of learning how to call a lie a lie is sometimes stunning. AND, it should stop liars in their tracks.Great work.


                
Thank F for this show by Phillip George Persaud. finally a show has been created by greatness by sorkin, this is has the true intention of making a great and individual TV show. i know some people would call me a hippo because i work at a bar to stand and looking pretty but this show isn't like all the rest of the BS that out with vampires and wolf and teenage love story about taking off their shirts and getting naked. this show is about the smart and underrated people in the news industry, and making news, it reminds me of the days on fox new and ITN or ITV where Sir Trevor Mcdonald used to report news about life and problems in the world, and not about which celeb did what. So behalf of all the people who understand a good thing thank you.. signing out


                
