This show is awesome. Not just as a cartoon, but as a TV show in general. Unlike like its predecessor, Superfriends, Justice League is a more accurate description of the DC Universe and the characters in it. One of the show's best qualities is that many of DC's best, brightest and unsung heroes and villains are represented in it, not just the really popular ones. I give credit to this show for introducing me to some of the Flash's toughest villains (Mirror Master, Captain Cold, Captain Boomerang, Trickster and Gorilla Grodd). Another great quality of the show is that it's for everyone. As a cartoon, you might think that this show is only for kids. But these characters are so iconic and the stories are so well written and action-packed, that you don't need to be a kid to appreciate it.My Rating: 10/10


                
Of all the animated shows of DC Comics characters, never before has there been one as superb as Justice League/JLU. Now unlike lots of posters here, I loved the SuperFriends and you know what? I STILL love them. They represented the silver and bronze age period of comics and they served their purpose well in their time. BUT I WILL agree with everyone else that this series is what the SuperFriends should have been back then. JL/JLU blows the SuperFriends out of the water and out of the Hall of Justice so to speak. The biggest elements of the SuperFriends that I outgrew were those stupid teen tag along sidekicks and their even more stupid cartoon pets for comic relief. But I digress. Unlike the long running SuperFriends, the Justice League has superb animation and excellent story lines. I feel that the difference between the writing is this: On SuperFriends,the writers were probably all non comics readers who probably looked at them to give them ideas and they had to yield to the Broadcasts Standards and Practices. On JL, the writing is done by major comics fans and there is no holds barred!! We saw some serious butt kicking in this series. The first two seasons of Justice League consist of the original big seven. Batman is my all time favorite hero. Kevin Conroy is truly superb in this role and it was good to hear him as Batman again after voicing elder Bruce Wayne in Batman Beyond. While Batman was great in his own series, I loved him even better in this series as dark, grim, and aloof and I loved seeing which DC villains would encounter Bats. I got my wish seeing him go up against Kalibak and try to go up against Darkseid. The Flahs is my other favorite character and Smallville's Michael Rosenbaum really made this character so much fun with his hilarious one liners. Wonder Woman was superb. They couldn't have found anyone better than Susan Eisenberg to voice her over. Sounded like a college girl. As for Superman, I wasn't crazy about him in the beginning. I did not like Supes all powered down and I prefer Tim Daly for the voice, but Bruce Timm and company improved Supes and George Newbern started out lousy but got better with time and really did a great with Superman in the JLU seasons. The debut of J'onn J'onzz the Martian Manhunter was very well done. Carl Lumbly took J'onn from being one of the more kind, gentle, and sensitive members in JL to being a hard nose desk sergeant and dispatcher in the JLU seasons. The two most controversial to me were Green Lantern and Hawkgirl. It took a while, but I got used to John Stewart. Phil LaMarr used a great voice for a one time Marine Corp vet who is now a Green Lantern and he made a great leader. Hawkgirl had always been to me, a sidekick for Hawkman on SuperFriends, but here, she is a warrior from Thanagar and has the hot temper to go with it. It was great to see when she eventually took off her mask. Maria Canals gave an excellent performance. I also enjoyed the romantic relationship John and Shayera had as well as the hinted attraction between Batman and Wonder Woman. These big seven were awesome to watch in the first two seasons as Justice League and they were regarded as team leaders and founding members on JLU. I look at the pilot Secret Origins and the season two finale, Starcrossed as full animated movies as opposed to three parters. In Justice League Unlimited, we FINALLY get to see more heroes, like Green Arrow, who before that only had one guest appearance on the original 1973 SuperFriends series. Here, we see him as a liberal hero of the people, out for the little guy. And for the first time, we get to see Black Canary,and to a lesser extent, Red Tornado and Elongated Man, two members I was hoping would have had bigger roles. But Bruce Timm and co. outdid themselves and gave so many heroes that I had never heard of. I am a DC Comics fan, but even I head never heard of Vigilante, the Shining Knight, Stargirl & S.T.I.P.E., Fire and Ice, Gypsy, Vibe, Captain Atom, the Question, and even more obscure characters like Sand, the Ray, Nemsis, Obsidian, the Crimson Avenger, and the list goes on and on. Way too many to name. I loved the continuing story arc about the Cadmus organization and everyone's fear of the JL if they were to ever go rogue. They also had a nice tribute to the SuperFriends with the Ultimen who were ripoffs of the Wonder Twins, Black Vulcan, Samuraui, and Apache Chief. Too many great episodes to mention, but I recommend the Justice League for anybody. From Secret Origins to the finale of Alive and Destroyer, these shows are so good, it's actually hard to stop watching them. All WB has to do is release the final season with Hawkman and the Legion of Doom and the DVD library will be complete. I only wish they could have used Plastic Man and Firestorm as well as Aquaman and Black Manta (not Devil Ray) in the final season and I wish we could have seen Nightwing, not Robin. Though Timm and Co. are no longer involved with the DC Unvierse, I will never again see an animated DC project nearly as good as Justice League and Justice League Unlimited. 2 Thumbs Up!!
I have been a Justice League fan since its premier on Cartoon Network. I considered it vastly superior to "Superfriends" and the episode plots are well written.One of my favorites is the episode with King Aquaman wherein all the Justice League members cannot do anything to persuade the would be assassin to confess and then Batman who possesses no super powers somehow gets the perpetrator to spill the beans. I thought that was simply awesome.My other favorite episode was when the League faced somewhat counterparts from a comic book world. Once again well written and thought provoking. The episode with the android who (no matter what the Justice League did) was no match for them really was great. I commend all the writers of the show for their creative style and talent and I want this show to go on forever.


                
Overall Justice league was a really good TV show but the connections that it had with Superman The Animated Series didn't really match some of the plot lines. For example In "Apocalypse Now Part 2" of the Superman The Animated Series Forger is actually part of the New Gods but In Justice League Episode Season 2 premiere "Twilight Part 1" he is referred as a bug by Orion. That pretty much didn't make any sense to me. Another one was how did Wonder Woman get her invisible jet which was use in the episode "For The Man who Has everything". Shouldn't there be a movie in the middle that takes between Justice league and justice League Unlimited that explains how she acquires her jet. The movie should have been "Justice League Worlds Collide" where the story would explain that the Justice League would go up against Crime Syndicate of America. In this movie Hawkgirl is suppose be absent because of her role in the Thanagarian Invasion and also the the Season 2 episode "A Better World" was suppose to be a crime syndicate story rather than the Justice Lords.


                
I have to admit when looking at shows like X-men and X-men: Evolution, or Spiderman they are good but when compared to a show like DC's Justice league and JL: Unlimited which began on cartoon network around 2001-2006 and during these years they don't hold a candle to great story driven characters and superb action sequences that feels like you're right in the middle of watching a movie fitted just for T.V.Unlike marvel's animation(s), the Justice league is a bit more darker for most and there are some episodes that might in some cases be a bit deeper in the undertone of death and murder, heck even the villains are crazy and wickedly dangerous (I mean with deadly intent on getting rid of each and every single group)...later on in unlimited there are some certain sexual innuendos shown in some episodes not too bad for kids to not watch but just bits and pieces and hints...but all of this add up is NOT a bad thing reason being that it keeps up the pace to the story and adds not only tension but keeps all the characters different and unique without making them all the same unlike marvel's animation(s).Finally, When watching this show you get the feel of danger and sometimes hopelessness for the team; there are times where they are at their worst and feel that it can only get bad by the minute I mean they get the snot beaten, tortured, and possibly near death but they seem to come out on top and you see it point blank without hindrance to the violent display...kind of like life imitating art or comics again something most marvel animation series before JL tends to censored without putting reality at play JL and JL: unlimited pulls no punches and hold nothing back...the bad guys are bad guys and even sometimes the good guys can step over the line and again....truth in fiction and that's not a bad thing! My only grip to this show is that most of the coolest DC characters don't get much screen time (I.E. Steel, booster gold, etc.) They have their time on some episodes but after some time you rarely hear from them and then they become just figments in the background but who's to say that Green lantern isn't the bad-ass and batman is just in one word, "awesome" it just would be great to also see a connection with steel and superman which was only shown on Superman the animated series on here...not so much. but in the end, this show has a lot of merit to being one of the best thrill ride of animated series that I've seen in a long time so if I had to choose between X-men or JL hands down I'm going for JL for great stories, awesome action with great music, not to mention when having the stereo kicked up feels like you're in a movie theater watching awesome displays of adventure straight from the comics and in the end you can't go wrong...10/10
I remember every Saturday morning when I was a kid,Justice League always played a lot on Cartoon Network or on Boomerang.I was always a fan of the main seven of the Justice League(Superman,Batman,Wonder Woman,Green Lantern/John Stewart,The Flash/Wally West,Martian Manhunter,and Hawkgirl. The seven of them are my favorite version of the founding members of the Justice League.And the Batman and Wonder Woman romance is very cute and I loved how lots of the episodes of the show dived deep into how each of the characters have a tough backstory and when it came back to them,working as a team really helped them out.And the sequel series Justice League Unlimited I also really enjoyed,I felt like the show was just like it's predecessor except the Justice League expanded to become just like a sports league with different teams and players except it's of superheroes in a league where there are different episodes of team ups.And I love the Justice League(2001) series and it's sequel more than Young Justice which I am not that huge of a fan of that show anymore.


                
I loved the three part of the pilot. The show united some of the great heroes of DC together. All the characters are lovable and seem to have great chemistry, the story lines are very 'grown-up' especially for a children's show. What amazes me is that even though this is a kids show it can easily attract older fans like me, who when this show was running was in his mid teens.The coupling between, Green Lantern and Hawkgirl is quite sweet while Batman and Wonderwoman's love life is hilarious to watch. But it is Flash that takes the cake, Michael Rosenbaum who plays Lex Luthor on Smallville adds the great comedy relief that is needed in a kids show; the animations are beautiful to watch and the fight scenes between villains and superheroes are brilliant.My personal favourite episode is 'The Greatest story never told' it focuses on Booster Gold, a superhero who is ignored and always sidelined by the other superheroes. But during a invasion, he meets a female scientist who needs help and so Booster Gold tries to help realising in the process he is nothing but a wannabe and eventually saves the day. And gets a date.I mean even Superman and Batman couldn't do that. Watching this cartoon is like watching a movie, the suspense is brilliant and the fight scenes are well worth the wait.One of the best cartoons from DC since Batman the animated series.
Justice League is a TV series about 7 super heroes which are absolutely stunning. I used to watch an episode every evening when I was a child. But even if I'm an adult now, I still enjoy watching an episode every now and then. The characters are charming ! In my opinion, they form the best team of super heroes in the world ! The Flash has always been my favorite hero of the team. He made me laugh a lot and he still does. I also like the 2 girls, Hawk Girl and Wonder Woman. I find them inspiring, because they're strong and are able to save the world, even if they're not men. I would strongly recommend this series to everyone who likes science fiction with a lot of action.


                
This was in my opinion best tv series in the entire DCAU Which spanned during 1992 -2006 ,It was full of adventure,action,great storytelling and suprisingly romance ,which I guess make this show a masterpiece among other animated tv series.Whtever Animation was impressive,cast was great,stories were wonderful.I mean the Finale of the show kept me in edge of my seat,it was one of the greatest episode I had seen in tv.If you haven't already checked this amazing show Please watch This tv series deserves Your valuble time for sure.


                
I use to watch this show religiously back when it first air on Cartoon Network back in 2001. Bruce Tim and Paul Dini did a great job bringing these Characters and their universe alive in a way that the 2017 Motion picture never did. Each Character was portrayed very well and each episode made you thirst for more just like Batman the Animated series did back on Fox's Kids Network. Plus it was aired weekly on primetime. If you haven't seen this show,you should definitely check it out. It's the best Animated series based on the DC Comic's characters. After watching this,you wont ever wanna watch Superfriends again.


                
I watched it when I was 11-12 years old. Now I'm 28 and it continues to be the best heroes series out there. Two seasons of pure joy! :)


                
I am an extremely big batman fan, and as such watched the "Batman the Animated series" avidly. When i heard Bruce Timm was going to make a Justice League cartoon show, I was actually worried. Batman is a strong character in the comics, but usually is translated as a weaker sub-character when mixed with superheroes of the superman/wonder woman caliber. When i saw the first episode, i was firmly gripped by the storyline and was actually worried when they said Batman died, i had never been so attached to a cartoon. When he was found to be alive i openly screamed in joy. I find it astounding that the writers were able to write story lines that not only captivate children and adults, but also shows the little nuance's and complexities of the characters; that they are able to represent both Batman and Superman as partners and equals was something that took years to do in the comics. The writing for this series is superb to say the least, and the animation is very good. I can't wait to see what the creative team comes up with now that the show is over.


                
Biutiful everything that is ever wanted in a dc show and more


                
I have a real interest in superheroes and in animation, with both together this had all the ingredients to be at least a good show. And it was, no more than that, it is a brilliant show, and one of the best superhero series ever made. Personally I think Batman:The Animated Series just beats it, but Justice League is without a doubt one of the most original, ambitious and deep animated shows out there.The production values are really detailed and rich. You can never go wrong with sophisticated colours, sharp and decisive character features, epic scope and crisp backgrounds, in all four of these areas Justice League succeeds. The music is consistently superb, haunting, rousing and dark, with a main theme that sticks in the mind for a long time.Even more impressive is the depth, story lines and the writing. The writing is brilliant, there are moments of humour but it does always have a focused tone, and it is all sophisticated and taut, a major step up with sappy one liners and clichés that some characters are made to utter in some shows now. I was so impressed with the story lines, even for an animated these story lines are quite deep and complex, but they never cease to be gripping and compelling. Plus the characters have so much depth to them. They aren't boring, useless or clichéd, they all have unique personalities, a purpose and are always well incorporated into the stories.I have always loved Batman, Superman, Hawkgirl, Green Lantern and Wonder Woman, and they are amazing characters here. I was also surprised at how much depth there was to J'onn J'onzz and in a good way, and the villains are interesting too and actually have motives that don't come across as absurd. The voice acting is outstanding too, Kevin Conroy IS Batman in my eyes especially. Overall, this show is fantastic, and I am actually running out of words to describe how truly good Justice League is other than to say if you love superheroes, characters and stories with depth and animation, this is a must see! 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
To be honest, I accidentally feel backwards into this series. My cable network added a channel (boomerang) in which this show still runs.I'm a huge Batman The animated series fan, and always have been. The animation was well done, the story lines were intense, and the voice-overs were perfectly matched. It was a sad day when Batman TAS ended.The first episode I saw was "Twilight". If you've seen the show, you know it's one of the best, fully developed episodes of season 2. I was glued to the television for the whole running time.This show, without spoiling it for the fans that have yet to taste what a great show this is, is top notch. I've watched every episode of Justice League, and also JLU. The worst part about this series is when it ended. Bruce Timm and Paul Dini are geniuses.If you liked The Dark Knight, especially the intense plot development, you'll like this series. Easy enough for children, but the essence of it, and its dialogue is geared towards adults.This series is better than most Superhero Movies and you don't need much background on the comics.I would also recommend, if you would like to hear more tangents of Superman, and Batman, and get some background on villains and story lines in upcoming movies - don't wait and get your hands on a copy of this series. You won't be disappointed.


                
This is a great action packed series with well-known superheroes like Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Green Lantern, and ones that are not that well known.My favorite Justice League Members: 1. Batman 2. The Question 3. HuntressThe superheroes with no super powers are way more entertaining than the ones with super powers. I wish that there was no Bat-Embargo because it stopped every Batman character except for Batman to appear later in the series. I would have loved to see Batman characters in the later seasons especially Batgirl, Nightwing, Scarecrow, and Two-Face. If there was no Bat-Embargo, the creators would have put Batgirl in an episode and Hugo Strange would have most likely had a bigger part in the series instead of a non-speaking cameo.


                
Justice League is about Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Martian Manhunter, Flash and Green Lantern teaming up to stop villains like Lex Luthor, Darksied, Felex Faust and many from destroying the world. 
This show alongside it's squeal, Teen Titans and Young Justice are the best DC shows Warner Bro's have given. 
With an exception of the episodes Eclipsed and Fury majority of the episodes were pretty damm good. The voice acting is awesome especially since it introduced me to George Newbern (the voice for Superman) who is now my favourite Superman even today. The music was memorable, the character development, art style and animation defiantly had a lot of effort put into them. Even if Barry Allen and Hal Jordan aren't Green Lantern or Flash it still gives the audience something new and interesting. However the ending of the show wasn't satisfying because Hawkgirl betrays the league breaks her true loves heart and louses trust in the league. When Hawkgirl did come back to the right side she was heart broken, upset and unwanted by anyone so she flies away in teases into the sky. But lucky JLU fixes this. My favourite episodes were Metamorphsis, Evil Under the sea, Hereafter, Wild Cards, Legends, Twilight, Only a dream, Tablua Rasa and Secret Society. What is great about these episodes with an exception of Comfort and Joy every episode is in 2 parts or more like with Star Wars The Clone Wars. If you are a DC comics fan and you want to watch a show which features your favourite classics I would defiantly recomand Justice League :) Have a good day everyone.
I'm lazy when it comes to writing review, I normally just watch & never writes but this animation series are really good that I feel I should say something somewhere.I know I'm 15 years late but it's an urge to express that the story- lines are truly fantastic, the plots are thrilling, the characters are creative, the designs beyond imagination, the lines are funny & inspiring.I like all the characters & the Flash is especially funny. He always say that he's the fastest man alive on earth but I think he's the funniest. Manhunter is also another one of my favourites as he has great abilities that Superman does not have. But of course nobody beats the amazing Superman with the complete package - superpower, smart, agile, fast, humorous, muscle-packed, romantic & role model leader.Every episode worths a collection & it's never bored to watch it all over repeatedly.I just love it & wish there are more episodes. It will be good too if the same team can create a movie out of it.


                
A classic cartoon that deserves every single song of praise it gets from critics and fans being one of the finest superhero television shows, and finest shows of the 2000s, period. Justice League blew our collective minds when it debuted in 2003: the first true multi- character Crossover on television to matter since the X-Men TV series, and it had Batman and Superman as series regulars alongside the likes of Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, The Flash, Hawk Girl and the animated debut of Martian Manhunter.When Bruce Timm did Batman: The Animated Series in the 90s he always dreamed of the ultimate crossover featuring all the DC Superheroes the public have come to know and love.And with the advent of digital traditional animation and Cartoon Network's presence on cable TV. Justice League became an instant classic the moment it graced the small screens of the world and blew millions of children's minds out of the water.Justice League is still amazing, it's voice-acting and writing is still incomparable to most modern toons still on the air today, and if only Marvel's equivalent show Avengers: Earths Nightiest Heroes didn't get cancelled prematurely, then there wouldn't be such a gap in DC and MARVEL's animated competition.Anyway, Justice League is the ideal adaptation of one of the greatest crossover teams ever assembled in the world of television. Give it a watch if you're one of the few hundreds of people who haven't at least heard of it already.


                
Ahhh Justice League, such a great series. I can fondly remember watching this back in the early 2000's, when i was but a budding DC fan. And this cartoon, single handedly made me the huge DC fan i am today. This show has SOOO much going for it, great stories, great voice acting, stellar animation that still holds up to this day, and all of these aspects help bring life to it in a way that very few shows can. You would think it couldn't get any better, but the sequel, Justice League Unlimited, actually IMPROVES what was already there. You would think that they wouldn't be able to improve on perfection, but they managed to do it. To me JLU's greatest feat is that despite having an enormous cast of characters, it was still able to give most of them deep and interesting stories and personalities, while still remembering to give development to the main team. What more is there to say, this series is fantastic. This is as good as it gets, and in my opinion as good as it is ever going to get. I don't think any super hero TV series will ever be able to top Justice League and Justice League unlimited, and that just goes to show you how great they really are. If you haven't watched them yet, please, do yourself a favor, and watch it. The entirety of both series can be found on Netflix, so it's readily watchable. So go ahead, turn it on, and enjoy. Trust me, you'll thank me later ;)


                
this and Samurai Jack are not only in the running for the greatest animated shows of all time, but they are easily in the running for the greatest television shows of all time. it sound like i am some obsessed fan when i say that, and even though i am, i can guarantee you that both of these shows are the really the best shows for our generation. screw the dark night.that makes Batman look like a turd. this makes Batman look like what what he is supposed to look like, a superhero. Please don't run away because it is a cartoon, animation is just another type of genre. this is the best adaptation of comic book to screen, you cant get better than this


                
