This film is a brilliant, well-acted masterpiece! What touched me the most was the late River Phoenix's acting, but all of the young actors performances were incredible. They are why you should see this film. 'Stand By Me' is not a bubblegum Disney film, nor a dry Hollywood film; it is a movie that captures childhood in a poignant, non-candy coated manner that is dead on. I saw this movie only a couple months ago and was blown away by it's style and acting. It is rare that you see such fresh, relaxed and deep performances that the actors in this film offered. Although this is not a recent film, it is a genuine, inspiring film that is so refreshing-being so different than the films Hollywood often gives us. I give this film a 100+ and recommend it to everyone. You will benefit from it's message and it's wonderful acting.


                
Without a doubt this movie is probably the best coming of age flick around, it has terrific acting and an incredibly touching plot that keeps you going throughout the whole film. I think the reason I love this film so much is because, everyone in some way could relate to it. When you're a pre-teen and have a close group of friends and face something so intense together, there's that special bond that no matter how much you loose touch with each other, one day, you just think of them and that one incident.Stand by Me is about 4 pre-teen boys whose summer is about to end and they are about to start junior high. They've obviously grown up together and are nervous of the world they are about to face, where they are no longer kids, but just about to become adults. When their friend, Vern, tells them about a kid their age that is missing that he found out by listening in on his brother where the kid's body is, the boys think it would be so cool to find the body and become the local town heroes. They have one problem though, there are these big tough guys who want to find the body first, it's a matter of who will reach it first. But of course, it's the bonding of the boys that really gets you into the film.These are some of the best characters I have seen on film, we start with Gordy. Gordy is an intelligent writer who lost his big brother, his idol, in a car crash recently and can't get any love or respect from his father and it's obvious that he gets it from his friends. That's what keeps him going. Chris is the leader of the gang and Gordy's best friend, he comes from a very bad family and is dubbed the bad seed everywhere, he's the kid who you knew in school and just knew he'd turn out bad, but there's a deeper side to him. The speech that River Phoenix turned out for Chris was so beautifully dilvered as a child who's been disappointed so many times by an adult.Teddy is another bad kid sort of speak, he has a bad home life where his father is crazy and nearly killed him a few times. He has a quick temper, but you can tell that his friends keep him down to Earth and help him through the worst times. Then there's Vern, the funny fat kid who is pretty much scarred of everything, and in some ways is the 4th wheel. Still, Vern you can tell is a great friend and the other's appreciate him despite how he can hold them back.The acting is just phenomenal. Now, the directing, Rob Reiner is without a doubt one of the best directors of all time, he took these young boys and pushed them to their limits, he was so smart about it as well. He said in an interview that he had to get pre-teen boys who were close to the personality of the character in the film, so it would come natural to the pre-teen actors, and you could tell that this film was his baby, he put so much thought and love into this film. That's what makes this film so special, nothing could ever compete with a coming of age film like Stand By Me.10/10


                
Stand By Me is yet another one of the stories made into a movie from the author who has had more stories made into movies than any other author in history, Stephen King. Clearly, the central character here is Gordie Lachance, from whose point of view the story is told and who obviously symbolizes King himself, given many of his characteristics as well as some of the content of the film. This movie is literally filled with actors who have achieved varying degrees of success over the years, such as Jerry O'Connell, who played Vern, River Phoenix, who could have been bigger than Leonardo DiCaprio if he hadn't died, Corey Feldman, who has grown into an unenviable but visible existence, Kiefer Sutherland, who has become an excellent and very well known actor, John Cusack can be seen in a small role as Gordie's late brother, and of course, Richard Dreyfuss, who played the narrator and Gordie as an adult, has remained famous but originally achieved fame more than a decade before Stand By Me was filmed or the original story was even written.Stand By Me takes place in the summer of 1959, the general time period that Stephen King is most skilled at presenting, and four friends set out to find the body of a kid who was killed by a train, hoping to find what they predicted would be astronomical fame. Unfortunately, the town's bullies are also out to find the body for the same reason, which leads to the films ultimate final climax. Even though this is a very clever story with which to tell a fall from innocence story, it is the brilliant characterization and the incredible acting that really make this a classic film. It is extremely rare that a film comes along that stars young kids and is so moving and powerful. Also, every one of those kids is made three dimensional in creative and smooth ways, making you feel like you really knew them by the end of the film. Vern is the fat kid who always gets picked on, Teddy and Chris both have abusive or deranged fathers, not to mention Chris's cruel brother, and Gordie is a young boy who lost his brother three months earlier in a violent accident and who has been largely ignored by his parents ever since. In one memorable scene, Gordie wonders how Teddy can be so enthusiastic about his father's alleged military achievements when the man once held his head to a stove, nearly burning his ear off. Gordie is mystified because he could care less about his own father, who hadn't laid a hand on him since he was three years old and got caught `eating bleach under the sink.'Stephen King pokes fun at his own craft many times in the film, such as in Gordie's vehement line, `F*ck writing. I don't want to be a writer, it's a stupid waste of time!' Not only that, but there are also obvious references to his other works, such as when the boys first realize that no one brought food, and Teddy says, `This is great, what are we supposed to do, eat our feet?' People who actually read instead of just lazily watching the movies will recognize this as a major part of the plot of another of King's short stories, `Survivor Type,' from which Cast Away borrowed heavily. And why don't you people read these books? `The Body,' which Stand By Me was based on, is only 148 pages long, you could read that in a couple of hours and the experience is totally different from a movie. It's even more disturbing that `The Body' was published in the same book (Different Seasons) as a couple of King's other famous stories <U+0096> `Apt Pupil' and, of course, `Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption.'Stand By Me is a story of how one event can unexpectedly change lives. It seems to be a story about friends and how important they are, but this possible theme is clearly dispelled in a line from the narration spoken at the end of the film <U+0096> `As time went on, we saw less and less of Teddy and Vern, until eventually they became just two more faces in the halls. It happens sometimes, friends come in and out of your life like busboys at a restaurant.' Instead, the film is about learning from a life changing experience and actually making changes or modifying your life in some way because of it, and this is heavily emphasized at the end of the film.Stand By Me is a timeless film. Stephen King's story is skillfully brought to the screen under the direction of Rob Reiner, and the 1950s are brought back to life just as successfully as King so often does in his stories and novels, with the slicked back hair, the hot rods, and in the film, and excellent 50s soundtrack. There is so much more to this film than just the superficial story <U+0096> things about the characters and the story, but also about the tremendously talented man who wrote it all.


                
I am 14 years old, and I absolutely love this movie. But don't let my age fool you. I'm not just going to sit here and talk about how hott River Pheonix was.This movie is well rounded in my perspective. Everyone can relate to at least one of the boys in it at one time in their life. The actors are matched perfectly with who their character portrays.Corey Feldman's character Teddy is the boy who's sensitive about his dad, but tries to hide it, Jerry O' Connell's character Vern is the chubby, wussy kid, but still part of the club, Wil Wheaton's character Gordie is the sweet, intelligent friend who tells stories to the other boys and is ignored by his parents, and River Phoenix's character Chris is the boy in the neighborhood that's been labeled a bad kid and feels he'll never get out of their town, the peacemaker, and Gordie's best friend. This movie just sucks you in as soon as you start watching it. It's not overly mushy and sad, but it's not so tough that only a sixteen year old boy could stand it. You feel for each character, no matter how mean or nice they are. My personal favorite is Chris Chambers, which i know this will probably drive you guys nuts that almost every other person does too, but River Phoenix is just so touching. The campfire scene is great, the milk money seen is great, and one of my favorites is the train scene. You can definitely see the terror in their faces. It's funny that they all act so tough, except maybe Vern, although he tries, and they still like talking about goofy and dancing and singing along to Lollipop. You also just want to be there with them. Feel that kind of friendship that so many people long for. It's such a feel good movie, but not in the sense of a 10 year old's feel good movie. It makes you feel complete when you watch it. It's not jam packed with action sequences or it doesn't have fluffy pink bunnies hopping around in it either. It's just one of a kind. Definitely worth my time and yours.The newest DVD of Stand By Me (Special Edition) has Walking the Tracks: The Summer of Stand By Me where all the main actors,except River, and Rob Reiner are interviewed. They also talk about working with River Phoenix. There's also the Stand By Me music video with River Phoenix, Wil Wheaton, and obviously Ben E. King. Not to mention an extra CD with some awesome oldie's songs like Everyday, Lollipop, Stand By Me, and Mr. Lee.


                
Growing up isn't easy for anyone. There are times when you feel no one understands you at all. Although growing up is tough, the friends you have at a young age are the friends you'll remember for the rest of your life. Stand By Me is a very wonderful film, a masterpiece on a small scale. The film is full of great insights into the minds of a group of four boys who decide they want to see what a dead body looks like, and it sparks their interest even more that they actually knew this dead person. A young boy's mind is full of many things, they feel lost sometimes, strong at others, but mostly they feel invinceable. Rob Reiner has directed a film about four young boys who discover life is quick, sometimes merciless, and magical. I've seen this film numerous times and it always seems better than the time before. This is a perfect little film.


                
Perhaps this is a personal bias because I had friends like this when I was 12, but having said that this is one of the best films I have ever seen and it hits every chord perfectly.There were four of us that were friends and we were known as the Stand By Me Crew. Mike, Gary, Andy and myself were inseparable. And as this film prophesizes correctly, the group has since split up and now I am only good friends with one of them. This movie makes you remember what it was like to have friends when you were 12 and it makes you glad that they were there when they were.The story involves these four kids going on a weekend hike to find a dead kid that apparently got hit by a train. Now if that is all the movie was about, it would probably be pretty boring. But this film explores the fears and anxieties of what it was like to be 12 again. Twelve year olds deal with a plethora of issues and it is not often that adults listen to what kids have to say or see what they deal with. But this film is honest about it's assessment of how they feel.The four boys are played brilliantly by Wil Wheaton, Jerry O'ConnellCoosh from Jerry Maguire ), Corey Feldman and River Phoenix. The story moves along and hits a nerve because of the life that these four actors brings to their characters. There is a real sense of comrarderie between the four of them. But ultimately it is Phoenix that brings the most life to his character and I would say that the milk money scene with him and Gordie (Wheaton) is one of the more touching and poignant scenes ever filmed.What Stand By Me does is brings you back to a time when friendship was more pure and innocent and meant more. You can't help but get caught up in the nostalgia. Perhaps this film means more to me for personal reasons ( as I've already stated ) but it is a wonderful film and it should be enjoyed by everyone.The last line of the movie is so true. Do we really ever have friends as good as the ones when we were twelve? I doubt it.


                
As a lover of Stephen King's writing style and Rob Reiner's directing techniques, this movie leaves me speechless every time. It is an almost forgotten film about a time and a youth nearly forgotten, as well. And I will say, as a writer, the novella that this film was based upon, "The Body" has and always will be the inspiration for my style of writing.First of all, I enjoy the title that was chosen for the film. "Stand By Me" fits what the characters in the story are facing.  I think that all who have seen this film will agree that the problems are all things that we can relate to.  All of us know someone like these characters. Most of us have met the boy down the road who had a brother with a bad name and a father with an alcohol problem, automatically being labeled as a "bad kid." And the boy with the military father, abusive and a little whacko. The fat kid, picked on and ridiculed for his weight.To me, Gordy represents all of us. I found myself seeing a little of me in Gordy as I watched the film. I don't know if any one else shares this, but it was true. Gordy was not very strong, at first, and was not sure what he wanted, except to be with his friends. Still coping with the loss of his brother and the fact that his father was disrespectful to him, Gordy still stood up for what he believed in. And, in the end he surprised the characters and the viewers by standing up to the bullies that had plagued them all.This film is certainly one of my top favorites. In fact, it lies in my top three, probably at #2 or #3. I feel that it is a film that everyone should see at some point in their life due to the fact it changes your look at youth and their trials. Few films are able to do that and I think that this one was an inspiration for others that will do the same in the future.


                
Hands down this is my favorite movie. (With the Sandlot in second place). My mom got this movie for me when i was about 12. I saw it the first time and realized that i had friends like that. The movie is definitely one every teenage kid should see. I think it is more of a movie for boys but girls can get out of it the same as the boys can. But the movie overall is great because its just about a four friends who have no experience with the "real world". They find out about a dead body and go in search to find it. At first they just do it to be famous and get a reward. But the quest of the boys throughout the movie reveal things that even themselves didn't know about. After it all, the boys find out about reality, and how it isn't glamorous. They realize that the body could of been them and they respect that. In my opinion the point of the movie was not to have you think of when you were 12 and your good friends but to think of what you have now, and what you do with it. In the end Gordie tells us what happens to each and how each kind of go their separate ways. (Such as the last scene of the movie). This is definitely a movie to not only rent but buy. I tip my hat to Reiner.


                
In ancient Greece people watched the great tragedies in the amphi-theatres, and eyewitnesses tell us that audiences of 20'000 sat crying when the main character on the stage became aware of his fatal guilt and had to face death. They called it catharsis, best translated by 'cleaning the souls'. Well, measured by the tremendous effect on all of us writing reviews on the film, STAND BY ME has the power and qualities of ancient tragedy. This jewel of a film touches and shakes the best sides in us. I have watched it over and over again, and even if I watch it several times a week I still sit and laugh and cry, and it leaves me sad and confused and grateful, feelings that can last for hours and sometimes days.So what is the mystery behind this masterpiece?First of all it teaches us that good filmmaking isn't about the dollars spent on the production, but about the people who make it.And it's about a unique and humble (I hope you understand what I mean) director: Rob Reiner doesn't try to show how good he is, leering at the Oscar-jury:the story is told without any visual effects, the pace is slow and the cinematography is unspectacular, but he succeeds in inspiring his young actors to perform honest feelings and letting the story develop by its own terms. An example is the milkmoney-scene. It is told that Reiner wasn't satisfied with the performance of River Phoenix. They tried again and again. Finally, he told River to remember a situation of his own life where a grownup had let him down. Guess if he succeeded with it! River Phoenix started crying and he couldn't stop crying a long time after the shot was taken. That's why this film is pure gold: it doesn't show professional acting, it shows young boys who open their hearts in front of a camera. They can do it, because they can relate to similar experiences and because the message is important and universal. We all can relate to similar situations. These scenes make me remember events from my own youth that I had inhibited for a long time, because I didn't like to remember them. That's the pain!But it's not only the director and the actors who should earn all the credits. I read the novel after watching the film, and since that time Stephen King is one of the great contemporary writers in my book. I just don't understand why he doesn't write more of THE BODY kind. To me this book is pure poetry (including all those four-letter-words that Maltin e. a. don't like, because they don't understand why they are necessary)! But the most amazing thing is: the script doesn't only catch the quintessence of the novel, it's partly even better! This perfect balance between humor and seriousness! It doesn't manipulate the audience. In the book grownup Gordon sits in his car when he had read about his friend's death. "I drove out of town, parked, and cried for him. Cried for damn near half an hour, I guess." In the film Gordon doesn't cry. He doesn't need to. Everyone in the audience feels like crying, because they understand the tragedy! There are only 13 pages of dialogue and narration, and there really is not one line too much. It's so good, I almost know the whole of it by heart. Take the ending: In the book, the famous writer Gordon Lachance tells about how he met Ace Merrill again, some twenty years after the Ray Brower event: grown fat and the only one alive of his old friends and enemies. How much better is the film's ending! This important line about the friends we had when we were twelve years old is only a line in King's book, commending the good time the boys have at Milo Pressman's junkyard! If there had been an Oscar for impressive film endings, this film had deserved the first!And thank you Jack Nitzsche for the intense score. It's Gordie's theme, when he's not with his friends. In the group Gordie is the smart boy with the sharp, quick, fresh replies. Without the friends, at home or in the store he barely speaks a word. And then we can hear that fragile Jack Nitzsche variation on Stand by me. It's like Gordie crying `where are you, Chris? Come, stand by me'. That's brilliant and exactly what great filmmusic should be: serving the film's dramaturgy.Well, I don't know how many hours it took me to express my love to this film in a language that isn't my own. It seems impossible. It is exactly as Stephen King expressed it himself (end of chapter 29): `Even if I'd known the right thing to say, I probably couldn't have said it. Speech destroys the functions of love, I think - that's a hell of a thing for a writer to say, I guess, but I believe it to be true. If you speak to tell a deer you mean it no harm, it glides away with a single flip of its tail. The word is the harm. Love isn't what these asshole poets like McKuen want you to think it is. Love has teeth; they bite; the wounds never close. No word, no combination of words, can close those lovebites. It's the other way around, that's the joke. If those wounds dry up, the words die with them. Take it from me. I've made my life from the words, and I know that is so.'10 out of 10, no doubt about it!


                
Stand By Me is without a doubt one of the finest pieces of film ever made in the history of humanity. A truly excellent movie that really strikes and affects you with all its glory. It leaves no one untouched whether you're 12 or 112 years old. Simply because it deals with life and friendship, and all that comes with it. Both the good and the bad.Everyone can relate to it and feel what the characters feel. Because we've all been there. We have all done similar things to what they are doing, we have all been dealing with the same issues in life as they are faced with and we all still are.Few films are able do depict the theme of life and friendship as successfully as Stand By Me. In my opinion there are practically no flaws in this production, everything from the plot and the screenplay to the characters and the actors are top notch. Also the music is great.Watching the movie one feel everything from happiness and laughter to fear and grief. Laughter because we remember how fun it was being a child. With everything being new and exciting in life. And facing it all together with our friends. Fear and grief because of how hard it can be having to grow up and let go of the past. Let go of our old friends and our old life. One can't help but to feel nostalgic. At least I do. It makes me think about life in a larger sense. Thinking about my childhood I realize how long ago it was or at least seems to be. The movie frees a lot of emotions and thoughts regarding both my own life and life in general.This movie also has one of the best opening scenes in film history. I almost burst into tears every time I see it. It's as close to perfection as it gets. It's so beautiful and sad. Simply the perfect way to launch the rest of the movie. How the beautiful soft music first almost reaches out and touch you, while seeing the landscape. Then a close up on the car and the main character reading the chocking news of his dear old friend's death. Thereafter such a smooth passage back to his childhood with focus on the kids passing by on their bikes and the music still in the background. Excellent!To conclude I have also one little flaw, or at least I think of it that way. It's regarding the whole "Lardass-scence". When I was little I could never figure out why it was in the film. I couldn't see the connection to the rest of the film. Being older and hopefully a little wiser :D I now see that it's a way of showing Gordies talent for making up stories, the talent that have him becoming a writer one day. However I feel this could have been illustrated in a better way. I've always felt that scene is just a little bit over the top and I still do. Otherwise Stand By Me is close to a masterpiece. No one should go through life without seeing and experiencing this wonderful film.
Movie: Stand by Me Rating: Rated R for strong language by the use of children Starring: Wil Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman, Jerry O'Connell, Kiefer Sutherland Summary: This story begins with adult Gordon Lachance sitting in a car unsure as he stares into the article in the newspaper saying one of his closest friends died. After seeing two kids ride past his car, we are taken back to when he was 12 years old...Gordie Lachance is a sensitive boy with three other friends, scared cat Vern, flamboyant Teddy and leader of the pack, Chris. Together, they are four close friends in a simple group of friendship. One say Vern enters their tree house panting, and tells the pack about a kid's dead body he heard had been found by his brother of whom hadn't told the police. Suddenly, they all form a plan to go search for the kid's body imagining their popularity for finding it.Thus begins the two day cross across their hometown, Castle Rock. Sooner or later, the four discover a bond they never knew they had as their personal feelings and lives corrupt with each others.Opinions: What makes this movie so separate from other movies about kids and friendships is this movie really does captures the aspects of friendship and kids everyday hard lives, like a kid with a family who he feels ignores him, a kid who feels society will never appreciate a kid from a bad family, a kid who feels of getting his importance from his father "storming the beach at Normandy".Every kid in this movie has a realistic conflict and the kids acting is so real, I feel my friends act the same way at school, the real and close friends that stood by me. This movie is not about finding the dead body but really those two days the kids are together and realize how much closer they are than they thought. Even though this movie was made in the 1980s it's a shock kids still act this way today.While many may complain of the four-letter words in the movie, but I have to say kids like to cuss to feel cool in my school. They call each other names and dis, or as they say in the movie "rank", each other.In conclusion, this movie should be watched by many, and don't let the R rating fool you for the best movie about kid friendship I've ever seen in my life. They probably will never be a greater movie ever made. This is the closest you can be to superior! Total: 9.7 out of 10


                
I'd have to say that this movie is my favorite movie of all time. It's an incredible, sentimental tale of four boys, Chris, Gordie, Teddy, and Vern and their quest to find the body of Ray Brower. This movie had me right when I saw the charm of it. During the movie you get to see into the lives of the boys, and you find that this movie is really about friendship, and needing your friends through hard times. Stand By Me also has a few funny wise cracks, and times that will pull at your heartstrings. I think the ability to include so many different aspects in one movie is fantastic, and definitely a worthwhile film. I recommend Stand By Me to anybody and everybody- I can't think of many people who wouldn't enjoy this "coming of age story" that will grab you and catch your attention just like it has mine, over and over again, not matter how many times i watch it.


                
i just watched this movie and i have been planning to watch this movie for a long time, this movie is awesome it is moving and just brilliant in every way, i guess the moral of the story is that just cherish every moment you have, had and experiencing because you know we don't live forever. and yes the end made me cry thats just how touching it is, and you know it is true you never find new awesome friends like you did when you was younger. recommend it if you wanna look back at your past and be lost in thought and your future, past and present and just say hey that time was awesome and i wish i could do that again with my old friends :) . . . Krishna c Patel
These kinda movies come along very rarely. This is my personal all-time favorite movie. The actors are very talented, especially Wil Wheaton (Gordie) and River Phoenix (Chris) who are my 2 favorite actors. It is based on a Stephen King novella called "The Body" and I have read the book and it was fantastic also. The script was put together very well and they done very good on the screen play. All of the actors were very young whenever they shot this and they all showed extreme maturity. I think a lot of people can relate to this movie because it cuts so deep into the heart. I wish that I could have a best friend like Gordie had Chris and Chris had Gordie. Yeah, I have a best friend, but we aren't "best" best friends... If you have not seen this movie you need to go out and find it because im sure that this movie will change your life like it did mine.


                
First of all I would like to say I'm not the best of film critics out there and what I wanted to say about this film has already been said through the other fantastic posts on here. I just want to repeat it myself, echo my borrowed thoughts through the tool of writing. Let people know how great this film is from my own view.The film is about four friends who share the emotions, trials and tribulations of growing up, through a decision to go on a trek and find the body of a missing child of a similar age to them. This film makes you so feel so much (without giving too much away).Although I have seen a few films on TV, I usually change the channel half way through. On one particular day last year I was flicking through like I do, half blankly staring at the screen, when I came across this film. I sat and down and watched it to the end, a rare accomplishment for me.From my own opinion, films can never really evoke real life. Some films can, fair enough, but what hit me most about this film was how the ending could fit into real life. The ending was so ordinary. There was no fairytale element to this film whatsoever. Thats what made this film so feel-good for me.I have seen the films My girl, Casablanca, Titanic and The Shawshank Redemption (all brilliant films which I have also taken the care to watch). They have never even brought a lump to my throat. The ending to Stand By Me was so personally heart-felt, however, I was not ready for the emotion that would overwhelm me. A personal experience that has changed who I am.Definitely one of my top 3 films for life.


                
I am 13 and have seen this movie about 1000 times since I bought it. My older brother saw it and told me I wouldn't understand it, and I wasn't going to like it. But, they day after I watched it on TV, I rushed to the store and bought it. It's been about 2 weeks and I have seen it so many times, and yet, every time, I laugh and cry the same as I did the time before. After I bought the movie, I had two of my best friends come over and see it. I knew they would love it just as much as I did. Sometimes my parents actually have to drag me out of bed in the morning because I stayed up so late watching it the night before. My brother keeps telling me, "One day, you are going to say, " I never want to see that movie again."" But I keep telling him back, "That'll NEVER happen!"
This is such a great movie. It is a very brave, and entertaining comedy/drama, that actually has the courage to show 12-year-olds as they really are, and doesn't clean it up for the whole family like most movies of this kind do. It's a hilarious comedy at times, but is also very heartwarming and tragic.Most of you know the story. The set up for the adventure is when four pre-teen boys learn about the whereabouts of a missing local kid's dead body. They end up going on a twenty mile quest to find the body, and hope to become heroes. Gordie Lachance (Wil Wheaton) is a sensitive, and intellectual kid who lives in the shadow of his dead older brother Dennis (John Cusack), who was the only one in his family who actually understood him. Everybody acknowledges to him about how well his brother played football, which makes Gordie's pain even worse. His parents don't seem to care about him anymore, and he feels that his dad hates him. He is a great storyteller, and his best friend Chris Chambers (River Phoenix), gives him hope and encouragement.Chris Chambers is an abused kid who comes from a family of lowlife thugs, including his cruel older brother Eyeball (Bradley Gregg). Chris is a good kid, and although he has made some bad choices, he still remains a very positive character. His family's bad reputation alienates him from society, and he doesn't have much of a chance in life because of it. In one of the most heartbreaking scenes, he tells Gordie about how a teacher cold-heartedly took advantage of his bad reputation, when he tried to return some money he stole. Teddy Duchamp (Corey Feldman) is a somewhat crazy and disturbed kid, who loves his dad (only because he was a WW2 veteran), who nearly burned off his ear on a stove. Teddy is sarcastic, and rude, but in a rather nice way, and would still be a good friend.Vern Tessio (Jerry O'Connell) is the main source of the movie's humor. He is a squeamish, cry-baby, scaredy-cat. He insists that Gordie doesn't tell any horror stories, and is worried about the dumbest things (a coyote, a dog, the results of a coincidental coin flip). He is really just a tag along, who is always being picked on by the rest of the gang, particularly Teddy (who frequently punches him, and gives him two more for flinching). He is the one who learns about the body's whereabouts, and gives the others the idea for the quest.The dead body is really just a set up for a series of adventures that the boys have on their journey. They nearly get run over by a train on a bridge in one scene, and in another they face a mythical junkyard dog. And when they find the body, they have to face a ruthless gang of older kids led by Ace (Keifer Sutherland), who are also after the body. They have campfires, and share a bond that is very touching. Any guy who has ever had a group of friends can relate to the antics of these four boys. They cuss like sailors, smoke, and do other things that they wouldn't do with their parents around. The way these boys talk, and act is very accurate to the way kids their age are (though their insults are very old and 50's). I was their age not long ago, and was exactly like that. The ultimate example of the phrase "boys will be boys" is depicted in hilarious detail in this film. There is a sequence of gross- out humor when Gordie tells a story he wrote about a massively obese kid nicknamed "Lardass," who takes revenge on his tormentors by entering a pie-eating contest with funny, but gross intentions. That scene is very, very disgusting, but is a silly, lighthearted way, and when you see it, you'll understand what I mean. Boys really love that stuff.The movie has a very tragic ending, that is still heartwarming. It really makes you cherish your friends more, and brings you closer to them. Every pre-teen should see this, but unfortunately, few kids I know actually enjoyed it. They usually thought it was corny and boring. This movie may be slightly sappy at times, but it is all for good purpose, and makes you feel great. Also, it is the complete opposite of boring. Every scene is interesting in some way. The scenes are either hilarious, heart-wrenching, or heartwarming. Sometimes even suspenseful. I cherish this movie, and recommend it to EVERYONE. Watch it now, and love it. 9/10.Stand By Me is rated R for Language Including Sexual References, and Some Crude Humor. Sex: 4/10 Violence: 5/10 Swearing: 7/10 Drugs: 5/10


                
Forget "Casablanca," "Schindler's List," or "The Shawshank Redemption..." This gem from the 80's takes the prize.With it's incredible acting, precise direction and wonderful story, "Stand By Me" stands alone as the brightest, most uplifting, personal and effective story ever told on screen.I remember the first time I saw it, I was 12 or so. I thought it was scary. Years later, I found out that the mighty Stephen King had penned the story and it made sense. It is so realistic and heartfelt, it's hard to imagine a movie ever surpassing this one. Each character represents one side of humanity and all of them beautiful and crafted to perfection. There is never a moment in the film that pulls you out. The story is so simple, it's timeless and appealing to everyone out there with a heart. It's about growing up and and it's about childhood innocence at the same time.I get the feeling that this movie was a deeply personal project and you can tell that everyone involved took it 100% seriously. Add to all this the fact that it shares the title of the best song ever written, (in my opinion,) and what you have is a miracle of a movie that will make you laugh, cry, laugh some more and leave the couch feeling like a new human being.10 out of 10, kids.


                
One of my all time favourite movies that has spanned 20 years plus for me and is as emotional an experience watching it now as it was when I was a 19 year old the first time round. As others have said, it's so poignant, so relevant to growing up (particularly as a boy) in any town, anywhere, at anytime, that I don't have anything original to add, other than I am waiting for the right time to show it to my 13 year old. Would he get it yet? I don't know, but he absolutely will sooner or later.A true genius of a film with an ending that'll have tough adventurous middle age guys like me sobbing their heart out!


                
Everythings been said and done about this movie. But I just thought I would put my own opinion on it.I'm 14 years old. I seen this movie for the first time this summer. And I bought it. After that, I've watched it over 50 times. I showed it to all my friends, they all watched it. They also, all loved it.So I thought I'd just mention how this movie, which was probably my grandmothers favorite movie back in the day, can still be popular for kids my age. It makes me wish i lived in those days, it makes me want to be a part of their gang. With "Chris Chambers", and all of those unique and hilarious characters. It makes me want to have my own adventure like they did.I recommend this movie to everyone! Because I think everyone will like it just as much as I did.


                
This film has had a huge impact on my life, and I've enjoyed sharing it with my son.Fantastic, a must watch!


                
The movie 'Stand by Me' (Rob Reiner) is coming of age film about four young boys. Throughout the film, they undergo many challenges and come to conclusions about their hometown, the world and themselves. All the boys are very different; there is at least one trait within each of the boys that everyone can relate to. This movie has a perfect combination of seriousness and the more immature and fun ways of youth. The characters deal with normal problems at the age of twelve as well as other problems like dealing with death, bad reputations and local myths. Some of the things they learn are discovered in a comical way and they learn the difference between myth and reality. The script is based on the novel "The Body" by Stephen King. Reiner closely follows the book but adds things here and there that make it much more exciting and relatable. The script is clever and well written. This movie is funny, emotional, suspenseful and a must see.


                
The film "Stand By Me" is hands down one of my favorite movies of not only my childhood, but even still today. When I look back on my own youth around the years of 12-14, I can remember so clearly the moments portrayed in the film. Whether it be talking smack about our parents, running around all night saying we were each staying at different houses, or walking along the train tracks during the scorching summer days chucking rocks at the freights that passed by. I recall being skeptical at first about watching this so called "classic," simply because of the fact that i was an adolescent girl and not some "young dirty boy" taking hikes to see dead bodies and smoking cigarettes along the way. But from the minute the movie started with all the boys' playing cards in the famous tree house to the moment where Chris Chambers fades away at his and Gordie's final goodbye, I could not help but get a thousand of overwhelming emotions passing through me. I laughed, I cried, I felt angry, and at times even surprised by some of the language that these thirteen year old boys were using. But that is the magic of it all. How often does a movie about pre-teen kids come along where there is no sugar coating, just a plain and real depiction of how all of us acted when we were that age. The average movie always leaves me laughing or feeling entertained for the night, but very so often a dime piece will come along that leaves you in awe feeling nostalgic for days about your own childhood. And then there are the actors - how could I possibly forget about them? River Phoenix with his heart-gripping scene about the milk money, Whil Wheaton so believably portraying a quiet and vulnerable boy who had lost his brother, Corey Feldman evoking so much anger and hurt through the words he says and the emotion in his eyes, and then Jerry O'Connell-just being plain old, clumsy Vern. Rob Reiner also did a fantastic job to have the ability to take a Stephen King novel and turn it into a heartwarming tale that still held the "spooky" element to it all. Filled with an outstanding cast and beautiful theme song, it is no wonder this is a movie I cannot seem to go a year without watching. It is definitely a must see for anyone who feels they want to relive their past every now and again. Like the famous quote says, "I never had any friends later on like the ones I had when I was twelve. Jesus, does anyone?"


                
I saw Stand By Me yesterday for the first time in one and a half years, (I'm 17) and I absolutely loved it, and it is definitely one of my favourite Stephen King adaptations. I will say I absolutely loved Shawshank Redemption, and despite the fact that it was unfaithful to the book, and badly flawed, I liked It too.Stand By Me, based on the novella by Stephen King, which I admit I haven't read, not only has a wonderfully engaging story, but it is both funny and moving. This is helped by the strong and wholly believable performances from the entire cast that include Kiefer Sutherland, John Cusack, Wil Wheaton, Corey Feldman, Jerry O'Conell and River Pheonix especially.The script was very well-crafted, and the film tells brilliantly of the values of friendship and standing together. Other strengths were the beautiful photography and the fine direction from Rob Reiner. But what impressed me most about Stand By Me was not only its nostalgic feel, but despite the hour and a half running time, the characters particularly Chris were so well developed. And I mustn't forget the beautiful song Stand By Me over the end credits.A beautiful, unforgettable film, with a definite 10/10. Bethany Cox.


                
The movie is one of the greatest movies that I have ever seen. It's one of the movies that will touch you deep into your heart. It's what makes a movie amazing. The kids did an amazing job of acting out the characters of Teddy, Vern, Chris, and Gordie. It is an deep and does an an amazing job of reanacting the novella. The plot is amazing. It's the summer that every kid has to have. The one where the only thing that matters is being with your friends and having fun. Before everything else sets in. It tells of four best friends with all messed up family life's which mostly all they have is each other. Most definitely one of my favorite movies ever. It follows the boys as they journey to find something that will either make them or break them. What they are searching for is something that will make them local hero's. I thought that book was greatly amazing as the book. Stephen King did an excellent job on his part. But he never ceases to fail in my book. The cast was well chosen out for each part. Especially River for Chirs, and Corey Feldman for Teddy. They both did an amazing job adapting to there characters. This goes above and beyond of movies that friendship movies that go deep. Absolutely amazing.


                
