Stephen King adaptations can be great. In my opinion the less horror pictures, and The Shining, are the best. Misery, The Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile and this one. Stand by Me is a great film, you can say it is a drama with some thriller elements.Four boys hear the location of the dead body of a boy from their small town. The boys go on a trip to look for the body, about 30 miles away. There are some little problems on the way, including another gang with its leader Kiefer Sutherland. One of the boys thinks about his late brother because of the recent events, played by John Cusack. It seems to be a simple story but it is told perfect.The performances the boys give, one of them is the late River Phoenix, are all extraordinary. I liked the way their friendship was shown. Just a great movie, see this. 9/10.


                
"It happens sometimes. Friends come in and out of our lives, like busboys in a restaurant."Stand By Me is Rob Reiner's love letter to friendship and nostalgic memories. It's ironic that Reiner's film looks at the past with such high regards because we can do the same with his filmography. His best films were all made in the 80's (and we can squeeze Misery and A Few Good Men into that list as well although they came out in 1990 and 1992 respectively), and despite not having directed many great films over the past few decades we can still look back at his early films and appreciate his classics. Stand By Me reminds us all of our early childhood and the friendships we made. It doesn't matter what decade we grew up in, we all cherish special memories of adventures we shared with our friends and how they helped shape us. That is what is so universal and appealing about Reiner's film; even though we may never have grown up in a small town or had similar outdoor adventures it still recalls us back to a time where we were discovering new things about the world and standing up for our friends when they were in trouble or running with them when we got caught playing in our neighbor's yards. Stand By Me focuses on these memories and it's not just about the adventure in itself but the bond these friends shared together. It's probably the go to movie when we are comparing or referencing other coming of age films, and in my opinion one of the best ever made considering how much I appreciate the genre. I'm sure the film itself was a life changing experience for many who grew up watching it and dreaming of having similar adventures with their friends.Based on Stephen King's short story, "The Body," the screenplay for the film was adapted by Raynold Gideon and Bruce Evans. It takes place in 1959 and centers on four 12 year old friends from Castelrock, Oregon who overhear a conversation about the location of the body of a dead boy who had been missing for several days. The news about the disappearance of this boy had spread all over town, so these kids decide to embark on an adventure through the woods and bring back the missing body so they can be received as heroes. Since the journey would take more than a full day, they plan to tell their parents that they are staying at each other's home. Gordie (Will Wheaton) had recently lost his older brother (played by John Cusack in the flashback scenes) a few months prior to this in a car accident so he knew his mourning parents wouldn't even mind him being gone for a few days. His best friend, Chris (River Phoenix), came from a troublesome family and despite knowing he'd get into trouble if they'd discover his lie he didn't think it would be any different if he stayed with his drunk father. Teddy (Corey Feldman) still has the scars from the abuse he suffered from his mentally unstable father, and currently lives with his mother. Vern (Jerry O'Connell), the clown of the group who isn't taken very seriously is the one who came up with the idea of looking for the body, but he also is the first to back down when it comes to it. The four finally decide to go ahead with their plan and begin their adventure, which will eventually shape who they are. The story is narrated by the grown up version of Gordie (played by Richard Dreyfuss) somewhere around 1985.The strong performances in this film are one of the reasons why it continues to work today. River Phoenix was such a natural and is so charismatic that he steals every scene he's in. The chemistry he shares with Wheaton's character is strong and it reminds us all of that best friend we had in our childhood. Corey Feldman must have had the best agent because he starred in some of the best films that were released in the 80's (Gremlins, The Goonies, The Burbs, and The Lost Boys). Jerry O'Connell is probably the one that has undergone the greatest physical transformation, but he was perfect for the role of Vern and he reminded us of that friend who always seemed to be the butt of every joke. These four young actors carry the film and despite not having the most exciting of adventures, the way the story is told is what makes it such a fascinating one. There are small moments like the one where they gather around the camp fire to listen to Gordie's story, or when they are crossing the pond and discover its full of leeches, that stand out. The film is told through Gordie's recollection of these events and each scene feels like an authentic memory someone would have of such a life changing experience. The 50's soundtrack also plays a key role in the film since it adds to the overall sense of nostalgia. Reiner's film reminds me how much I actually have enjoyed Stephen King's non-horror stories (this along with Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile are my favorite film adaptations of his work). Since its 1986 release, all the coming of age films that have followed it seem to heavily borrow from it. Stand By Me is the measuring stick for films in this genre.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/


                
The movie Stand by Me is a story about four close twelve year old friends growing up in rural Oregon who are bitten by the curiosity bug. The main Character, Gordie (Wil Wheaton), and his three friends, Chris (River Pheonix), Teddy (Corey Feldman), and Vern (Jerry O'Connell) set out on an adventure to find the body of Ray Brower. They had heard of his whereabouts by Vern's older brother and they were determined to find him. They incur many setbacks during their journey. They are bullied by the older boys of the town who are also trying to find the body and get the fame, attacked by the junkyard dog Chopper, almost getting run down by a train, and attacked by the swamp leaches. The boys learn many lessons on their journey, but more importantly they learn about life. The actual goal of Rob Reiner, director of the film, was to show that growing up has its ups as well as downs. All four of the main characters have had some trouble in their life. He showed this when Gordie's athletic brother was tragically killed in a car accident. By doing this, Reiner elaborates to the audience that bad things do happen to the best people. Chris and Teddy also have very neglecting fathers at their homes. Even though it is all fun and games on the hunt for the body, they still have a troubled life lingering in the background that they can not get away from. And good old Vern has an older brother who wreaks havoc in his life. He is actually one of the older bullies also on the hunt for the body. Reiner cannot make his point much clearer. One of the things I really loved about this movie is how few rules the young twelve year old boys had. The first evident thing is when the movie opens and they are smoking in their tree house. These boys smoke, shoot handguns in town, and cuss like sailors throughout the movie and know one seems to notice. Wow, the times sure have changed since I was a young child.


                
I saw this movie a few years ago and I instantly thought it was great. It's a memorable story (adapted from an unusual literary venture for Stephen King) about four 12-year-old boys in 1959 who go in search of a dead body. Everything about this movie was memorable: the script, the acting, and most of all, the four boys. All of them had distinct personalities and backgrounds and didn't blend into each other like so many other movies like this. My favorite character was Chris Chambers, who was not only cute but a "bad boy" with a heart of gold (also the breakout role for River Phoenix). This is a must-see for anyone who likes a good movie. The only problem I had with this movie was that I found it unrealistic. The 12-year-old boys in the movies cussed every two words, smoked cigarettes regularly, and talked admiringly in detail about some girl's boobs. I found this unusual even for 1959. I was 12 once, and most of the boys I knew rarely cussed, never smoked anything, and were just a smidge too far from puberty to talk about a girl's boobs in detail. However, these small qualities are redeemed. This is a great movie from the great Stephen King.


                
This movie was like that baseball girl, who got thrown out at home. Except there aren't any girls in it except for maybe this waitress who looks like Big Bird and thinks a gun and a cherry bomb are the same thing. These 4 kids want to visit this other kid in a different town, so they make up excuses to leave home and walk around railroad tracks. That other kid's dead though, so it was definitely a good idea to bring a comb.One of the kids is like Crisco. Fat in the can, and digging holes under the porch because you can't buy much food for 7 cents. You get to hear about an even fatter kid who can make people puke on each other, because cartoons can't beat up real guys.I don't really want to think about guys prancing through the woods singing songs about lollipops or sitting around in wet tighty-whiteys yanking bugs off each other. And I definitely wouldn't want anyone Standing By ME if I had to pick giant swamp-roaches out of my undies.


                
I was born 25 years after this film was set, yet the single 1 thing that made me remember that this wasn't based in my own childhood years was the amount of food that Gordy managed to buy with their spare change. This films portrayal of childhood is so timeless and real.Most of us who saw this film can probably relate completely to this story. We too spent all day long trekking around outside, getting dirty, and yes-occasionally cheating death. (I'm sure we all have our own "crossing the train tracks" story...) Not carrying a wallet. Not thinking twice at the prospect of having to spend all day walking in the heat to get somewhere. Being gone all day, unsupervised, with no mobile phone to rely on if you got caught in a jam. There are so many scenes and pieces of dialogue that resonate so strongly as you watch this film.However, childhood nostalgia is not the only emotion you feel watching this movie. Learning about the lives and hardships of these characters is heart-rending to watch (particularly Gordy's personal reaction to the body, and River Phoenix's famous "milk money" scene). I can't think of another film starring child actors that has made me feel even a 10th of the emotion I felt during this movie. This is due largely to the fact that they managed to cast some great actors here. But I think also, the fact that these characters weren't predictable and 2-dimensional, like so many other children portrayed in films. Yeah, these are regular kids, who spend much of their days eating sugar and laughing at vomit stories. But that's not all they're about. They all have real problems and real emotions, and care about more than collecting baseball cards.This movie is bittersweet. It makes you laugh, and brings back so many fond memories, but it also makes you ache for your lost childhood, and the friends who shared it with you (who are now, as so accurately put, just "faces in the hallway"). It also drives home the fragility of childhood innocence, and the harsh realities of life. Hearing the outcome of Chris's adulthood is one of the most boldly pessimistic things I've ever seen in a film. But hey-that's life."I never had any friends later on, like the ones I had when I was twelve<U+0085>Jesus, does anyone?" True, how damn true.
I'm only 11 but last year when i watched it.it was great it was night i turned on the t.v and i started to watch it was nice and i also now river "chris" from another movie but it was after watching river from another movie i would now who he is anyway id probably wouldn't now who he is even if i did now him in this movie but this is a great movie trust me I'm remembering how great it is that now i want to get it on d.v.d i really liked this film but i now that this come from an 11 year old means nothing but don't come crying to me after watching this film telling me that you like the film and if you already did watch this film then you now what i mean and if you don't then watch the film agan


                
Without a doubt, a masterpiece of cinema. The film had practically everything good, good soundtrack, good actors, an excellent argument, good characters, good bad guys and good morals. The ceilings are also very good and the special effects are incredible. I just did not like the final message while the narrator writes, but even so, it's a fantastic movie. Highly recommend.


                
Stand by Me (1986) This is coming-of-age drama film that tells the story of four boys in a small town in Oregon who go on a hike to find the dead body of a missing child. It is based on Stephen King's novella The Body. It stars Wil Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman, and Jerry O'Connell. Each has had a decent career following this movie. Unfortunately, Phoenix died at a young age. He was a genuine talent. This was one of my favorite movies when I was a child. I still watch it here and there, when the mood hits, or the internet is down. It's definitely one to have a copy lying about. The chemistry of the characters engross you into a story of friendship, the kind you miss over the years. These boys are on that cusp of being a child, and becoming a teenager. I possessed the luxury of seeing this as a child, so I will always relate. I strongly suggest this film for parents of children at that age. But it's not just for them. Adults will love this movie too. It's a perfect instance of how Stephen King can write something other than horror.


                
Stand By Me is the story of four adolescent boys who venture out of their small Oregon town in search of a boy who has disappeared and feared dead. Only two people know where he really is. When word reaches these boys, the race is on to find him.The leader of this crew is Chris Chambers (River Phoenix), a strong willed individual who carries a bum rap. Gordie Lachance (Will Wheaton) idolized Chris and everything he does. Gordie has been the "other child" at home since his brother died. The headstrong Teddy Duchamp (Corey Feldman) is the renegade "wild-man" whose war weary father has made a strong impact on, for better and for worse. The last of this "gang" is Vern Tessio (Jerry O'Connell), the one who found out about the resting place of the lost boy. Vern is slightly overweight and jittery; the tag-a-long friend.Narrated by an older Gordie (Richard Dreyfuss), now a writer, we see the characters through his eyes essentially, even though it isn't just about Gordie, but all of them. Reiner's casting is superb for all four friends and even the older kids. The leader of the older kids is Ace Merrill (Kiefer Sutherland), a dark and menacing character who strikes fear into the hearts of the four boys. It is his presence that makes the boys more determined than ever to find the body before he does The next two days for these boys is filled with obstacles, both on the tough Oregon landscape and in their troubled minds. It seems like they live their entire childhood and adolescent years in a span shorter than 48 hours. Usually a person experiences certain things one at a time over a long period of time. It seems that no matter where these boys go in life, they will never forget those two days when they were no long children, but men.
I was already well beyond my formative pre-teen years when I first saw this film, but there's no denying that if you grew up in small town America, this is about as close as you get to capturing the essence of childhood friendships that remain with you forever, even after time and distance take their eventual toll. Director Rob Reiner skillfully crafts a compelling tale from a Stephen King short story, layering it with various sub-texts that run the gamut from dealing with the town bully to confronting the loss of family. What's probably most remarkable about the picture are the performances that Reiner obtains from his young starring cast, most notably River Phoenix as Chris Chambers, and Wil Wheaton as his best friend Gordie Lachance. Told through the perspective of Wheaton's character, the film conjures up memories of the many trials and tribulations one faces while growing up, often unsure of oneself and even worse, feeling alone and disoriented when personal tragedy strikes and threatens to overwhelm one's very being. Yet the story never gets maudlin or depressing, there's enough youthful camaraderie and mischief on hand to keep the adventurous foursome going strong. Corey Feldman and Jerry O'Connell round out the group, and together they manage to grow and mature in a way that none of them could have imagined prior to starting their quest. Scored with a soundtrack that memorializes some of the great song hits from a half century ago, "Stand By Me" is a strange and wonderful journey, in it's own way reminding us of what might have been the best time of our lives. Sincerely.
"Stand by Me" is such an excellent coming-of-age story that I almost wish I'd grown up in the '50s. I can only imagine then, for anyone who has, the kinds of emotions through memories that the Stephen King novella-turned Rob Reiner film must evoke. Still, anyone who's gone through puberty can appreciate the adventuresome innocence yet underscored maturity of "Stand by Me."Taking place in the summer of 1959, the film is a childhood memory retold by Gordie Lachance (Dreyfus) of when he was 12 (played by Wil Wheaton) and he and three friends named Chris (River Phoenix), Teddy (Corey Feldman) and Vern (Jerry O'Connell) journeyed away from their Oregonian small town to find a missing teenager's dead body and fulfill an absent sense of adventure.Leaving behind their troubled home lives, the boys soon discover something else when they're out on their alone with only their own decisions to guide their actions. They make these choices together, quarrel together, look out for each other's backs and bare themselves emotionally in front of one another. You get the sense that if adults took this same journey that events would not have unfolded the same, with each man looking out primarily for himself. A boy, however, has nothing but his friends to help save him from a world that wants only to swipe his innocence away. That's the real power of childhood that this story unearths as it tries to understand that golden hue over our memories.Incredible, then, is Rob Reiner's achievement at making such a mature film about so much more than childhood with only children as the main characters. He captures these young boys on camera in a way that makes them appear like tiny sages helping us make sense of our own past. Having come only from rock mockumentary "This is Spinal Tap" at this point in his career, it's incredible the kind of performance Reiner gets from these boys.Young star Wheaton is instantly the boy we identify with most: he's quiet, doesn't pick on anyone, but commands the respect of his friends. Feldman, child star of the '80s, sheds his nerdy "Goonies" character to become the daredevil of the group, which he manages to excel at. O'Connell plays the scared fat kid who gets picked on the most and Phoenix, giving easily the best performance of the four, is the tough kid with a good head on his shoulders who is really sensitive inside. There's no doubt that if Phoenix hadn't died tragically in the '90s that he would've become a major acting force as an adult. John Cusack makes a cameo as Gordie's deceased older brother and Kiefer Sutherland also appears as Ace, the leader of a gang of teenagers who are also after the body, but this film belongs to the young ones through and through.Giving the children their authenticity are writers Raynold Gideon and Bruce A. Evans. These are normal pre-teenage boys above all else: they fight and pick on each other, have temper tantrums and occasionally break down into tears. Beautifully constructed is the metaphor of children following railroad tracks to an inevitable and shocking discovery.Stories about growing up are commonplace in Hollywood, but none will impress you like "Stand by Me." It's the only film starring children that serves adults first and that places it in a folder in history where it might never be touched again. It's really a treasure of a film.


                
As I read the other comments and think about this film's effect on me -- the fact that before I even sought out IMDb I immediately recognized the 'River Phoenix character' in my own life: a pal called Babe, whom I have tried in vain to relocate, now nearly 70 years after our 12-year old childhood days -- but yes, we had that kind of friendship, in my own recall; he gave me the confidence to fight back, against a bully, which meant a whole lot, in my young years. But what I was about to say is that I suddenly see something almost archetypal in the kind of situation recognized by so many others, and myself, as the age-12 friendship scenario.Now that I can look back over an entire life, it is possible to see the elements that seemed so distinctive at the time, and are remembered as so personal, so unique, as actually being very characteristic of a time-of-life. And to see them so uniformly recalled convinces me that this is so. We already know a few such passages: the midlife crisis, and the sentimentally romantic teenage years (as certified by the pop music that is forever afterward what we favor best and return to most). Similarly, then, is there an idealized moment directly at the crossover between childhood and being what we call grown-up. In fact, it is the final passage of childhood, after which nothing is ever quite so wonderful. We get 'drafted by life' . . . channeled into careers, relationships, professions, family concerns, and not to forget: debts and mortgages and the passion for 'getting ahead'. But before all that begins, life has left with us something richly remembered as an idealized friendship. It is really love, however, before it becomes sexual. And that precious slice of it will always be back there as a kind of prototypical ideal, for challenging comparison with every other relationship we ever have in our lives. It's back there to model our future connections . . . for as long as we can retain the ideal. As I now see it, that's what this film, along with the comments on it, has revealed to me.


                
It's been a really long time since I'd seen an actual good movie, and for me to pass up a classic like this would not only go against my principles, but it might as well be a mortal sin.There are many reasons to like this movie... and not just because it's based on a Stephen King novel, but also because it practically mirrors a time in all our lives. That, and because narrative movies have always fascinated me.The only real disappointment is that these kinds of movies tend to have the same problem: they're not as lengthy as many people would like.I shouldn't have to even give one of my verdicts, but it's a specialty of mine.9 out of 10


                
After having read the short story "The Body" by Stephen King!.I have to say that I feel this film is a very good adaptation of the story.And in some parts improves on the story. The Plot: After his main friend had been killed.Writer Goride Lochance,looks back on a summer in Castle Rock.When he was in his pre-teens.That summer he and three friends (Chris,Teddy and Vern).Who are also helping to support Gordie after his brother sadly died.One day Vern hears his brother and his friends talk about finding a body.The body is of Roy Bower,Who the police have been looking for as a missing person for along time.So Gordie and his friends go on a adventure, and a coming-of-age for all of them. View on the film:The Screenplay: Written by Raynold Gideon and Bruce A.Evans.They make sure the the film moves at a very fast pace. (I feel the short story took a bit to much time to get really going)While most of the flashbacks from the short were taken out,I feel,it makes the movie a lot more easier to know whats happening in the plot.They also make sure to keep the "strong" dialogue scenes from Kings story,while adding really great ones that blend in well with the story ("If Plutos a dog,then whats Goffy?).The only bit that I am unsure about is why the ending was changed,from all of the friends dying,to just one of them.This still has to be,one of the best adaptation of Kings work (wich are usually a bit,lets say "shacky) but this one stands out great.The cast: All of the cast (who were mostly unknown at the time)all work great together,and make you feel that they are really a group of friends.The main part of the film,that you feel the actors brought a lot in and made stronger,is the relationship with Gordie (Wil Wheaton) and Chris (the late River Phoenix),who both in there "breakdown" scenes show great emotion and make the characters more real.The events that happened to Phoenix in real life,makes the ending a lot sadder,then what it was meant to be.Kiefer"24"Suthland,does a really good job in this at playing a very strong,creepy bad guy.(Which is something he used again for The Lost Boys).Direction:Directer Rob Reiner(who would re-team with King,to do Misery),does a really good job at making the setting feel like a very real small town.He also does a really good job at knowing t focus on the people and the story,and not just fill the screen with lots of gore (something that most people get wrong when making a Stephen King story into a film). Final view on the film:The first and still,one of the best book-to-screen movies.And one for anyone who has any great friends will enjoy seeing,or being a fan of Its A Wonderful Life style movies.
Stand by Me adapted from the 1981 novella, written by Stephen King, The Body, is a allegory for any person that wants to spend the last weekend with their chums and engage on an odyssey that demonstrates honesty and aspiration. The nexus between the four main friends is both kind and noble. The way the film's narrator, who is played by legendary film actor Richard Dryffus (apologize for any misspelled words and erroneous grammar)who plays one of the young boys grown up as a writer, and how he sees in the beginning of the film those two boys on the bike allows him to reflect on his childhood and how friendship is eternal. The last ten minutes of the film, for me, are the most memorable and emotional when Chris Chanmbers, played by the late River Phoenix, is described by Richard Dryfus as being killed to try to settle a dispute, which reflects Mr. Chambers kind and conciliatory character, which was greatly accentuated by Mr. Phoenix understanding and passionate role. Thank you to Rob Reiner, Stephen King and the entire cast and filmmakers working on the film.


                
Stephen King is now very well known for his novels and other pieces of writing being made into movies, and in my opinion, Stand By Me is one of the best King adaps. The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption being my two other favourites. Both are powerful and touching films, and Stand By Me is no exception.The story, based around the lives of four young friends simply growing up in America, going through some not so simple adventures.Gordie and his three friends hear of the dead body of a young boy, and go in search for it, with some unexpected events along the way, the train scene and the leech scene being two of the best. All four boys turn out amazing performances, but the two most outstanding come from Gordie and Chris, played by Wil Wheaton and the late, great River Pheonix respectively.Keifer Sutherland also makes an impressionable appearance, although isn't in the movie for the majority.Corey Feldman and Jerry O'Connell provide some light comedic relief, and the four boys together create a spectacular story and audiences feel a strong sense of the bond between the boys.One scene in particular is made all the more moving by the fact that River Pheonix has sadly passed away since the making of the movie. We see Gordie waving goodbye to Chris Chambers (Pheonix), who fades into the trees and is not seen again in the film. This scene usually provokes me and anyone I'm watching it with to tears, and this is a sign of the heart-felt respect most people have for River Pheonix.Rob Reiner has done an incredible job of getting astounding performances out of all of his cast, but if you watch the bonus material on the DVD you will see that he really had to go to extreme lengths to drag out the potential that he knew he had found in these four unknown Young actors. And it is clear that he did well in picking the right people, because if it had been any other four boys the film would not have come off as well as it did.Overall, this is an incredible tale of four young boys, told with sensitivity,and the four boys deliver mature and moving performances. A must-see for all film fans, and any Stephen King Fans.
Rob Reiner has only directed twelve movies over sixteen years including one TV movie and they are almost all completely different.  From A Few Good Men (1992) to When Harry Met Sally (1989) to Ghosts of Mississippi (1996), he does not seem to concentrate on one movie genre.  My favorite Rob Reiner movie is without a doubt A Few Good Men (1992) and now, a close second is Stand By Me (1986) which has absolutely no link or resemblance with his other movies.There is no kid who wouldn't be intrigued at the opportunity of seeing a dead human body.  He would be even more intrigued if seeing that dead body involved a two-day trip with your best buddies and sneaking behind your parents' backs.  In these kinds of situations, reason seems to escape a child and excitement takes over.  This is at the center of the script of the movie.  There is a second part which is not as visible at first, but when you come to think of it, it is the most important part of the script.  This second part is courage.  Courage of accomplishing a dream, courage of facing the truth, and courage of standing by one another.  This kind of courage is what allows us to determine which of the four boys is the movie's hero.Four boys, Gordie (Wil Wheaton), Chris (River Phoenix), Teddy (Corey Feldman), and Vern (Jerry O'Connell) decide to go searching for the dead body of a young boy their age named Ray Brower.We find out that Gordie had a brother, Dennis (John Cusack) who was killed in a jeep accident quite recently and  was very close to Gordie.  In fact, Dennis plays a major part in Gordie's trip.  It seems that all four boys have something that allows them to be in a class of their own.  Gordie had his brother to whom he looked up to and who loved him.  Chris is a kid who comes from a bad family and has inevitably turned out bad as well.  He also has an older brother who everyone calls Eyeball (Bradley Gregg) and has become a total bum.  Teddy's father was in the second World War and stormed the beach of Normandy, a fact of which Teddy is very proud.  But his father turned bad after his return and nearly killed his son by putting his ear to a stove.  His father was then sent to a mental institution.  Finally, we have Vern.  The only standout characteristic Vern has is that he had buried a jar of pennies under his porch and his mother accidentally threw away the map he had drawn for it.So these four kids are somewhat special and get along great.  But there is another bunch of kids in the movie.  The bad bunch.  This bunch includes Chris's big brother Eyeball, Vern's big brother Billy (Casey Siemaszko), his friend Charlie Hogan (Gary Riley), two other guys whose names are unknown to the viewer and finally, a seventh one who turns out to be the gang leader, a kid who everyone calls Ace (Kiefer Sutherland).  Apart from being the gang leader, Ace is also the craziest and most dangerous kid in that gang.
The important part of the story is how Vern learns about the dead body. As he was looking for his pennies under the porch, he overheard his brother Billy and Charlie discussing how they found the body after having stolen a car and gone for a ride in the woods where the dead boy's body was. However, the two boys finally tell Ace and Eyeball about the body and the whole gang decide to go looking for him to become famous.  But the young boys are also in the woods and this is where things get very tricky and almost deadly.The all-star cast is probably the best part of the movie.  River Phoenix is probably the one who gives the best performance as Chris Chambers, the young boy who turns out to be, at least in my mind, the movie's hero.  A close second in the acting category is Kiefer Sutherland who is absolutely abominable as Ace.  There are two great scenes in which Phoenix and Sutherland confront each other showing Chris's gift to be able to stand up for his friends and defend them and Ace's personality which is pretty much to take no crap off anyone and be as big a bully as possible.  Reiner's direction is very good as well with his unpredictable camera movements and shots.  A great movie all-around.


                
I recently started reading Stephen King books and been in love since with his stories and when I came upon this movie I had to watch it. Also Stranger Things is one of my favorite shows and I heard the two had a lot in common, what is true.This is a pretty old movie and I usually get frustrated by the bad acting and camera work when a movie is this old, this was totally not the case in this masterpiece. Especially Wil Wheaton but also all the other actors did an amazing job.The story is very Stephen King like, it is not horror but it shocks you the way only he can do it and leave you with a lot of emotions ones the movie is over. It portrays how deep friendship can go and how quickly you can lose each other again.I think this is one of the best movies I have recently seen and I will definitely starting to check out more older movies


                
Stand By Me (SBM) is as watchable today as it was 30 years ago.Casting Dreyfus as narrator was a genius move.The fact that I was "12 going on 13" in 1959 empowers me to suggest that Reiner nailed the characters' personalities--not just the 4 comrades, but also the older guys.My daughter is 25, and I'll bet we watched SBM 10 times as she was growing up.Highly recommend.


                
There is no questioning the significance of this film, describing a period in time and the way society was during that time, but what has amazed me, the second time viewing it, is the purity that characterizes this movie, and in particular its 4 main characters. This movie is so smart in describing the complexities of the minds of four young teens, how their nature and nurture has shaped them into the personalities they now carry, and how these traits and characteristics are influenced and changed themselves throughout moments in life, and by interacting with others. There is almost a post-war melancholy lingering over the air in this town of Oregon, Portland where these four kids happen to live in 1956. This group of friends bond over the support and comfort they find in each other, being 4 kids trying to survive in a period of their lives where everything is so intense and confusing, and where they've found themselves pretty much on their own, without the support of their families. The bravery of these four kids (and yes, even Vern's) inspires me, their willingness to plough on and to continually try to make sense of what this world has given them. The screenwriter and director have created incredibly profound and deep characters in these kids, while still not taking away their innocence and youth. When I watch the games they play, the manners they use, I'm reminded of the things I held important in that truly magical time of my life, like the sacred importance of a pinky swear, or the two punches for flinching annoyance. To me this is a story that pretty much any person can relate to, as it symbolizes a period in the life of someone where they felt lost, terrified, completely isolated, but not defeated. The need that Gordie feels to find the dead body is essentially a need to make sense of it all, of the things that happened in his life; why his brother had to die, why his dad never seemed to show any interest in him, why he felt he would never be able to amount to anything. These four kids are oppressed in a society that treats them with indifference and where they're victims of incessant bullying, and through this journey, they are able to fight through those feelings by exposing themselves to situations that push them to the brink and essentially, make them face those emotions of injustice head on. When I compare the world that these kids live in to the one my generation lives now, one thing remains the same: it is exhausting a job to try to make sense of everything that is happening around you. And in a world where nothing seems to be right and within your control, these kids find a mission that makes sense to them, one simple adventure that no one can take away from them, something that is within their control. And through this simple plan that only they have thought of, through this journey outside the confinements of this empty town they were brought up in, they could find the strength to face their deepest fears and to be the most vulnerable, in the company of true friends, where no real judgement and mockery can be found. Not all of these 4 heroes ended up truly succeeding in life, and that's okay because the truth is few of us will ever reach a true sense of achieving in life. But just like the narrator of this story, as long as we are able to remember that period in our lives that was the toughest, yet the most magical and intense period of our youth, as long as we find people to share a trip to the woods like these teens did, then we will capture a moment, a moment in our lives that was shared and experienced with certain souls that will never truly go away. And maybe a life filled with moments like these will truly suffice.
Stand By Me is a very intense, bittersweet film that I could almost feel the actors emotions - I cried as a teen watching this film. It's not without some comedy thrown in to break up the drama.The story is well scripted and acted out - so much so you are drawn into the movie with the group of adventurous boys. The movie helps to capture what friendship and being young is all about. Laughter, guilt, sadness, anger, pain, heartache and joy are just some of the emotions this group of young boys went through!I would highly recommend this film to those who have not seen it yet - particular to those who are coming of age.9/10


                
"Stand By Me" truly is epic beyond belief for what it is. This is due to various reasons. 1). Its cast is mainly children. Quite often films with casts children dominated lack quality acting as the youngsters simply have just not been in the business long enough to be able to deliver impressive performances. However "Stand By Me"'s young cast all are believable and show great chemistry. River Phoenix in particular is amazing as the brave , yet troubled "Chris". 2). The film is very very short. Quite often the best films are around 2 hours in length. Often this duration is necessary for a film to drum up enough depth for it to stay with the viewer long after the credits. "Stand By Me" has no trouble going into decent amounts of depth and staying with the viewer in only 85 minutes. Its nice to watch a film which doesn't drag on. There is too many of that these days. 3).The focus of this film is on children so you would think it would probably only appeal to a childish audience.Yet it doesn't. It deals with some heavier material than initially expected but this is welcomed by more mature viewers. Plus most of us value our childhoods so its childhood friendship content is refreshing to view as it encourages us to reminisce on our good times of our younger days. In saying that it is epic for what it is I guess it was always going to be in some ways as its written by arguably the most successful writer of the 20th century Stephen King. Richard Dreyfus (Jaws) plays a satisfying side role as the older "Gordie" who narrates the story. "Stand By Me" is an excellent film. i recommend it to anyone who values childhood, friendship or just wants to witness a fine and ultimately moving piece of cinema. "Suck my fat one you cheap dimestore hood" haha "Sincerly"


                
"In a small woodsy Oregon town, a group of friends - sensitive Gordie (Wil Wheaton), tough guy Chris (River Phoenix), flamboyant Teddy (Corey Feldman), and scaredy-cat Vern (Jerry O'Connell) - are in search of a missing teenager's body. Wanting to be heroes in each other's, and their hometown's eyes, they set out on an unforgettable two-day trek that turns into an odyssey of self-discovery. They sneak smokes, tell tall tales, cuss 'cause it's cool, and band together when the going gets tough."When they encounter the town's knife-wielding hoods, who are also after the body, the boys discover a strength they never knew they had. 'Stand By Me' is a rare and special film about friendship and the indelible experiences of growing up. Filled with humor and suspense, it is based on the novella 'The Body' by Stephen King," according to the DVD sleeve description. The adaptation, by Raynold Gideon and Bruce A. Evans, is one of the best treatments of an original Stephen King story.Twelve-year-old kids from the 1950s were a lot more mature than I could imagine<U+0085> Nevertheless, Rob Reiner orchestrates the film beautifully, recapturing feelings that die when puberty begins taking its toll. The four lads from the fifties are played by four young actors from the eighties, but the attitudes and feelings are timeless. This isn't a horror film, but it is all about death<U+0085> dead cars in a junkyard, death-threatening trains, leeches in a swamp, the dead body at the end of the boys' quest... The protagonist's dead brother haunts the film. And, most of all, "Stand by Me" wistfully recalls the death of childhood.********* Stand by Me (8/8/86) Rob Reiner ~ Wil Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman, Jerry O'Connell


                
This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen & perhaps one ever made. You can easily connect with the movie, the characters & incidents that take place in this movie.Even though it is a cult American childhood movie this will appeal to people all over the world who enjoyed their childhood. I do remember the little adventures we used to have back then in a small town in India with similar friends. We used to hiking in a nearby mountain & I still cant forget those days. I am not going to comment anything on the plot/story because its such a classic & I might not do justice trying to capture the magic the movie creates in mere words. This movie has left a ever lasting impression on me & takes me back to those golden days each time I watch it(already seen 4 times!!!) This one will always remain as one of my top movies.


                
