I picked this movie up from the video store and watched it last night. I mostly got it hearing that it was a great, one of the best movies of the nineties. I have to say I was let down. Yes, it was a very intriguing piece of fluff (considering it was about violence). I mostly found it very funny at times, the way these mean gangsters act like regular people. For example, Vincent and Jules are calmly discussing the level of intimacy a foot massage implies right before they go inside an apartment with guns to teach some twenty-somethings a lesson. However, when all is said and done I felt as if there should have some point to the movie. The only characters who evoked any sympathy were minor characters. I will confess I totally loved "The Bonnie Situation" sequence, but it was way too short in comparison with some of the rest of the movie. I wish the whole movie was that light-hearted or had expanded the story out for two hours. On the other hand, I was almost bored during the story about Vincent taking Mia to the restaurant. Overall, it was a good movie, but the quality changes throughout.


                
Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" is the quintessential example of great movie making, assorted using various constructive techniques that elevate the film to the highest possible level, stretching the boundaries and pushing upwards. Like all great directors, Q.T. lets the film and its subsidiaries stand on their own. A lesser director might employ cheap gimmicks and plot devices to move the story onwards at a brisk pace, but "Pulp Fiction" is a dark action, comedy, and/or drama that clocks in at two hours and thirty-four minutes. And not a single minute is wasted on material we think could have been shortened or cut. It's one of those rare motion pictures that leaves you wanting more, which only welcomes another immediate viewing to let everything sink in a second, third, or even fourth time.A lesser director than Tarantino might also force his characters into saying things they would not normally say, or into actions they would not normally act out in real life. Instead, Tarantino does something brilliant and seldom executed: He actually lets his characters evolve on-screen, and actually engage in every day conversations. Most critics interpret this as Quentin stopping to insert unnecessary (albeit entertaining) dialogue segments. They're wrong. The dialogue is strong, but it's there for a purpose. The difference is that dialogue in a movie such as "The Presidio" isn't real at all. The characters enter, move the plot forwards through speaking or acting, then proceed to repeat this in following instances, as if they're following the back of a mouth wash bottle ("rinse, spit, repeat"). Quentin does something else, by eavesdropping on his characters when their dialogue does mean something. No doubt Jules and Vincent have much to say about many things, but most of the time it is not relevant to the story. One must keep in mind that we actually hear little about Jules and Vincent, and even less talk between them. But when we do hear these things, it's strikingly true and purposeful. And this is what so many people miss when viewing "Pulp Fiction" -- the witty dialogue has become universally regarded as the strongest ever written, and while that may very well be correct, the idea that it is pointless is absurd. Quentin is subtle in the way he introduces his speeches; when Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) and Vincent (John Travolta) spend some two or three minutes discussing how the French translate the term "Quarter Pounder with Cheese" due to the metric system, it is amazingly deliberate: Quentin later uses this same reference for Jules before he and Vincent assassinate a group of young crooks who have stolen a briefcase from Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames), one of the town's major kingpins.
There are essentially three stories in "Pulp Fiction," intertwined between one another. It opens with Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer) and her boyfriend (Tim Roth) hatching a plan to rob a restaurant. By their reasoning, no one ever bothers with restaurants, just banks, so why not take advantage of them "with their pants down"? The stick-up proceeds, which is when the famous titles roar forward and we find ourselves following Jules and Vincent, who work for Marsellus, who has paid championship boxer Butch (Bruce Willis) to fall in his upcoming match. But Butch has a better plan: Bet loads of money on himself, beat the other guy to a bloody pulp, and run away with his money. He almost gets away with it when he accidentally crosses paths with Marsellus once more, resulting in a rape scene to rival that in "Deliverance."Back to the dialogue. It is the driving force of the film, complementing the plot and allowing its characters to grow on us in ways we never imagined they would. It's the way in which the dialogue is deliberated that varies from most other examples of deliberation. For example, is it coincidence that we just so happen to overhear Jules and Vincent discussing the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder with Cheese? No. But our instincts tell us that it seems very real, as if Tarantino went around filming real people, then edited together scenes where the dialogue could bear some sort of importance to the plot. There are different levels of dialogue -- plot-driven, and realistic -- but all dialogue is in service of its plot, just as all of what we say to our friends or family has a deeper meaning and will no doubt relate to the matter at hand. All dialogue relates to a larger scheme, and so does the dialogue in "Pulp Fiction." It's just more casual and subtle than most movies. It's not pointless, but it's not deliberate, which is a fine line to try and balance on. Quentin does so successfully, crossing the finish line with enthusiasm, which is no doubt part of what elevates "Pulp Fiction" above so many other motion pictures of its genre.5/5.


                
I came in with huge expectations just to find a movie with more holes than a piece of swiss cheese. I love Bruce Willis but he sucked. My favorite part was the combo of Travolta and SLJ. That didnt mean I enjoyed it. It wasn't terrible but a film that high has never met my expectations so low.


                
Well my first review just accidentally got deleted so here is for a second go of it.. Pulp Fiction has an excellent ability to interweave multiple dissimilar narratives into one cohesive story. It has a knack for balancing tense, dramatic moments with witty, comedic relief. Scenes such as the pawn shop basement with Zed, the hit men's clothing change after hiding a body with the Wolf, and Captain Koons' monologue showcase Tarantino's warped sense of humor.


                
I really liked this film, so yeah. it's good. .one of the first tarentino films i saw. good acting. good directing. okay score but that's compensated by the good soundtrack.


                
Pulp Fiction is one of those movies that I hear about all the time, but have never seen myself. After watching it, I'm confused about the hype surrounding this movie. I couldn't pinpoint the message the film was trying to tell. Nevertheless, the acting was outstanding (excellent cast!) and the charming style of Tarantino is unmistakable. I'd recommend a watch.


                
Do not, my fair reader, be put off by the countless jerks who already affiliated themselves to the PULP FICTION cult, and this not because there's yet some room for still more jerks to join the cult but because there is much more in PULP FICTION than what meets the mimetic jerks' eyes. On KANE there's a crust of _academism and bores' gossip, on PF there's a crust of nastiness and jerks' ineptitude. And for one thing, daddy Tarantino is a true director—the way a Lynch or the Coens are not. Now admit it, fair, lovable reader—what if PF were no more famous than Omar the Tentmaker, Old Ironsides, Tarzan and the Golden Lion, The Princess from Hoboken or The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini? Now wouldn't you cry masterpiece and claim that Tarantino is an ignored genius? I call this the GONE WITH THE WIND test—take a movie that you think is overrated and then pretend or imagine it's unknown—what would you feel? The false thesis is that it could serve as a substitute for the '70s trash classics; it will not. It's not an updating or upgrading of the '70s cult flicks.It's a treat, it's straight wonderful; the performances are gold, the script is indeed fine. It has zest, gusto, true storytelling, some awesome action and some nasty violence—and an enjoyable score.What if PULP FICTION were as famous as Isle of the Snake People or The Utah Kid? Liking this movie does not mean binding to the fashion—but acknowledging the obvious—and I do so joyfully—you can also see it as a Willis movie, that's what I did, consider PULP FICTION as primarily a Willis movie, one of Willis' most distinguished roles.
Pulp Fiction put non-linear out-of-order films on the map. With all of the films that follow a formula, it's good to see one that's essentially a puzzle you have to piece together. Each of the characters have some way of bumping into each other. As a departure from the grave tone of his first film, the indie hit Reservoir Dogs, this started Tarantino's signature style of excessively gory dark comedies with humorous observational dialogue. This film is bizarre, has some tense frantic moments, will make you laugh and is overall unlike any other film out there. It's biggest advantage, aside from Samuel Jackson and John Travolta having philosophical discussions about hamburgers, is the fact that it's volatile and it's completely impossible to predict what's next. This was a benchmark movie and, in some ways, a paradigm shift for the industry.


                
There isn't a single normal person in Pulp Fiction. Not a one. And that is what makes the film so memorable. There a ton of things going on, including a bizarre couple robbing a diner, a couple of hit men avenging a rip off of a mobster boss, a boxer who is supposed to take a dive but doesn't, and a mobster's wife being entertained by one of the hit men.I admit it. I saw Pulp Fiction for the first time a couple of nights ago. Why it took me 17 years to see this very special movie is known only to God. To think I could have spent all these years seeing this movie countless times, like I do The Godfather, Casino, GoodFellas, and Love Actually is a bit disappointing. But at least I've seen it now, and now I understand what all the fuss has been all these years.John Travolta made his comeback with his performance as one of the loopy hit men, and deservedly so. He is off kilter enough to be interesting but not so extreme as to be insane. He just kills in his worldly sort of way. Samuel L. Jackson, a killer who obsesses about sin and absolution, is his partner. Uma Thurman is the mobster's wife who Travolta's character is supposed to entertain. Take a look at Steve Buscemi as their waiter. Directed brilliantly by Quentin Tarantino, all of the performances are memorable. The list of stars who shine in this movie are as endless as the subplots that they play in; Ms. Thurman, Messers Travolta and Jackson, Bruce Willis, Christopher Walken, Ving Rhames, Eric Stoltz, and Harvey Keitel. Keitel's ability to play twisted in such a straight sort of way is astonishing.The dialog in this film is classic, as I was warned it would be. I was enthralled with the well crafted dialog that comes out of the actors so seemingly effortlessly, and with such entertaining effect.Everyone who sees this film will interpret its meaning differently, especially the ending. As for me, I will never use the bathroom when I am supposed to be knocking off a double crossing boxer.And remember, "Just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character."


                
Pulp fiction is certainly one of those films that will always be remembered for their emotional impact that they bring on while you watching them, Quentin Tarantino's master piece came to reveal and put on a high stage one of the world best film directors.What impressed me about Tarantino's gem was its plot, actually the plot provoked many critics, it intrigues everyone that watched the movie, but I would say the most important part in the plot was the characters as Samuel L.Jackson mentioned at the beginning of the film '' Come on, let's get in character'' all the characters involved in the movie were vivid and each one with his or her specific added values.The plot can be divided into three different stories, as long as the film is progressing they getting close to each other, as it is unveiled in the last coffee shop scene. Well it will take me more than that to describe the contribution of each character, but to sum it all up Characters were master key to put the film into a maverick joy.The music played an important role starting from the first scene with ''dick dale's pulp fiction Soundtrack'' illustrating a perfect start, and coming to one of the most entertaining scene when Vincent and Mia came on the stage to perform a dance that astonishingly matches with ''Chuck Burry's song- C'est la vie'', there are various of good music throughout the film.Pulp fiction was purely entertaining from the beginning to its last seconds, and it's a film that you have to watch multiple times, each time it will keep dazzling you. That's what an Entertaining movie should look like!! Highly recommended!!!
I don't deny that this film is 100% entertainment and the dialogue is solid gold; but that would be nothing without the terrific actors. To be honest, I think the screenplay is massively overrated (although it is commonly cited as one of the best of all-time). It generally mixes ideas from lesser known films and used irrationally to create an ambiance of cool. Though this film is wonderfully cinematic, it must've been tremendously exciting back when it first premiered. I think its exploitation of violence and drugs is a tragedy, and although these consequences do lead to something bad, it doesn't disencourage them. I can't help but resent the film for the fact it's usually the film that gets people into film (can't disagree that it was one of the films for myself, but it has been 7 viewings since) since it offers absolutely nothing new, it just doesn't have a point nor is it a realistic representation of anything - not that I'd like to know, to be honest. If it wasn't such a cult film none of the images would recur. It has a pretty flawless soundtrack though. However, I cannot discredit a film for being overrated and what this film does preach does not offend me. I completely understand the acclaim it gets.8/10


                
Quentin Tarantino presents his masterpiece: interwoven tales of a washed-up boxer, some bodyguards to powerful crime kingpin, and others who cross their path on this fateful day. Featuring an all-star cast: John Travolta in his best role (relaunching his dead career), Sam Jackson in his defining role (still trying to outdo himself fourteen years later), Christopher Walken, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth and more. (Many of these being Tarantino regulars, who work well with his idiosyncratic style.) How do I review a film so many people have praised, including my hero Roger Ebert? I could be a detractor and say its a bad film, but I'd be lying. I love the story and how it all plays out. I still prefer Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs", but this comes in a close second. (Sadly, I don't think he ever recovered after he became famous. Subsequent films -- "Jackie Brown", "Kill Bill" and "Death Proof" -- all have a certain charm to them, but are not close to being on the level of "Dogs" or "Pulp".) Although I've seen this movie, or at least bits of it, a dozen times, I think the most recent may be the most interesting. I watched it with a young woman who saw Bruce Willis and asked who he was. I said, "Bruce Willis." She asked who that was. I listed a few of his bigger films ("Die Hard", "Armageddon", etc.) but she said she had not seen them. How a woman in her 20s does not know Bruce Willis or any of his movies is beyond me, but it got me wondering: would "Pulp Fiction" be a different film if I didn't recognize the majority of the actors? Walken, for example, appeals to me because he's Walken. Would his monologue be as good if delivered by someone else or by Walken when I didn't know him by name? Curious thought.If you haven't seen "Pulp Fiction", see it. Tarantino is a better writer than a director, but this film offers probably his best directing to date and some superb writing. He is very dialogue-intensive, which I think alienates some viewers (particularly in "Death Proof"), but give him a fair shake. This film defined the 1990s and continues to be influential in film today. Pay attention and you'll be sure to see why.


                
When Pulp Fiction first came out, I thought it was the greatest movie ever made and was sure that it would become a classic. Earlier today though, I saw it again after not viewing it for several years and my opinion of it is now a bit lower.It's still a good movie and there are aspects of it that are certainly great. The plot is well constructed and the story lines are compelling. There are a variety of interesting characters and many humorous and dramatic scenes. Several actors (who were at their peak at the time) have juicy roles and give excellent performances: Uma Thurman, Eric Stoltz, Rosanna Arquette, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer, and Christopher Walken. Overall, the movie is unbelievably entertaining.After seeing Pulp Fiction again though, with several more years of movie viewing experience now under my belt, parts of it look amateurish. The shots don't always work; composition is bad, stuff is out of focus, lighting is bad. Although the banal conversations are fantastic, the dialogue doesn't work all the time either, particularly for Samuel L. Jackson's character. When I listened to him, I couldn't help but think that this is how a white dude thinks a black gangster should talk. There are also a ton of obvious continuity and factual errors in the film that are distracting (check the "Goofs for Pulp Fiction" page here at IMDB for an incomplete listing of them). In most movies, I don't notice these kinds of errors because they're so subtle, but in Pulp Fiction they're glaring.Pulp Fiction is still cool and enjoyable, but it seems like I can look at it in a more critical light now. It's been almost ten years since it was made and the hype is finally starting to die down. It's a good (maybe great) film, but it's not a classic or a masterpiece.


                
Jackson, Thurman and travolta deliver in this gritty, comedic and stylish classic. Wasn't perfect in terms of the storyline but you do put that aside


                
The way they tell the Story of all characters are amazing,Everything thing in the movie is good<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008E>
Good entertaining film


                
It towers over the year's other movies as majestically and menacingly as a gang lord at a preschool. It dares Hollywood films to be this smart about going this far. If good directors accept Tarantino's implicit challenge, the movie theater could again be a great place to live in. It's one of the most influential films of the 1990s, Pulp Fiction is a delirious post-modern mix of neo-noir thrills, pitch-black humor, and pop-culture touchstones.Not only did Pulp Fiction present a new way of creating a movie to remember, but it created a totally new insight of what it takes to create such an outstanding movie. And apart from being great, it revitalized John Travolta's career and evelated Samuel Jackson and Bruce Willis' even more. As long as the director is right, the diaglogue is right and the actors are right, nothing else matters.


                
This is an all time favourite. Love Bruce Willis. So many great characters and quirky scenes. 
A must see


                
1994 had good movies in it but this movie is nonetheless one of the best. it includes dirty businesses, racial slurs and drugs but in the bigger picture it holds a great heart touching message. the movie have weird timelines but in the end every thing clicks to a full circle which makes you wonder after watching it for awhile.
This is one of the best movies I've seen because of the way it's related. I liked the movie too much because of the non-linear plot, and then you see scenes from the past that explain why some things are happening. I liked that the frames were too close to the character. And the dialogues, which perhaps do not contribute much to the story, but which are undoubtedly part of it and add naturalness to the characters and the film.


                
Tarantino's filmography are typical of great stories and exceptional dialogues. And this one is a great story with the best dialogues. My favourite parts are starring Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta, from their wonderful conversation in the car until they have to go to see The Wolf...


                
Pulp Fiction is one of those films you don't know where it's going to take you as every step, every turn or twist on the way feels so unpredictable, one would say even chaotic at times. It is a bumpy road but one your are more than willing to travel just to find out what's at the end of it.The storyline is made up of a bunch of short stories set in the city of La. I'm positive the plot isn't important or decisive to decipher what the films is really about. It may be a clue. What's crucial is to observe how those stories intertwined not because there's some "hidden message" behind them all but because, if taken altogether, they get across a message: superficiality of pop culture. And as in any Tarantino's films you can expect lots of violence, witty dialogues, unexpected events, laughter... I wouldn't go so far as to include it in my top-10 but it's definitely worth watching, a truly cult film.


                
Pulp Fiction is really a different movie. Why? Well, it's got one thing many films lack nowadays: it's original. And I'm not talking about its plot, quite nonsense if one thinks of it carefully; or its structure, which responds to a personal mania of Tarantino, since he used the same "time-broken" structure in Reservoir Dogs and, unnecessarily, in Jacky Brown. It's just one thing that makes it absolutely different: its dialogs. Brilliant, humorous, crazy...it's quite clear why the only oscar it won was that for best screenplay. Dialogs. It's just that.


                
Quentin Tarantino's movie copied from so many films and has been copied so much since that when I eventually got around to watching it I felt like I had seen it before. That didn't stop me from enjoying it though.Pulp Fiction weaves three character-related stories together. Each story is fairly unremarkable and couldn't sustain a feature but it's the fabulous dialogue and the actors delivery that makes it entertaining.
John Travolta is great as Vincent Vega. He gets to play a large part in the first and final stories and has a cameo in the second. He oozes class as Samuel L Jackson's partner and delivers his lines like their his own words. Bruce Willis proves to be more than just an action hero with a less explosive but still vest wearing part. Uma Thurman pulls off a small but impressive performance. Harvey Keitel and Eric Stoltz have the best cameo roles and Quentin Tarantino isn't bad as Jimmy.But this film belongs to Jackson. He lights up the screen whether he's quoting from the Bible or eating a hamburger. He was born for his part. The three stories should have been all about him.There isn't much more to be said. We all know Quentin Tarantino can write (True Romance) and we know he can direct (Reservoir Dogs). Let's hope there's a few more characters still lurking in that sick head of his.


                
Well,  the movie was pretty good,   and I guess that it's on the AFI' list because of it's remarkable originality.  The movie is violent,  a little bloodly (could have been much bloodier),  not highly sexual but the slight glimpses are enough to understand(man raping a man),  and only a little nudity- men in shirts off..bruce willis in underwear.   The movie did not go in chronological order and that was fresh and original.  The acting was good,    Uma Thrurman short on screen role was very moving and her on screen time had the most disturbing image of the entire film with her overdosing.     I was surprised that John Travolta was nominated  for an Oscar because he can act better than what he did in this film(Face Off), he was good but it wasn't special,  it was his usual self.  As for all the talk of redemption...,I think it's kind of a crock,  I mean Samuel L Jackson's character is probaly not all that reliable.     The humour--it didn't work and it wasn't funny.    The people pretty much fit their roles and the movie and sountrack was good,  but I don't really see the big deal of it. Watch for film for a new experience but don't go in thinking the movie is highly enjoyable.  8/10 for a well made and original film.


                
