If somebody had shown the first few minutes of Utopia to me and asked me to guess which channel it had aired on I would have immediately said "Channel 4". It has a style to it that is the same style that has been shown on Channel 4 over and over again in the past few years. You've seen it, it's the Channel 4 drama programming, the stuff that wasn't imported. You may be asking, what is wrong with this style then? Well nothing is wrong with the style as such but the problem is that it has been seen over and over again on Channel 4 to the point where it has become boring. Or in short, with Utopia they haven't gone anywhere new. The story might be sort of original (to an extent at least), but to be perfectly honest, we've seen the 'Secret powerful organisation aims to control/change the world' story-line plenty of times before. Indeed, we saw it to some extent a few years ago on the BBC with their Torchwood: Miracle Day. But I found the story-line on this to be much duller and childish and the characters and their actions to be, at best, unbelievable. The cinematography with its heightened colors representing the graphic novel element of the story is very smart and nice to look at but I can't get over the aspect ratio. Why would they shoot something in 2.35:1 when it was only ever going to be displayed on a 16:9 television set? Was the director trying to be artsy? Did Channel 4 think it would increase their viewership? Well, whatever the reason, other Channel 4 drama (I think it was Top Boy) have also been shot in this way and it doesn't add anything to the show whatsoever.We must ask why was this script and not the other scripts on the producers desk made? I can see it being one of two potential reasons, either it is what audience research dictated that the audience would watch and so the distributor would get as much money as possible from their investment or it was one of the cheapest and easiest to make. It may even be both of those reasons.All in all, if you were to miss this you wouldn't be missing much. It's well made but has little in the way of content. I watched all six episodes and there's not a lot there. The four stars are for its cinematography and soundtrack. Beyond that it's script and actors were pretty weak.
Was I the only one who did not get the humor of this series? It was quite boring, particularly strange and a little disgusting. I started seeing it because I saw such great reviews, especially one that said not to read any and just go right ahead and see it. Watching it made me wish I hadn't. I don't get this British humor nor do I get the point of the story told in the episode. The characters are so fixated on this comic book. A fixation I really do not understand. Besides, the attempts of murder are seriously and utterly disgusting, led by people with antisocial personality disorder, not to say total psychopaths. Total waste of my time. And really had my hopes up. Especially when I was so open to something a little bit different.


                
While the central premise of the series is a good one and deals with one of the central problems facing humanity today, what might have been a brilliant undertaking is spoiled by several factors. Firstly, the insertion of paranoid conspiracy nonsense which detracts from the main plot line.Secondly massive plot holes, including: improbable characters; a vast number of murders (many public) to which the police appear to be oblivious; a supposedly international conspiracy which only involves British people; and meaningless attempts to weave in real assassinations to the story, which have no relevance and have no historical basis. Thirdly, the extreme and graphic violence, which it seems, does not bother any of the reviewers. Also extremely disturbing is the number of children murdered throughout the series, which again, has not drawn any comments. This is what is so wrong with out society today; we are so inured to violence that we are prepared to accept any amount of it, however graphic and distasteful, in the name of entertainment. Yes it is well made, well acted and visually good, but that is not enough in my view, to overcome some of the truly vile aspects of this series. Handled intelligently it could have been so much more. A great disappointment.
