This show continues the great chain of channel 4 dramas for the last decade, whom we rely on as the biggest source for quality British television. Utopia starts off brilliantly with a fast paced storyline that hooks you from the opening scene. The action is some of the most exciting on British television in recent years, the show becomes a tad slower in the middle of the series but builds character development which really helps to create a bigger impact when the plot comes full circle. This government conspiracy thriller is a must watch and it has a superb ending. The ending also leaves hope for another season which this show truly deserves.


                
I can't find the right way to describe this show accurately. Utopia is something different! It's like combining Indie music with the movie 'A Clockwork Orange' and that's the result. The story line is unique and intense, the actors plays perfectly (I didn't know any of them before this show) and the directing is awesome. Every episode I've watched felt like a punch to my stomach! So I'll sum this up without any unnecessary words. If you are OK with strong violence, if you are tired of the typical T.V shows or just if you got some spare time - This is a must see series. Hold tight - It's epic! P.S: Where is Jessica Hyde? Have fun!


                
Versatile writer Dennis Kelly, who previously co-wrote the sublime comedy 'Pulling', turns his hand to dystopian science fiction in 'Utopia'. The core idea is a a good one: to set a thriller enveloping some comic-book enthusiasts, a group who can be introverted, paranoid, obsessed about trivial details and socially limited even before being caught up in a conspiracy. Kelly's script is consistently inventive, and the drama is cleverly shot, with its own take on the aesthetics of modern Britain, but the deliberately flat acting (which is clearly part of the intended style), and the fundamental implausibility of the story, prevent it from gaining emotional traction. At least partly by design, one suspects, it's a story with some of the appeal and limitations of the sort of comic book its protagonists would love.


                
If you watch the first episode, you'll be immediately hooked and will watch the whole series - it provides something different with unexpected moments and some great action scenes.However, the acting (whether it is intentional or not) from a few of the characters is diabolical and some of the script writing is very basic at times and predictable. The first three episodes are awesome though, but after that it drops and calms down, but then picks up towards the end. Some moments become predictable too (who Milna kills in the last episode at the start, could see that coming a mile off).
Trite Malthusian BS propaganda.It is incredible how what is, in reality, an empirically discredited and morally odious pseudo-scientific philosophy is presented as some kind of "profound question" facing humanity. While, to be fair, it is the bad guys who are carrying on the malthusian agenda, the very thought that their arguments are considered valid enough to be "controversial" and considered seriously by the protagonists makes my skin crawl with revulsion. Also, the originator of this "brilliant concept" is presented as a genius, someone who can see what we others are incapable of.. which leads more credence to the idea which, when you look at it more closely, is utterly and totally discredited both by historical precedent and pure basic logic. In other words, it is something stupid, given credence by being presented by someone labeled "genius." It is not profound, it is simply stupid.Malthus was wrong in 18th century and modern malthusians are wrong now. It is nothing more than appalling misantrophy with genocidal overtones masking itself as some kind of altruistic cause. Hitler was also doing it for the "good" of the race, you know. And there is absolutely nothing to justify either philosophy - they are both equally morally repugnant and, even maybe even more important, logically suspect and scientifically dubious to say the least. I won't go into lengthy refutations of malthusianism because there's plenty of them around, from both philosophical and empirical standpoinds (according to good ole malthus, we're all supposed to be dead by now and for a long time at that).Otherwise the series is well done, but the seeming fetish on torture (seemingly the only answer to pretty much any conflict) and the trite premise trying to pass for profundity mar it irrevocably.
Two killers go into a comic book store looking for the Utopia manuscript and somebody named Jessica Hyde. Becky is an orphan after the death of her father and she's trying to get the graphic novel 'The Utopia Experiments' funded. Ian Johnson is a nice IT guy. Grant Leetham is a foul-mouthed 11 year old boy pretending to be older online. Wilson Wilson is a conspiracy nut. Bejan calls on the followers of his Utopia forum to meet IRL. Michael Dugdale is a minor government official blackmailed to do Letts (Stephen Rea)'s bidding on a flu vaccine. The two killers find Bejan. They kill him but Grant steals the manuscript. They torture Wilson Wilson and pursue Grant for the manuscript. Then Jessica Hyde shows up.I love the start. Actually I probably love the show's music the most. The show is odd and quirky. It's violent. It's visually cool. I really like the first series. The second series tries to explain a lot and expand on the show. The problem may be that it's impossible to live up to the expectations built up over time. It gets a little convoluted and static. Also the logic of the show struggles more and more as more of the conspiracy is revealed. By the end, the conspiracy fails to impress me but it's still a fun ride.


                
