It was a good show. A Muslim main character but portrayed as an ordinary human being, with faults, and without using the cliché of "Terrorism".A show about the Criminal justice system that doesn't gloss over the procedures like procedural shows do!It wasn't trying to be a murder mystery, It wasn't a documentary, so don't expect it to be. It was fair in depicting the jaded public servants: bad coroner (other shows either make this kind of characters geniuses or corrupt. This one was trying to please the system, like most of those who work in government)A show with a moral taught the practical way: Appearances Deceive!.. The step dad fitted the profile, Nasir was almost crushed by very convincing evidences, etc. While the truth was entirely different. I actually think it was cheap from the creators to give the audience hope the real killer will be punished! This was a cop-out.Symbolism: the cat was Nas, the eczema was Nas' public humiliation being accused of something he had no control over. That's good writing.A show that shows that male rape is frowned upon in jail (a reality contrary to public convention), a show that shows that the "rehabilitation" is a myth and that living with bad people in bad environment surprisingly doesn't make the prisoner any better!
They totally missed, or ignored, the biggest defense clue of any vicious, bloody murder. There was blood all over the room, the walls, the bed and nothing on him. they picked him up shortly afterward and never mentioned this. No wet towels or blood in the shower drain or.....nothing! Big gap in the reality of the whole thing. And one that ruined it for me.


                
So far it's kept my attention, but I don't know how long they can play this story out I hope they end it by the last episode of 1 but I fear this will play out over 4 seasons. I'm not sure I can stick around that long. I like it's slowness compared to some movies which move so fast it's like watching a cartoon but if they get any slower I might turn the channel. I'm still here watching it and wondering what will happen to Naz. One hears of people's stories how they ended up in prison for 30 years then DNA frees them. Watching this you can see how easy that can happen to anyone. Life in prison is shocking but in this show it really brings it home to see how one has to survive.


                
So, settle in, plan on a resolute resolution, and you will be ultimately disappointed. There is no conclusion, no perpetrator, no victim, no rescuer, just another ham-handed attempt at a failed zeitgeist. Pathetic really, considering the realized talent of the actors. I'm sure they were shaking their heads at the ineptitude of the screen writers. Why didn't they speak up? This could have been as good as The Shield. But what really gets my goose is how the writers string us along, lulling into the belief there is a culprit, a guilty party or a perpetrator capable of the imagined crimes committed. In the end, they only show us uncertainty, ambivalence, a limbo-world of questions instead of answers.
POTENTIAL SPOILERS!!!Personally I really liked the show. The lead actors did a great job and really complemented each other. It really lived up to the genre of the series (drama) because it kept you on your toes the whole time. You are always alert trying to figure out yourself what's going on. I found my self trying to look for hints and clues to try to piece the puzzle myself. With that being said I also felt there were a few wrong steps the show took. The first of them being creating a major flaw for Chandra come out of nowhere who seemed like a serious lawyer. I also didn't like how they include characters who were potential suspects but there story was left unanswered. My biggest thing on the show that I really disliked was the giant cliffhanger. Like I mentioned there were characters who's story were left unfinished. Chandra being one of them and also Naz the prime suspect. Prison really changed him even if he was there for a few months I mean what's that about. Also we never got a clear answer of who committed the murder. I think that's what we all were waiting for. I know it seems like I have a lot of negatives for the show but I don't think it out weighs the good of the entirety of the show.


                
