Moura, who plays Escobar, is Brazilian and has a laughable Spanish accent. It sounds like he has a box of rocks in his mouth. If you speak Spanish, you simply cannot watch this show... it's really that bad. How many friggin' Colombian actors are there that could have nailed this part? Allegedly Netflix is trying to create Spanish language content for Spanish speakers. They failed miserably with this first attempt. Show some respect for the language by casting people who can speak localized dialects and languages. It's not that difficult if you have the right consultants. Only non-Spanish speakers could enjoy this show. What a crock.


                
The most unpleasant thing is that the main character of the series is not Colombian, not fluent in Spanish, much less can even come close to what the accent of Colombia, or specifically of Medellin. A poor presentation begins. Notably, another people have already made several productions to express the theme here highlights, however these earlier productions are truly extraordinary, which is increasingly opaque this poor production. Worth putting this out, because other characters in the series, are Colombian and represent their roles very well. But what a problem, not the protagonist. Moreover no fundamental issues of this story as it is the original culture of the facts either expressed. You can not import a different culture because it changes the basic facts. Not express the culture and so give little importance to elements that actually are important is a lost and becomes, or would become a production expressing either a subject that is not linked to actual facts. And yet that's where the series worse it gets, because it is not capable of expressing a script with an original and captivating drama. The participation of third-person narration might have been good but the truth is that the opportunity to take advantage was lost. Anyway. VERY BAD
I cannot watch two episodes of this series. When you see that Pablo Escobar,"El Patrón del Mal" is Brazilian(Wagner Moura) this series is completely far away from the real life. For Spanish speakers this story is impossible to see, and more if you have watched another series about the life of Pablo. And to non Spanish speakers, i don't know if this series is good or no because i was not able to see it. Horrible mistake Netflix!


                
If I had to describe the series with a single word, that would be it. Luckily, I don't have to.For all the characters introduced, there's a serious lack of character building. They just "are" and that's it. I've seen people mention it along with Breaking Bad, describing how dark and heavy it is. Laughable. It was like an emotionless documentary, including the monotone, and in this case, utterly pointless narrative that further strengthened that feeling, while adding next to nothing to the characters or story. Characters were not fleshed out, you get to know next to nothing about them other than the obvious "this the cocaine guy and that's the bribed police officer", they were but cardboard cutouts with little to no motivation or change to their persona, I could not grow to like, sympathize with, or hate any of them even if my life depended on it. What made this impossible task even more difficult is how carefree their fates were handled. Stuff happened with characters and seemingly nobody really bothered; Again, it was an emotional barren. Take 5-10 minutes of conversation about, for example, the well-being or (world changing) agenda of a character of whom you know exactly as much as you got to know in those 5-10 minutes -only to have said character's fate spoiled by the narrator, in a single emotionless sentence: "he was shot and died in a minute" never to be bothered with that character again. but the show goes on, so get ready for the next nobody. Public shootouts, assassinations, rape, kidnapping, burying dozens of millions of dollars because why not, 15 minutes later it is like none of it happened -or bears relevance. Shootouts never mentioned again, assassination just barely mentioned, kidnapping took up a total of 2 minutes of screen time, rape forgotten along with the money, the "story" moves on with little focus on anything. Anything other than Spanish. That is but a personal opinion as someone who doesn't speak, like or expect an American series all that Spanish language; It was extremely annoying, having to read 90% of the conversations whilst listening to a disliked foreign language. The show was boring, but to follow the story, I could not take my eyes off the screen because I'd miss out on all those very important and emotional and interesting conversations it had to offer(!!!). I can already hear the "for realism!" arguments, of which I thought about myself as the only redeeming point...to no avail. For realism, maybe they could've made characters behave like actual human being, with like emotions and stuff, or maybe give a personality to Pablo Escobar that isn't pretty much the polar opposite of his historical self. There is nothing good I can say about this overrated trash, instead I'd suggest reading the Wikipedia article, for at least that has more depth than a bloody teaspoon.


                
I cannot believe they chose a Brazilian to play Pablo Escobar, nothing against the Brazilians or their actors, but you are talking about a person from Medellin, Colombia and they speak way different than other Colombians. We have great Colombian actors that could have played Pablo better and with the Paisa Accent like the real Pablo. Please producers, directors and everyone involved in making films and movies and series, use actors from the country you are making a movie about. It's like using a white guy to play a black guy. Really!!!!! This tells me that you are probably new to this field and have no idea how important it is to get the best actors for your film. I love Brazil and the people from there and nothing against them for acting or whatever, it's just that you have to be realistic and try and make the movie the most realistic one so that we the audience can identified and understand the true events that occur. Thank you,


                
The fact is this same story has been told before with much better actors, first is 'Bloque de Busqueda'(2016) a Colombian telenovela produced by Sony Pictures Television for RCN Televisión. This telenovela is based on the life of Captain Hernán Martín and Antonio Gavilán, who created the Colombian Military elite group of special forces, 'Bloque de Búsqueda' to capture Pablo Escobar. Many of the scenes in ' Narcos' have already been created with much better action and suspense!Then there is the well known motion picture 'Blow'(2001) starring actor Johnny Depp. Narrative: In the turbulence of the 1970s, the international drug trade underwent a fast, violent and lucrative revolution - and one ordinary American was at its center.But in just a few short years, George Jung (Johnny Depp), a high-school football star single handedly became the world's premiere importer of cocaine from Colombia's Medellin cartel, changing the course of an entire generation.So there is absolutely NO MERIT for this new series by NETFLIX about an all tired and overtold subject done already by other experts.


                
The entire show is in Spanish, it's sad to see a potential good show wasted this way. I mean even while making this very review the Guide lines for it state " Please write in English only." Those are the guide lines for this site, I wouldn't have even tried to watch this show if I knew I had to read a book instead of watch a TV show. Whats the point? All you do is stair at the bottom of the screen, nobody is going to watch this unless they know Spanish. They could have saved a lot of money just writing down the script and making a book instead of adding background noise to the on screen book you are being forced to read.
The Dea's wife explains hos stupid this show
Is in The beginning of season 2.
-I want to get out of this place, I want us to be safe. Hahaha Why the Freakin F did she follow the husband to colombia then?? The Biggest drug warzone in the world at that time?? Then to the next question. What kinda wife follows her husband to such a place. Wasnt the deadly streets of L.A dangerous enough? She surely couldnt be that NAIVE? Not knowing what her husbands job was???! To live right in the crack cocain cloud of trigger happy psychopaths.
This is what the show Is between the usual cops and robbers action. A line from some unlikable character in the show. Makes it hyper real how bad the script is.
Bad writing throughout. Plot holes. Lots of made up Fantasy and fillers.
Narcos the show has real potential but for the subtitles! This show is very well written and produced. But trying to focus on the action while reading the subtitles is just too distracting. Honestly if I want too read I'll visit my local library. I sure hope this doesn't become the norm for Netflix. Because I'm not going to pay a monthly subscription too read subtitles !!!


                
