Half of the facts are completely distorted in the entire story, they portrayed Escobar as the person who started trafficking, when coke was already big 10 years before him, (The Ochoa's were big way before him and he always maintained enormous respect for that family) whats the point of making a bold bilingual series thats leaves people that don't speak Spanish completely clueless if the actor has a really bad accent for the people that actually speak Spanish (And i have nothing against Moura he was great in Tropa De Elite) Real Colombians wont like the show that much. If you don't mind reading captions and are really interested in Escobars story chronologically told with more accurate facts I recommend "El Patron del Mal" its on netlfix, maybe its not a super production but the story line is great, one of the best narco stories out there. If you don't mind a bad accent because you think acting is great i bet you can sacrifice expensive productions for a great story line. Follow that up with "En la Boca del Loco (Cali Cartel) and Cartel De los Sapos (Norte del Valle Cartel) and you will have a pretty good idea of the narco culture from Colombia with better and more accurate facts (And I'm not Colombian BTW) Leaving important people out like: Griselda Blanco, George Jung and Roberto Suarez and the Rest of the Cali Cartel really messed up the story. The problem is that netflix in the rush of catching up with the great ratings all these narco shows are having in Spanish has tried to come out with wathever story told about Escobar and sacrificed a great opportunity of making the best gangster show to date. I would honestly would not be disappointed if there is no season two... Believe me I'm not trying to spoil the show for anybody but if you actually watch other shows and read BIOS or documentaries you will end expecting more from a super production like this. Hopefully in next seasons I'm assuming they will tell stories of other important narco's we will see better stories that make sense (And I'm speculating that future season will be about other important narcos along with Escobars death, Lets not forget that they covered more than 15 years in 10 episodes, and escobar died around a year after leaving the Catedral Prison how many episodes will this take then?) so I'm assuming they will jump to tell the story of the Cali cartel most likely.Just a review with the best of the intentions.


                
Man, was I looking fwd to watching this! An epic of violence, and it really did happen. Everything there for solid entertainment: organised crime, drugs, murder, mass murder, money, politics, sex, shootouts."Narcos" shows all that, but I only got to episode 6. Just didn't click, which I believe was due to (1) script, and (2) casting.Script: apologetic DEA perspective that takes away much of the drama; too much voice-over (which, although there's too much of it, at times is not bad at all); uninspired depiction/enumeration of events. First happened this, then happened that.When the time has come for you to know that Pablo is a loving father you get a scene with him and his little son and Pablo saying, gravely: I love you, son. (Hugs son) Which brings us to the other problem, a couple of main actors.Casting: Someone should have talked Padilha out of giving the lead role to Wagner Moura. Come on, Pablo Escobar can't have been the boring slouch he gives us. Actually, it's well known he wasn't.Moura's inability to speak Spanish with ease limits his acting. Possibly he's not such a great actor to begin with, but Tropa de Elite was OK. I don't mind the wrong accent much, but the way the dialogue goes sometimes it's obvious the language issue is affecting the acting seriously: They talk, Pablo's turn to say sth, the moment comes when, according to the flow of the situation, he should speak. And the moment passes. You look into Moura's blank face, behind it that Spanish sentence he's having to utter is going round and round in his brain. One, two, three seconds later Pablo starts to speak. Slowly. Repeat that many times.A DEA agent in Colombia who doesn't speak Spanish at all. Not likely.After a while I lost interest and skipped the last four or five episodes.Some commenters recommend the Colombian series "El patrón del mal", I'm really grateful for that. Just snatched the 113 (!) episodes, skipped through the 1st and 2nd a bit. This looks very promising. In the opening scene you see and hear the actor who plays Escobar on the phone, agitated, rapidly talking down the receiver. There's Pablo Escobar! Both series are Netflix productions. I wonder what gave them the impression a lame remake of "El patrón del mal" would be just the thing. The exceptional rating of "Narcos" is another mystery.PS What's to love? Except for the problem cases mentioned, acting is rather good. There are many cool and convincing types in supporting roles. I also like Maurice Compte as Carrillo a lot. Given the famous aversion of the average US-American viewer to subtitled (or dubbed) films the producers have to be commended on the language mix.


                
I don't quite get why a nasty character like that gets so much attention from film makers. Anyway, it would be worth for the thrill and action. But no, this series is not about this. Overdoing the Elite Squad formula, there is a lot of voice over and very little real action. I watched half a dozen episodes and was really bored. I went to Wikipedia, read how the guy died and got free from the series.The direction does not add adrenalin to the film, and Wagnoer Moura is not convincing the role of a blood thirsty drug dealer. He looks more like a family man protruding his belly to make it look bigger. One nice touch though is that most people speak the local language, what, I guess, it adventurous when aiming to an American audience that is used to all nationals, including ETs, speaking English all the time.


                
I was really looking forward to this series, unfortunately, I had just previously watched another Netflix series Pablo Escobar: The Boss Of Evil also known as El patron del Mal, the actor Andres Parra, who was identical to Pablo Escobar even the mannerisms watch a youtube video of an interview and then watch the series and he is spot on.Why they chose Wagner Moura to play the role of Pablo is beyond me, not the same accent and a far cry from the way Pablo looked and spoke. Maybe had I not watched the Boss of Evil first I might have swallowed Narcos much better but I saw two episodes and that was enough for me.Some of the other actors are are spot on including El Mexicano and Pablos's wife but other than that since Wagner does play the main character his accent is not even close to Colombian which for me is difficult to swallow.


                
The Netflix series Narcos is an extreme example of the official US gov agency view creeping its way or dominating documentaries.You see this on the History Ch, Military Ch,Book TV, Ridley Scott TV shows and movies, and Narcos.Lets be clear that decades ago nobody respected or trusted anything the Pentagon,FBI ,CIA or DEA had to say about anything.Now,thanks to Michael Bay and tabloid TV, they are the heroes.The whole story is given from the point of view of 2 bozos with no education, no ethics, and no clue about Colombia.


                
Production is making two capital errors: (i) treat Escobar as a family man. An evil man that do not hesitate to explode a commercial plane (among other crimes) is all but a family man; (ii) Brazilian actor as Escobar is laughable. His Colombian accent is a joke: a mix of Portuguese with Spanish. Maybe he should take better Spanish lessons.


                
Finally I decided to watch "narcos".
First episode - great 10/10
Second episode - disaster! Why?
Plot was fine ... but they killed 2 animals
I can watch almost everything but when it comes to animals being killed i draw the line .. it was really unnecessary!!


                
Having to read sub-titles is what took me away from this show. It's good show but the sub-titles are 100% unnecessary.


                
