This is such a quality production. Its cinema quality in every aspect. I've seen two episodes so far but if this show keep this up I give it an even higher grade. Netflix is now really starting to compete with HBO and this is much better than Netflix anchor House of Cards for example. Now I don't like shows that glorify and make the criminals heroes, but I don't think this series does that. Escobar is a ruthless person but still his a family man in some ways. Whats good with Narcos is that it portrays both side of the law. If it would only show it from Pablos perspective it wouldn't be as interesting. This is a very classy production. Everything from the DEA-detective who is the narrative voice to the quality of the camera work. The actors are spot on and the scenes are amazing. I nearly feel that I'm in the Colombian jungle and the hot humid air touches me through the screen. I just love series nowadays. You can transport you self to nearly every situation of life and follow character for a long time. And they really use the advantages of series if you compare it to film.


                
great acting.. great story line.. very educational.. never a dull moment. action sequences were well done. really couldn't stop watching this show... very addictive. my only hangup was that most of the time.. you have to pay attention to subtitles instead of whats going on.. and sometimes i couldn't read fast enough. however it did add to its authenticity. pedro pascal once again holds his own as he did previously on game of thrones. the addition of the actual footage of what transpired back then was a nice touch.. as well as the narration. all and all one of the finer quality programs of 2015.. further solidifying Netflix as a powerhouse of original content.


                
This show was rated a 9 before season 3. It was just perfect, not even close to Breaking Bad so I couldnt give it a 10 but it was a solid 9. This biography of Pablo Escobar is the best ever, well maybe, I heard Patron del mal or whatever is the best description but you cant compare it to the production of Narcos. So, the first 2 seasons are top notch, loved it. Along the show I was on the cartels side. But since pablo is gone by season 2 which isnt really a spoiler, everyone knows pablo got killed by the columbian police. In season 3 we are shown the biography of Pablos rivals, the Carti Cartel. I was on the police side this season wishing they will get caught. Anyway, the third season was a big waste of time and an 100 meters cliff fall, so it is a solid 8 due to Pablos kingdom.


                
This show is terrific with an underwhelming but still good season three pulling the rating down just a little. I thought Narcos was awesome with fantastic acting, particularly by the lead detective and Escobar (who I think deserves a ton of awards for this). The locations, sets, etc all seem very authentic and it follows the real life story better than most shows. This is a must see TV series and one of the best shows available on Netflix.


                
The history of the Colombian drug cartels, and the US DEA?s efforts to bring them to justice. Seasons 1 and 2 focus on the Medellin Cartel and its infamous leader, Pablo Escobar. Season 3 centres on the successor to the Medellin Cartel, the Cali Cartel.Superb. Edifying, enthralling and incredibly engaging ? compelling viewing. A good mix of history, drama, action and intrigue. Well-drawn and developed characters ? even the bad guys have character depth.


                
First of all I'd like to mention that I started watching this show for two reasons: Crime and Pedro Pascal. I may come across shallow for the latter, but that's what it is.So, while we have got a stellar cast and in fact they do speak Spanish (something I appreciate, even though I do not speak a word of Spanish and I do not know whether they have gotten the accents right), there are some flaws. The characters seem somewhat one- dimensional. I wish we could have found out more about Javier and his colleagues. The one thing which really was a major turn off: Murphy. He is the typical picture of an ignorant American dude coming to a country without bothering to actually learn some of Columbia's language. Second: he is portrayed in a way of 'I am the American, you all suck because you treat me as I should be treated by how ignorant I am'. There are some scenes with him that just made me roll my eyes, and I am uncertain if this was the intention of the writers and director; I can only hope. Then there is the narrative storytelling... which I would like if it was a documentary. The mix of series/documentary works well if done right, and I do not like the way it is done. The first episode is slow and dragging. The second episode makes up for that, but still.For the rest I'm pleasantly surprised, there'll always be some mistakes done, or some flaws in execution, but I did admire Pedro's portrayal of Javier and I do like to utter the wish for a second season... however am I not very sure if they will pursue such an idea. In short:If you're looking for a crime show about drugs and politics, go watch it. If you're interested in Pedro Pascal and you are curious whether he is as great as he was as Oberyn: go watch it, too. we'll probably see a lot more of him soon anyway. It's a nice show; somewhere between good and amazing, thrilling, and witty even.Thank you, Netflix.


                
The second season of the Netflix original series Narcos continues to tell the story of Columbia, Pablo Escobar (Wagner Moura), and the DEA. The first season captured the rise of Escobar to great wealth and prominence in the business of cocaine, and the second season captures his fall. Frustrated after the prison escaped that capped off the first season, the DEA and CIA turn to more drastic methods to overcome Pablo and his gang of thugs by making allies with many questionable characters.One great thing about the show is that all of the Columbian characters speak Spanish and there are only a few parts with English including a voice-over narration by the DEA Agent Steve Murphy (Boyd Holbrook). Holbrook does a great job as the frustrated agent the narration helps put the narrative into historical perspective. Moura is wonderful as Escobar who slowly grows frustrated when his crew begins to disappear and he watches his empire crumble and his family come under threat. Pedro Pascal is also phenomenal as the conflicted DEA agent Javier Peña who makes a deal with the devil in his fight against corruption and cocaine.After season 3: The intense Netflix takes an in-depth look at the drug trade backed up with plenty of history that illuminates the events of the story. With Pablo Escobar out of the picture, the Cali cartel takes over the drug trade in Columbia, led by the Cali godfathers. Javier Peña (Pedro Pascal) is praised for his success in catching the biggest drug dealer in the world but feels stagnant in his hunt for these new men. The leader of the Cali cartel, Gilberto Orejuela (Damián Alcázar) gathers his fellow godfathers including Pacho Herrera (Alberton Ammann), Miguel Rodriguez (Francisco Denis), and Chepe Santacruz Londono (Pêpê Rapazote) to make a big announcement. The Cali cartel will surrender their drug trade peacefully to the government in six months but before they do, they will try to make as much money as they can to fund their legitimate businesses.The Cali family's security is led by Jorge Salcedo (Matias Varela), at least he's second-in- command and plans to leave the drug business for his own legitimate security company. However, Miguel refuses his resignation and tells him that he has to stick around for the next six months. In Bogota, the DEA is having no luck and two DEA agents, Duffy (Shea Whigham) and Lopez (Nicholas Gonzalez) are busted doing an undercover operation without permission from the Columbian government. While the godfathers are bad, the worst villain in this season is Miguel's son David Rodriguez (Arturo Castro) whose scheme to transport cocaine in tanks of chlorine leads to little kids being poisoned and killed. The environmental protection agent is blackmailed by Salcedo to cover up the cause of this mass poisoning. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
This show is good, well done, entertaining, very good for Netflix. But the rating it's got (9.1 at the moment) is misleading. There's no point of comparison between this show and masterpieces like Breaking Bad, Game of Thrones, Dexter, or even Lost. It's good, I enjoyed it, but the rating is ridiculously high. Although the plot is great my major issue with it is that the Escobar's story has been highly exploited as well as that from other drug lords, it's not original, another point of view doesn't make it original.I encourage you to watch it, if you like action and the and are looking for entertaining this won't disappoint you, but please don't watch it instead of Breaking Bad or any of the ones I've cited. In case you're just intrigued by Escobar's history "Pablo Escobar, Ángel o Demonio" (imdb: tt1031952) is a great documentary IMO.


                
Wow... Did the producers ever do a great job of portraying a dislikable monster. I've read lots of criticism of Wagner Moura's accent. I didn't pick up on it as I don't speak any Spanish. However, I felt he did an amazing job of making you feel sick at the heinous nature of the Character he played. Right down to the poor posture, dumpy physique, and tasteless clothes including ever-present white runners. But his appearance was only the frosting on the cake. Escobar was convincingly portrayed as a conscienceless mass-murderer of many innocent people. And like many sociopaths portrayed in film, we are shown these villains agonizing over the loss of and harms to people they care about such as their own families and friends. How could a person order the killing of innocent women and children then turn around and be all drippy sentimental about the loss of his drug-trafficking, murdering Family member being killed..... And then pining his loss while creating a scrap book of gushy memories of him? What about the families of the people he killed? No gushy sentiment over their losses. Just cold blooded murder. If 1/10th of the portrayal is accurate, Escobar must have been an evil, evil man. I thought the production was refreshing. Not too much Hollywood flash and polish. Believable characters and settings.
I caution the writers against writing such unsympathetic characters. There has to be at least one sympathetic character in the story that the audience cares enough about to keep tuning in – and after finishing season 1, given this writing style, I don't care what happens to Escobar, Murphy/DEA, or the Colombian government. The most sympathetically-portrayed character is Peña. Is he the protagonist? The most sympathetically-portrayed "side" is the Colombian government. Is that the writers' aim? If not, you need to fix the characters and script. Viewers tune in to see story, but whether they admit it or not, they also tune in to see with which slant the characters and their actions are portrayed. In other words, not just story, but how it is told. The writers seem neutral, and it seems cowardly to not have a real stance on the story and/or its characters. Writers, you need to choose a side and write accordingly. Are you trying to make viewers love the narcos or the Colombian govt? Are you trying to make viewers hate the CIA and love the DEA? Or hate the DEA because they have contempt for the CIA? Lack of backbone in the writing is why viewers are left with a moral dilemma at the end of the show. Don't put your viewers in that spot. Writers should make their own judgments, that way the viewer only has to decide whether they agree or disagree with the show's stance, not be faced with storytelling that forces viewers to decide what they feel, think, or believe. Viewers still tune in to shows with stances they dislike, so don't remain neutral in the hopes of not offending people. Fire them up, make them cry, make them mad, make them SOMETHING – you decide that, as a writer. But don't leave it with them having to decide how to feel, and most of all, don't leave them feeling nothing.
Well done, moving to mexico did nothing but elevate an already yearly bingeworthy series. good story, great characters, great casting Michael, Peña one of the most watchable journeymen actors in the business, and Diego Luna brings it. they set up a next season (natch) and I hope Netflix bites.
The writers do a great job in Season 3 of maintaining the engagement, through showing several characters, good, bad and neutral, and how the events affect them, plus making the plot development incredibly nail-biting.


                
Note before reading: serious spoiler alert - do not proceed unless you've been through both seasons 1 and 2! I have a morbid fascination for the history of drug trafficking and I try to watch anything related to the subject. This was, without a doubt, the best portrayal (fictional or otherwise) of the Medellin Cartel and Pablo Escobar in particular. Wagner Moura is outstanding in his role as Pablo - to the extent that I found myself sympathizing with and rooting for Escobar to succeed and escape. We all know how Escobar's story ends, and Pablo was known for being a family man (and a bloody killer at the same time), but Moura gave the character so much depth and humanity that the final few episodes of season two were severely emotional. You go into it knowing that Escobar was a horrendous human being with the blood of thousands on his hands (all real people that he actually had killed), but as the episodes count down to his eventual death you start to feel sorry for him - that he will never see his wife or children again and his love of a simpler life.As per Netflix's programming standard this was brilliantly shot, wonderfully executed and I am eagerly awaiting the next two seasons.Bravo.
This series surprises me for the acting more than the story. The narcos reality hadn't heroes but martyrs, characters like the president or the DEA agents were created as moral persons just for dramatic reasons, I guess. If you want to watch it because everybody is talking about it just watch the second season where the acting, the suspense, the twists, and even the final were well constructed.


                
Firstly I must say that I really enjoyed both seasons. The story of Pablo Escobar has always been one that fascinated me from an early age and Narcos did not disappoint.I think its important to say that although it is based on his life, it is certainly not a true account of his life. The producers have used artist license and at times embellished and even created events for dramatic effect. Once you make your peace with this, and take it for what it is, its a really enjoyable ride - but one that you must not take too seriously.I live in Panama and have visited Medellin many times - I can understand the frustration of Spanish speakers when they complain about the casting of Pablo. No he doesn't have a Paisa accent and there isn't even an attempt at one. For me that was fine - I guess the producers deemed this to be of little importance. Is his Spanish perfect? No. Will Netflix's major demographic audience realize? Probably not - they're too busy trying to keep up with the subtitles. And I guess for those Spanish speakers who are really put off by the accent there's always the excellent Pablo Escobar: El Patron de Mal.


                
As a Latino I was a bit worried that this show was going to be too Americanised and butchered but it turn out really well. It's a well thought out show linking nicely to historical events with a very natural flowing timeline.I know some people are complaining that Moura doesn't attempt a Medellin accent (though he does a decent general Colombian one) and that Luis Guzman just speaks in his native North American accent and of course that's odd and does unfortunately takes a little bit away from the realism of the show but it far from makes the show poor.My main criticism of the show is that they could (and should) have condensed this series into 7 episodes. There was a little too much filler in the second half of the season. If they had done that I would have given this show easily a 9 or perhaps even a very rare, from me, 10.


                
The show is very entertaining and touch a lot of the well documented life of Pablo Escobar and the rest of The Cartel. Everything looks legit, the only thing I dislike and I'm pretty sure a lot of Latinos will agree is that casting a Brazilian to do the most famous Colombian of all time is whack, the guy can't pronounce Spanish properly, let alone the distinctive Colombian accent.I guess since it's a Brazilian production they wanted one of their own. But if you don't care about the bad accent, then Narcos is a good show for you. It's a great touch to use actual footage of Colombia (1989-93) and many of the picture of the era. Still, the only reason I can't give 10/10 is because of the accents ( Luis Guzman, a fine Puerto Rican actor, as Rodriguez Gacha is plain dumb ).


                
Watched it all in one sitting, awesome series, hopeful for next seasons


                
Loved the portrayal of Pablo. Loved the portrayal of some of the graphic events, well scripted. Very keen to see what they have in store next!Only complaint: The blonde detective/narrator is a corny and annoying.
Please ditch him and others like him next SE!


                
If you're not a native Spanish speaker you'll probably not notice much in terms of how Wagner Moura (Pablo Escobar) butchers the Spanish language with his heavy Brazilian accent. Pablo Escobar, the main persona, spoke with a Medellin, Paisa, accent which is not emulated at all by Mr. Moura. But you know what? I forgive Mr Moura. Why? His performance is so good as Escobar and so convincing that it gradually makes you forget about his thick Brazilian accent. 
What is unforgivable though is the suuuuper Swedish accent of actor Mattias Varela, playing the roll of the Cali Cartel security chief, Jorge Salcedo, in season three. I mean come on! At least Mr Moura gave a solid performance and had an accent regional to Latin America. Mr Varela on the other hand gives a, at best, wooden performance, and that combined with his almost comically Swedish accent, especially when speaking English, makes for some almost unwatchable scenes where Salcedo, supposedly a Colombian, is chatting away as he were the Swedish chef from the Muppet Show. Netflix please, hire accent coaches next time.Apart from Mouras Brazilian accent and Varelas (comically) Swedish accent, the show is really good, well made and entertaining.


                
This show is about the life of Pablo Escobar, one of the biggest and richest drug lord to have ever lived, during his height of power. And the struggle to take him down.This is a well developed show. Love the cinematography and how it captures the beauty of Colombia. The pilot immediately reeled me into the world of Escobar and the series didn't let go until the season was over. The show doesn't glorify him or sugar coat things. It shows him how he was, ruthless, brutal and a family guy, and at the same time shows the law enforcement side of the story too, which is always the best way to go. It also delves in the effect of Escobar's stunts in politics and on the country. This made it feel really similar to The Wire, not on the same level of course. The show is narrated by one of the main character, which also gives it the feel of good old crime drama like Goodfellas. And it also helps the audience into knowing tons of background information in little amount of time so the show can focus on important parts of Escobar's life. The show also often throws in real recorded footage of events happening in the show, which makes it feel more realistic and authentic/documentary-ish. Also, the native language, Spanish, is spoken majority of the time and English only comes up when needed, which further increases the realistic feel.The casting choices are excellent. Not only is the acting great across the board, many of the actors look similar to the people they're portraying. Wagner Moura, who plays Escobar, is brilliant. His first scene in the series perfectly conveys who we will be experiencing in the coming episodes and is probably my favourite scene in the whole series. What I didn't liked about this show was that how they brushed past his rise to fame in just the pilot, which I was really looking forward to seeing pan out slowly. I would have been fine by this choice if the show was a miniseries but its not. Would have been great if the first season focused more on the rise of his empire because the pacing did get slow in the later episodes. Also, the characters, even though well acted, aren't really that likable. I mean I like some of them but not as much as I would like too in a show like this. This includes Escobar too. And because of this, many situations don't really give the level of tension I'd hope they'd give. Still, it is a great show and I can't wait for the second season. Netflix has the potential to become the next HBO. 8.5/10


                
It surprised me despite the decision of give the lead role to a Brazilian actor who hardly could speak in the Colombian accent.in the first season they show a good product involving different points of conflict (DEA, the Colombian government and the drugs cartel) mixing real events with fiction. Really like the soundtrack specially the opening the song fits with rhythm that you imagine for this kind of series.It contains some good violence and actions takes. And the narrator in this case a character explains the context of that time where the drugs cartel had a huge power and influence.The second season is coming next year so if you haven't see it give it a chance. Score 8/10


                
I have something to say about the initial complaints about the language thing. I can see why it was done. The actor playing Escobar was, of all things, Brazilian... etc. Thing is, for an international platform like NETFLIX this kind of thing is, actually, necessary. It's also true-to- life as seen from the perspective of the Gringo DEA guy: It is safer to NOT learn 'Spanish' at all, than to learn a version of 'Spanish' that identifies you with a region, ethnicity, or group. I learned this during my time as a street-level White Guy backup in the Crack Wars in inner-city USA. I met a founding member of MS-13; Dominicans; Hondurans; Mexicans. I met folks from Chiapas that not only didn't speak English, they didn't speak Spanish of any kind!Guatemalans; Panamanians. Guys from Belize! They were all convinced THEIR version of 'Spanish' was the Best One Of All. And they would KILL you if they thought you had learned another version: osmosis: 'How could you know this much of my enemies' inflection, if you are not one with him?'NETFLIX blended the dialects, and it is the right thing to do. I really like this show. It's pretty smart. As much as I can really 'like' anything about the mayhem that went on in the late 1980s-1990s. Savages.


                
This is a good series. Most of the actors did a commendable job (Including Dustin Hoffman as Tootsie as Pablo's mom). Although I do understand that Netflix wants to appeal to a global viewership, I must admit that the inaccuracy of many of the accents was very distracting. So it was the lack of Spanish fluency in some of the actors "forced" to speak in Spanish. Also, I do not agree with some of the nativist comments -nor endorse English as the lingua franca- but the bilingual format was not very successful -in my view. Production values are high but I have seen several Colombian narco telenovelas that are better product than Narcos. Entertaining yet not Netflix best product.


                
