This movie is billed as "the funniest movie of the summer", with a PG rating for "some peril and action". It should be billed as "the scariest movie of the summer for kids", with a PG rating for "a heck of a lot of peril and a thoroughly frightening and upsetting storyline and message". It's the sort of animated movie I'd expect from Tim Burton, not Walt Disney and Pixar.Here's what the promos show you:* bright cheerful balloons lifting a house out of the gray yucky city* a funny, crotchety old man* a cute kid along for the ride* a cute talking dog* a cute goofy bird* a standard comical cartoon villainHere's what's actually in this movie:* an absolutely charming couple having their dreams shattered. Not to mention the wife being stricken ill and dying just as they have a shot at unshattering the dream (my 7-year-old son was in tears at this point, 15 minutes into the movie)* an elderly man sent to a retirement home against his will after being deemed a threat to the community because he conked someone on the head with his cane after they broke the mailbox he built with his beloved (now-deceased) wife* a kid whose stepmother tells him he is an annoyance to his father* a pack of snarling growling dogs realistically-rendered with glowing red eyes/collars chasing an unknown creature through a misty jungle (somewhat common in older Disney movies, but the scenes last much longer and are more intense than in the older movies)* a mean, nasty, paranoid, completely uncomical villain* the same dogs chasing people through a 3-D immersive landscape of cliffs and falling rocks* the cute lovable dog hero (who, btw, is cartoony) cowering in absolute terror before the pack of dogs (who are, as I said above, realistically rendered)* the elderly man's house being burned* the kid being abandoned by the elderly man* the kid tied to a chair on the open loading ramp of an airborne dirigible, slowly sliding down it toward his death (yes, there is a last-minute save)* the cute funny mother bird hero being forced away from her babies by the pack of dogs* and, finally, instead of the happy ending that we've come to expect from Disney/Pixar, when our heroes have saved the day and returned to normal life, there's the ultimate disappointment of all. The kid, you see, has been doing all of this to get his "Assisting the Elderly" badge and become a Senior Wilderness explorer so that his Dad will come to the ceremony. Kid gets badge, kid gets ceremony, and Dad doesn't show up. Yes, that's right the final message of the movie is "your Dad hates you"Watching the promos, would you expect any of this? Do "funniest movie of the summer" and "some peril and action" even hint at any of this? Do any of the reviews mention any of the stuff I just listed? No, they warn you that "one character hits another one and draws some blood" (a tiny little spot of blood on the mailbox-breaker's head), and "a girl admits to tearing a page out of a library book" (ooo, the rebel!) and "a bird gets bitten in the leg" (yup, a big garishly-colored, completely non-realistic-looking bird). You read that, and you see the Disney/Pixar logo, and you think "OK, I don't mind that, and my kids can deal it."Instead, I had one child clinging to my wife for most of the movie, and another crying and begging to leave halfway through. We stayed because we felt they needed to see the standard Disney/Pixar happy ending. See my last bullet point above to see what we got instead.Yes, there were funny moments. The talking collars that show exactly what the dogs are thinking are hilarious and extremely well done, and there was a subtle homage to the classic "Dogs Playing Poker" paintings that had me in stitches.But unlike other Disney and Pixar stuff, the scary and sad scenes were more frequent and much more compelling and overwhelming than the funny bits.I don't usually go on the warpath like this - I figure, if you like a movie, see it, and if you don't, don't. But I am so incensed at how wildly Disney, Pixar, and the media have completely and utterly misrepresented this movie as a light, airy jaunt in a floating house instead of a terror-filled action/adventure movie that happens to be animated that I just have to speak out.
yes, this review contains tons of spoilers, so if you read it - you probably won't want to see the movie.. UP has been peddled to us by Pixar studio and many critics as Pixar's "funniest cartoon ever", well, some add "arguably" to this sentence, which did not make it any less misleading.. don't get me wrong, i love Pixar and all the masterpieces they gave us over the years, which only adds to my surprise and disappointment over UP - such a professional and famous studio either consciously joined other dishonest movie factories in an effort to advertise their product falsely, or for some unknown reason no one at Pixar understands what they created..and now - this is the movie in a nutshell (and a million spoilers, so you may want stop reading right here):1. boy meets girl, they both are mad about famous explorer and dream of traveling to some south American land "lost in time" discovered by this guy, who actually disappears from public view being ridiculed by scientists who do not believe the skeleton of an unknown bird he found is real.. well, boy marries girl..2. in 5 silent minutes narrated by the music Pixar geniuses show us the life of this cute couple, from happy marriage to the moment they discover she can't have kids (or was it a miscarriage you tried to show us in this happy funny movie, Pixar guys ?) to two of them getting old to her dying from cancer (or what was it that killed her, Pixar friends ?) and him being stuck in the same house, which is now surrounded on all sides by new high-rises, while some developers looking like men in black try to squeeze the poor old guy out of his house and his piece of land.. i'll be honest, the short story of their life ending with wife's' death brought me to tears.. and i was going to see a funny cartoon..also, as we're shown this couple spent all their life in the same house, and husband never achieved anything beyond the position of balloon vendor in a local park.. what the hell ? 3. old dude is visited by an overweight inapt boy scout who wants to help him in any way to earn "help elderly" badge..4. old man is fed up, he attacks one of the construction workers, court rules he has to vacate the house, and right when two indifferent dudes from assisted living place come to pick him up he fills up thousands of balloons he has from his job with gas and launches his whole house into aerial adventure.. let me also say that throughout the whole movie he constantly looks at the pictures of his deceased wife and talks to her, which is very painful to watch..5. Fat boy scout somehow jumps aboard the house, and is stuck there with old man...6. they arrive to south America by means of huge storm..7. miraculously they find themselves almost at the very spot old man dreamed reaching all his life.. they meet a weird talking dog (she usesspecial translating electronic collar) and a huge weird bird..8. they travel together trying to land the house at the designated water fall, while we find out that this dog is one of many "talking dogs" raised and put in servitude by the famous explorer, who is still, for like 60 years hiding with his huge blimp in a cave in the vicinity somewhere, trying to catch this rare bird, yes the very bird that old man and fat boy scout befriended.. old man meets explorer (who is apparently 150 years old at this point, but looks as "young" as old man), soon they figure out that Mr. explorer is cold-blooded killer who is ready to dispatch of anyone standing between him and the bird, and an "indiana jones" type sequence of events transpires before our eyes, during which the meanest talking dogs and Mr. evil explorer plunge to their deaths, old man looses the house, but comes in possession of the blimp and everything on it, as well as the army of remaining talking dogs..good adventure, terrific graphics, but...could this cartoon be any more sad ? and did i mention that poor fat boy scout lives with stepmother and abandoned by his real dad ? i don't know about you, but i wish there was a law that would let me sue a movie studio for false and misleading advertising..if i knew how depressing UP is - i'd never gone to see it..yes, there is ton of "funny" stuff in this movie, the interaction of old man and boy scout and talking dog and huge bird, and every character's graphics is funny and cartoonish, but none of this joyful ha-ha stuff manages to even remotely disguise the extremely sad plot lines..old man is heartbroken about his wife the entire movie, the whole balloon journey is about fulfilling her dream of getting to this south American place (why they never tried to get there in their 60 years together is beyond understanding, particularly given that they did not have any kids to look after (we were explained that all too well)), the boy scout is heartbroken about his dad leaving him, the bird gets injured by evil dogs (though recovers later), the famous explorer reveals himself as a homicidal maniac, and so forth...yes, as a story about the unlikely friendship, helping friends, fulfilling dreams and other crap like this - this cartoon is great..but as an "arguably" the funniest Pixar work it fails so miserably, so breathtakingly and profoundly that i am nothing but sorry i saw it..in no way it is for kids, and adults should know how heartbreaking the whole thing is..Pixar, why ?
Being sparked by an idea is not enough. Not enough when you dream to make a full length motion picture and want your audience to relish and reminisce every frame conceived. I did have very high expectations of the movie ever since i read rave reviews from the Cannes fest, also counting the exciting preview screened before Terminator Salvation began. The balloons, the lift, the adventure appealed to me instantly, the lover that i am of 21 balloons. it's with this heightened expectation that i approached the movie and was disappointed by every attempt of Pixar's in creating a story out of an idea. That would be the most frustrating part of any writer's work when a grand idea has to be developed to reach it's end. Sadly this is where the writers lost it. They had a planned and riveting story until the old man (Carl Fredricksen) realizes it's never too late to get started on anything. The plaintive note of Carl's early life all played very well with the setting to escape on a long wished for adventure. Yes the story held me in it's sway UP until this point. This point was stretched so far as to include the 70 year old Carl confronting his childhood idol, Muntz ( who should be about 95+) and is seen walking with ease and in perfect health ( did the writers in their right mind think this made sense at all,), a senseless plot about capturing a bird that loves chocolates, which is by the way the central plot( not the balloon adventure that you thought the movie was about. Oh did i mention the plot also includes dogs that can communicate their thoughts in human language with the aid of a collar.Writers what were you thinking? You just robbed me off my precious two hours and another half in writing out this painful review. Why painful? I carried home a souvenir. A splitting headache
Are people just brainwashed or stupid? This is the worst movie I have seen in a long, long time. If there isn't an entirely new generation of children afraid of dogs permanently I'll be very surprised. The lack of imagination is overwhelming. A grumpy old man - my, my, that's never been thought of before. A fat scout, how adorable. Absent father, what a surprise. The entire movie is about loss, that is all. First part is loss of innocence, then loss of a baby, loss of the hope of a baby, loss of wife, loss of will, loss of home, loss of father, loss of dreams. Then when by use of the balloons he does get to his dream place, no one, no one points out that he has to lose faith in the hero of his childhood, he is the explorer who had inspired him and Ellie to want to go to Paradise Falls in the first place! Now he is evil! He also has to be at least 100 years old!! Since Carl is supposed to be 78 and Muntz was his hero when he was 10. The time line is just all messed up, but the whole movie is so messed up. What a pile of junk! Evidently Pixar can put out anything and the clones will line up to praise it and see it, but I won't, never again. I felt robbed since it cost me $11 to see the 3-D version. It was no better. The problem was the plot.
I finally got around to watching this film after last year it being released. Since its arrival, it had many great things said from critics about it; saying how it was so good and all. Many promos had tags such as "funniest movie of the summer" and "best Pixar film. These both lines are outrageously wrong. Up is nowhere near funny, it is actually quite depressing. They simply showed the funny scenes in the trailer but the actual movie was not funny. Right from the beginning, we see the old man as a kid being forced by his future wife (as a kid) to like him, and eventually it starts from there. They eventually get married, live a happily nice life then a few short scenes of pictures with background music, they show the wife dying in a hospital then there, she is dead. That's not funny.The characters weren't great. The old man was grumpy, and cruel. The kid was fat (a little under obese), bratty and annoying. He had privacy problems which was well showed in the film. The villain was boring and far too aggressive for a kids movie. Also there were talking dogs and a large bird. There were so many things confusing and not right about the film, such as some scenes that showed blood, and a scene with dogs attacking them. Also a scene where the villain captures and ties the kid (Russell) on a chair trying to kill him by sending him down a ramp (though the old man eventually saves him). I seriously don't see why this film was so praised, it is completely misleading and not great. Bland storyline, and uninteresting plot. It is vastly overrated, and shouldn't be in the top 250.
I came into the movie with an open mind to the story and movie in general. I expected great things because Pixar has made some of the best animated movies ever. The only thing I actually enjoyed about this movie was the plot setup, as the first five minutes of the movie were very sentimental. However, this great setup was quickly turned over by countless ideas that were not appealing at all. I may have laughed only once in the entire movie as the humor could only be funny to small children. It saddens me that this movie could have been great but I was clearly the wrong target audience.I do not recommend this movie to anyone over 10 years old, anyone with a good taste of humor, or anyone who wants to keep their opinion of Pixar in tact. Up is nowhere near as good a movie as anything else Pixar has created because those other movies captured the eyes of a variety of audiences.I have no doubts that all the other fantastic reviews of this movie have been written by family oriented people or Pixar employees.


                
I don't think I've ever been so mad at a Disney/Pixar film before! "Up" was beyond terrible!! I don't want to give away any spoilers, but there's really nothing to spoil. The basic plot of the movie is this: After the death of his wife, an elderly man (Mr. Fredricksen) decides to fly his house to South America using thousands of helium balloons as a tribute to his wife's life-long dream to live at the top of Paradise Falls.That doesn't sounds so bad, right? WRONG! My daughter is very sensitive to topics like death, and loss, and loneliness, and depression BUT THOSE ARE THE MAIN THEMES OF THE MOVIE! *headdesk* We should have left the theater after the hospital death scene and funeral home scene, but I thought "hey, it can't get any worse!" WRONG.Just when Mr. Fredricksen takes off to the sky, he learns that a little boy (Russell) has become a stowaway on the trip - he was on the porch just as the house broke free of it's foundation.Russell is there to provide comic relief, but at the same time we learn that his father has abandoned him, he may or may not have a mother at home, and all his good memories are boring ones.*headdesk* Oh, they make it to South America just fine and that's when the real "adventure" begins. Not. Mr. Fredricksen and Russell become the protectors of a giant endangered bird who is trying to escape from a hunter who has spent nearly all his life in search of the bird. Oh, yeah, the hunter has also been breeding an army of dogs who can talk via a collar translator that he developed.Please read that last paragraph again. An old man and young boy in a flying house have to protect a giant bird from a man who has an army of talking dogs.*headdesk* It is that level of ridiculousness that makes you feel like a rube for being taken in by the sentimentality of the first 15 minutes of the movie - when Mr. Fredricksen and his wife meet as children and we see their long, happy life together in a beautifully done montage.It is that level of ridiculousness that makes me question why Disney/Pixar would have such a heavy hand on the "death" aspect of the movie. Oh, it doesn't stop once Mrs. Fredricksen passes away. Throughout the movie, Mr. Fredricksen talks to his wife, gazes lovingly at her old pictures, invokes her name in times of trouble, and makes it his mission to fulfill her final wish at any cost.Sure, he eventually has an epiphany about what's important to him now, and how he needs to live in the present, not the past, but it is too little too late. My daughter was already scarred.When the lights came up in the theater, she didn't want to stick around for the credits. She bolted up the aisle, out the door, and went to the car without saying a word. I know that she was trying to hide that she had been crying, which broke my heart (especially since she had been looking forward to this movie for a long time).I guess I should have done a thorough search for "Up" reviews before we went. I know that from here on out I will. I guess it is my fault for assuming we would have a good time at this heavily promoted Disney film. I know that from here on out, I won't.Shame on you, Disney/Pixar, for being so out of touch with your audience.Two thumbs down.
Any movie that begins with a 10 minute sob story is dumb, dumb, dumb. We went because we had heard UP was a great movie. I will admit the technology was pretty good, but the story ranged from unbelievable to awful. It was disjointed, more like a series of vignettes written by a whole bunch of different people and strung together for 90 minutes. It didn't flow and wasn't the least bit believable. At least Toy Story had a semi-credible story line and Finding Nemo made sense from beginning to end. We wasted $9 apiece for this piece of dreck! That said, the characters Kevin and Dug were humorous, but provided too little humor to carry the rest of the film. Ed Asner is the human voice of a dirge.


                
I (a 16 YO female)was personally really disappointed with "Up", as was my mom who saw it with me. We went to see it one of those summer days that was too hot to do anything else, and since we'd heard so many people say it was "The Best Disney/Pixar Movie Ever Made", or the "Best Film of the Year" we figured it would probably be good.About 45 minutes into the film when it had yet to get interesting or funny we talked about leaving, but kept hoping it would get better. Well, turns out our time would have been better spent elsewhere.I thought it was cute, but all the jokes were the ones where I would turn to my mom and tell her the punchline before the joke was halfway said, and about 40 minutes from the end told her what would happen, and she agreed.In terms of "Best Disney/Pixar Movie Ever Made", I'm still waiting for something to top "Finding Nemo."


                
For God's sake this was pure misery. I am still crying my eyes out. The funny parts were very few while the miserable, depressing parts were everywhere. It took me days to get the poor old man's face out of my mind. It was like a ghost haunting me. The final message it was trying to convey was good but with what cost? If you are sensitive and have grandparents you love or had grandparents you loved don't see it!!! If you are over thirty and don't want to see your life flash before your eyes don't watch it!!! If you don't want your children to spend days thinking how they will lose you and everything they love some day don't let them watch it!!


                
I, like many others have heard marvelous reviews on the movie Up. But I was extremely let down so much that I was unable to even finish the film. I stopped it when Carl trashed Ellie's memory completely.The movie was meant to portray their relationship as something strong and special. Throughout the first half of the movie Carl has been fiercely trying to protect their home which he refers to as his wife. But, that all changes when Russell, the very annoying, spoiled, obnoxious child takes off. Carl decides in a split second to take everything inside his house (which hold ALL of his memories of his wife and their time together) and toss them out of his house via the front door and windows resulting in everything being broken.That scene destroyed the whole meaning of the movie for me. I couldn't connect at all with Carl or care for him in any way. There were many ways that Carl could have followed Russell without ruining the only thing he had left of Ellie.What message are we honestly teaching our children these days? If you have something special that was given to you by a deceased loved one that it's okay to completely and utterly destroy it?There was a great deal of other things that I didn't like either. Like the relationship between Ellie and Carl in the beginning. I dislike the impression given to me on that first day. Ellie is very loud and obnoxious and really has no regard for Carl. She forces him into a dangerous situation that results in him breaking his arm. She then sneaks into his room that same day, but not to see if he's all right. Instead she shows him her adventure book and then forces him to promise to fulfill her dream of going to Paradise Falls. Then afterwards we watch them grow through wordless scenes that are difficult to connect with due to the fast pace and lack of detail.Another scene that was meant to be emotional but fell short was when Carl was prosecuted as a 'menace' for cutting a guy's forehead. It wasn't explained very well at all and why would he be forced into an old people's home? The worker DESTROYED his property and when Carl was trying to retrieve it the worker FOUGHT him for it. So the worker was in the wrong much more than Carl. It was just such a bizarre scene that left me going... wait... what?I also dislike how Carl left for his adventure. The movie portrays the couple constantly trying to get to Paradise Falls. Then she dies and Carl doesn't get inspired by Ellie. The ONLY reason he left was to run away from the authority. He was forced into that situation and then decided to leave. There was no special meaning to it or heartwarming connection.Personally, I believe they didn't even need the scene of him smacking that worker on the head. Why couldn't Carl decide on his own to complete their adventure? Why did he have to be backed into a corner in order to finally leave?I also disliked the scene when Carl meets the man he has idolized his whole life, Charles. But he doesn't bother telling him about the bird even though Charles was humiliated and had spent his whole life trying to find the bird in order to return his pride.Carl chose to hide the bird instead of revealing it to Charles who, at this point, hadn't shown any sinister qualities. How does that make ANY sense? They could have played that scene completely different and ended with the same result. Carl could have tried to help his 'hero' (which would have made a ton more sense) and tell him about the bird. But explain that it has babies, and that Charles should take them all together. Charles could have demanded to know where the bird is, and Carl could explain that the bird trusts them and so it'd be easier if they go alone to get it. And then Charles could go crazy and believe that Carl is trying to steal his glory. You get the exact same result, but it makes much more sense.Yes, this is a kids movie. I do understand that, but I have a limit and other parents should too. There is no lesson to be learned in this movie. It's just another story poorly portrayed and bunched together. It's something to waste time and distract your kids with pretty colors and funny scenes, but nothing more.
I watched this new flick of pixar and Disney in the sneak preview of my cinema.The thing is the plot is actually mature, but the rest is just silly and childish crap.How can a movie like this get 9 points for gods sake. are u all drunk? Don't SHOW THIS MOVIE TO YOUR KIDS.Onl positive things i want to point out is the voice of Mr.F and the very good computer animations though i watched it in 2D.Normally i agree with people on movies, but in this case i felt like im the only one who didn't like it. The whole cinema ) only adults caus eof sneak) were laughing and laughing. I didn't do so a single time. I have to admit that I left the cinema after wasting one hour there.Regards


                
After everyone ranting and raving about how wonderful and moving and poignant this film was, I put down my snobbery and, on the recommendation of a respected co-worker (I'm in advertising - We're supposed to be creative and discerning, right?), sat down to watch it.I was horrified. A trite, treacly story, irritating and ugly characters, and an utterly predictable plot. Nothing good to say about this film at all except that it shows of the advances of 3D animation nicely.Don't get me wrong - I;m not anti-sentimentality. I LOVE "It's a Wonderful Life", cried in "Old Yeller"... I even liked "Forrest Gump". But THIS... I hardly know what else to say. I only hope that my lonely negative review will help weight down the balloon of this ghastly offering.


                
For the most part, Pixar films seem almost totally immune to criticism. I'm not really sure what it is, but Liam Colle might have given us a hint when he said of the studio's repertoire: "These are not kids movies that parents can sit through. Pixar makes grown-up movies that parents don't feel guilty about letting their kids watch." I think people think they're SUPPOSED to like them because of the "cute" factor, and I also think that the 3-D animation ties into this.Because, let's face it: Disney animated classics such as "Sleeping Beauty" would not have worked so well or at all with live actors. Neither would Pixar's. But Disney of old (and I insist well on this point!) could get away with the flashy, fantastical, imaginative storyboards precisely because the animation was beautiful and fluid. Pixar's is flat, sterile and robotic. The elements all look plastic. This is just part of the limitation of 3-D rendering. Sure, this worked for Toy Story, because all the characters WERE plastic toys.But stories about actual characters fall flat, because we simply can't relate to the characters. That leaves the cuteness and threadbare humor (if you are the sort who finds this stuff funny, and I am not) to sustain the film, and I have to opine that it is a really sad state of affairs when the adults of our society consider cuteness sufficient power for sustaining a dramatic narrative.Now for "Up" itself. The beginning part is dreadfully depressing, and might work for a live-action art house film, but I can't imagine a child (again, this is NOT a kids' film, but it is marketed as such) sitting through it without crying. The second half of the movie leaves us with a grumpy old man and an incredibly annoying kid stuck in a tangle on an extraordinary adventure, trying to extricate themselves from a problem that the kid caused. There is no meaning, no feeling: just cuteness, if you aren't sufficiently annoyed by this point."Up" really should have been two movies: one picturesque live-action film about the old man, with no extra-possible situations, and one plasticky CGI film about a random lonely old man and a kid. The latter would have been utterly ignorable but still would have garnered the praise of critics. And such a cleavage would have avoided the film we actually got, which was the latter with connotations of pretension toward the former, adding insult to injury.Pixar... just go away, please?


                
First I would like to say that I was never sad in this movie. I felt nothing for these characters. The old man was a grumpy and mean character. The little fat kid was annoying. I wanted to punt that kid whenever I saw him. The villain was boring and stupid. The animation is good . The main character was boring and not funny. Ill give it one thing: the plot line was mature, but is that good for a kids movie? Do you want kids to see a pack of snarling red-eyed dogs coming at them in 3D? I expected a good movie like Toy Story. Toy Story had good characters, a good villain, and a good plot line. This movie (I thought) was bad, with boring characters, an adult plot line and annoying at times.
I can define "Up" as the stolen 90 minutes of my life. Actually,I had really high expectations about Up, before watching it. However, it was so bad, i barely finished the movie. I can say that the main characters are well created and written. On the other hand, there was no story in the movie. Except the little clip that tells the Carl's life in the beginning, there was nothing good and original thing in the movie. It was full of the cliché dialogues and cheesy jokes. Also the side characters were weak and poor. they had nothing to add to the story. However, i have to give it that clip i mentioned earlier was really awesome. I wish that the movie would be about Ellie and Carl trying make their dreams come true together.


                
I'm assuming everyone who has rated this movie with such adoration must relate to the boring story of this tale, which is a sign that a lot of people are not living up to their potential and making the most out of their life. My biggest critique is that the story was meant to inspire a life without regret and started off with realistic circumstances but half way through the movie they weakened their purpose by taking the plot in a whole new direction and making everything suddenly unrealistic. Instead of demonstrating that life has unforeseen incidences that can get in the way of your dreams and show how to overcome those hurdles, Pixar and Disney decided to crush those dreams AND any hope for the future. First of all the couple gets married, than tries to go on a dream trip in quest of meeting their adventure hero but house repairs consumes their savings making it difficult to leave. The point of this is obvious, don't wait for tomorrow for tomorrow may never come. But then the wife has a miscarriage! Granted this has happened to many woman but what's the point of showing that? It's not like it's something that can be controlled. What's the lesson of this and what is it doing in a children's film? I know tragedy is a big part of storytelling history but usually death is the main motivator not miscarriage, that is one step away from a still born. Then the couple gets old and the woman dies and the man is left to survive on his own.Surely this happens too again reminding us that we may die before we reach our dreams but she was old and so basically at this point the message seems to be "if your lazy your whole life and stay in the same house and same neighborhood, you're gonna waste your life". Well okay but then the second half of the story is completely unrealistic. An annoying young boy decides to suddenly hang out with the old man and no one cares about the missing child. The house can fly miraculously and off they go to the place he always wanted to go with his wife only to find out that his lifelong hero is a phony and a poacher. Some fake colorful bird shows up displaying pixars latest modeling and texturing skills but it's more ridiculous than meaningful. Sure this movie was "different" and bold but in my opinion the worst film they've ever made. I just hope my negative review will help to deflate this overinflated idea of a good movie.
just here to cast a vote for those hating this film. I would not have liked this as a kid either. the whole beginning was so maudlin and ... weirdly seemed drawn out even as it went through 60 years. maybe it's an insult to my intelligence such as it is that a boy and a girl who are pals would end up married. how fake is that. all that sentiment and sediment blech... at just before when he gets kicked out of his house I decided to come and read the crappy reviews cause I knew I was not one of the people who thought highly of this movie. I fast forwarded through a bit more of it then mercifully put it to rest. I'm not big on animation anyway, and I hate this style of animation particularly. but the movie was so applauded I gave it a chance. just awful!


                
As if the world needed yet another reason to hate Disney pixar animated movies! Like holy sh**, this movie movie sucks monkey privates! Not only is it an animated movie- which no one above three should ever enjoy...EVER- ITS SOO F*CKING LOOOOOONNNNGGGG! Excuse me while i cut myself because of this extremely droll and depressing story line!!!! I LITERALLY couldn't think of a worse movie to create. And NOW whenever i babysit for someone their retarded kids are like "oooo lets watch UP" and i'm like "uuuhhh... no, shut your fcking mouth and go play hopscotch damn kids." When i was a kid i read books on string theory!! The world has yet to prove itself a viable place to take up existence.


                
