I watched this film a lot later than it came out on DVD. Im glad i didn't go to the cinema to watch this.the first few minutes of the film were very well done. they didn't seem emotional at all in my view, but they made me root for the character and i wanted him to succeed. Possibly the scene that made me want to shout at the screen was the bit where the contractors came to take his house. the storm scene was again very well done. but as soon as they landed in south America, i was met with a wall of one-sided character development, weak storyline, and irrational behavior. maybe if there were more scenes that the old man (i forget his name) had to bond with the two incredibly annoying creatures, i wouldn't be so harsh with this review. but i cant understand at all why he would suddenly risk his life to save a stupid bird that, less than 10 minutes ago, he told to sod off. the dog got on my nerves too. by the end i found no reason why anyone would want to rescue that bloody thing, and i wished it had fallen onto some rocks or something.the villain was irrational. he seems to undergo an impossible change of character - either he was a schizo, or the script wasn't written very well. one minute he wants to find the bird alongside the old man, next he sees the bird and wants to kill them both instead of asking nicely for it. this sort of insane colour bambardment continues throughout the film, and we get loads of threads in the story which are left untied. a good script is one where every move made by the characters is one that you know fits the character well, or one that you would be able to transpose onto a real person. in UP, the only rational decsion made is the marriage of that woman to that man.(i forget their names, you see.) everything else said or done is so implausible that the rest of the film dies. I'm sorry, but here are some examples. the bird is an annoyance to everyone - the dog, the old man, the boy - but everybody loves it. its another example of the annoying thing that everyone likes in Disney films. the old man spends less than a day with that boy and suddenly they are like father and son. the villain guy has no reason to chase the people with dogs. he could simply ask for the bird. but he instead embarks on this needless token battle which ends in his death.nobody sees the stupidity of the decisions made in the film, and i really hope that this film does not make it into the top 250 - or top 100000 for that matter. this was probably the only pixar film which sunk to the depths of chaep Disney drivel. i despair.
I give one star for the fantastic animation and voice-acting. This movie is indeed very beautiful to look at and the voices fit the characters.Unfortunately, there's an overwhelmingly bad about this movie, hence the low score. Bad Advertising - This movie-poster and trailers give the impression that this is a lighthearted and fun movie. Colorful balloons, funny looking bird, bright lit sky. The back of the DVD even says it's a fun-filled adventure full of laughter. What we get is a very depressing, sad, boring, frightening and mean-spirited movie with the occasional attempt at a funny scene that lasts a second or two. The only thing that had me giggle was the bird and the scene where the old man imagines dropping the kid from the house.Lack of plot - I agree with other reviewers, it seems that they had a great idea and once they get to their destination this movie hits the drain. Instead of the goofy bird, we get dogs that can talk with collars (I thought they were creepy) and a maniac who wants to kill the main characters to capture the goofy bird. Was this at all in the advertisement or back of the DVD? Nope. And what's up with the adventurer and his age? He looks younger than Carl, but should be about 30 years older. And why wouldn't a collar that makes dogs talk and able to understand humans not be more interesting to show than that goofy bird? Heck, even a collar that makes dogs understand human emotions as well? Nope, only goofy birds are good enough for scientists.Depressing - The characters aren't likable (except the bird) and there's a lot of violence, sad moments, scary moments... I also thought it was very unneeded with the aggressive dogs. The moment where Kevin is caught in the net and taken away from her babies was also depressing. This whole movie is a huge downer. I don't mind depressing animated movies if they are done well. "The Land Before Time" is an excellent movie which faced many difficult things, but had enough humor and charm to balance it. This movie also started with killing off the funniest character, Ellie, by having her grow up into an old lady and die of cancer. Now that set me up in a bad mood from the very start.This isn't a movie I would want to watch again. I could barely make it through the last 30 minutes of the movie. The ending was disappointing and predictable.
Remarkable first 20 minutes or so.Very interesting characters.But then, as other reviewers put it, the makers didn't know how to advance the story.So they threw in blood-thirsty dogs and such, turning a movie for children (and adults with hearts) into a horror show, or whatever.Keep away. Most importantly, keep your children away.Post-modern (read: post-any-values) world indeed. Compare the beauty of the Disney animated movies of 1930s, 40s, 50s (Bambi, Snow White, Jungle Book, and so on) with what today's children have to put up with.Indeed, a sick mind sickens others. And in turn, they would sicken others. How protected are you?


                
I can't believe how much this movie disappointed me. When I saw the first trailers I was already looking forward to it. It looked like a funny movie and the idea felt fresh and unique. After last years "Wall-E", which was one my favorite movies and Pixars best in my opinion, I had to see "Up" too. I consider myself a big Pixar fan and I had the feeling that I would love this one as much as I loved Wall-E. After seeing it on big screen I still can't believe how much I was wrong. The trailers, the hype, everything feels so wrong afterwards. But were did it all go wrong? You see, the first act of the film is interesting and promising. We get to know the dreams and the hopes of our protagonist and I really started to feel for the old man. The problem arises in the second half of the film, which is, in my humble opinion, weak and surprisingly not entertaining at all. That's why the biggest beef I have with this film is the logic in the story. There were many times when I had to ask myself "How is that possible?" while watching it. Being 21 years old, I still can appreciate a story with fantasy, talking animals and lots of other stuff not existing in our real world. The only important rule is: It has to make sense in the universe in which the story is playing. Carl Fredricksen is an old man. The first half of the movie we see him having problems walking around. He even needs help to get up the stairs. This is the same man who can drag a house on his back while climbing trough a rocky dessert the other half of the film. I don't care if he had balloons tied on the house, it still must be heavy. Some of the balloons even get destroyed over the course of the film. That alone would make the house heavier as time progresses. Even the bird was able to escape the pack of dogs while dragging Carl, Russell AND the house tied on its back, jumping around like it was just carrying papier mâché instead of real persons (and a freaking house!). Mind you, Carl was even strong enough to climb up a ladder outside a zeppelin. Why? I guess because the plot needed him to. My second problem with this film was the lack of promised jokes. Interviews led me to believe that this was going to be "Pixars funniest film". Yet, all the jokes were seen in the trailers and at the time I saw them on big screen I couldn't laugh because of them anymore. This film is the exact opposite of "funny". The first 15 minutes are depressing and heart-wrenching. Russells family story wasn't uplifting either and even in the end I felt more depressed when his father never showed up. Kevin gets bitten, separated from her children and captured, Dug gets humiliated and also physically abused by the other dogs, the house nearly gets destroyed over-dramatically and the main villain, who was actually interesting at first, was just an old, crazy man, shunned by society. This film was Pixars funniest? I highly doubt that. I still think that title belongs to Monster Inc. which is also better in every aspect possible. The villain Muntz, as I said before, was interesting at first. How old is this guy anyway? He was already an adult when Carl was still a young boy not older than 8. And he still lived when Carl was 80 years old. No explanation on that mystery? The talking dogs were a nice idea but it ended being that when they were able to fly on mini airplanes shooting at our protagonists. The dogs were all menacing (except Dug who was drawn round and friendly) and stereotypical. Making the Doberman the most evil of them all was just the icing on the cake. Was there anything I actually liked? Yes and I can name it. Kevin. Watching this bird movie and interact with all the other characters was entertaining. She was by far the best character and my favorite. Too bad she gets hurt and shoved aside at the middle of the film. A final few words to the animation: I saw it in 3D and I was impressed. Yet I still think that the animation and the backgrounds in Wall-E were more breath taking. They draw me into the story whenever I watch it and I have the feeling that I'm a part of the film. I kind of missed that while watching "Up". The traditional short film at the beginning was way better and more entertaining than the main film. And that's quite sad if you ask me.I had to get this rant of my chest. After hearing that it won at the Academy Awards I was disappointed again. My favorite animated movie 2009 was the underdog "Coraline". It had everything I missed in this mess. I prefer watching "Coraline" over "Up" any day.
I rented this movie a week ago after hearing and reading all the hype around it.I really like animated movies be it by Pixar or Dreamworks or Disney or otherwise.Boy was I beat.And no it was not the "sad" opening scene that disappointed me (the only thing sad about this movie is how bad it was), but the entire silly story and characters.The movie starts about some explorer/adventurer named Charles Muntz who went to south America in search of some mythical creature but is accused of forgery. Carl Fredericksen, the main character, idolizes him and dreams of a journey to south America on his own.He meets Elli, a young girl with similar taste. They marry, but Elli later dies and Carl lives on his own and discovers that the area surrounding his house is becoming urbanized with skyscrapers.He refuses to move but when they come to bring him away to an retirement home he moves away by thousand of balloons attached to his house.Underway he discovers some fat annoying boy-scout named Russel who bothered him earlier is traveling along. *warning spoilers*They land in South-America where they come across some big endangered bird who is chased by vicious dogs who are able to talk thanks to some collar around their necks. The dogs turn out to belong to Charles Muntz the explorer who somehow has managed to become over 110 years old and has settled in that place and his chasing that strange bird.Russel and Carl refuse to hand over the bird so the 110 y/o man starts a wild chase after the other old fart while both are still capable of doing things nobody of that age is able to.Of course Carl wins and they all lived happily ever after.Did you read it all ? Now I know you should take animated movies not too serious,but this ???? The story was so ridiculous, even for an animated movie.Not to mention the horrible characters; I hated that grumpy old man,I hated that fat little kid ,I hated how they turned a once respected adventurer into a bad guy and I especially hated that stupid idea of talking dogs. You can almost see the producers thinking "wait a second, an animated movie with no talking animals in it ? Let's put in some silly concept like dogs talking through collars or else the audience might not like it". Well, it turned out awful.Go watch Finding Nemo or Monsters,Inc. and avoid this over-hyped crap.
Like a big, hot bowl of mashed potatoes and gravy the homogenized humor of this aggressively wholesome animated movie will fill you up with warm, comfy predigested emotions while blocking any effective critical thinking. It's Disney after all, the entertainment equivalent of Marie Callender's. ... Repeat to make IMD's Minimum lines requirement: Like a big, hot bowl of mashed potatoes and gravy the homogenized humor of this aggressively wholesome animated movie will fill you up with warm, comfy predigested emotions while blocking any effective critical thinking. It's Disney after all, the entertainment equivalent of Marie Callender's.
I feel like people who are saying this movie was amazing just feel obligated to give it good reviews because it's Pixar. My gosh, this was one of the dullest mind numbing stories I've ever seen. Everything was SLOW, and the "emotional" moments were forced. Even the famous first 15 mins led to me yawning. SKIP THIS unless you want to be bored out of your mind for 2 hours.


                
