Are you looking for a show that keeps you on the edge of your seat? A show that makes you wish you don't have to wait a week for the next episode? A show that uses fresh ideas instead of the same old, worn out clichés? Maybe a show with interesting characters and good actors? Sorry, you have to look somewhere else. While BSG is a whole different take on the original concept of the show, it's as boring and silly as the original from the 70's. You can see every bigger plot twist coming from a mile away. You will find every war movie cliché in here! The writers don't even shy away from using DEUS EX MACHINAs, that make 'Star Trek: Voyager' look smart. SPOILER!!!!(although I doubt that anybody will be surprised by it) I stopped watching in the middle of season 2, after the president got cured from her cancer in the last moment. END OF SPOILER!!!! Edward James Olmos is without a doubt the only actor who makes the show at least a little bit worth watching. Unfortunately none of the other actors is able to fill their two-dimensional characters with something like life. Doesn't matter if one of them falls in love or gets slaughtered on the battlefield - you just don't care! To make things worse, the producers decided to use the hip "shaky cam", that should suggest that the audience is watching some kind of documentary. Okay, the wannabe-documentary-cam can be done right. Look at '24' or 'Children Of Men', where you always have the feeling to be in the middle of the action, without missing any important details. Here it's unfortunately just annoying and amateurish. If I wanted to see out of focus close-ups of faces during conversations, I would watch the home video of the last Christmas party.Seriously, don't believe the hype. Yes, it's a "dark" and "serious" remake of a silly 70's SciFi show, with lots of post-9/11-paranoia (that lacks every subtlety), but without corny aliens or "cute" kids, but it's nothing to waste your precious time with.
I gave this show the whole first season and became more and more disappointed, this is the type of show where you can have it on as back ground noise while you are talking on the phone, surfing the internet and reading a book and still not miss anything, because nothing happened.I don't mind that Starbuck and Boomer are now women or that humans made the first Cylon's. But making human form Cylon's was nothing more then a way to save money on special effects. Add to that there are so few special effects and so little sci-fi in this sci-fi show makes it no better then watching CSI or Law and Order, when you do get an attack they only show a quick glimpse and then we stare at Adama in the CIC looking at a radar screen, and a poor one at that. Part of watching sci-fi is seeing the technology and ship designs, as one reviewer put it they have the same technology we have, a people advanced enough to make a ship like a Battlestar would have way more advanced items and much better weapons then a bullet and a Nuke. A bullet would not work as an effective weapon in a space battle so a missile would be better, but still it would need huge amounts of fuel to chase another ship doing any maneuvers other then a straight line it would be bigger then the ship caring it and it would still be very low tech for a fighter in space, for that mater you wouldn't even need the fighter because the capital ships could launch them, and using a Nuke?? Come on.OK there was the episode Exodus part two in season three that had a little more action and special effects but they must have saved the budget for the previous two seasons to pay for it. And then they went back to the same lame story lines they used in season one, who worked with the Cylon's how can we punish them, can we work together as a crew now after a full year of Cylon cruelty? Yeah, look at all the movies set in occupied Europe during World War II and you will see the exact same thing, nothing new here.
While traveling for work, I found this show on HBO late in the evenings when I needed a little TV before sleep. This gave me a chance to view several sequential episodes.While I can understand people giving the show credit for trying to tackle multi-layered plots, I found the whole show to be incredibly annoying. First, the hazy psychological waffling of the Cylons, and the sudden realization of several humans that they're actually Cylons strikes me as attempts to add complexity to characters in the absence of actual plot. It's every bit as silly as other science fiction shows where a new technical gizmo is created at the last minute to save a writer who has left no other way out of faulty storyline. But the thing that made me pick up the remote and turn it off for good was the absolutely absurd direction where 90% of dialog takes place at a whisper! I never once heard Edward James Olmos speak at a conversational pitch. I know it is done to enhance the already unbearable dourness and darkness, and it succeeds well beyond the point of total annoyance. It's so bad that it's hard to physically listen to the show - if the TV audio is up high enough to hear the whispers, then music or even normal speech will suddenly blast the poor listener. After a couple episodes, whenever EJO spoke in his serious whisper, I was reminded of the character Latrine in the movie "Top Secret" who would burst, wounded and bleeding, into a room and speak every word in a desperate, over-acted whisper. Finally, humans use humor in the face of adversity as an extremely effective means of bearing the unbearable. But for some reason, this trait has completely left the humans of the BSG universe. In spite of the horror and desperation of their situation, they seem to push on without the relief of a single joke or bit of humorous sarcasm. In the 6 episodes I saw, there was exactly on scene that made me smile. Perhaps every one of them is actually a Cylon and just doesn't know it yet.Watching this show makes me lament the loss of Firefly even more...I agree there are some good intentions in BSG, but after 6 episodes I find it unwatchable.
What a shame! I absolutely loved the original series and never missed an episode. My friends and I would literally work our schedules around the show to make sure we were available at its normal time slot.Unfortunately, the new series not only doesn't have that same level of attraction, it actually left me bored. I've actually turned it off every time I've tried to watch it. After several attempts to watch a complete episode, I've given up and just switch to something else. I just don't get what anyone likes about the new series. It is pure melodrama with barely enough science-fiction to piece the boredom together. Now, Eureka on the other hand is showing itself to be fun and very entertaining.


                
So the show won awards... Big Woop....How is that related to quality in the slightest? After all, we live in a world where The Office won an Emmy (feel free to choose your own example here).Awards these days are a function of the time and money spent in the campaign to buy them.Galactica's producers, and especially Ron Moore, are focused on getting awards and hyping their show.Awards is what they're getting as the audience dwindles to nothing.Yes, gentlemen (and Ladies!) the much hyped, much publicized premiere of BG had 2.2 million viewers, compared to 3.1 last year.Now, forget that 2.2 million viewers is anemic for a show that spends so much money advertising itself, it's a third lower than last year, in spite of claims of "quality" and "relevance". If the show is so great why are people not watching it any more? Maybe if the producers re-thought the ill-fated "concept" of shaking the camera at everything, casting dead-eyed models and shooting on video, they'd get an audience. But no, they are too interested in getting awards.That the SciFi Channel puts up with that nonsense is a tribute to how out of touch with its potential audience they are (see all those ridiculous "creature" movies for another example).Oh, and making a remake of a much-beloved, if imperfect, show is not a good idea if you're going to call it "cheesy" every chance you get.Yes, audiences have kept an open mind and they saw that Battlestar Galactica, the new edition is not worth watching.UPDATE: The ratings have fallen even more, and yet SciFi still acts as if it has something special there (and still produces atrocious "creature" movies). Baffling...


                
Having waiting for a SF-series for a long time I was glad to see the arrival of BG, but must say I'm very disappointed. After viewing the first season and half the second, the remaining impression is that this is some kind of religious mumbo-jumbo. The setting is outer space, but could just as well have been 12th century eastern Europe or the Ming dynasty China. Yes, religions elements are common in sf. E.g. Star wars or Babylon 5, but it has never been as extreme as this. Also, it's interesting that it's always the one going against protocol that ends up the winner. Original sometimes, as a standard, very boring since that is not what happens in a real situation. I guess that's why the religious aspect is necessary. How else to explain the success of the "lone missions". I will continue to watch GB, but that is mainly because there are no alternatives out there.


                
When I was a kid, I saw the original BSG on TV, and I found it great. I am a guy from the Star Wars time, and so I got addicted to Sci-Fi and I have to admit, I was in love with Maren Jensen as Athena. Well, many, many, many years later I got very much excited when I found out, that they were making a new BSG for TV. Well, in my opinion it started out great. The mini-series and, following that, the first season was good. But what happened after that time? Did the original writers destroy their brains with drugs...did they die? All this bitching around. Oh my God... Those humans hate one another, they hate the Cylons and torture them...and , oh my God, are their any characters that one might like? Let's see... Starbuck: She is the greatest egocentric person on TV. She knows everything better, she had the hardest time as a child, when she hits her crew mates and tortures the Cylons...that is totally OK....right!? Apollo...is way to good for this world. Man, get some balls. The President...bahhhh...she is so self righteous. Adama....maybe he is likable...maybe. I think sometimes I even like the Cylons better than the humans. And...isn't this supposed to be a military ship? Why all this bitching around? Man, give some orders...follow them...and everything is alright. If I wanted to see bitching' I would watch daytime TV.But, I have to admit...something always pulls me back in front of the TV to watch the rest of this show. Maybe it is the ongoing hope that, at the end I will say: Well, it wasn't so bad, after all.Maybe...But all this bitching'


                
It started ok when the plot was kept in line, but then this show went from sci-fi to religious fantasy. The plot didn't thicken, it became a total diversified mess. I thought Caprica was trillions of miles away and there was no way back to it, until the writers decided that if you steal an alien ship which has far advanced technology you can go back to Caprica just like going to your neighbors house. I hate when writers mess up the plot with gobbledygook like that. Note to show writers, when you pepper the plot with gobbledygook, you introduce many plot holes. Watchers, then, start to think this show is a complete moronic joke. And then we are introduced to religion in this show. I guess the machines are more religious than humans, can you believe this? It is humans who believe in many gods (Polytheism) in the advanced age of science, versus machines that believe in only one God (Monotheism). Let's look at some examples of idiotic events that occurred. Starbuck gets stuck on this one planet. The rescue team can't find her. Starbucks discovers the crashed alien ship not far from her. In the matter of minutes, while having a broken leg and losing oxygen, she figures out how to fly the alien ship and make it back to the fleet just as they were to leave her behind and jump. This kind of nonsense makes me cringe. Why couldn't the plot be much simpler? An alien ship got shutdown. It was discovered by the rescue ship, it got picked up and brought back to Galactica for reverse engineering. It's simple, to the point, and close to how it would have happened in the real world. But no, the writers needed to do something uncanny and magical.Then there is all this highly unnecessary drama in this show. Everyone hates one another, everyone got some psychological issues, no one gets along. When you have a common enemy, you tend to bond together, but that's not happening in this show. The humans are as bad to each other as they are to the machines. In fact, they probably treat the machines, their biggest enemy, with more respect than they treat each other. It's amazing. There are only 50,0000 of them left in the universe, and they are slaughtering each other. Note to writers, please keep psychological twisted drama to a minimum when it comes to space sci-fi type shows. How hard can it be? Half way through season 2 I completely gave up on this show. Too much drama, too much psychological and religious nonsense, too much plot holes. This show started with strategy, survival, but now it turned into a giant religious and psychological mess. It's more religious than Lord of the Rings, accept it's happening far far away in space far far into the future. Amazing.


                
I love science fiction, and the more 'out-of-the-box' it is, the more I like it. I also enjoy a good character-driven drama, once I believe deep, believable characters are essential for a good show. Moreover, I am not into action flicks, so I don't care about amazing special effects, electrifying soundtrack, explosions, etc.My friends know my tastes, and so they recommended me to watch Battlestar Galactica. One of them even said it was the best sci-fi show he has ever watched. I decided to read some IMDb reviews and the sentence 'the best sci-fi show ever' was written in many of them.Of course I got excited. Of course my expectations were very high -- and I know that high expectations often lead to higher disappointments... And I must say: I got really disappointed.At first, naturally, I tried to blame pm my high hopes. As the episodes progressed, though, I started to notice that it was not my fault. This show is actually pretty lame and pretentious, and the fandom created by this series puzzles me. I think I just watched it until the end as a failed attempt to understand why people actually enjoy this.I will try to make my point without spoiling anything, as a warning to other newcomers.1. It is clear that the characters were supposed to be complex and believable, but they are just inconsistent, irritating and, in some cases, hateable -- and I am talking about main characters, the ones we were supposed to care about;2. I know people are sometimes contradictory, but in Battlestar Galactica they are way too often. Someone just changing his or her mind is a recurrent used artifice for a plot twist, which is really cheap, to say the least;3. The backstory of most characters is very inelaborate and badly explored;4. Battlestar Galactica is a battleship, and it's got the worst army the universe has ever seen. These soldiers don't follow orders and entirely lack proper discipline. They keep on fighting with each other, partying, having sex (there are men and women in the army), playing cards (including a variation of strip poker), and getting drunk with whiskey (where the hell do they get all of that?);5. Most annoying romances ever;6. In most cases, the plans of action are pretty pathetic and laugheable;7. There are some moral, religious, and political debates. I usually would enjoy that. Unfortunately, most of them are pretty lame and almost dumb;8. Direction is not as phenomenal as stated by some reviewers. In addition to several notable continuity issues, some really important plot revelations were done in a very sloppy fashion. And I don't want to be picky, but the appellant exaggerated facial zoom in is quite annoying;9. The main plot is interesting, but more predictable than I expected. Interestingly, all unexpected things are so senseless that they are just left unexplained;10. At least for me, the notably Americanized culture doesn't fit well in the plot. Kudos for the original 1978 series;11. The soundtrack is different, which is a good thing. However, it is forgettable and, at some moments, it doesn't fit the mood of the scene; 12. There are too many unimportant episodes;13. It is scientifically inaccurate.However, there are some positive aspects:1. There are some really talented actors (and sometimes I felt really bad for them);2. Aesthetically, there are more positive than negative aspects, despite cylon taste for high fashion and that every piece of paper is octagonal (what a waste!);3. As I stated before, the main idea is pretty interesting (even though the key elements are not exactly original). I wish they didn't move away from it so often.I probably forgot some things, but these are my general impressions on Battlestar Galactica. Just watch it if you are really curious and plenty of time. I also suggest you to look for some guide containing which episodes are skippable (there are some around the internet).


                
The hole story line can be summarized in 3 words: God did it!It feels like a hundred drunk/high/tripping people each wrote their own nonsensical sub-plot, and when they were asked to tie them all together and explain it they couldn't come up with anything. So they just said, god did it.Where did the new Starbuck and her new Viper come from? How did Starbucks exploded Viper end up on "Earth" in one piece? Why are the final 5 activated by a song? Why does a half cylon child draw the notes to that song? Why did Starbucks father play that song? Why does that song contain the coordinates of Earth? Why are Baltar and Caprica seeing imaginary people? How does the oracle come up with her storys?Why do multiple people have visions?God did it!And why did he do it? Because he's BATMA... I mean God.
I'll preface this by saying I gave up on this roughly halfway into the second season. This means I'm giving an opinion on - by most accounts - the much better half of the show as apparently it plummets in the third. Take that for what you will. Certainly it can't be that season 2 ends at the height of inspiration and season 3 inexplicably opens with everything done wrong, there must be a progression.So anyway I was a fan of the mini-series. Not for any plot with Cyclons or religious undertones, but for the fact it opens in a tangible future, an ordinary day in that life, and stretches that life through a series of more or less credible seeming anchors. It didn't even have to be the end of humankind, I'd much rather if it wasn't, but there you have it. It had a sense of world and horizon, and hit home because we had that narrowing of horizon until we were left with a bunch of ships adrift in space and all time ahead.This picks up after that. And does everything wrong.Significant fault lies with the TV series format. The mini-series is a different thing altogether. It is cinematic, it is one film paused in so many spots and conceived as one from the start. TV series are a long- term project, usually with a more or less defined horizon but indeterminable middle subject to a million factors that have nothing to do with what we come to see, the cinematic craft. The main thing to note in tandem with my other comments is how this changes narrative time. Every episode more or less has to have resolution. Every episode has to offer its crisis of the week then to the next one. Each one is filled to the brim with catastrophic event and huge moral conundrum: do this or that, force or let. Certainly a situation like we have here would be filled with those, no? But that's not the point, what 'objectively' might happen. It's your choice as a filmmaker to decide just which moments strung together best convey the feel (not the fact) of what it means to be there. Here we have constant politicking and crisis-solving, but no visual recollection, no one is ever seen staring out of a window at space itself.. So here's the choice you have to make with a thing like this: you either let us soak the gravity of the situation by placing us in the middle of shifting machinery of fate that create it, or you have us wander about, this time fighting for water, the next fuel, then looking for the Arrow of Athena which opens her tomb in Kobol which the old stories say points the way to Earth.That this is praised as a grown-ups fiction makes me shake my head. Surely being a 'grown-up' entails more than getting ourselves caught in moralities about pecking order. The less said about the whole business about what it means to be human, can a robot love, and following vision as god, the better. Silly in the extreme. It leads nowhere except in mythologizing, politicking for the mind instead of introspection.


                
I watched this when it first came out and really enjoyed it. However, after a few years I decided to re-watch a number of TV series. This one in particular I wanted to leave a little later than others because of fond memories. Rewatching this series has made me realise how much I dislike many of the 2-faced backstabbing characters that are always stepping on others to get their way. I find myself crying out for the death of major characters (most notably president Roslin, Admiral Adama and Kara Thrace) All of which do nothing except change their views to maintain hold of power. One of the few Exceptions to this is 'Helo' as it seems he is the only person in the show with any morality. Almost every episode includes someone finding out information they shouldn't and then in 1 way or another finds death. There is almost never any kind of attempt to get people working together for the greater good. As someone who remembers when I first watched the series I have found it hard to accept that I ever really enjoyed it at all. Every episode gets worse and by series 4 I just wished the Cylons would turn up and kill everyone. Extremely disappointed with it all.


                
Battlestar Galactica the series can hardly be called a Sci-Fi series if at all, lacking substance, loose and endless story lines, horrific twisted ideas about evolution, science and of course the omnipresence of divine intervention, not to mention, through out the entire series, and across the vast space and all the planets, there is NO OTHER life forms, other than that similar to Earth. The idea that a machines "Cylons" are looking for God is rather insulting and a typical faith-based low level advertisement. Also Cylons wanting to give birth is another creationist/intelligent design twisted view of basic scientific ideas and concepts. Even when one of them actually does so, the doctor remark "they haven't figured out how to fix the plumping" and had to carry out an operation to deliver the baby, who is half human and half machine?? Like if we get 2 different animals to mate we will get a baby that is a mix of the two. As with all faith-based propaganda, even when it claims it is Sci-Fi we are confronted with the "divine intervention" to explain the central story line, without any form of explanation God saves the day. As the usual with such low grade works, the internet and media is sure to be filled with excellent reviews and justifications or more twisted ideas and definitions of otherwise simple concepts in order to attract more viewers.As from an acting point of view, a few stand out such as Edward Olmos (Adama), James Callis (Baltar) though I do prefer the original actor John Colicos for the role of Baltar. Also from the female acting side, I liked Michelle Forbes (Admiral Cain) with a good performance portraying a strong commanding female. The rest of the cast are rather OK, but nothing special. Many would wonder about the main Cylon "skin job" Number Six played by Tricia Helfer, from my point of view this was a role intended for the male viewers more than anything else with the never ending none-related compromising positions. Furthermore, the numbers of episodes per season started to increase as the show moved on, yet most of these episodes felt more like fillers than actual content.I'd say the initial 2 seasons where OK to some extent, but don't expect any Sci-Fi, then it is down the hill from there.
The miniseries was on the whole great. Not perfect, but good solid scifi and after the untimely death of Firefly, I hoped BSG could carry the torch of quality scifi. And it had the credibility of Ron D Moore who'd been behind some of my favorite TNG, DS9 and Voyager episodes.Unfortunately my enthusiasm got less and less as the first season passed and the religious and pseudophilosophical mumbo jumbo got worse. By season 2 I couldn't stand it anymore, but forced myself to watch the series to it's unsatisfying conclusion.My rating of 3/10 is for season 1-3, with the latter 2 seasons dragging the score down. The mini-series deserve 8-9/10.


                
A little about me for context. 57 year old male, likes most SyFi and Fantasy basically a perfect demographic viewer for this show. Never saw it during it's TV run, watched it the past month. I am not religious at all and I tried to keep an open mind knowing that there was going to be a lot of it in the script.Good: I thought that the filming and sets were excellent (for the time-period). Absolutely no complaints about that - bravo. Some folks have mentioned their dismay with the "shaky" camera, it didn't bother me, I thought it was somewhat "edgy". The women were attractive and probably the only reason I could painfully make it thru the series (I'm hoping that this doesn't come across as sexist because it is not meant to be).Bad: Where to begin. One of the reviews above me was titled good TV show ruined by the writing and I think that sums it up fairly well. But really the fatal flaw for me was the complete lack of morals, judgment, fairness etc. that the show demonstrated from show one to the end. Heck, the ending that many people bashed was about the only time in the last 3 seasons that I didn't wish for each and every human character to get blasted by the much more likable Cylons.I have searched the Web to try to figure out what the heck the writers were trying to convey making everyone a despicable human being, and I have come to the conclusion that perhaps they did not do it on purpose. If that is the case I am totally dismayed at what they thought was acceptable and moral behavior and the fact that the series has fans who liked it makes me question their "dark side". It's perfect for those who relish that there be no consequences for their actions and for those who think it's fine for everyone to get screwed except for Admiral Adama's immediate family and friends. It is vile in the extreme and I am not one to be offended easily - but the self righteous dangerous leads in the series were really disturbing. If that was the goal of the series then I stand corrected.


                
Quite frankly, this is a major load of sh*te, if you actually like sci- fi, in so much you are the type of person who doesn't think Dr Who is the pinnacle of sci-fi and have read a book or two, then this series will be horrible for you. I can only describe it as being the same plot as just about every America mini-series I have ever had the misfortune to watch - incredibly predictable. The characters are shallow, there's way too much w00ting, high fiving and holloring, and generally its just way way waaaaaaay too American.Don't waste your time.


                
Cant understand the high rating for this. One word paramount for almost every scene: naive. A culmination of stupidities, bad calls, insubordinations and other impossibly childish situations. A few would be normal, but this is way too annoying. It doesn't need an expert to see this but they had some not too serious teenagers writing the scripts. Half a dozen space series try and do better. Good graphics? Average at best. Cylon CGI is laughable . Acting? Not bad, but not always inspired. This cpt Apollo actor seems to not be very happy with the part and it shows in the early episodes, besides playing a char this is an utter feeble wimp who in real life would never rise to any rank. Yes you can watch it, but only if you have time to kill and have just finished all other scifi reruns.
