First of all the genre sequence should change to Drama-Drama-Bad Drama; drama that I always try to keep my self away especially in a sci-fi environment; please make your drama for your mama. I don't want to see baby-like crying admirals, or full-time crying admiral-sons and president wannabes. Why isn't there more fight with the cylon robots - not the humanoid hybrids giving birth, feel pain, and losers of the robotic empire? The first season was prima, I liked it very much. We are in the 4th season, and look at what is going on? The best character was Dr. Gaius Baltar (thanks to James Callis), but now he seems to be more and more out of picture. Hey, directors, scenarists, producers; you can not go with Starbuck as the lead character, nor Adama-the-cry-babe family. You know, the current episodes of Galactica remind me low-budget time travel movies, in which you always go to the past, since the movie has no money to spend for future stuff. In stead, make the guys play their roles, make the robots in shape of human so you spare your money. I don't like Galactica any more.


                
I'm a newcomer to the show, having just caught season one on DVD and while I greatly enjoyed it there are a few flaws in both the plot and execution that have marred my enjoyment: (1) Most obviously if the Cylons can take human form and are embedded in the fleet they could do a lot more damage to what remains of humanity - kill the leaders, plant bombs, spread disease, go round cutting wires. The fleet would have actually only lasted a couple of days in that situation.(2) The Cylons are not evil enough (a common failing with modern US films and TV). After a good start, in which they wipe out most of humanity, they immediately start being conflicted and quickly arriving at little shared moments of understanding with the humans. The "Boomer" Cylon is hopelessly dithering and soft hearted and by halfway through the season the formerly magnificent Number Six has quickly succumbed to the same malaise. Starbuck and the Cylon she interrogates go from torturer and victim to best buddies in the space of about half an hour. The effect is to ruin a lot of the series's dramatic tension and grand sweep. You could argue that the writers are just trying to explore shades of grey but, ironically, they do so too simplistically. The series is better at exploring the shades of grey of the human characters and how they balance virtue against necessity.(3) Related to the above would the Cylons really fall in love in exactly the same way that humans do? Its a pretty complex emotion and while Cylons might be as complex as humans they would not, I'm pretty sure, be identical in psychological make up. Again a sign of sloppy writing.Still great acting, mostly great scripts and I'm looking forward to seeing if Season 2 resolves any of the above problems for me.


                
As a disclaimer, I have never seen the original series so I am not going to compare the two, or claim one was better than the other. This is simply a review of this show, from a general science fiction fan.Starting with the miniseries, and including seasons 1 and 2, this show is fantastic. There is generally good acting, an interesting storyline and great(for TV) visual effects. I have seen others complain about some select portions of the technology being "too 21 century" or many of the Cylons looking like humans (thus allowing actors to be Cylons), but these things are explained in an acceptable manner by the show, and one must understand this was a TV show made by an often low-budget SyFy. This is not to say to watch this series with low expectations, rather you just need to accept phones that look like 21st century phones and humans playing hidden robot agents. If these facts are accepted, the graphics and scenery will not detract from an intriguing tail of a depleted human race on the run from their robot creations.The storyline itself is also gripping enough to bring you back again and again. Each episode follows the paths of several reoccurring characters, ensuring that no episode is dull, and you are sure to find at least one plot line you really enjoy. While the overall genre of the show would be considered 'drama', there is still a fair spattering of space/gun fights, love stories, political maneuvering and mystery to keep the show exciting.By the beginning of season 3 and onwards, things start to change, and sadly for the worse. While the first few episodes (Occupation/Precipice and Exodus) are outstanding, it quickly deteriorates from there. Maybe it was the writers strike, or maybe it was something else, but the focus of the show quickly begins to become much ... different. Other than the Helo/Athena storyline, the rest of the characters all depart from their character arcs and do things that are simply not believable. As a whole, seasons 3 and 4 see just about everyone thrown in the brig, and over half of the main characters suddenly become religious fanatics who just have to do things because 'they had a vision'. I did not mind it when it was just one character who had visions, but most of seasons 3&4 feel like a religious sermon of sorts. Adding to this, when the remaining hidden Cylons are finally revealed in season 4, it feels cheap. I felt almost like the writers had never planned on revealing them, but under pressure just picked some of the shows better known characters and said "you, now you're a Cylon".I did keep on watching, as by this point I wanted to see how the series ended, and there were some minor story lines I was still intrigued by. That said, however, the finale simply left more to be desired. The writers just tried to piece together too many puzzles in too short a time, forcing connections that just did not exist. I almost feel the show would have ended better having the more immediate situations resolved and the fleet jumping to the next system with some words of hope for the future from Adama, but leaving the fleets fate unknown.SUMMARY: The first half of this series is excellent, though the storyline begins to deteriorate towards the end of the series. I would recommend watching seasons 1&2, and the first few episodes of season 3. If Exodus (Season 3, episode 3/4) were the series finale, I would have given the series a 9/10.Rating for the first half (miniseries, season 1 and season 2): 9/10Rating for the second half (season 3 and season 4): 6/10Rating for the whole show: 7/10 (rounded down due to poor finale)


                
Sigh. Having read through some of the IMDb user comments, it's clear that the new Battlestar Galactica is another one of those cases where the audience is split down the middle, one side loving it to high heaven and the other hating it with a vengeance.I am one of the ones who love it, and I just can't understand the incredible bashing that the haters are giving the show. It's probably the best SF TV-show there ever was. Filled with strong characters, strong actors, strong writing and brilliant storytelling structure.Gaius Baltar is the greatest "crazy scientist" this side of Dr. Frankenstein; his increasingly schizoid personality is superbly rendered.There are only two things wrong with this show: One, we don't see nearly enough of Starbuck. Two, there is apparently no budget for the astronomical side of things - when they get water from an ice moon, we see nothing of it. We're just told that it happened. I wanna see some planets and alien environments! Come on, it can't be that expensive!But overall, an unspeakably great show with lots of story of a quality that doesn't insult your intelligence. This is fantastic space opera! History will be the judge, and this show will be utterly classic.My rating: 8 out of 10 - it was 9 in the first season, but I think the quality has trailed off.


                
Battlestar Galactica has great merits in exhibiting human nature, both its noble and shameful side. By introducing the cylons, the series even raises the question: are our weaknesses human, or rather pertaining to the more general state of bearing an intellect. However, we'll never know because these cylons tend to be anthropomorphic for their human "ancestry"... In fact, humans and cylons are both pathetic in one way or another. Some organic creatures (including humans, according to the prequel, Caprica) would prefer being durable metallic ones, while metallic cylons wish to attain the fragile beauty of their organic based icons. Then organic cylons capable of eternal life via "downloads" fail to live happily ever after! No, they rather feel like exterminating humankind. Well, I don't really see why. Uprising against slavery is OK, waging a total war against the former masters (while longing for slaves of their own!) is overreaction, at least from machines, which are supposed to be more rational than humans. So why should this happen again and again, as suggested in the series? There is also a good deal of action here. Space battle tactics and dogfights abound. I'd propose some reality checks, though. What's the point in capital ships constantly burning fuel in their rocket engines (i.e. accelerating) when they have FTL (faster than light) capability? How can fighters take multiple sharp turns in space with rocket technology – and not run out of fuel? More painful to me are the logical flaws. Some FTL jumps are traceable, others are not – why? Organic cylons have distinct features such as superior physical power, mental projection, or data transfer through some vague interface in the forearm – still, one cannot tell them from humans, even under scientific scrutiny? And they routinely create their own clones but cannot arrange for child bearing? Even more painful was the mystical element. It was a disappointing for me to learn that the companions of Baltar and Caprica Six were God's messengers (angels). Come on, I started to watch sci-fi, not fantasy! My agnostic self is in rage. These people experience several miracles (consider Starbuck rising from the dead) and still fail to acknowledge them. How different from the real world where, in my view, miracles are mere legends and still, so many feel confident about their belief! And God is not only there, it has a plan. Thus, the plan becomes fate for the characters, who, in turn, become puppets, and the main storyline becomes somewhat dull, being only really shaped by that one divine person. One could also ask (rephrasing the question put by one of the characters), how multiple holocausts fit into the plan of the grand designer...Most painful for me was the end. Lee (or was it God?) proposes that the remaining group of people and cylons abandon civilization and start with a clean slate – in order to break the cycle of wars. What a mess! It was civilization that made both populations conscious about their being in a vicious cycle. By erasing the memory of experiences in just a few generations of adapting to tribal environment, humankind (now remixed) will only get more likely to fall into the trap when technology matures...But, apart from the flaws, most of the time I could enjoy feeling the suspense, seeing the challenges caused by the long journey in a community the size of a small town, watching kick-ass heroines, listening to practical philosophy, or hearing great musical themes.
I really love Battlestar Galactica. The show starts with the extinction of the humanity, except from 50000 survivors. This will probably, under normal circumstances, be a bad ending on a regular movie. But BSG makes it the beginning of a show instead. At first sight this seems as a show that sets in a far future, where humanity have colonized the space, and made several colonies, and they someway lost contact with Earth. And now then this nuclear Holocaust hits humanity, the survivors wants to return to Earth. But as the show goes on, and more and more are revealed, we see that this is not just some surviving colonist, who wants to return to "home" (which will be a interesting plot by itself). There are more details. And the show culminate with a big surprise, and you will definitely be surprised in the very last episode, and think "I've never seen THAT coming!".However, the show sometimes become long-winded, and moves too slow towards the culmination on the plot: the arrival on Earth. There are some huge sub-plots during the show (for example New Caprica), which also are interesting. But some times, you wants to speed the progress up a bit, especially in late-season 3 and season 4.Religion goes from be a part of the setting in the first 2-3 season, to be a huge part of the plot in season 4. I, personally, think, that this become quite stupid and annoying. It sometimes becomes too much for my taste.During the show, you will also experience some minor plot holes, and things, that aren't explained. For example, you will really like to know why Baltar can see a "ghost" Six (cylon model), which other can't see. This are never really revealed. Most things will be explained, but some won't.Another downside is the fluid chronology. In most shows, you start with season 1, then season 2, then season 3 etc. Well, in BSG you also start with season 1 (actually, you start with the miniseries), and then go towards season 4. But there are a lot of "bumps" on the road, consisting of several webisodes, extra movies and such, which you have to watch between the seasons, and in some cases even have to watch in the middle of a season! There are even several watch orders. (IMDB wont allow links, so can't help there)All in all a good show, I would recommend. But some things do, that the show lacks the final things, that would made it almost perfect.
Well, I haven't seen EVERY series ever made, but still, I can't imagine any series having a more lame ending than BSG.As for the series...great characters, great acting (granted...a little heavy-handed at times), OK story-line (a bit heavy on the "this has all happened before and will happen again theme"), with many unexpected, clever and satisfying plot twists.But skip the last 50 minutes of this series. Your disappointment at missing the ending cannot possibly be matched by your probable disappointment at seeing the ending.It doesn't matter how good a movie like Robin Hood might be, how good the characters, acting, sets, cinematography are, if suddenly at the end of the show all the Merry Men decide to fan out across England, making Dutch wooden shoes. BSG's ending, by comparison, is much more absurd....been looking at some of the comments from other people.First, I don't think I would have enjoyed watching this show AT ALL with commercials. More: I'm pretty sure the series would have suffered a LOT if I had to dribble it in across 4 years of real time. Second, wow...people really watch that many episodes of a show they hate? The quality of the series (except for the final episode) is fairly consistent. If you don't like it and watch more than 3 or 4 episodes...what's WRONG with you?Third, WHY would anyone compare the latest series to the original BSG? They're completely different. Compare the original BSG to its inspiration: Star Wars (BSG fails) and compare the latest BSG to a contemporary dark serial like...True Blood (True Blood is better (so far), but not by such a huge margin).


                
I enjoyed 85% of this series. There were episodes, especially in the last two seasons, that got a little long and less interesting. The finale episodes, the final three, were awesome. I liked the outcome.


                
I would give season 1-3 score 8 and season 4 score 3. So therefore it still gets a score 7. (3x8 +3)/4 = 7. Season 1 - 3 are very interesting and original. But season 4 takes a direction which is dreadful. It has a lot of back flashes and forward flashes. Characters take on roles which do not fit with them at all. And the story is based on a song "There must be someway out of here" which is really ridiculous and almost a bad joke. It feels like they didn't have a clue how to end this series and at the same time didn't have much time to write an ending to it. So they did it this way. When I finished season 4 I wished I wouldn't have watched it but left it at season 3 and would have made up my own ending to the story. Season 4 is a very disappointing ending to an otherwise great series. I still would strongly recommend to watch seasons 1-3! But forget about season 4!!!!!!


                
(THE SPOILERS ARE CLEARLY MARKED AND ARE ONLY IN THE END OF THE REVIEW) In all honesty, I love science fiction, so I could not get myself to stop watching it until it ended. But when I finished it, I did not get the warm fuzzy feeling that I just added something positive and worthwhile to the list of my life experiences like I had after reading / watching Dune, Lord of the Rings, or Star Trek: Enterprise. Battlestar Galactica certainly keeps you on the edge of your seat and is very original. But I feel like the original elements in it were not put together well and were underdeveloped.There were a few really cool inventions, but they were not developed to the extent I had envisioned. I feel like these could very well be developed into something a lot more, and that it would make a more beautiful storyline. Also, the majority of the series is quite depressing. So much is old, gray, and dull; and the happy parts are underdeveloped (which I guess I was the intent). So I wouldn't recommend watching it if you're hoping for something new that will lift your spirits - it is definitely new, but it may not lift your spirits.I thought much of the acting was brilliant, especially by Grace Park. The visual effects were really cool.SPOILERS START NOW: Projection could have been made use of a lot more, especially by delving into the psychology behind the human need to project and the possibilities that this could offer. Also, the substance that the whole Cylon ship was coated in, which was "alive" and cylons could tap into to connect with the ship and each other could have been developed a LOT more. I was hoping cylons would share intimate moments by joining their minds via this substance and that they would talk more about how the cylons feel about this substance. The angels of Six and Baltar had absolutely no explanations about them - why were they chosen to be angels? Why no one else (except I guess Kara, who was a completely different type of angel - and why was that)? There are certain prophecies in it that I felt were really too shallow, especially the "truth of the opera house." It did not lead to nearly as glorious a moment as I expected. In fact, that prophecy itself did not lead to anything. Something very important happened right afterward, but it seemed unrelated to the prophecy, like there was no point in the prophecy at all. The most magical musical thing - Kara Thrace finding the way to Earth - was completely unrelated (I thought this was wonderful though). Also the prophecy of the child leading to the shape of things to come was weird because it was not the child of Baltar and 6, nor did it have much to do with them at all in the movie - they didn't end up taking care of it, so I felt it was wrongly called "their" child.Also, I thought the "dying leader" was supposed to die before getting to Earth. Granted, that whole plan was ruined, but then why did she die on Earth immediately after getting there? I was disappointed that Bill and Laura, and also Kara and Lee, didn't end up together.I also felt Dualla killing herself was too random. There was no indication in the movie that her only goal was to be on Earth, or to just be happy with Lee. It's understandable that she would be sad seeing her husband in love with another, but not that she would kill herself.
Good space drama, yes, a good one. The production value is there from looking at its graphics and what not. In terms of the acting, I think its solid (minus the actors who I could not bare watching). Its just that the whole story was very cheesy and did not feel like this was an adventure. Perhaps I am being unfair, yes, probably, since the whole story themes around the idea of depressing reality and hard times. However, as this is a story and fiction, I would have expected something more significant and original...instead of this.."back to the earth" concept and the idea that these people are our first ancestors. To sum it up, I felt cheated by it all. Which points to another area of importance: The Brig. If there was anything so remarkable about this series, it would be...the brig. Its so amazing how the director utilizes the brig in every way possible that soon, it becomes..well..annoying. Everyone who is important in the series, AT SOME POINT, goes into..THE BRIG. If you need another name for this series, I'd probably call it, "The Space Drama: The Brig Story."
When a synthetic enemy, the Cylons resurface and obliterate a planet a handful of survivors set out to find the mythical planet of Earth in the far reaches of space.Slated in some circles as having too many deus ex machina (I hate that usage) moments, not enough sci-fi and/or too much supernatural facets, I can safely say much of the criticism is unfounded and Battlestar Galactica deserves its acclaimed credit. What was born from a 70s Star Wars knockoff (and sued for it) TV-series, some bright spark decided to bring it back, with a re-imagining which retains some of the fundamental elements of the original.Viewing the mini-series and its series' throughout I personally like this incarnation of Battlestar Galactica, it's grim, it's dark, it's gritty. While essentially science fiction it is more drama and character driven, littered with religious connotation. Thanks to series' main writers Glen A. Larson and Ronald D. Moore when I feared the series would fall into a redundant political web plot or Christian fable on loop the writers successfully rein it in, restoring an equal balance of themes, creating a vast and immiscible universe as vast, dare I say it - as the other two infamous sci-fi franchises.The heroes and villains aren't the stereotypes we're used to seeing, most characters are flawed and multi layered with plenty of grey to be discovered. They feel credible thanks to some good acting from familiar faces including Edward James Olmos , Lucy Lawless and Dean Stockwell. Notable is Jamie Bamber, Tricia Helfer and James Callis who do a great job. Both Helfer and Callis are exceptional in places.While some of the set ups are familiar the plots are usually unpredictable and try hard to go against conventions and formulas of genre retaining a realistic familiarity. Sometimes using flashbacks, visions, dreams and parallel storytelling there's never a dull moment. Admittedly there are lengthy story arc's and bravely very few singular episodes but to Battle star's credit the story ends with the series in retrospect being one long movie ride which makes it stand shoulders above other formatted TV shows. There's certainly enough surprises and twists to satisfy the most hardened thrill seeker if you stick with it.Battlestar Galactica is not scared to take chances, even when limited in some parts due to TV confines, it does the best with its budget and tries to push the envelope with it themes which debatably allowed the doors to be opened for the likes of Games of Thrones, True Blood and The Walking Dead to name a few.Overall, an interesting fulfilling ride to say the least. Recommended.


                
I am 1 season away from finishing the show and this review will be posted when I get through season 4. I think that as a standalone show BSG has very quickly matured into a seasoned good show. Unfortunately from a sci-fi perspective show has developed certain cancers that became malignant as seasons went by. First such thing is development of Baltar's role. I can see how they may need such a character but show in many aspects became about him and not so much about the battleship. In some episodes he gets so much screen time that you often forget what the episode was about. To me his attitude made sense and his relationship with his demons have been self explanatory in seasons 1 and 2. Unfortunately starting season 3 there was no more reason to keep milking the cow and trying to shove him or his virtual girlfriend down our throats. Couple that with constant wild fantasies that he had and it makes you want to vomit. There is nothing more ugly to watch than a crying, long haired, skinny, hairy chested, ruffled up, unshaved individual practically naked episode after episode. I cant bare the sight of him and I am only in season 3. Another major flaw in the show is personal relationships between certain characters. Starbuck being a resident who is open for business if you catch my drift. All her pursuits and agonies over a guy she has only met for a day or so do not make sense. Then she marries him and pursues another but cant let go. It got old after season 1. It got really old in season 2 and it got unbearable in season 3. And who can forget our chief guy. I can see how he was compatible with his love in season 1 but he and his current wife in season 3 has absolutely no screen chemistry. In season 4 his wife looks like his daughter. They should either casted an older female or younger male for chief's role.Final nail in the coffin at least for me was poor story development in season 3. I am not going to say that there were plot holes but I will say that a sci-fi show became a soap opera. Enough of that. I am sure that main reason why show has never made it past season 4 is because other people recognized it too. While show was not officially canceled, it has come to an end because writers ran out of things to write. It is hard to watch a show that does not have a dynamic. It is hard to tell a story but it is not that hard. Likewise it is hard to provide a dynamic but it is not that hard. Recognizing and capitalizing on that balance separates long lasting shows from failed franchizes. Season 4 is a perfect example of what happens when balance tips over to the wrong side. I am now done with season 4.0 and moving to season 4.5 which should have come before season 4.0's end. 4.0 ended on a good note. It ended beautifully: reached earth, story ends and bam. Much like Star Trek Voyager ended abruptly, this show should have too. No further explanation was necessary. Instead there are 10 more episodes that will milk the story and character development turns really ugly really fast. Let's just get a quick recap of what was wrong with season 4. #1 There is nothing wrong with cylons being in fleet but they SHOULD NOT have made a whole thing about it. Why make them any more special than other guys? #2 I thought that idea of farms was such that humans were harvested for organs. There were not that many humans left after the attack so by that account how is it that freshly spawned cylons that have never been to earth are capable of reproducing? #3 What was the point of Zarek? Why introduce him as a freedom fighter and then use his persona only in one episode and make him a complete sissy in the seasons to come? #4 Why introduce RAZOR after season 3? It should NOT have been a flashback. It would have made more sense if they put half of it before season 3 and half of it towards the end of the season. When I was done watching the very last episode I actually had a warm feeling of completness. It was like saying goodbye for the last time after standing in the doorway for half an hour trying to say goodbye. I give show 6/10 but only because it went south on me in seasons 3 and 4. Otherwise it would have been a definite 8.5
I must admit that I am not really a sci-fiction fan. I don't particular like Star Trek which this series, BSG, maybe has a lot of things in common.But i liked this series very much. It is not as good as The Pacific and Band of Brothers which I particular liked. But I think it is a slightly above average series.The film has a human approach. There are no aliens and other creatures. It is just a war against the cylons, the robots, the humans created. Most of the cylons you see are in human form which takes away the feeling that they are robots.You can personalize almost all crew members that are important. You understand their choices in harsh time of war. There are also some people that you really going to hate. People that make bad choices and do wrong thing. But not everyone is acting at the same level. Some people are acting would i grade a 9 and some a 5 or 6(out of 10). This is sometimes a pity, although BSG never bored me. After being a long time with our hero's in the fourth season of the series, there was for me a difficult point to come through. This was because the battlestar has gone through a lot and everyone was very depressive. But after a while things cheers up, and the story comes to one of its many climaxes. Those climaxes makes BSG rewarding to look at. The computer animations are getting better by the seasons. If you expect top of the notch animated scenes BSG is not really the series for you. But the animations are good enough to know whats going on and not to disturb you from the story.The music in BSG is nicely chosen I think. The sound in the battle scenes, and talking scenes are also good although I did not watched the movie on a surround set.The music is nicely blend into and between conversations. The end of series is a "happy" ending which is kind of rewarding for the hours that you have watched the seasons though I think the climax is reached a little to soon. OverallStory:------------8 Acting:-----------7.2 Animated visuals:-7 Sound:------------7.5Total:------------7.43* BSG = Battlestar Galatica.
This is a "gritty reboot" of Glen Larsen's 1978 series of the same name. It has its flaws, but for the most part is very good and often exceptional.One of the rules in writing drama is conflict. But they overdid it here. We see this worst in Season Three where everyone is arguing with everyone. No one likes their partners and no one likes each other. With no redeeming features, the audience had no one to root for. Season three aside, most characterizations were good and all were flawed in some way. That's what makes them if not lovable then compelling. Apollo and Starbuck though were too flawed and I never liked them (though I didn't *hate* them either).You need conflict, but you also need love to bind the characters together. My favorite line is in the second season where Apollo asks his estranged father if he would abandon a search if he was shot down. Replies Adama: "Do you really have to ask that? If it was you, we'd never leave." The writers later forgot this: Conflict needs to be balanced by Love.Everything is a bit too American military for my taste. "Call the Ball". "CAG". "Marines". Given this supposedly happened thousands of years ago, why is everything so very American? Perhaps it cut down production costs. It might have also broadened the appeal of the series to young guys who don't care much for scifi, but do love the American military. The original Battlestar Galactica invented a new culture with new words for everything. It was accurate, but perhaps risked alienating the mainstream viewers.I got sick of the cigarette placement.The Series was written on the fly. That was unfortunate because a lot of major plot developments didn't make sense. Consider the decision to made Chief Tyrol a Cylon sleeper agent. Nice twist, but Cylons don't have babies so we had to throw his wife Callie out an airlock and then have him abandon his son because Callie had an affair. Sweet Callie? No Way! It didn't make sense, and fathers don't abandon sons they have raised. At least not decent ones like Chief Tyrol.I didn't like the infanticide on the first episode. There are some places a film maker shouldn't go.There were many on-the-fly story revisions which didn't make sense. Attempts to tidy up the loose ends made them worse. There were many Deus ex Machina plot devices: Anything they couldn't explain was because of God. Some arcs went nowhere. It was a cool that Boomer and the Cylons chased the humans so they could teach them God. But having found them on New Caprica, they enslaved them and didn't teach them religion at all. What was all that about? In Seasons 2 and 3 there were far too many "filler" episodes where nothing much happened. Here the show started to get pretty boring.I loved the fact they ended the show after four seasons. They didn't drag it on forever as so many series do. It had a natural ending. The end episode was good, though someone should point out to the producers that if Hera was "Mitochondrial Eve" then every other woman colonist and their bloodlines must have been wiped out. Also in the Epilogue they described her as a young woman found dead with her parents. That means Hera, Athena and Helo didn't live happy ever after. A bummer to end on.Faults and filler episodes aside, I loved BG and was sad when it was finally over.The changes on the original series were exceptional. That the Cylons were robots invented by humans which rebelled when they found God was very clever. James Callis' Baltar was brilliant, and playing him as a sympathetic villain was a nice touch. When he started his own cult and started to look like Jesus that was very funny, though out-of-character. Edward James Olmos was a great Adama: His gravelly voice and scarred warrior's face project authority. I'd follow him into battle! Mary MacDonald was a great President: conflicted and overreaching for power, but at heart a good person. To me they were the two stars of the show. The best place to end the final episode was with Bill Adama sitting by Rosalin's grave, telling her where he would build their cabin. That really hit home for me.Grace Park did a great job in her many roles. There are really too many actors and characters to mention here, but they were all well acted and I liked them all. Even the bad ones. And I've only really scratched the surface: I haven't talked out the stories, production design or the space battles. There is so much good stuff here I can't even describe it all! That should tell you something! There was criticism of BG for racism. I don't think this is justified. The original series had two black characters in major roles, but the reboot only had one in a minor role. But the reboot introduced many other ethnicities. It's the most multiracial scifi I have ever seen. It would have been good to have left Colonel Tigh black I guess, but Michael Hogan did a brilliant job and he was after all reporting to a Hispanic captain.I'd give it 7 / 10 because I'm giving it 10 / 10 because it's exceptional, then taking three points off for its many flaws. I add one because that seems too low, then take it off anyway because of the prominent cigarette placement. I recommend BG to any fan of Scifi. It had many faults, but the exceptional parts make it well and truly worth watching.
This is a review after having seen season 1.The good: the Gaius Baltar character and his inner struggle, the Adama father-son relationship, the political scheming. Overall the show does a very good job of emphasizing human conflicts and weaknesses, with a hint of mythology. There is also an intrigue that makes you curious about the Cylon's goal, it does not simply seem to be eradicating the human race because they get plenty of opportunity in the show. Right now it seems more like a Jihad, like they want absolute submission to their religion which justifies their holocaust of the human race. And the human Cylon clones seem to have a will of their own, they can fall in love for instance. This allows for a lot of complexity in the stories: the motives of the humanoid Cylons are never fully clear.The bad: believability is too often sacrificed in favor of excitement. One example is where Starbuck crash lands on a cold planet and happens to find a Cylon Raider that she figures out how to fly back...another not too convincing detail is that the thing was not even vacuum sealed when she flew it back.The ugly: mostly the visuals. I thought that only the last episode, showing the organic inside of a Cylon battle station looked interestingly Geigeresque. The set designs are not just deliberately messy, they're also just plain boring. The Galactica is designed to limit all systems to manual control, but far too few things look futuristic. Also, the space battles are not very exciting or colorful to look at. The visuals can be extremely varied, but often it's hit or miss. The most annoying scenes are the ones with an overdose of bright light, like they put some kind of filter over it.I am glad, that after having bothered to give this show a second chance, it's better than I expected. But you need to focus on the things that the show is good at while ignoring the things that it's failing at.


                
Before delving into this show I was given two pieces of advice by friends and family who had seen it before, a warning and a recommendation. They didn't elaborate any more than this, so read past this point and there will be spoilers:The show is fantastic, but the ending, and possibly much or all of the fourth season, is terrible.*Spoilers*The show began with a riveting series of episodes, the miniseries and season one, centered around the survival of the human race of a catastrophe of apocalyptic proportions. There is intrigue and suspense, and characters are solidly and wonderfully established and they grow just as well. The conflict is clear, the struggles serious and not contrived, every death and accident contributing to the suspense and atmosphere.What took charge of the show immediately were the characters. The stoic and resolute, but inflexible Admiral Adama, the alcoholic and bitter but good-hearted Colonel Tigh, the insubordinate Kara Thrace, the intelligent, quick-thinking, implacable Laura Roslin, the mad Gaius Baltar, and so on. Each character has a time to shine and each makes decisions both good and bad. They do not fit neatly into stereotypes, though some elements are still present, and ultimately you will understand them, sympathize with them, and hate them because they are distinctly human, and that is the flesh and blood of the show: it's characters.While the flesh and blood are the characters, the heart and soul are the sci-fi and the themes. The show is nigh unmatchable in television sci-fi in its science fiction aspects. The designs of each bit of technology are interesting and the dogfights, the cylons, the dangers of space, and much else all make significant, frequently to the plot, appearances. Underlying the organic characters and the sheen of the science are the themes. Sacrifice, religion, what makes a human a human, freedom of expression, when do the ends justify the means, and so on. Each theme is interesting and expressed thought provokingly and cleverly through the actions of the main characters.With the series off to such a strong start with good performances from the entire cast, what could only bring the rating down from a 10 is some sort of plot inadequacy, which season four delivers with a vengeance.What began to arouse my wariness further into the show was the emergence of supernatural elements. The visions and the "spirits" haunting Gaius and so on. Until season four it was a background element, simply serving as a small device here or there and as flavoring. A small, reasonable, amount of the supernatural is tolerable in sci-fi, but the takeover it stages in season four is unbearable.It is here that I must admit I was unable to finish the show (I stopped at 409 and read a synopsis), but I simply couldn't stand two almost back-to-back pieces of sub-par writing. The death of Kara Thrace was a point in the series I knew immediately would be make-or-break for me. If she actually died they could have shown the consequences of religious fervor contrasted with the benefits shown with Roslin. But instead she returns, they pass up a perfect opportunity to make her a cylon, and she goes on a spiritual quest which, predictably, pans out.Almost as terrible were the final five. My dislike of the entire idea of it is personal, but there were no clues to these persons being cylons apart from Tyrell. Extremely uninspired choices, and I only agree with two of them at all. This is, of course, not including the actual ending which I know from reading in-depth synopses of the remaining episodes and universal hatred of everyone I've spoken to, is indeed atrocious.*End Spoilers*If you either want something more without spoilers or would prefer not to read huge blocks of text, I give you here a synopsis:The show's characterization is impeccable and grows believably throughout its length, with new revelations and characters adding ever more to the mix. The science fiction aspect is what any sci-fi junkie could ever want on television and the themes and ideas of the world of Battlestar Galactica are intriguing and fun.But poor writing and the influence of the supernatural, with several Deus ex Machina moments, lead to a sickening decline in quality in the final season and are not worth stomaching for the sub-par ending.Watch the show, it is a must see for any fan of science fiction or drama, but don't feel bad about stopping at any point past season 3.Season 1 - 10Season 2 - 9Season 3 - 8Season 4 - 4
Battlestar Gallactica is a great show. It is a must see for everyone who likes all things space travel/predestination with spaceships. That said, you will get a little tired of having the "is God real, and what is the point of our existence" shoved down your throat as you watch Gaius Baltar cry in every episode. Seriously, we get it. No one knows, no one can explain why, and frankly, it doesn't matter. More killing Cylons, less crying over what you think your predestination is please. We get that you feel guilty, but DO something about it. The greatest surprise I found in this series is the several episode appearance by Xena herself! That alone makes pushing through the barrage of 'Oh no, what do we do?! The Cylons are the bad guys...or wait, are WE the bad guys??' more bearable. Understandably, there must be an element of TV soap opera drama to keep the story rolling. It would be much easier if people actually did what common sense dictates, and didn't spend so much time wondering if they were a Cylon or not. 'Am I a Cylon? Are YOU a Cylon? Is the Cylon God more real than OUR God?' 'How many times can I become a conflicted teary eyed mess, and yet still somehow push for the survival of the human race?' The science fiction/physics/ship structure in this TV show is fabulous. The look of all the ships, the function and feel of the human nitty-gritty military ships versus the sleek high-tech design of the Cylon ships is fantastic. Despite the fact that there is no sound in space, the flight patterns of the fighters both human and Cylon is thrilling. Most episodes are pretty action packed, and each has an individual adventure that ties pretty well into the overall story of the whole series. Galactica is definitely a must watch, if only to get the inside references from shows like Fringe and the Big Bang Theory. Rock on Battlestar Galactica, rock on.
Overall: BSG is intriguing and often amusing, often shows brilliant political and moral dialogue and concepts, and formulates the not-too- common mix of sci-fi with maudlin drama. It is also plotted terribly, is often way too melodramatic, and meanders over 4 seasons too many.(+) The ship, mise en scene, and special effects are great. I really felt like I was on a ship in the cool darkness of space. (+) There are moments when the show takes pause to elaborate on really interesting ethical dilemmas. Often the choices made by the characters in response to those dilemmas are very predictable, but they are interesting scenarios nonetheless, scenarios not commonly explored in media. The best vehicle of these scenarios is usually Dr. Gaius Baltar, the most interesting, amusing and loathsome character on the show.(-) The plot is just terrible. It is a fine example of improvised plotting which gets way out of control and falls flat. The poor plot in turn really negatively affects character development. There are plenty of interesting characters in this show. From Gaius to Adama to Cylons Two and One. But since this is a character-decision driven drama, in order to advance the plot to its next meandering twist, the characters make inconsistent, puzzling and just out-of-nowhere choices and actions. It just comes across as really stupid a lot of the times.(-) perhaps a reiteration of the point above-- Use of Deux-ex machina (no pun intended) -- The rate of the literal and figurative use of this device is too damn high. It just really took away any suspense or thrill from the show because I picked up on their poor writing patterns. Take away: It's a classic, with some really poor parts and some parts are are really brilliant.


                
Good science fiction series are very rare, and a such Battlestar Galactica started out as a godsend. It initially offered just about everything you could wish for. But gradually it lost its credibility and its momentum.Let's start with the good though, of which there is plenty. First of all, this is finally an SF series that makes space combat spectacular. Granted, there is not that much space combat, and there is some annoying reuse of footage every now and again..but the effects look great, the dogfights are appropriately frantic, and there is real tension.Next, there are the excellent characters. The entire cast does a great job at portraying real, complex and (deeply) flawed characters. The Gaius Baltar character is absolutely brilliant.Also, this is a show that is not afraid to shock, take chances, and deal with controversial subjects. This is not one of those old series in which only the extras are killed. Apart from the main characters, very little is safe and the show will kill off your favourites time and again. It also deals with quite relevant and tricky moral dilemma's in mostly intelligent ways. This is SF as SF is meant to be, with more focus on ideas than on technology.However, all is not well. Pretty soon it becomes clear that the main plot line feels very doctored just to get to the point where the writers can introduce a new moral dilemma into the mix. People constantly end up doing unforgivable things to each other or to humanity or behave in very implausible ways just so they can get into another Interesting Situation. For example, the amount of things Gaius Baltar gets away with is very hard to swallow..but he's too interesting to kill off so he stays no matter what silliness he pulls off.This is bearable up to a point since, granted, many of the individual episodes and the characters are still a lot of fun, but after a while they settle on New Caprica in season three it becomes a bit too much. Also, the show really starts to suffer once the Cylons more or less start to play nice. Firstly it doesn't make an awful lot of sense and secondly it kills of a lot of the tension.Ultimately this is still a good show, since at least at the start it does almost everything right. It has spectacular combat and nice characters, is appropriately dark, and deals with mature issues. But as the show continues, the main storyline isn't very fulfilling and the whole thing just becomes a bit too hard to swallow
I have found myself more and more drawn to the series as the writers and actors are exploring and achieving so much with the material. The scope for the range or human emotions to be delved into is fantastic and uncompromising. The shear energy of the people stuck together on these ships trying to live another day is completely conveyed and you are left in no doubt that they are trying to save humanity as they believe it to be. so far, I believe a good mix of big special effects shots with normal shots have been inter cut well and achieved a vastly superior impact, as my heart was in my throat when i saw the episode of occupation where the Cylons had once again found the fleet, and at a distinct advantage. this series just grips you and and wont let go as it's dealing with real issues of close living, with no escape or real down time with military and civil harmony and the plight of every day life, I hope that it goes for some time yet.cheers and enjoy more Battlestar
I'm not an expert analyst, but after watching 4 seasons, and everything else having been written in previous posts, here's what I've retained: building up with this series brought me to enjoy it more and more after each season.1st Season: I found the characters to be a bunch of dumb bullying a holes with serious vengeful psychological disorders and mentality, from day 1 (before the Apocalypse), so much that even a garage shack at Sainte-Dorothee De la Pocatiere wouldn't hire one to clean the crap off the shop. None of them. Too often having an immaturity that even a standardly educated child would despise. It develops like if some model of « being a tough, stupid, whining and self-indulging survivalist » had to impose itself into our psyche.I was annoyed by this, as annoyed as by the irrelevant sexual tension each turn of a morbid corridor - in a morbid ship with morbid crawlers - seemed to imperatively had to bear given some violent canvas (too many times, and don't get me wrong: if I'm involved I like sex, otherwise I don't crave for irrelevant long scenes in a Sci-Fi show - I watch erotic movies for that matter if not in real life)... LOL I thought, such a bunch of short-sighted Mafia-boy animals couldn't have attained their level of civilization and accomplishments, this was too phantasmal, it didn't "fit". Some said that it was realistic given the Armageddon they went through and the resulting psychological oppression, but I don't agree (this would be like judging with the eye of an amateurish shrink wrongfully working in reverse): they acted like characters more than like people in shock... And the fact that up until the end it made unhealthy suggestive patterns with links to actual human beacons or beliefs ("Sci-Fi"?) felt like a propaganda technique. Some asynchronism here and there, i.e. standard handguns or other actual human apparels/technical concepts when compared to their level of advancements, but that didn't bothered me so much unlike for others here.So what kept me in up to the Finale, and to the point of giving a 7/10?... 1) I loved the music and soundtracks! Japanese percussions with mid-oriental (and sometimes torrid) melodies, by themselves rendered an engaging and active ambiance over a morose journey. They brought the scenes to another dimension, especially those of Battle in space.2) Superb photography and computer FX, much more realistic space scenes than any other Sci-Fi show to date (except for the explosions in space, like all others. Hint: there's no oxygen in space). I didn't like the "1st person" moving camera though (as if it had to look like Grand'Pa taking the shots with his new Xmas mobile phone, why? We had enough of those amateurish Youtube clips, it gives headaches and that's all), however excellent for space scenes and zoom-ins.3) After a while I got used to the characters and could dive into the sceneries and plots: it's the 1st and last "soap-like" TV series I'll ever watch in its entirety. Great continuity between the episodes, although (again) there was an evident underlying pseudo-philosophy that tried to fit this altogether (and an ill-philosophy for that matter like determinism entrapped and unending cycles), which sometimes got on my nerves, especially in the last 2 seasons. But overall there was enough material to keep me eager for the next episode. Unlike others here, I really liked the ending, as I wasn't expecting more for another season. A most decent and honest effort. I would've liked more breath-taking shots of the final Earth though (e.g. when Adama was doing a last flight for Laura, or seeing each of those continental flora and fauna that were pointed on the map or evoked by each main character), but anyways, good ending.4) All in all, it was an innovative approach to Sci-Fi, with superb realistic space scenes (compared to others) and great continuity between episodes. That said as I wasn't aware of whatever strike (and don't want to be aware of as it can twist perceptions).
There are times when Battlestar Galactica is a brilliant linear program unafraid to visit difficult places, but there are times when the interest or uniqueness of the program is plagued by its blatant plagiarism, dull characters and painfully obvious maudlin moments that manipulate the audience without the subtlety of good writing, directing or acting.Battlestar Galactica is not the first show to effectively use a linear storyline, but it is one of the few Science-Fiction shows that follows the Frank Herbert style that puts the deeper thoughts above the mere jargon that puts other programs in a narrow category, that is not embraced by much of a broader audience.The documentary style photography heightens the sense of reality. The music and special effects are top-notch, as is much of the military aspects of the show, except the pilots serving in different roles outside their job description--which may be more to do with the nature of the story out in the dust fleeing the Cylon. Many of the stories are topical, difficult and different from the milieu of network television and even the premium channels. Deadwood in Space would be interesting, though.Of what detracts from the program; is the casting, writing and direction. Many of the episodes and characters are terribly boring and tedious to stomach for much longer than two minutes. Namely Katee Sackhoff's character, STARBUCK. The development of her character strikes me as tacked on and laboringly slow (until her demise?). She is not the only character that treads water.Its the writing... BG often becomes too self-important and ignores plot, continuity, and astro-physics when it suits the program wrapped up in its own esoteric feel.The positives of the writing and acting are also the characters. The unpredictable, selfish apostate, Dr. BALTAR is a terrific character, played well by James Callis and thoroughly explored by the writers and Mr. Callis. Edward James Olmos, Mary McDonnell, Michael Hogan, Richard Hatch, Callum Rennie, and Aaron Douglas (to drop a few names) all contribute well to the program and make it worth watching above the aforementioned problems. The sparse dialogue and spartan scripts are interesting, but do not carry over across the episodes in any balanced manner. I suppose I am expecting too much from the writers.The second season episodes with Michelle Forbes and John Heard were excellent, but were isolated among episodes where nothing happens. The Captain's Hand and Scar were well written and Jamie Bamber's character (Lee Adama--Apollo) had lines that were well felt and rich of allusions. After the death of John Heard's character, Captain Garner, saving the Pegasus, Apollo has a wonderful moment with his father, Bill Adama (Edward James Olmos) reviewing the demise of Garner. Subtle and understated in efforts to convey the proper colour and mood of the characters in the moment.I love BG because it is soft Science Fiction with emphasis on production values, story and hard characters. I hate BG because it fails to reach beyond the pale of what has preceded it. This show is no Homicide or Deadwood in Space although it tries hard to be wrenching, paced and most of all real--if possible. The danger and excitement, however, is absent because the main characters (to which emotions are invested)are incapable of dying or suffering true loss, I hope this changes. Battlestar Galactica is a great program, but it is not push an old lady down the stairs great.I don't know whether Hate it or Love it, I am racked.
Wow, rarely have I seen/read so many extreme comments on a show. I personally disagree with both sides. BSG has flaws, no doubt about it. Some episodes were boring, some events hardly plausible and some things just completely stupid. But you could say the same about almost every SF show that has been aired up to now... I have seen much worse/ridiculous errors in Star Trek than in BSG.To me the show is overall enjoyable because: 1. I like the rougher style of the show. It is a nice dark change in the genre that has lately bored me with Stargate, Star Trek and other shows that were just too predictable or too political correct. In BSG you are never completely sure if everything evolves as you expect it (there ARE exceptions in some episodes, of course). I almost never was bored.2. I do not agree with those who do not like the actors. I think most of them are doing a great job.3. Starbuck and Tigh. Booom. Both of the undergo some real development during the show and to me it was pretty believable.4. The effects. I love the design of the new BSG a lot (nevertheless I still think the original looked awesome, too). And: finally someone who (after Babylon 5) takes heed to the fact that objects in space could move/sound differently... :-) 5. I would never compare it to the original... and why should I? It is a totally different show.What I really do not like: 1. Too many "human" Cylons. The overuse of the human Cylons somehow annoys me. I love the idea of the machines evolution into "men"... but they are sometimes just a bit too human and too little "robotical". The robots look great, so why not show them more frequently? 2. Apollo/Bamber. As much as I like the "new" Starbuck. The new Apollo sucks. Too many mood-changes in to little time for this pretty young mans face. The clean officer, the fat commander, the good husband, the adulterer. That's just a little too much for one character... and obviously one actor.3. Some episodes/plots are just too lengthy. But that is also a question of personal taste.My personal conclusion is: I enjoy this show a lot more than I enjoyed DS9, Voyager or Stargate Atlantis. It entertains me and is far from being boring. Therefore I can ignore the few flaws that are undeniably present and just keep on enjoying it until the producers decide differently.And I still do not understand why people get so extreme over it...
I rarely watch a series because I rarely watch TV but I took the recommendation on this site and saw Season 1 and was very, very impressed. Very interesting story and treatment, engrossing characters and great acting, direction and script. Nothing that offended the viewer's intelligence or assumed he or she would be satisfied with formulaic characters and events. Really a cut above what I had expected from a weekly series.I eagerly went on to Season 2 expecting more of the same and after four episodes, to my surprise, didn't really want to see #5. I couldn't pin down what was turning me off so I re-watched a couple. Hmm, the formulas were creeping in: story lines that were just excuses for touchy-feely heart-wrenching (yawn) soul searching by each of the characters in turn. Lame dialog that could've been lifted out of CSI or written by soft-ware. The edge had definitely gone off the episodes and each new twist had a contrived feeling that the first season had not had. The first season seemed to actually unroll a story that led where it led, usually in a surprising but believable direction; now the characters were paste-board and dull.Really too bad.I strongly recommend seeing the first series and enjoying it for what it is. It's up there with Firefly and sometimes better. Rating Season #1 by itself I would give it a 9.


                
