I always like BSG, however the start of Season4 is quite bad in my opinion.The part of starbuck 'feeling earth calling'-to her is very unreal and in my opinion very poorly played. The presidents' part is kinda getting boring as well - we can all see she and Adama have a 'thing'-going, however you can't see a damn thing happening. And she's becoming more and more like an evil leader instead of the good and nice woman she used to be. No problem if it fitted her and the place, but at this point it doesn't. Also the part of Dr. Gaius Baltar becoming a religious man is kind of an odd direction. However I really like Gaius and he acts it so well(his acting compensates for his bad written role; ex-scientist&president becomes religious man?). On the other hand, the part of the Cylons is just awesome written and really exciting. Thumbs up for that.I would have given BSG a 10/10 at the end of season 3, however the poor start of season 4 costs 2 stars(mainly starbuck poor performances and crap storypart at this point). 8/10 For now. If it won't improve then I might even make it lower. But I think it can only improve now.
I will admit to being a naysayer when this was announced. This was based on two things: the previous aborted attempts by people either previously involved (Richard Hatch) or with good pedigrees (Bryan Singer); and, the fact that it was being done on the Sci-Fi Channel. I wasn't overly impressed with a lot of their stuff, so this looked like yet another attempt to beat a dead horse. Boy, was I surprised; but, only after the show was over and I had been bombarded with a lot of critical praise.I liked the fact that they did pay tribute to the original, but actually had a plan in mind of where everything would lead. The original lost its way pretty early on and devolved into "homage" episodes. This version had some homages here and there, but mostly tread their own path. What they had in spades was thoughtful examination of many post 9/11 events, as well as the philosophical underpinnings of society and democracy. They didn't shy away from having their heroes get a bit dirty, morally, yet never made them complete cynics, either. It didn't skew too heavily to the Right or the Left, making fair points on both sides along the wayThe cast do an excellent job and I was fine with changing some of the character genders for diversity sake. They created unique characters that could stand on their own, despite sharing a name with someone from the original. Call it an alternate universe and let it go at that. Edward James Olmos especially stands out as someone who seems like a real leader, not just the authority figure. In fact, this is one of the few dramatic series that really explores the concept of leadership.Another aspect that I enjoyed was the attention to details, especially military ones. Military life requires certain things that set it apart from civilian life and they captured that. You give up a lot of freedom and comfort in the name of working together as a team and because of the reality of your job. I was a naval officer and the depiction here invoked a lot of memories. They definitely had good advisers. They also didn't shy away from showing that every society has its good and bad points, the military included. They showed that a uniform didn't make you a hero, your actions do, and that sometimes the right decision is the hardest to live with.All in all, this was a very exciting and thoughtful series, that certainly earned its place in the list of quality television and sci-fi.
There has long been a distinction between written science fiction and so-called Hollywood science fiction, a distinction which generally does not favor the latter format. Hollywood science fiction takes shortcuts, bends (or more likely breaks) the laws of physics for maximum visual appeal, and features aliens whose alienness is no more than skin deep. All of these grievances were brought about by necessity, more often than not, and while the Star Treks and Farscapes of the television world embrace the sacrifices needed to translate science fiction into this medium, a rare few shows have striven to bridge the gap between Hollywood science fiction and its printed forebear. (It should be noted that this is not intended as a criticism of Star Trek or Farscape, but simply an acknowledgment that those shows are unapologetically "soft" science fiction.)Straczynski made his own step forward with his series Babylon 5, which featured visuals which were, from a physicist's perspective, relatively inoffensive. Whedon continued the progression by eliminating or minimizing the most egregious Hollywood shortcuts - faster-than-light travel and beam weapons, for example - and more importantly by proving that science fiction can work just fine without almost-human aliens populating the galaxy.Now the torch passes to Ronald Moore, who first proved his ability as a writer for Star Trek: The Next Generation, and who has risen from the venerated halls of that now-defunct franchise to push the boundary for televised science fiction further still. If Babylon 5's visuals were merely plausible, Battlestar Galactica's are downright convincing. The weapons are all flak cannons and missiles; the aliens are still gone; and the hazards of deep space are neither ignored nor overstated.As a drama, this reimagined Battlestar Galactica is not perfect - minor characters are picked up and then forgotten like disposable tissue; a slight overabundance of major characters thins out the focus a bit; characters' opinions and actions sometimes serve to advance the story rather than the character. But even as a drama, Galactica is better than ninety percent of television shows. As a science fiction show, it's easily in the top percent.


                
I really do love this show. Though at some points the action lags, overall the characters and plots are very rich and powerful, especially considering the SciFi channel made it. I prefer it to the original because of the special effects and the thought-provoking nature of the plots, which make the old version look like an episode of Power Rangers.An excellent cast of relatively unknown actors give the characters a depth that one cannot find anywhere else on prime time, and the show's controversial story lines always bring it home for me. Overall, a very good series.


                
But for those that are more open minded, and can accept change, and difference, they will be pleasantly surprised. I grew up on the original series as a very young child. Recently, I watched some of the original series again (because let's face it: 20 some odd years between a mind not yet developed, and one that is fully developed is a long time....). It is campy, it is fun, and for it's time, it rocked. The new Galactica IS different. It is more intense. It is worlds darker.Was I skeptical about the changes? Yes, I was. Does that make me love the original show less? No, it doesn't. It's simply different. My suggestion? Watch the new, and make up your own mind. Don't disregard something simply because of it's difference. As with everything, this is merely an opinion. Take it, or leave it. :)


                
For starters, I am not and have never been a big science fiction fan. I used to watch various Star Trek series occasionally and I enjoy a Star Wars movie now and again. But, everyone loves those right? Anyway, a friend of mine who IS a science fiction fan turned me on to Battlestar Galactica. It just so happened that he has the first season and half of the second season on DVD. I started with the mini-series and immediately wanted more. That first night, I stayed up until well after sunrise watching episode after episode. The reasons why I was so easily hooked are many and strong. The story lines are thoughtfully crafted, the dialogue is well written, the acting is superb, the documentary style camera work is unique in this genre, and the visual effects almost always stand up to anything you see in a big-budget movie.I've heard complaints about over-dramatizing, poor camera work, and gratuitous sex. To this I say, don't watch it if you don't like it. I'll grant that the shaking camera bothers me at times too. But, it definitely goes a long way into making the audience feel as if they're actually involved in the action. When it comes to the sex and drama, that's just the show. I personally can't stand how clean and sanitized most of television is these days. People need to realize that life is not clean, or child-friendly. This series reflects our lives today, and possibly is prophetic of our fragile future. Battlestar Galactica is smart, slick, and best of all, adult-oriented. This isn't your daddy's Galactica, kids. It'll take you for a ride most science fiction fans aren't prepared to go on. So say we all.


                
Battlestar GalacticaI recently revisited Battlestar Galactica when it became available on Amazon Prime.
A show from the early 2000's which ran for four seasons and spawned several offshoot TV movies.
A reboot of the late 70's show of the same name.
The reboot or reimagining to be more precise is a fantastic Science fiction series unlike the original which seemed more like a Star Wars rip-off designed to do no more than cash in on the success of George Lucas's space opera.
Lucas himself even tried to sue the creators of the original as he accused them of this.A group of survivors span across the galaxy in search of the fabled 13th colony known as Earth. 
Caprica their home planet is destroyed by a race known as the Cylons. Machines created by mankind that have evolved into synthetic humanoids.The great thing about the reimagining of the show is that they've taken the history of the original and developed it much much further.
Just like the Cylons themselves this show has evolved into something much more superior to its own origins.
For a Science fiction TV show coming from the early 2000's the special effects are as good as they can be. The visuals do progress with each season but they pale in comparison to the quality of modern shows like GOT or any of the new Star-trek spin offs.
However this can be forgiven as the creators vision for this show is something to be commended.
Sound design in particular is excellent. Space battles have a muted tone. There are no loud explosions or sounds of thrusters. Little details like this give Battlestar Galactica a unique originality
Camera work is also refreshing.
Unsteady shots zoom in and out of focus but they never become nauseating.
Set design is superb. Everything has a grimy worn sheen to it.
Much as it did in Ridley Scott's Alien.
The evolution of the robotic Cylons and their crafts known as Raiders look top notch.
The Vipers from the original show make a return. Ok they may not be as iconic as the X Wing fighters from Star Wars but you can't help but get nostalgic when seeing the vipers execute the perfect space battle.
The entire production has a level of love and affection and it is obvious that the creators wanted to try and do something fresh.
This is no Star Wars rip-off.
In fact The Last Jedi Director Rian Johnson has admitted that he took inspiration for his movie from this TV show.
Funny how things turn around?Battlestar Galactica is also a fine looking show. Despite some effects being constrained by budget and the technology of the time it was made. This show looks wonderful in 1080p.
Colours pop with over-saturation.
Contrast blisters from the screen.
I recommend that you don't watch this show with your modern day TV screen set to dynamic picture mode.
Not unless you want to incinerate your own corneas!Performances by everyone are committed. Edward James Olmos in particular as Admiral Adama. He is every bit the hero and leader you would want in the crisis the human race finds themselves in.
Katee Sackoff's new take on the role of ace pilot Starbuck is a fine addition and she is much more bad ass than the original interpretation of the character.
James Callis puts a spin on the role of Gaius Baltar. In the 70's show Baltar was the leader of the Cylons. Here he is more of their puppet.
In every scene he seems to excrete tears at an alarming rate.
The man must have lost half his body weight in tears when filming this show.
Other stand outs are Michael Hogan has Colonel Saul. A hard edged yet confused and conflicted character who loses his way a few times throughout the shows four season run.
The beautiful Tricia Helfer steals many of the scenes she's in as Cylon number six.
Even Xena the warrior princess (Lucy Lawless) shows up as yet another one of the Cylons dead set on ending the human race.
I could go on listing everyone involved but all performances are great if sometimes tarnished by clunky dialogue.
A good example being is the use of a modified version of the F word.
This made up word, a replacement for the real expletive is jarring when used and detracts any realism from the drama on screen.
It reminds me of when UK TV channels used to poorly dub movies to remove foul language so that they could show them before the watershed.
I'm nitpicking now. Battlestar Galactica is somewhat of a cult show. Looking back I believe that it was better than the credit it was given when first aired.
A show with a surprising amount of depth and one well worth checking out.
This is going to be very similarly worded to my review for the 'Battlestar Galactica' pilot from 2003, but that's due to having so much of the same great things. 1978's 'Battlestar Galactica' was, and still is, a lot of fun to watch and has a lot of great things, such as most of the production values, the music and the cast. Flaws and all, there is still a soft spot for the show.At the same time, it was a long way from a flawless show, with the problems more noticeable to an adult audience, such as annoying child actors, the character of Muffit II, the tone not always being focused and too many homages that distracted from the main plot-line. When 'Battlestar Galactica' was good, it was great, as seen with "War of the Gods" which took a darker approach and ended up epitomising what the show is all about. When the show was not good, like with "The Young Lords", it was cringe-worthy.There was the worry as to whether the pilot mini-series and this show would fall into the same camp as 'Galactica 1980', which had one great episode, "The Return of Starbuck", and one great scene, the attack of the Cylons on Los Angeles, but is down there as one of the most pointless and unnecessary shows ever made. Not only making the mistakes as the original 'Battlestar Galactica' did but amplifying them and making more on the way.Watching the pilot and this show in its entirety over-time, neither go anywhere near in the territory of being another 'Galactica 1980'. Will be going out on a limb, but both are improvements over the original 'Battlestar Galactica', but other than having the same title and names they are very different and should be judged separately. Speaking of the show, there are improvements over the pilot, Tigh, who was a flat character in the pilot, is much more interesting and developed and Starbuck is more toned down while still showing a sassy, tough and no-nonsense personality.The shaky camera work occasionally getting excessively for no real reason flaw is still present however, and if you want accurate science fiction or computer science look elsewhere, the science is barely there and lazily researched when there and the computer science is convoluted gibberish. There are also things done worse here, the special effects are not as good as the rest of the production values, not cheap but do look rather rushed. The character of Roslin is also much more likable and heartfelt in the pilot, here the character while showing glimpses of the affecting and complex personality traits shown in the pilot also has an off-putting holier than thou and hypocritical attitude and Mary McDonnell overdoes it at times in the acting, especially some shrill line delivery and her facial expressions.Judging the seasons, Seasons 1 and 2 are absolutely phenomenal and some of the most riveting television ever made. Season 3 started off great but lost some of its momentum halfway through, while Season 4 was very disappointing with things taking a bizarre and very confused turn, characters being over-written and out of character and then ideas started getting resolved in a flat and simplistic manner and in ways all too convenient and too much by chance.On the other hand, let's talk about what is so good about 'Battlestar Galactica' (2004) in its prime and why to me it's an improvement on the 1970s show.The tone is much more consistent. It's dark, bold, moody and sombre compared to the more light-hearted and admittedly sometimes cheesy tone of the original, and while it was different it was interesting and avoided generally being clinical and cold. It clearly knows what tone it's trying to take, without trying to be too many things all at once which would fall into the traps of being bloated and under-explored, and what target audience it's aiming to appease to, without trying too hard to appeal to them. The characters have much more depth, with complex and nuanced personalities (the heroes have flaws as well as strengths, while the more villainous characters are more than standard villains with a sympathetic and humane edge while also being a threat). Baltar in particular is brilliantly developed.The Cylons are more consistently characterised, being more of a threat rather than being indecisively written, and there are no annoying child actors or any character down there with the likes of Muffit II or Doctor Zee from 'Galactica 1980'. The production values are top notch mostly, especially in the stylish and moodily atmospheric photography when not excessively shaky, the dynamic and foreboding lighting and awe-inspiring sets. The music is haunting and moody with also with melancholy and nuanced pathos without being overly-bombastic or sappy, approaches that would have sounded wrong within the show. The action also crackles thrillingly.Writing is as layered and complex as the characters, as well as being more focused tonally and the story-lines more consistent. It's very insightful and thought-provoking, and resists going into overload of cheese or mawkish sentimentality. The political, military and social commentaries are powerful. While taking time to develop, the stories when the show was in its prime are still incredibly compelling with a lot going on while still being very much cohesive. There is no padding and the concept is always obvious with little getting in the way. The acting is very good, especially from dignified and authoritative Edward James Olmos and James Callis who brings a lot of dimension to a character much more complex than just your standard villain.On the whole, not without imperfections and Season 4 really does not live up to the first two seasons but 'Battlestar Galactica' is still extremely addictive and intriguing stuff. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
If I had to give one suggestion to anyone thinking about getting into this show, the most valuable suggestion I could give you would be to watch only the first two seasons, minus the last 10-20 minutes of the season finale of season 2. Why, you might ask? If they had left the show ending at that point in the show, while it wouldn't polish up everything perfectly, it would still leave a fairly satisfying, but bittersweet ending to the show. Not to mention the first two seasons are HIGHLY entertaining to watch and nearly impossible not to binge watch. While the last two seasons are far less entertaining and rely solely on building up your interest with mysterious plot points only to end with an almost hilariously simple/terrible climax, leaving many (if not most) of those mysteries unanswered. The show delves into various social issues, competing interests, etc... all in the backdrop of a post-apocalypse in space. Overall, it's incredibly thoughtful as well as thrilling to watch. And unlike most of the greatest shows out there, I can't fault BSG when it comes to a show's typical overuse of interpersonal drama that depends solely on character's awful communication skills, rather than character driven balancing of needs and interests (You know, when you see characters get into a dispute and in your head you're shouting "Dude, just SAY _____ AND THIS WOULDN'T BE A PROBLEM! HOW COULD ANYONE NOT THINK TO COMMUNICATE THAT?!" But you just let it slide, because otherwise, the rest of the show is that good that you can overlook that.).The best way to describe seasons 3 and 4 would be like going to a show of a prominent magician who puts on an incredible show with the promise to reveal the audience how his tricks are done at the end (like Penn & Teller's shows). And throughout the show your mind is running through different scenarios as to how each trick could have possibly been performed. You're dying to know how they could have so thoroughly deceived your mind to create such a fantastic illusion. Finally, the show comes to an end, you're about to finally figure out how they did it. And the magician reveals.... they're actually a sorcerer and there was no trick. They simply willed things to appear and disappear and solid objects to pass through other solid objects. (Obviously seeing someone being an actual sorcerer would be incredibly shocking. Not a perfect analogy, I know. So for the sake of this analogy, let's assume sorcery is extremely common and it would be an unimpressive feat?)Seasons 3 and 4 take the show from primarily a sci-fi show with religion as part of the backdrop, to a show that then relies heavily on supernatural mysticism. And while I have no problem with sci-fis with supernatural elements, it's the laziness with which it was implemented in to tie up the story at the end. 
This is the best way I can describe it without spoiling it anyways. After watching seasons 3 and 4, it'll be clear that the show writers never came up with an ending to the show and that in writing the story and coming up with various ideas for mysterious plot points, they were overconfident in their ability to come up with solutions to them. As a result, the ending feels rushed, is mystifying and completely unsatisfying. There has never been a show or movie that has left me feeling so betrayed at the end after being so thoroughly enthralled with the story. I'd compare it to Lost, but I never really got into Lost. I've heard it compared with it though.That said, do yourself a favor and only watch the first two seasons, cutting short the season 2 finale by 15-20 minutes. It'll tie up the show far better. Not to mention the first two seasons are far more entertaining than the last two.If I had to rate the difference between them I'd put:
Seasons 1 & 2 - 10/10
Seasons 3 & 4 - 4/10Which is why I settled on an 8. Just enough to decrease the overall rating slightly as the show ends abysmally, while still acknowledging that the first two seasons by themselves would probably make Battlestar Galactica nearly the best show I've ever watched.


                
Content notwithstanding, one of the most well-produced sci-fi TV series ever. It's more of a military show in a sci-fi setting rather than a sci-fi with a military twist. It has rich mythology and inventive religious structure that make it stand out against the rest of the action sci-fi world. For what looks and feels like a straight up army drama, it is a WEIRD show with surprisingly stark realism.I'm categorizing it as a utopia because its strong and admirable characters have widespread traction when they voice real ethics and morals. Rather than being a futuristic dystopia, BSG is asking "what if our valiant military prowess was up against a massive robotic threat". Major downsides are that it's a very caucasian show, in fact a very Anglo show (ie. not even much representation from non-northwestern europeans like Russians, Jews, Italians, Greeks) with a few hopeful exceptions, like leading Latino film hero Edward James Olmos (although they gave him blue contact lenses). Fortunately we see outstanding female leadership representation, notably with a woman president and a woman leading lieutenant. Tempo, tone, and timbre are reminiscent of other high-production 90's TV dramas like E.R. and West Wing, only with significantly higher adrenaline for the audience. (The excessive suspense is the only thing I'm removing marks for, along with a few minor plot inconsistencies which don't effect character development.)Above all, BSG has some of the best acting in TV: deeply emotional, rife with strange and powerful interpersonal moments, with mature and intelligent relationships.


                
Battlestar Galactica has had many influences since 1978. I just got another faster than light message from the real Battlestar Galactica also called moon 168 Rtexas: Faster than light Readback Admiral Bradmawe Blue Wing 2 Recon stitched (shot down) Hu Jintao Rocket tee hee aimed at Moon 168 Rtexas back (5 7 9). The R stands for Republic of Texas alone but not deserted. I am talking about a real Moon 168 that is important to America and Britain that I am the Skipper of. My Artificial Intelligence Computer on Moon 168 Rtexas is being built over time. If you compare the the 21st century Galactica show to the 1978 series you will notice that Adamas Daughter was written out of the script because the over 18 year old Baby Forbes claims in a completely false way that she is every woman in the television show. The latest faster than light message that I got from my Daughter Julias artificial Intelligence on the Planet Coaltrain is "I'm still here Daddy." I haven't been writing Julias messages much lately because I didn't want people to think that I was crazy. I am still here as the Skipper of moon 168 of a 169 moonfleet (13 squared are the Care Rank Ki Alien creators Good and or Indifferent or what?) my Daughter Julia I love you in a Platonic way of course and thanks to God you and I can talk forever. A big thanks to IMDb for letting the American Shadow Government use their internet site. Support the Internet Movie Database.
I've recently bought season 1 and 2 on DVD and my opinion is that the show is well made, has good story lines etc.. When I put one episode on I mostlikly end up seeing the whole DVD. My eyes kept focused on the screen like my life depended on it, the show is so intense. I've never seen the original so I can't compare but what I can say is that this show is worth watching.There are some people saying that the actors don't do a very good job, I have to disagree, sure they are not all fantastic actors. Some say the way it is filmed is horrible, you just need some time to get used to it.I recommend you all to give this show a chance


                
It is difficult for me not to look back at the original series! For that time the show was excellent! After having seen the first and second season of the new Battlestar Galactica I have to conclude that the original and the new one are completely different shows! You can't say that the one is better than the other. Both shows have their good aspects and bad ones! Probably the biggest difference is that the original series is more action based (and for that time) had a higher budget! And that the new one is more drama based! There are less space battles to be seen! I don't know if this is done on purpose or it has to do with the budget! But for me personally sometimes I expect to see something happen in space than hear about it! And what is up with the robot cylons,they look a bit fake to me! This however is not so much an issue because the drama is "bloody" good! Every episode has a plot that will get to you! You will actually care for the characters even for the human Cylons! The distinction between good and evil is not clear just like in real life! It becomes clear that not only Cylons are a threat to the people! Humans are even a bigger enemy to themselves! I do have detected some flaws in the plot and some subjects that are being discussed in the show but these can all be ignored since the show is very exciting and entertaining! I have seen the first two seasons and the cliffhanger endings from those two seasons are the most thrilling endings I have seen! After the first season matters get more complicated and you think that it cannot get any worse. The ending of the second season surprised me completely! Can't wait to see the next season!


                
Say what you will about the original, it was certainly campy, even for its own time, but it was fun and certainly better than the spin-off "Galactica 1980"In the miniseries we saw many changes, including the gender bending of a few classic characters. Furthermore the Cylons were given a true characterization as well as some upgrades. In the first few episodes of the series we see the development of the characters as well as the appearance of Richard Hatch, a cast member of the original.The series moves slow at time, but what Television show doesn't, however most of the first season and the first half of the second are paced well, only in the second of of season 2 do we see some pacing problem and "Filler" I'm sure many fans would elect to remove them all-together.The pacing and character development are what give the series strength, no more do we have to watch science fiction that rips off "The Twilight Zone" but instead of a earth creature being possessed we have a bump fore-headed tentacle slug...Finally we have a good episodic drama to sink our teeth into and get more than just a few empty hours of Twinkie filling, this is grade-a drama with only a few fatty bits to cut around.To be impartial lets take a look at the sores... Emotional Cues are frequently campy and over the top, but typically offset by breaking the fourth wall in a subtle way to draw attention to the fact that we are, in fact, watching archetypal characters face insurmountable odds in a fantasy world. While Special effects are top notch, they sometimes take the exhibition to far and we end up watching annoyingly jerky and rather tiresome space battles that don't advance the action or plot. Often times the hand-held aesthetic is used to heighten the tension of a battle, but when taken too far the viewer may feel the need to shut down. due to the fact that the series is about other humans on other earth like planets the writers take the liberty of placing familiar props and language, this breaks the fourth wall in a not so subtle way and annoys me personally... the word frakk replaces its earthling f-bomb counterpart but other swears remain the same, or we will occasionally see or hear mention of a dog...I'm less concerned about the use of the Greek/roman pantheon because it was a part of the original series, but I'm sure such an argument was made when that was new too and let us not forget the blatant holy struggle implied by the cylons "religion" although we see a cylon character in season two who rejects the beliefs, which was refreshing.Despite these concerns the series is well put together, virtually flawless in production and holds my attention far better than anything else currently on television.


                
I'm not one of the schmaltzy guy in the family, but this drama made me affected with every way it could. If I had to choose one word to describe the series it would be emotional. You find yourselves being close to different characters throughout the episodes. Sometimes, you are taking important decisions with Adama;you are agitated with moral dilemmas,toughness of being a real soldier,friendship... Or sometimes you're along with Starbuck, while notions like obstinacy,contumacy,freedom,incontrovertible attractiveness are echoed in your head. In Battlestar Galactica, every character has something to say. Things that somehow affect you emotionally. Throughout seasons I witnessed such moments that it was simply impossible to watch without weeping.Take my word: These scenes are not few. Up to Battlestar Galactica, I never thought I would be touched by a science fiction works... After the last episode of Battlestar, I felt, as if I'had make one of my friend's farewells. Still,If you decide to watch it, after sometime you'll find yourselves as a companion to all the crew in Battlestar. I think, it's this sense which makes BG so emotional.


                
I follow sci-fi genre very closely and very selective on that. I am not an fanatic supporter of BSG. I know it has flaws and mistakes. ( cheap Canadian production values of Vancauever , unable to create a main story arc like Cylon plan etc ) But that does not take away its positive sides of BSG which are strongest and best made in any science fiction production so far.First acting is excellent. Edward James Olmos , Mary McDonnell , James Callis , Tricia Helfer , Jamie Bamber , Katie Sackhoff , Aaron Douglas , Grace Park all of them are performing at their peak. And it shows on screen as unforgettable characters. Their presence are strong and well crafted.Story and environment is well created. It is really dark , gritty and dramatic as you can expect. The lines delivered by characters are well through , consistent with their personalities. There is no frat boy humor ( in fact no humor at all thank god. Somebody is taking science fiction seriously at the end ) , forehead alien of week , over the top technologies or silly sex aspects to draw teenagers to series. In fact there are hard things going on in this universe. The ugly things in real life reflected sometimes. People got executed for no reason , main characters might make mistakes and live with it. They are not perfect. They have to accept consequences of their decisions/actions and these decisions shape them. There is low life behavior , drunkenness , violence and other things you can not expect from perfect heroes because no character is a knight in shining armor. Wise and just Commander Adama stages a coup to overthrow the government. His second in command Colonel Tigh is a cynical alcoholic. President Roslin is a strong leader with strong religious convictions whose visions might ruin everything and she is not accepting that. Starbuck is real bitch who in fact has serious personal problems. Lee Adama is still trying to figure out who he is , what he is trying to do in life while trying to be a leader among his troops. Gaius Baltar is a completely narcissistic ,selfish and weak man who always works to save himself but sometimes try to do the right thing. Cylons are also more human looking so this gives us a face and another side of story to look upon. Characters are complex and well developed. Story of each episode is not aways good but some episodes really make you think and that is good !I have a great deal of respect for Ronald D. Moore and producers of BSG for their unusual out-of-box thinking while creating this show. They might have screwed up the storyline here and there but other aspects of series...well does not compensate but still powerful enough to made us to follow BSG story.


                
I watched it first time when it was actual, aired, and then I knew that I will want to watch it again after some years. That could be best compliment to some movie, TV serial, and yet, I give it rating of 8 (only) . Right, things are that this is far from perfect. There are some flaws, I dare to say some shallow work from writers in first place, but in execution too. Still, this is probably best sci-fi on TV ever made.
Even if here, at IMDB there is no 'Sci-fi' mentioned. I would call it rather some saga about universe, life, creation ... And about today civilization on our planet, about dangers of technology. Human relations with other humans and A.I. I see in many reviews complains about all it looks, they behave exactly as we on our Earth today, but that's exactly the point. It all happened .... The accent was not on advanced technology details, and they use really some even for today standard outdated weapons, phones while having FTL, artificial gravity and other technologies. But that was OK for me, because this is not that kind of Sci-fi .The bad parts: I found most of fight scenes not well directed, uninspired. Worst episodes were S03E9 and 10 - too long boxing episode, then poor Kat ... I just saw that it was after writers strike, so maybe that is the reason for those 'fillers' as I called them.The good: there was much more of it, and I can only mention couple here: that visit to 'original Earth' was great as idea and well executed. The very ending - even if was predictable, it was really awesome. Some say that it was rushed. I don't think so. Was sentimental for sure, and that's how it should be after many episodes with main characters.Who knows, maybe someone decides, some 20-30 years from now to make remake of remake :-) I had no problems with female warriors, more with Starbuck presented as too cocky, too often drinking character. Boomer was OK, and actually being female made it just better. Baltar could be little more scientist and less womenizer. And maybe more balanced technology usage.
Could give more time to detail how fleet managed to get necessary things to keep alive 50000 people - that would be worth of few episodes.Ratings:Edward James Olmos: 9Mary McDonnell: 9Jamie Bamber: 8Katie Sackhoff: 7James Callis: 7 - but latest 2 could have better material, I thinkGrace Park: 8Writers: 8Direction: 8Tahmon Penikett: 9


                
Oh ho ho! I haven't read so many rants in ages: I love it when the righteous go all indignant and give me something to laugh at. I read eagerly through the reviews on page one, agreeing with just about everybody <U+0096> then half way down page 2 the mood swings sharply against this show, and I think it's no great leap to guess that the people who hate this show the most, are the ones clinging most fervently to the rose-tinted vision of the old Battlestar Gallactica of the 70s. I really don't remember it at all (though I'm old enough) <U+0096> so I came to this with no expectations whatever. But I was completely gripped from episode one and will beg or steal to get my hands on the following three seasons' DVDs. Funny, that this version, which seems to have inspired so much contempt, has made it to Season Four so far. Could it possibly be that it's just good, old-fashioned entertainment? Enough of this: here's why it's good. Mary McDonnell's truly believable Laura Roslin, becoming subtly more authoritative as she steps up to the role of President of the Twelve Colonies; Edward James Olmos' excellent Commander Adama, terse, upright, controlled: thrust unexpectedly into a position of extraordinary power and responsibility. The nicely charged interplay between Adama's son, Lee (callsign Apollo) and Kera Thrace (callsign Starbuck). Apollo is 100% military: the exemplary fighter pilot with a less than exemplary relationship with his Dad. Starbuck's the hotshot pilot and poker player, with a rebellious, devil-may-care approach to life that at times resembles a death-wish.The supporting cast have well-defined roles which seem to have a life off-screen. There's an air of believability to the whole: the acting, the amazing set design and astonishing CGI work, especially in the space fights. The CGI really is beautifully executed, and for once (George Lucas take note) the actors don't seem to have been stifled by it <U+0096> it simply adds another, deep, dimension. I love how ugly and serviceable the Battlestar is; how isolated everybody is in their new world order, having to come to terms with fear and loss; how dark the whole tone is. This is not a world where everybody inevitably makes the right decision and Good dominates over Evil. This is absolutely a post-9/11 world; where the chronic loss of trust creates a never-ending ambiguity, and Empire must question itself if it is to survive.Oh, and go Brits! <U+0096> I love the work of Jamie Bamber (Apollo) and James Callis (Dr Baltar) in this show. It feels like Apollo hasn't quite revealed his whole self in series one: I hope he gets more time in later series to explore what he could become: he's so <U+0096> buttoned up, held in (and back?) by lingering mistrust of his father's faith in him. Baltar is great: by turns amusing and appalling in his moral vacuum, shadowed <U+0096> his own worst punishment <U+0096> by the image of a beautiful Cylon who whispers ambiguous messages in his ear. The comic relief provided by this character is pretty much the only humour in this show. But that doesn't strike me as a loss: yes, it does take itself seriously, but it's a drama! And the drama would be diminished if every script was turning itself inside out for the next wisecrack. 'Battlestar Gallactica' is highly recommended if you can approach it without any preconceptions. Anyone longing for dyed-in-the-wool heroes, cheap special effects and a jokey approach had better avoid it like the plague. Incidentally, Richard Hatch is far more charismatic as a not-always-bad-man than as a hero - I'd like to see plenty more of him in this role.
I disagree with the fellow who said BSG is terrible. I find it an intriguing and thoughtful program. I thought the "old" BSG suffered from being too much a kid's show and was hampered by time slot and network conventions at the time. Adama, as portrayed by Edward James Olmos is a man for his time, deep, conflicted but determined to do the right thing. Lee, his son, is working on their strained relationship while trying to be the man he thinks he should be. Other characters, such as Starbuck, for example, are all too human. The deeper conflict between humans who have multiple gods and the cylons who have one, just add to the depth of the program. If I had a complaint, it would be that the story arcs are long. If I had another complaint, it would be that sometimes, the dialog is overwhelmed by the background sound, perhaps because of the predominantly British sound ( not surprising!), but these are small matters, for me since there is very little on TV I consider as thought provoking as BSG


                
Friends of mine kept telling me to watch this show. I resisted because:A. I was never a fan of the original andB. I am not a big Sci-Fi buff.But finally I saw that iTunes was having a special on season 1 and decided to give it a try. I must regretfully say that my friends were right, this show is amazing. Fans of the original seem to hate it because of the new, more complex direction the show has taken. While I don't know much about the original, I can see why you would hate it if you were looking for an inspiring heroes vs villains piece and you got this instead. The creators here have clearly set out to create a realistic portrayal of humanity at it's finest and it's worst. I was amazed at how many times I flipped between thinking of a character as clearly heroic and almost downright evil. Better yet, how those flips developed naturally out of each characters complex storyline, so that it never felt forced. In other words, you rarely find yourself saying 'they would never do that', because the writers have put in the groundwork to explain how these people think. It really is very rare to have this much depth in a TV show.But that's just one aspect of the show. For action fans there are excellent and complex battle scenes in almost every show. Action is well paced and white-knuckle exciting, often with primal drum beats that heighten the life or death feel of the action. Political fans will find a lot to like about this show because it quickly becomes apparent that even with humanity on the verge of extinction scheming and deal making is still part of human nature. Romance fans will find plenty of coupling, although the romance angle is one of the weaker aspects of the show in my opinion. Still, in good Sci-Fi fashion the non-human woman are all blazing hot and usually kind of trashy dominant types, so many people will like that.Really, almost all parts of the show are well done. The only people who might be disappointed, I think, are the Trek fans. It's ironic I suppose, but BSG has very little of the scientific gobblety-gook that Trek fans seem to love so much. Yes, they are all traveling thru space on giant space ships, but they hardly ever do tech-speak and most of what you see is fairly mundane, even primitive. Technology is just not a focus of the show, and unlike in many Trek plots technology is almost never the answer to the problems they face in each episode. It's about the people, not the machines. Heck, even the machines (Cylons) from the original show have been evolved into organic creatures.OK, so why does all this suck? Because I already watch too much TV and now I have to add another show to my Tivo list. But if you have the time, I highly recommend this show.


                
Only recently I began watching the Reimagined series–yes, I know, very late to the game–and I'm about half-way through. And it has been a riveting adventure that takes me back to one of my favourite genres of books and movies.Each character is launched into a universe of rapidly paced drama delving into the essence of what it means to be human, where politically astute, split-second decisions will preserve or destroy life, and the fleet flees from the Cylons. The viewer is faced with complex and fascinating topics such as the role of the military in a democracy, religion in society, and the immense force we humans (or Cylons) call love.-Jonathan @jonamccallum www.jonathanmccallum.com
Hi so this is the new Battlestar Galactica. Less then 50,000 of us and life is bleak. I wasn't a fan of the mini series. But I decided to take a look at this series on DVD. It's great. The series relies on tension rather then special effects. When they do use the special effects, WOW. Some of the best dogfights I've seen in a long time. The camera maintains a doco style and the picture looks a little grainy, in a good way. Sometimes rather then show you the battle your only allowed to hear it on the ships intercom, Very much like the black hawk down documentary that used the communications to tell the story. It's simple and effective storytelling at it's best.The characters are all well drawn and motivated. If I had to find a flaw maybe the episode "Black Market" could have been scrapped. It's not as good as the rest of the series.The biggest critique I have heard of this show revolves around the character Starbuck being changed to a woman. This in my opinion is misplaced. I think the actress is doing a great job and the character is better written and more human then in the original series. I think she's one of the better written women roles on television.I am a fan of the original and I don't see why people can't like both. The older one is a product of it's time, Hey I have Richard Hatch's autograph.I can't imagine the BSG all the people that dislike it wanted. I'd say have a look I'm sure you'll like it


                
Very different to the original series, (which I loved as a kid), quite a dark feel to it, but given that it's dealing with the obliteration of billions of people, you would expect that. I always thought the original series was a "what if" kind of story, i.e. Russia/America actually kicking off and we'd all be in the s**t! It's not a camp romp with scantily clad silver haired female aliens, granted, it's been sexed up a whole lot, but it fleshes (scuse the pun) out the story a lot more, and I think it's more satisfying than the original. Starbuck had to change, casting the character as a woman I think works fine. Besides, Starbuck became Face for me a long time ago anyways!


                
This series starts incredibly well, like haveta see the next episode good, then somewhere toward the middle it loses speed, and becomes more of a soap. there are over 35 episodes in the second half, and a few are polished gems, but most of it convolutes a shaky story. This is where i started taking a shot for every actor who visibly cried on screen. and there are way too many over-the-top emotional scenes. everybody drinks, cries, and is so strong of a soldier. over and over and over. im glad some money was spent on the props, costumes, cgi, but holy crap, don't make me endure constant misery for good sci-fi, just make some good sci-fi.-fugfar


                
8 stars from me for Gallaktika and I think it deserves it, especially if you consider that the show is really old. Personally I was expecting the special effects to be ridiculous but that is not the case, they are in fact surprisingly realistic. The cast is OK, what one would expect from a television series, that is above average most of them. The story keeps you wanting more. What I liked most about BSG is the metaphors and the messages is conveying. The war between humans and their creations is essentially a depiction of the humanity's struggle of its good and dark side. In the end what is the quality that differentiates us from other beings? And what is the lesson that we are teaching our children? Have we learned from our mistakes? BSG broaches issues that are still relevant like that of racism, evolution, spirituality and equality. What defines humanity and what makes us who we are? And I think the ultimate question, can humanity rise and is it worthy? (I am really curious to see the conclusion of this series as I have only watched 2 seasons till now)


                
