I tried to resist watching this show for a long time, primarily because I am a very big fan of the original show, and I thought that it would be cheating on its memory. The second reason was whenever I asked someone about the show, the answer I got was closer to this " so Starbuck is a bad-ass bitch, and Boomer is a cylon Asian Chick and Apollo is actually called Lee, and Apollo and starbuck have the hots for each other and they are doing it. The first thing that would pop in my mind is a "re- imagined" twisted cheap porn version of Battlestar Galactica. Until one day I was reading this article about the best Sci-Fi shows of all time and I think this show was voted as the best. And then it hit me, I love Lost , but it is a show about a smoke monster and his immortal brother who trapped people on an island, but it is really more than that. Then I borrowed the 4 seasons and the miniseries from a friend and I watched it all back to back and god was I in for a surprise, I hated it , and loved it and then hated it and loved it even more. I loved the characters they crawled under my skin, they were real and flawed, emotional and fraked . It was sad, but beautiful. The dialogue was not as witty as Firefly but it was deep and profound. it was political and serious and it reflected all our problems here on earth in a very smart way. I am still in awe. whenever I think about this show I get goosebumps. And then I discovered that it was not at all a remake of the old show, they are 2 different shows, with very little in common and I can love them both. However, the new show has honestly become one of my all time favorite shows. Even though I was not a fan of the ending, I thought it was a very harsh ending, I think at one point I felt that all this greenery on the planet was going to suffocate me. I also felt so bad for Apollo who lost everyone close to him and had to live life alone on a new planet. Moreover, i did not like the fact that the strive of the colonials and the 4 years they spent looking for a new home was lost and not remembered by their grandchildren. I am not enthusiastic about starting Caprica but I will also give it a try, who knows it might turn out to be just as good.
When I heard they were redoing the show Battlestar Galatica my attitude was no thanks. I remember the old show and could not stomach watching a completed episode of TOS. I remember the special effects that were repeated ad nausea and the terrible over acting by most of the cast. So I had no intention of watching this redone show.I was channel surfing one day and happened to catch the mini series and was hooked. While the original tried to be a kid's show with Mormon values thrown in for good measure, the new show does not try this. In fact TNS is the opposite of TOS in many aspects.Most Sci-Fi shows tend to have heroic characters that are larger than life. In Battlestar the characters are flawed and are trying to survive. In the original series the characters were noble people who deserved to live another day, they were the best of the best. In the new series the question, do they deserve to survive, should be asked often. Judging by their actions the answer might be no. Instead of working together to survive, they seem to be more worried about their own needs. The needs of the many out weigh the needs of the few is not this group's mantra. It is more like every man for himself. We have seen child slavery, black marketing, and alcohol and drug abuse while humanity is being hunted down. The point is that Sci-Fi does not have to be heroic and larger than life to create great television. BSG not only takes this idea, but embraces it.In most Sci-Fi shows the enemy or villain is quite clear and well defined. In BSG it is not. Ron Moore did bring back the robotic Cylons of yester year, however with CGI technology they are no longer people stuffed in robot costumes shuffling down the halls trying to catch their prey. They are quick, fluid killing machines that would make most people tremble in fear. Of Course Ron Moore gave these villains a twist by making some of them appear human as well. Not all of them are known to the audience or the characters on the show, bringing up debate as to who is the enemy and who is not.Television and movies are a reflection of our times and history. BSG has addressed our time period in many different ways. Already, we have seen 9.11 references, as well as terrorism and sleeper agents. Sometimes our worries and concerns need to be addressed and by using the venue of Sci-Fi, Ron Moore has addressed the issues of our times. There has been discussion of Religion, Abortion, child prostitution, War, Death and other issues of today. Clearly BSG is a reflection of today's trouble times and issues. The original seemed more concerned with how cute Boxie and Muffet could be and what new powers the humans could have. The original toted itself as ground breaking and failed miserably. The new show breaks ground and tradition every show.But don't take my word for it, see for yourself.


                
I write this endorsement of the most recent effort to portray the Battlestar Galactica universe not because it is any better (or worse) than previous versions of the show, but because it is better than any series I've seen on television - save one, with which it ties. How the most recent series compares to the first one, to the second attempt, or to any of the novels, is irrelevant. The only series I have seen that can compare to this in sheer quality is Band of Brothers.Battlestar Galactica is not a series for pre-teens, young teens, or even most young adults. BSG is a series for those who have held some kind of leadership position in one organization or another, and have therefore made decisions directly impacting people's lives on a daily basis. It is this "class" of citizen that will appreciate the calm, mannered managerial style of Commander Adama, the emotional yet distanced leadership of Colonel Tigh, and the self-discovery of Captain Adama's budding personality and style. In fact, every main character in the series holds a distinct yet classically recognizable approach to leadership and human interaction, and the series does an impeccable job of staying true to each. This is the overarching strength of the series.Additionally, the series not only asks a great deal of its heroes, but they respond in wholly believable ways. The consistent realism of the kinds of leadership challenges covered by the series suggests a degree of wisdom among the writers that is uncommon among your typical homebody equipped with a quill and a stack of books; it is for this reason that the writers cannot be other than be balanced, healthy men. A man who is not thus balanced is aware neither of the subtle challenges faced by the heroes of BSG, nor of the fine differences in the manner in which their diverse archetypal styles would react.It is for this reason that I recommend the series not to everyone, but to healthy adults. By healthy of course I mean balanced both in education and experience - the renaissance men and women of our time. These are the individuals properly equipped to appreciate all of the wonderful minutiae of the series. Here I haven't even touched upon the overarching philosophical and ethical questions posed by the series because they go almost without saying, and anyone capable of appreciating the attributes described above will certainly recognize and revel in them. The primary purpose of this brief blurb is to reassure those who would in fact love the movie that they should not pay too much attention to many of the negative reviews present on this and other sites.If you found Band of Brothers deeply moving and intellectually stimulating in subtle, believable ways, you will find the experience again in Battlestar Galactica.


                
The only thing keeping me from giving the series Battlestar Galactica a 10/10 rating is the slump in season 3 in which there were to many episodes that were character background that should have been well established by the time you are 75% of the way through a story and shows making them just plain filler material episodes. But given the overall quality of the story and way it took my viewing habits by storm watching the series via streaming instead of when it was originally aired (I just couldn't believe the hype about it being good, the original having damaged the will to try it). Making the decision to dive in and watch the entire series was well rewarded with a story that is multi tiered with complex characters, deep questions (some that face us in real life and go unanswered) and a science fiction show a lack of dependence on science fiction to tell the story. It had to be fiction, and because of the technology science fiction, but while quality is high it is not the core of the show by a long shot. The quality of the story is where BG knocks it out of the park. Granted, by the final show I was pretty comfortable with where everything was going to land, it took me until the final show being comfortable that ANYTHING was going to work out as expected. It is a heart pounding thrill ride showing the good, bad, dark and ugly of human nature in a story that is a great ride for the viewer and thankfully takes them to conclusion. Those topics left to the imagination can't be answered and if it had been attempted would have ruined the show. But the important characters are important in more ways than any show I've ever seen makes the main characters core to the story. I can't say much more on that or it would be a spoiler. The surprises are big, and the learning adventure a big one, maybe fiction in that the world never learns and does better as the characters in the show do, but who knows given it is the story of the fall of a great society and its fight for survival. There are to many twists and turns to say much in detail other than after the entire series has been watched it is well worth the time and takes the viewer on a great ride with so many twists giving them away is impossible when speaking in detail. Watch it, enjoy it, be glad they wrote a story from start to end without adding more when it was time to end or cutting it short before the story had played out. A 10 start show with a glitch in season 3, but ones you have to watch to be up on the story come season 4 so while disappointing, necessary to watch none the less!!!


                
A mostly brilliant show that manages to take it's cheesy sci-fi premise and wisely chooses to instead focus on intense and powerful storytelling and character development. The way the characters are fleshed out and grow over the four seasons is truly enjoyable to experience. In fact, the only flaw this show may have is that it might be too ambitious for it's own good, as the last story arc of the series left me with a ever so slight feeling of disappointment. That being said, the journey is surely worth getting there, as you will be treated to a phenomenal cast, great story arcs, smart writing, and a series that manages to almost perfect the balance between it's characters and the events they experience. It will easily go down as one of the best shows of all time.


                
Battlestar Galactica was a brilliant concept of the dangers of Artificial Intelligence. I found the evolution of Cylons quite interesting to view such as (SPOILER ALERT PLEASE DO NOT READ ANY FURTHER IF YOU HAVE NOT WATCHED BATTLESTAR GALACTICA!!!!) When Cavil/John complains to Ellen for being more human rather machine ie. "I want to smell dark matter!". Also the evolution of humans was very intriguing ie. the uprising brought by Felix Gaeta and Tom Zarek. This series is a great science fiction story to get you started within the Sci-fi genre. Even if you do not like Sci-fi stories I guarantee you will love BSG.
Having watched the original series as a child I put off watching this for some time expecting it to be a virtual remake but with CGI and characters who had been gender switched for no obvious reason... I'm glad I eventually decided to watch it though as I could not have been more wrong! This is nothing like the light hearted original that I loved as a child; series creator Ronald D. Moore has taken the original premise and made something much darker and much more grown up. As with the original the series starts with the destruction of the Twelve Colonies where humanity has settled and the survivors head off into space in search of the mythical thirteenth colony; Earth. Here the similarities end though; the Cylons that destroyed the colonies weren't crated by aliens; they were created by humanity and rebelled against their masters. As well as the familiar Centurions we soon learn that there are some Cylons that can't be distinguished from people and some of those don't even realise they are Cylons. As humanity flees they will have to struggle against both Cylons and themselves if they are to survive and find their new home.I really enjoyed this series; the story may have been familiar but the characters were much deeper than in the version I saw as a child and there wasn't the feeling that if a character was a regular they would inevitably survive; in fact many major characters die including some that manage to survive for several seasons. The cast did a fantastic job; most notably Edward James Olmos, Mary McDonnell, Katie Sackhoff, Grace Park, Jamie Bamber, Michael Hogan, Tricia Helfer and James Callis... and even listing this many stand out performances seems unfair on the rest as just about everybody was great! Fans of the original series will be pleased to see Richard 'Apollo' Hatch return; this time his character, Tom Zarek, is far from heroic. I don't usually think to comment on the music for a series but here I must as composer Bear McCreary did such a fine job and later on some of the music is actually integral to the plot. As with all series there are some weaker episodes but even the poor Galactica episodes are better than much of what is on television. When the series finished I was left wanting more but all the key story threads had been tied up and it was good that it ended while it was still good rather than overstaying its welcome. If you haven't seen this series yet I strongly recommend it; just remember to watch the miniseries before series one as that sets up the whole story.


                
Don't see any logical base for most of the negative reviews. Most complain about plot holes, not staying true to the original, or the series being "pretentious" with the illusion of being intelligent.Plot HolesThere really is no reason to complain about plot holes, it's a sci fi show, any universe that is made from scratch is going to have plot holes. Especially when it comes to high end productions that have to cater to a broad audience. I find it helpful to watch the show with a clear mind every time. If you are all pent up and busy worrying about something that didn't quite add up five episodes beforehand, you won't be able to enjoy what's in front of you right now.Not true to the originalRe-imagined. That's really all I need to say. If you are judging the content of this series based on an old series (even if they do derive from the same universe) then please by all means, don't watch it and complain about it in a review. That helps nobody to decide if they want to watch it. Chances are, people who haven't watched the show probably haven't watched the old show and could care less if the re-imagined series stays true to the old series."Pretentious," illusion of being IntelligentReally, if you are looking down upon the series for being pretentious or claiming it's in fact, not an intelligent show (Which I am not claiming it is) then you yourself are being pretentious. Was the show pretentious? I don't know, I didn't get that vibe from it, I can, however, tell you that I though-roughly enjoyed the show.tl:drLoved the show, most negative reviews should not be taken into serious consideration.


                
Battlestar Galactica is the type of show that one would initially shy away from unless they were your typical sci-fi fan. The amazing thing about BSG is that it steers away from many tropes that have littered typical sci-fi series such as any Star Trek and its spin offs. Without spoiling the plot, the show finds its roots in the characters and not in the setting. There is very little techno-babble which already elevates it to a place where it can be watched by anyone that wants to be entertained by dramatics events, performances and tragedies.Never once did I really care that the show took place on board various spaceships and alien worlds (I should also note, there are no actual aliens in the series). This show could have taken place in the 16th century , in the middle of the Atlantic ,on board a flotilla of Spanish Galleons and it would still be the same basic premise of a relatively small group of people fighting to survive in an empty void against immeasurable threats; most of which are found in conflicts that they have between each other and not their enemy.The acting and action are great. Characters are both lovable and at the same time, you will find yourself frustrated with some of them but that to me shows good writing. If the actors were not up to snuff and the writing was poor, you would never get emotionally involved in the series because they would not be believable as people.Worth a watch for anyone that enjoys quality television.


                
Not only does this series tackle normally taboo subjects such as religious conflicts (and the great twist here is that the bad guys are monotheistic!), not only does it have strong characters and great dialogue, wonderful production design etc. etc. There is yet another important difference. Unlike most TV series, where the events of this week's episode have no consequences in terms of the continuing drama, where the writers contrive to hit the re-set button at the end of each episode, BSG is ALL about consequences. Tough command decisions have to be made constantly, and the consequences of actions taken are permanent and have repercussions that pop up later to further complicate the narrative. There is no reset button. This is a series that demands to be seen and seen in proper episodic order.


                
I was hesitant to give this show a try, because I thought the original series that lasted only a year was beyond bad. However, a friend of mine at work insisted that the new BG was quite good. I watched my first episode in July 2013 and had gone through all 76 episodes by Thanksgiving. I did not regret it.At times, this series was up and down, with some inconsistencies in the story line and a couple of scenarios that strained my credulity. However, the overall quality of the show never dropped below pretty good and, as the series wound down, the show achieved greatness. The special effects were marvelous throughout, and in some instances were breathtaking. For example, when the deteriorating Galactica jumped into the black hole's gravity well to attack the Cylon colony, I was impressed by the amount of fire the Cylons immediately put on that creaky old hulk. It was an incredible spectacle, made especially eerie by the silence of space.The show went to great lengths to develop its characters. BG was a human drama first and a sci-fi drama second. I contrast this to Star Trek Next Gen, another great show, which was first and foremost a futuristic sci-fi drama focusing on the superior technology of the 24th century. Laura Roslin's Raptor ride with Admiral Adama was a touching scene, very well done indeed. That is one of the memories of this series that will stay with me.A top-notch show. No doubt about it.
I was looking for a good TV show and after a lot of searches on google , i zeroed in on watching Battlestar Galactica. I have to say it without a doubt that it has to among the finest TV shows ever made. I thought it would be some sort of space adventure but it completely took me by surprise. It dealt with a whole range of issues like politics, religion and civil rights. Among the characters, my favorites are Baltar,Starbuck and Admiral Adama. Saul Tigh,Lee Adama,Six,Athena and Helo are close second. I was disappointed with the way it ended but that doesn't take away anything from the quality of the show. Overall, if you haven't seen the show yet then you are missing a high quality TV show.


                
I remember my friend telling me about this, and I'm not one to take to TV shows so well, my only other "favourite" being House, M.D. But he was quite persistent and pretty much MADE me watch the mini-series, and borrowed me the DVD's of the series, afterwards... and I watched them all! In quick succession as well...Best. Decision. Ever.This is simply put, not only a great re-imagining of the original but, in many ways, is just a great TV show in general. It simply is one of the best Sci-Fi shows ever made, but it doesn't stick with the general Sci-Fi themes, without being too cliché and using an obvious example, like Star Trek: TNG it delves into many things, philosophies, morals, laws, the human psyche in general. And it's not surprising that one of the writers from TNG also became involved in the development of this show as well... I will say that the earlier seasons are simply sublime to watch, and whilst it may trail off a little to the end, I didn't find it disappointing and hopefully, you won't either. If you've been "oohing" or "aahing" over watching this, please don't... It took me a few years too long to watch this, and I never regretted it... it's brilliant television, no more needs to be said.


                
Am I a Cylon? Somehow I missed this series early in the 2000's, perhaps because I was too busy watching the Red Sox. The two hour primer of this series had me hooked from the first scene. The clever plot, precision technology, top-notch acting, fluid, active editing, energy, creative character development, heart-felt personalities and drama, and rich, inventively interwoven story lines kept me watching night after night, week after week on Netflix, as if addicted to a magic potion. Makes Lost look lost. Makes Star Wars trivial. Kick back with your lover, get out some treats and prepare for an adventure that will take you to the limits of mind, space and love.


                
The new Battlestar Galactica series has defined a whole new direction for science-fiction into a far more plausible and real area of our imaginations. While its main focus is the drama and interaction of the characters, this is one of its greatest strengths. It should not be the technology that defines a good science fiction series, but the characters and what they do. The use of bullets over lasers is really quite logical - bullets do more damage, and are thus more effective in combat. And the dull thuds of the guns, while giving a bit of the sound that should never be heard (space is a vacuum, and so sound does not travel very well), gives it a far greater realism.The style of camera really puts you in the front seat. It is almost as though you are actually there, given how often the camera moves about. The focus on the characters also means that this is a human drama and allows for us to become connected with the characters, rather than simply being awed by eye-candy and technobabble.The music is also good. It creates tension, and the lack of a definitive theme allows for a huge freedom for the composers. Hearing recycled versions one theme gets rather boring after a while, so the infinite variations allows for music that fits the scene it was written for, and nothing else.I have also read some of the comments - the more English-like speaking of the characters has opened up the franchise to less fanatical viewers. You no longer need to be a BSG nut to know what the main characters are talking about. The new cylons is a huge redefining of the fleet and its interactions - trying to survive in space is hard enough. Trying to survive while being constantly sabotaged is even worse. Case in point - the Olympic Carrier in "33". And the humour? Well, maybe those who complain about a lack of humour just don't quite manage to get the jokes (because they aren't stupid one-liners).All-in-all, it is a very good new human drama against a backdrop of science and human difficulty. The interactions of humans and the technology they possess is always of relevance, and this imperfect universe is one in which we can all relate to. There are many other points we can relate to, and far too many to list here. Look at it and see what you can in this. And like all science fiction, be prepared to dismiss a little bit of reality. Hold on and enjoy the ride :D.
The aging Battlestar Galactica is destined to be decommissioned. The 12 colonies are surprised by the Cylons who launched an all-out attack. The attack devastates the new defense computers. Galactica's older technology is immune. The crew led by Admiral William Adama salvages the last of humanity as they journey towards the fabled 13th colony, Earth.The original 1978 TV series is a camp classic. Coming after the success of Star Wars, everybody was simply trying to copy. While it worked as TV, the original TV show did degenerate rather quickly and lasted only one season. It has since become a sci-fi cult classics. So the question was would a reboot even work. The genius here is to take the 1978 TV show seriously and the result is a dark moody concoction.Along with established stars like Edward James Olmos and Mary McDonnell, as well as Brit imports like Jamie Bamber, we're introduced to newbie Katee Sackhoff as a sexy now-female Starbuck. Add in new battle scene visuals and human form Cylons. It is edgy and deep. It takes risk and often is rewarded. This is now the new classic.


                
Let me preface this by saying I loved the original BSG series as a child. And while it still holds a special place in memories of my youth, looking back at the series now as an adult, it has not aged well.When I heard of the plans for a "reimagination" of BSG, I was skeptical. I had heard Richard Hatch was trying to get a revival of the original series going. I thought the original series had great potential mind you. But it was obvious that certain episodes were thrown together. The special effects were great upon first viewing. By the time you have seen the same effects for the 50th time.....well, you get my point.Fast forward to the new series. THIS is what the original show should have been. I've read the reviews of the people that are giving low reviews to the new series. How many of them are still angry because it's not the old series? People need to move on, and give this show a fair shake.Open your eyes, and your mind. This is television at it's finest. It's the best show out there, and it's getting better. How can anybody say this show is boring? The writing is incredible, the acting is terrific, and the new series does pay tribute to the original in the mini series. Quite simply put, if you love sci-fi, you need to watch this show. There's so much crap on TV now. How much reality TV can we watch? This is thought provoking entertainment at it's finest.


                
I loved BSG as a younger man in the 70's and to a lesser extent the resurrected 80's version. I was unhappy with the "re-imagining" of BSG in the beginning, from a FEMALE Starbuck and Boomer to excluding Richard Hatch from the new show. But now that season 2 is done I can safely say it makes complete sense, the ideas were very sound, and BSG has become a GREAT Sci-Fi series. The new BSG is much grittier, the plot lines much more deeply and thoughtfully constructed, and the characters are much more complex than the original series. I believe the show has become a must-watch Sci-Fi series, and I hope it continues for many seasons to come. Bring on season 3 right Frac-ing NOW!!


                
Someone once said imitation is the sincere form of television. That should have been said about Hollywood. Over the past few years we have seen television shows and movies being remade. Most of them have been horrible to say these least. Dukes of Hazzard, Charlie's Angels and The Omen are some of the recent remakes that left me saying thanks but no thanks. These directors basically take the original premise and change the actors who played them. There was nothing new there.Battlestar took the original show and did not just do a remake of the show, the revamped it. They took the only good idea from the show, Humans trying to survive the total destruction of their worlds and built on it. They made a barely watchable kids show into a dark engaging show. The plot twists and turns make you want more.Here is to season three, I will be waiting until then."By your Command"


                
I am a fan of the original BSG (I was 11 at the time) and am now a fan of the new. The new miniseries was pretty good overall, but the first 2 episodes of the series I saw tonight blew me away! 33 and Water answered a lot of questions but generated many more. I have several theories. I'm starting to think that humanoid Cylons are either prone to mental instabilities (Six's psychotic 'love' for Baltar, and her belief that she talks to God), or are still prototypes (human part of Boomer was actually able to override Cylon part of Boomer for water reading and one explosive), or are experiments in themselves (the Cylon ships with trackers can only be evaded for 33 minutes, at least 1 Cylon agent on Galactica could've blown up the Battlestar instead of just the water tanks). Or maybe all 3. But one humanoid Cylon in the miniseries said that it might take decades to track down the Galactica. That implies that Cylons are not part of a collective intelligence. It seems obvious to me that the Cylons have won and could easily destroy the humans left in the Colonies and the Galactican fleet. They didn't nuke all of the Colonies completely and there seem to still be humans there. I think the Cylons feel they are in control now, and are half torturing, half experimenting on humans. In 33 the Cylons push humans to the breaking point of exhaustion and stress (lack of sleep, lack of rest). In Water they observe what humans do under another basic assault, loss of water. Maybe they will attack the Colonials' power or food systems next. Maybe the Cylons are studying what's left of humanity to learn more about themselves, as they still seem new to their humanoid existence and the above-mentioned mental problems theory. The new BSG seems to be drawing from Babylon 5 in that "no one here is precisely what they appear to be". We're only just starting to see the secrets that the characters carry like One Rings that keep getting harder to bear. Tigh having only 5 drinks left, Baltar's treason and Six in his head, at least one Boomer is a Cylon, Starbuck's responsibility in Zak's death, etc. I eagerly await next week's episode. This series has the potential to be kick-ass good! What is it with the sci-fi channel? They can make great series (Farscape, Invisible Man, First Wave) and terrible movies (Dragon Fighter, Boa vs. Python).
To the point. The list of characters really fit very well in this sci- fi/drama/thriller/adventure. The story line is superbly done with realistic characters that a modern 20th-21th century person can identify with. Smoking, boozing, card playing, and Fracking this and Fracking that is definitely world we live in. But who know? Maybe it will also be in the future, million light-star from earth. But in the end aren't they our ancestors? If you love this then you must watch Caprica. If you didn't already


                
The original Battlestar Galactica series followed hard on the heels of Star Wars, and contained much of the same trappings. 'Death Ray' weapons, a host of aliens and whizz-bang (for the time) special effects. The re-imagining takes a distinctly different track. While the plot is roughly similar (at the beginning, at least), there are a number of subtle differences which make the new series (in my opinion) far edgier, grittier, and yes - better. Gone are the laser guns, odd array of aliens and Vipers improbably banking in tight circles in hard vacuum. In their place are far more believable props - the Battlestar troopers carry pistols and semi-automatic weapons, the Vipers are equipped, not with ray guns, but with projectile cannons and attitude control jets. The Battlestars and Cylon baseships fire thermonuclear missiles at each other. The Cylons are no longer a mysterious alien race, but are, in fact, both the creations and the nemeses of the Humans. The only necessary concessions to sci-fi are the Battlestar's hyperdrive engines, and the existence of an extremely advanced artificial intelligence.More importantly, the series is far more character-driven. Yes, Starbuck is now a woman - but a hard-drinking, hard-fighting, conflicted and completely believable character. The same goes for the other characters - the younger Adama's strained and yet co-dependent relationship with his legendary father, the capable and yet vulnerable XO, and Adama himself - looking forward to retirement, but thrust suddenly and unwillingly into the fight and flight of his life. Each character has their own internal demons to battle, while simultaneously forced to confront the external menace of the Cylons.Even the Cylons have undergone a radical change - although the metallic monsters remain, a new breed emerges: engineered to look, think and act exactly like humans, giving rise to the age-old question - if we build a machine that mimics human behavior in every way, even to the point that they themselves are unaware of the machine beneath the skin - at what point does the Machine end, and the Human begin? Special mention should be made of Olmos, Bamber and Sackhoff, who all deliver great performances, aided by an exceptional cast and excellent direction.BSG is by far the best sci-fi series on TV at present. If you (like me) are a fan of the original series, you still owe it to yourself to watch the latest installment - you won't be disappointed.


                
Being a fan of the original I wasn't sure about this going in. Turns out, is a brilliant reboot. 
Shows EVERYONE how it should be done!


                
I wanted to hate this. I was a huge fan of the old show, and really wanted to despise this since the old cast had been ditched.I was pleasantly surprised. The re-invention works and works well. The new cast functions together as a unit, with the right mix of camaraderie and tension. The dogfight sequences are breathtaking, and the updates to the Galactica and the Vipers are evolutionary.The mini-series was basically a re-telling of the original movie, but the series is forging it's own path. This is a good thing, though it's nice to note that several of the fleet ships are the same design as the original series, and the beauty shots of the Galactica are identical to the originals.Give it a chance, it's pretty good.


                
Not since the X-Files or the Sopranos has a show been as realistic, gripping, human, touching and so damn funny...Battlestar Galactica has some of the most intelligently written scripts not only in sci fi shows but in any show, it can be touching and funny one minute then be repulsive and shocking the next yet never boring. BSG is Star Trek if it were produced by military and combat aficionado's who obsess over protocol and hardware in a post 9/11 world, yet in BSG, the show never forgets its human side and that is what makes it so special. It's been about 10 years since Space: Above & Beyond was cancelled and I never thought in my wildest TV fantasy that the excitement and military drama/sci fi mix of that show would be duplicated let alone surpassed, yet here it is! If you're looking for a smart, brutal, sexy, funny show, then it's hard to surpass BSG... I'm in the Philippines and unfortunately there is no frackin' Sci Fi channel here, so my thanks to Mr. Bram Cohen.


                
