The only two "classics" that still make the annual best seller lists are To Kill a Mockingbird & Catcher in the Rye. "Catcher" was spared from being made into a movie, and was also spared the liberal spin machine. Mockingbird was about the everyday life of kids growing up in the rural South. The focus was 80% on the kids. In the background, the father Atticus Finch was a lawyer who took on the case of a young black man accused of a sexual crime against a White. In the movie, the lawyer and the trial are in front-and-center focus, and with Gregory Peck's ham-from-hell overacting, Atticus Finch became the most phony hero in movie history. In the film, the accused black was anything but an Ice T (before he reformed and turned TV cop) menace. No, he was obviously a sweet and reserved person --- and everybody in town knew it. So this great lawyer hero had to take on alleged racial prejudice, not real prejudice but movie-style prejudice, twisting flimsy and virtually non existent "evidence" to get these nasty bigots "to see" through old Atticus Finch's liberal eyes.... The only thing less brave than Gregory Peck's paper hero were the filmmakers. Remember, liberalism was very much in mode when this movie was released. Real courage was to disagree with the liberal dogma while Time, Newsweek, et cetera praised it in lockstep. Spitting on the rural South was an active part of that dogma, the theme of dozens of movies, and a virtual guarantee of 4-star reviews. My advice: Get the book, read it; it's great.


                
I've always heard this was a great movie, so I had high expectations. Little did I expect such an unrealistic, melodramatic piece of crap. "Super Lawyer Tries To Save The South From Itself." He's poor. He's rich. He's enlightened. He's educated. He's a crack shot. He stands down a mob (with the help of his wise and brave children). Where was the Sheriff? No need for a Sheriff when you've got Super Lawyer. He'll guard the jail all by himself. He is struggling against Ignorance, aided by the Mindless Duvalls of the world - who are guided by their innate goodness God gave them. I have seldom seen such claptrap outside of the Hallmark Channel, where the hero is always a woman who exhibits the same strengths and struggles. It's all so puerile.


                
If you've read the book of the same name, that's really as far as you need to go. Skip the movie, it's not worth your time.While the book had a somewhat richer storyline and a better narrative, the movie falls flat on these areas, concentrating far too intensely on the center plotline, effectively snubbing most of the cast in one way or another. Gregory Peck's Atticus Finch becomes the main character in place of Scout, which was probably the worst decision of the entire movie. It drags on like nothing else I've seen, and in general is the worst adaptation I've ever watched, and a terrible movie by itself. Any redeeming points the book had (despite it's general mediocrity, the book did have good character development and narration) were cut down by the movie. In four words, this movie is bad.


                
Supposedly, this is one of the "greatest films of all time". Whenever I hear this, I can guarantee that I will hate the movie. This holds true for TKAM. I have tried watching this movie over and over again, hoping that I will "get" what all the hype is about. I don't. I'm sorry. It has to be one of the most boring, slow moving movies ever.I don't understand why this movie, On The Waterfront, Casablanca, Gone With The Wind, and Citizen Cane are purported to be such super-duper films. I think they're all tripe.Sorry, folks. Maybe I'll like these films in my next life, but I certainly hate them in this one.


                
We, as an 11th grade class, feel that Harper Lee's masterpiece was butchered! The putrid attempt to make a movie from such a great work of American literature was not successful. We have gotten together and listed our grievances: 1. Boo Radley- His general character was underdeveloped throughout the whole movie. 2. Atticus- His portrayal did not do Atticus Finch justice. 3. Where were Aunt Alexandra, Dolphus Raymond, Scout's teachers, and Uncle Jack? 4. Calpurnia- I have never seen such horrible casting in all my life! 5. Who thought it was a good idea to cast a chimp to play Dill? 6. We feel the most interesting and important parts of the book were completely left out such as Miss Maudie's house catching on fire, Cal taking the kids to First Purchase, the kids reading to Mrs. DuBose, and countless other morals and noteworthy situations and characters. We, as a class, are wondering if the director even read the book.
So the title "To Kill a Mockingbird" alludes to the fact that it's a sin to kill a mockingbird because it's an innocent creature - all it does it sing. During the movie it appears that Tom Robinson is the "mockingbird" - he is innocent but is found guilty. Later we find that Boo Radley is actually the "mockingbird" - after Bob Ewell attacks the children the Sheriff and Atticus agree he should not be punished for killing Bob, and Scout makes it clear she agrees because it would be like "killing a mockingbird". So Boo Radley gets away with killing Bob because he was attacking the children and was a bad person all round.What a shocking moral to the story! It's OK to kill someone without consequences if they are bad! THIS is what is wrong with America. THIS is why they are hated so much throughout the world. Because of the belief that it's OK to kill someone if you think they are bad.
This has got to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The casting was horrible, for one thing. Atticus was bland and uninteresting, Scout looked nothing like the book describes her, Dill was ugly and loud and annoying, the kids in general were really bad actors, the aunt was nowhere near as evil as she is in the book, etc. The lines were all taken directly out of the book, which is something you never do in a movie unless you want it to go really slowly. The story was centered more on the trial, which takes about three chapters in the book, than on the lives of these kids. The trial itself was actually funnier than moving full of overacting and stupidity. None of the actors sounded southern anyway. The book was actually pretty good; I had to read it in class, and then we watched the movie, and it sucked. The direction was really bad too, and the characters had no depth. I mean, I'm 14 and I could do better. You probably think that just because I'm young I can't appreciate a classic, but this thing just sucked. If people of all ages can't enjoy a movie, the makers have failed in their job. I have no idea how anybody could actually enjoy this or spend money to buy the video.


                
Who did the casting for this movie, really? Its like watching a bad school play, I had to cover my eyes up in so many scenes to stop myself from cringing. I have seen adaptations of this great book performed better in local theatres.Is this another case of the emperors new clothes? I think so. Guys, come on, could you really see any of the actors in this film passing an audition even for a daytime soap opera.The story is great, but thats because the book was so well written, so we can't give this movie credit for its brilliant plot. So we judge it on its acting, screenplay and cinematography.Plot 10. everything else. 0 Read the book.


                
I had to read this book. It was one of the most horrible books I've ever had to read. Then we were stuck watching the movie in class. It was horrible and boring to watch. Maybe you think I'm young and I don't know a classic when I see it, but I do know this isn't a classic. If you want to watch a classic watch Casablanca there's a movie to watching that's a classic. Or Aresnic and The Old Lace there's a great movie too. Horrible acting the only reason to watch the movie is to see who plays that deranged neighbor. I'd like to give specifics why I don't like it but I haven't read it in a while but I do know I couldn't stand the book. Then again people thought the Lord of the Rings was a good movie. I don't' get it, it was sooooooo boring I fell asleep in the first one. The second one was more action packed but still wasn't the best movie I've ever seen.


                
I just finished watching this movie and I wish I could get those 2 hours back, somehow. I'm a screenwriter and I have to admit that after viewing this "scramble", I'd like to spend some time trying to fix it, but I'm afraid that it would take way too much time.
My favor character was by far, Scout! She has so much spunk and stands up for herself as I'd want my daughter to do. Mr. Atticka Finch was indeed a southern gentleman and a great lawyer. Unfortunately, in that time and place, (which I grew up in) there was no way a Black man would have won that case. So that much was sadly real and true.
The court action started well, but fell apart because it was way too long. I can believe that they took Tom to a different location for his safety and murdered him. That was a common practice in the south. But what happened to the kids in the woods coming home at night was totally confusing. And who was the white man hiding behind the door after the fact? Who exactly was he supposed to be?
This movie was very poorly done and I would not recommend it to anyone, even my worst enemy. 
I hate it when I have more questions about a movie while the end credits are rolling. 
Don't waste your time.
