Before I start my explanation of the above statements, I would like to comment that I am an avid Gregory Peck fan and I have also found his work to be of exceptional quality. This movie is no exception. I have also read Harper Lee's novel of the same name and found it to succeed in every area and every issue that it was trying to portray. Unfortunately, this success did not transfer to film, even with Mr. Peck and a cast of exceptionally talented child-actors. Every aspect of the film, with the exception of Mr. Peck and the children, is lacking, misguided, and often tries to pull at the heartstrings of early 1960's viewers with lame set-ups and other devices used to show one side and one man as being absolutely unerring and without vice. The movie takes a while to develop and for the first half-hour focuses primarily on the children. The children do rather everyday things and converse with each other about nothing of consequence on the film. They finally decide to explore a "haunted house" to see the "maniac" that lives within it. While I felt that this avenue might lead somewhere, nothing of any consequence, albeit a small meeting with the maniac at the end of the film, came of this rather long and drawn out plot line. Next, we see that Mr. Peck, who portrays a compassionate, strong father and lawyer, is assigned to defend a black man who has supposedly committed a rape of a white female. Subsequent to this, there is never any conversation among Peck and the defendant, no evidence discussed prior to trial, and no real character development of the defendant and even to a larger extent Mr. Peck. We then see a few scattered scenes of the ultra-racist and completely ignorant father-of-the-victim, who tries his best to cause trouble and say dirty things to black people. Though he is shown as mean and stupid, he doesn't do anything particularly characteristic of an enraged racist father, he merely calls Mr. Peck a "ni$%er lover " and spits a lot. You will notice that he is not even with the angry mob that tells Mr. Peck to hand over the prisoner so that they can lynch him. Finally, we arrive at a trial, where it is unbelievable that this case would have even gone to trial based on certain obvious fact that you will see in the movie. In trying to say any more directly involving the film's plot, I would be spoiling the movie for you, but suffice it to say, if Mr. Peck were not in this film and did not give such a rousing courtroom speech, this movie would have been forgotten long ago. The direction is poor and uneven, plot tangents go untouched or under-developed, and many of the characters and actors seem rather silly. Instead of achieving what the book did in terms of portraying racism in the Depression South and the intriguing stories of the children, the film manages to seem poorly done, even cheap, and the child actors's obvious talents go to waste on dead end plot lines. Even the costuming seems badly done. You will notice that all of the whites wear overalls, while the "enlightened" Mr. Peck and a handful of kind blacks wear suits. In closing instead of being a thoughtful and poignant depiction of racism in the South, it seems contrived. My recommendation is to avoid this unless you are an avid Gregory Peck fan and read the novel. But if you really want to watch a movie close to this subject that is done well, try In the Heat of the Night or any number of Sidney Portier's films. 4/10


                
The courtroom procedure is the worst ever shown on the big screen. Lawyer Finch never brought up the impossibility of a one handed rapist to choke his victim as described. He did a silly exercise to show the girl's father was left-handed yet never brought this point home. He never brought up character references to show the reliability of the defendant. This oversight even existed in the novel, even though Tom's employer interrupted the court to pronounce this fact, and was dismissed from court. Prior to the trial the movie was more believable than the novel, which portrayed a first grade girl with vocabulary and reasoning ability of a much older person. This reminded me of a similar performance by the similarly aged young boy in the novel "Painted House". Just not realistic. I realize that to be critical of such a popular movie is akin to griping about movies such as "Casablanca", "Miracle on Forty Second Street", "Its A Wonderful Life", and their brethren. To my mind the performance of Gregory Peck is the bright spot in an otherwise boring movie. The bright spot was the statement by the black preacher to "Rise; Your father is passing".


                
Widely considered by many to be one of the finest films ever made, this so-called "Greatest courtroom drama of all time" has only one segment set in the courthouse while the rest of it concerns a couple of annoying kids & their everyday life, which doesn't even have anything to do with the case. In addition to that, it's an insufferably boring film to sit through!Based on the novel of the same name, the story of To Kill A Mockingbird is set in a fictional American town during the 1930s and concerns a respected lawyer & his family who faces a backlash from his society when he agrees to defend a young black man who is accused of raping a white woman. Through the trial, the racial attitude in town's society is exposed.Directed by Robert Mulligan, it is surprising that the first half of the film doesn't even feature anything related to the case, which itself surfaces very late into the story. Maybe this movie isn't a courtroom drama after all, maybe it's more about the loss of childhood innocence & stuff like that but that's not what I was looking forward to after having heard so much praise about it.Set pieces do carry an authentic feel of its timeline & location. The whole drama is captured in crisp black n white and even the night scenes are brightly lit. Editing unfolds its story at a slow pace which becomes a pain to sit through if, like me, you were expecting a customary courtroom drama and ended up with whatever this is. However, its theme of how prejudice can blind an entire society is effectively handled.Coming to the performances, the cast of To Kill A Mockingbird comprises of Gregory Peck, Mary Badham, Phillip Alford, Brock Peters & Robert Duvall in what is his acting debut. Peck is definitely the show-stealer here for his performance as the righteous lawyer is very down- to-earth & impressive, plus that summation speech from him in the courthouse is an instant classic moment, but that same level of commitment is missing from the rest of the cast.Badham & Alford play the two kids whose journey this film is probably about but they utter their lines as if reading from a wall in front of them, that too with blank expressions. Peters does fine with what he's provided as Tom, the convicted black man. Duvall's debut work is nothing special for all he is supposed to do in this film is to show up at a particular moment & then disappear once again. However, Crahan Denton does justice to his white trash character.On an overall scale, To Kill A Mockingbird shouldn't even be classified as courtroom drama when it is something else entirely. Its #1 ranking in the AFI Top !0 Courtroom Dramas is the very reason why I was intrigued to check it out in the first place but to find that part in such a small dose & the story being more inclined towards those kids than the case at hand was both disappointing & frustrating. Overlong & tedious for the most part, this isn't the movie I was looking forward to. Greatest courtroom drama, my ass!


                
I've just finished reading the novel and watched the movie expecting to go through the story again. Now, I know movies based on novels don't always depict stories accurately, but I finished watching this movie with the feeling that it failed to grasp a whole lot of sentiment.In the novel, there's a lot of inner conflict. The children, Scout and Jem, just don't understant the injustices of the time and are constantly questioning what is wrong with their father Atticus defending a black man and why everyone else is criticizing Atticus for it. Also, when Tom is convicted, the children struggle with accepting the injustice against a man that is obviously not guilty, but black. The children fail to acknowledge prejudice against people of color.At school, when the teacher talks about the Jews and Hittler persecuting them, the children, mostly Scout, can't understand why the teacher is so moved with the Jew situation but is so prejudiced against people of color. For the little girl, injustice is injustice, no matter who suffers it.The novel is rich in criticism towards prejudice against race, social prejudice, and gender roles, while it explores those themes from the percpective of innocent children who grow to fear horror stories in books rather than acts of violence in real life. Moreover, the children grow as they explore the unknown and everything that is foreign to them, such as poverty. The unknown is also represented by Boo Radley, hence "walk a mile in someone else's shoes," quoted by Atticus, as he models an example of parenthood.The novel is a masterpiece. The movie, in spite of the excellent acting, is not. Very disappointing, actually.
I felt really disappointed with this film, the kids in the film kept getting most of the spotlight and we don't even get to the court case till half way through the film and to my disappointment Atticus Finch (Gregory Peck) lost the case and then somehow afterwards the black guy who was tried guilty ends up dead not long afterwards, and then something ridiculous happens in the end that makes no bloody sense. It was a Halloween night and one of the kids is dressed up as a giant ham (really?) and then all a sudden this guy attacks them and then another guy comes in out of nowhere to save them and kills the guy who tried to hurt them and sooner or later we see the guy who saved them. OK, who the hell is this guy? The court part was the only good highlight of the film, the rest is just the daily lives of a few kids, ergh, this film is actually not good at all, a really overrated film.By the way, Atticus is not really a heroic guy, sure he defends a black man accused of a crime and won't fight back if spat on, yet he kills a dog with a gun that everyone assumes has rabies.
