Watched last night at the theater with my girlfriend.It's a compilations of 6 tales, but they don't have the same type of lenght, humor or darkness. Each one is unique.1) Airplane tale: fantastic, hilarating and surrealistic story to open the series.2) Coffee shop tale: shorter, but dark and makes you wonder what's "freedom" for some people.3) Road tale: excellent. A really LOT of violence and a little bit of humor makes this one of the best tales in the movie.4) Human limit tale: a man that's having a couple of really bad days explode when he runs out of patiente. Great acting.5) Accident tale: 90% darkness. And the fact that could be a very possible story makes it even darker. Shocking finale.6) Wedding tale: almost impossible to qualify. Hilarious for the most part, but at the end, it will make you wonder to whom you are spending your whole life with.Seeing this compilation in a theater for the price of one, its a damn good deal if you ask me.Go watch it.


                
I went to see this movie hoping to get a brake from Hollywood production. And I did. It was amazing, one of the best movies I've seen on big screen in 2 or 3 years.Plot consists of different stories which all have one thing in common: they are about revenge. Every single story starts rather boring. At the very beginning I was thinking "What's so wild about it? It is just lame" and by the end of the intro I was like "Holy God! No, they did not just twist it like that! OMG!"And it gets better. A true masterpiece. I am from Russia so for me it was rather interesting and surprising that Latin America is so similar to Russia. The views, the behaviour of the people, the insanity - all like at home.You won't regret seeing this movie. Don't take your kid or your grandmother though.


                
6 Stories - 6 masterpieces! They perfectly combine thriller, drama, humor and the common topic is the violence.Each tale is independent from the other, but all of them have something special that makes you really enjoy.The situations introduced in each story are actually based on real life, of course the are intentionally exaggerated with a sense of satire and irony that really makes you laugh.The picture is the best I have seen in an Argentina movie and the music "made <U+200B><U+200B>in" Santaolalla is sublime.The actors/actresses are amazing (specially the bride - Erica Rivas) In my opinion it is one of the best non-English Language movies ever.


                
Wild Tales (Relatos Salvajes) is perhaps the darkest and funniest movie I saw in years; but is it really a comedy ?. No it is not. Six tales about human that are obviously related to the Argentinian reality (abusive government, corruption, people indifference) but certainly can be applied to many other countries in the world; USA included.Telling about each tale will cut the impact and somewhat surprise of each one. Let's just say that the outcome of each tale is sometimes predictable; but driven by logic not clichés.As always happens; some histories are better than others; but even that will be different for different viewers.In brief; an excellent movie that deserves to be seen by people with a brain and a will to think.


                
Time does not heal all wounds. One thing leads to another in six outrageous, hilarious and extreme stories of revenge. A jilted and emotionally volatile bride wreaks havoc at her wedding with an equally unstable new husband, a towing company hauls away one too many times the vehicle belonging an explosive expert, and two macho drivers – one in an Audi and the other in a pile of junk – go head to head with explosive road rage, among other delicious and fiery adventures. The utmost fantasies fulfilled, the extremes of emotions, and the riot of laughter that engulfed me from all sides, I cannot remember having such a good time watching a film. The director, who answered questions at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival, said the film is about the pleasure of losing control and giving in to unrestrained passions. Is it ever!


                
It's hard to review an unconventional movie, because this one is sort of six movies all in one. Relatos Salvajes (Wild Tales) is about six different and independent stories with one thing in common: the limit of our patience, or like it's tagline says..."All may lose control". Ordinary people that find themselves in awkward situations they didn't look for, and that's the beauty of this movie. It's almost impossible not to feel identified with one of the characters, with one of their situations, despite the awkward moments they struggle that in some passages make us feel uncomfortable. And the merit of director Damián Szifrón is to tell those stories with an exquisite combination of intrigue, suspense and a remarkable and effective dark humor. The acting, editing, photography and the music of Gustavo Santaolalla are all ingredients that give extra points. You'll get out of the cinema talking to each other which tale you enjoyed the most and reviewing some of their hilarious scenes.


                
i always thought that the real art is missing these days, the cinema is going on the wrong side, this movie was the hope, that there is still genius artist who can makes such a beautiful story, with excellence in direction and perfection in casting, this is the best movie i ever watched so far, it is black comedy and it is REAL, it is like what you think you DO, what you imagine COMES REAL, it is HUMAN, for those who really loves the art of cinema, MUST MUST MUST watch this movie, you will enjoy it from the beginning to the cast list, it is a THEATER in a cinema movie, 10/10 and we will wait a lot to see such a quality movie like this one.


                
I had an idea from the opening credits that Damian Szifron's WILD TALES, was going to be fun. Images of animals with the actors' names as counterpart, preparing the audience for the animalistic behavior about to come.The film is comprised of six separate vignettes, short stories, if you will. These vignettes all begin innocently enough, passengers boarding a plane, a man driving through the desert, a restaurant on a stormy night, a wedding, everyday slices of modern day life. Something occurs to break the routine, the main character responds, then the scene escalates, and escalates, and when you think you've reached the peak, it escalates even more, and finally in the end reaches a perfect balance of comedy and tragedy. The tales are all perfectly relatable and escalate logically and realistically, nothing comes out from left field. All the characters, each flawed in so many ways, remind us so much of ourselves, both at our best and at our worst... and make us laugh and feel in recognition.Great Movie.


                
Hopefully Damián Szifron is on his way to Hollywood. Simply the most refreshing and entertaining film that I've been lucky enough to watch since Nightcrawler...really it's that good. The darkest comedy you'll have the pleasure to experience. Ticks all the boxes, cinematic, a superb ensemble cast deliver in every short story, dead pan humour, intelligent, thought provoking, terrifyingly realistic, wonderful camera-work especially in the final story, with a couple of explosions and some (thankfully) subtle CGI thrown in to complete this masterpiece. Lovely to once again sit amid an audience all happily laughing out loud, without the need to lower itself to racist, sexist, ageist, homophobic humour, though the scatological humour is surprisingly perfectly appropriate and carefully framed to make the point without unnecessary vulgarity. Ten out of Ten. A new name to watch. Kudos to Damián Szifron.


                
The Spanish title is more apt: Savage Tales. Six short stories show various ways in which savagery persists in the highest levels of civilization. The titles appear against a montage of wild animals. The twist is that here the savagery is celebrated not rued. Where civilization was supposed to free us from savagery, as in the American Western, here the savagery liberates the characters from their civilization. As director Damian Szifron told the Palm Springs festival audience, "The theme is the pleasure of losing control. Releasing the beast."In each story a modern frustration wells up until the character erupts. All the stories involve a furious revenge, with a broadening range of characters. To convey the tensions in modern life, ordinary sounds are amplified, like the luggage wheels in the opening shot. In the pre-credit tale, the pilot turns out to be a lifelong failure who has collected the various teachers, friends, psychiatrist, who have thwarted him, on a flight he will crash into his parents. In a diner the waitress recognizes a customer as the smalltown gangster who drove her father into bankruptcy and suicide. Now running for mayor, he is rude and abusive. As her anger and conscience struggle the cook takes over and kills him. She's content to return to the security and comfort of jail.An Audi driver rages at a redneck who blocks his way. When the rich guy stops to fix a flat tire his nemesis stops and assaults him. The road rage turns into class warfare. Ironically, when they're found burned alive their clutch suggests it was a crime passionel.When an explosives expert gets his car towed for an unjustified parking ticket his angry campaign for justice blows up his marriage, job, career and even shared custody of his daughter. When he blows up the tower's yard he becomes a local hero, Mr Dynamite. In jail his wife and daughter bring him a birthday cake and all the inmates and guards celebrate his day. His last act is blowing out the candles. Terrorism works.A spoiled teenager's fatal hit and run accident leads to a steadily expanding chain of corruption as his wealthy father tries to get the family groundskeeper to take the rap for him. As the bribery balloons no-one is innocent. Even the humble groundskeeper raises his demands. When the father decides not to pay to save his spoiled son, his lawyer says it would be dishonourable for him to renege on his bribery of the the public prosecutor. When the boy decides to confess the greedy renegotiate their scheme. As the fall guy is led away an angry citizen kills him. Amid all the bribes and false honour the poor worker pays the price.In the climax, a rich Jewish family's wedding, the bride explodes after the groom admits he had sex with a colleague who's a guest. The demure bride turns into a vengeful virago wreaking massive destruction, reducing the groom to tears, the ceremony to chaos, and her rival to a bloodied mess. When the newlyweds reconnect — making passionate love amid the ruins of the cake — their union feels more honest than the initial smiles and formality. Now their union expresses more passion than manners. The chaotic wedding is more honest than the ceremonial ritual was. The anthology structure hearkens back to Italian neorealism, where separate short stories provided a wide-ranging survey of social issues. Apt for a celebration of the unruly, the film is exuberantly comic but with a black undercurrent. As its initial frustrations are so common, the film provides its audience with a greater catharsis than most comedies or tragedies. We're left calm of mind, frustrations spent.
Wild Tales is the best film I have seen in a long time. The script is so clever and unique that is a must see for movies lovers. What is the border between tolerance and barbarism? We can all loose control in just one second even in the most ordinary situations. Action lovers will enjoy the ride more than romantic audiences since revenge is at the center of this master piece. In my opinion, this is the best Argentine Film in decades and a box office record in Latin America and Spain. Even Almodovar brothers are the producers the film has a unique style that is not crazy but real. Get ready for a different kind of movie that will take you out of your seat and even we shouldn't laugh about it ...well I can guarantee that you will. Clever mixed of comedy and drama that will make you think again and again and even change behaviors after you give it a thought. If Wild Tales doesn't get the Oscar for Best Foreign Film I might wonder who will.


                
This is an excellent piece that will entertain you from the very first second to the last. I am looking forward to seeing this movie again with someone that would appreciate it. While it is completely in Argentine Spanish (which is great for me as I am a fluent Spanish-speaker) it has subtitles which are excellent. The combination of acting and story are truly magnificent. Comparing this movie to a Tarantino film is inaccurate, however, this is better than Tarantino. Tarantino's films are mostly satirical. There is no satire in this movie.


                
I really enjoyed the film; I felt the six short stories worked well together in tone - black humour at its finest. Each shows a surreal and unlikely scenario, and the viewer is gripped to discover the outcome. I thought the shots were composed amazingly - the cinematography is innovative and thoughtful (low level panning, cameras attached to doors, etc). The colour grading ties the stories together well and sets a sickly tone.1) Aeroplane tale: I enjoyed discovering what was happening as the scene unfolded. The ending was great. One unknown man's extreme reaction to his wrongdoers.2) Coffee shop tale: Makes you wonder what you would do in such a situation. Dark and bloody, but I found this tale the least satisfying - however there was an interesting message to ponder in the ending.3) Road tale: Very violent, and a little ironic. Although both jerks, I found myself rooting for one (younger, richer) jerk over the other - I wonder if other viewers felt the same way? Makes a joke out of male road rage.4) Car towing tale: One man's fight with the tedious, overbearing bureaucracy of a car towing company. Brilliant, really enjoyable. Sometimes, you have to take a stand.5) Car accident tale: Many twists in the tale. You never know what to expect with each incremental development to the plot. Impossible to care about any of these unlikeables, but a fascinating character study with a twisty plotting plot that doesn't disappoint.6) Wedding tale: I loved this one the most. The most explosive wedding ever. If you were a guest, you'd be thinking, I should really leave... but I think I'm gonna get some popcorn and see what happens next. Love, sex, revenge, romance, forgiveness, betrayal, violence - what more could you want from a story?! I'd definitely recommend it. I cannot wait to see what the Argentinian writer/director Damián Szifrón will do next. The tone of the film reminded me of a quirkier Delicatessen, or a darker Amélie. My only complaint would be that the short nature of the tales made it hard to identify with the characters, who in many cases didn't really act like normal people (I'm not sure why, but I especially wanted a different outcome for the bride), but I get that that was kind of the point, and enjoyed it anyway. Brilliant!


                
WOW!.Whew! Did I see a movie?. Or witness different real life incidents with exclusive inside preview of why these happened?.Yes and it was exquisitely done. Six Tales - referred in the Argentinean language as "Savage Tales" may not refer to the tale itself as savage. The plot itself is very simple - revenge (savage revenge!) - the sudden impulse to give or take back in equal or multiplied proportion what was done to them. Anybody can do that - not necessarily a poor man in the street but can be a ultra modern civilized being in a perfectly civilized and urban setting!!!. There you go. But to what extent people go to extract revenge in a sudden impulsive movement?. And that is intriguing and deeply introspective. David Edelstein a film critic mentioned about this movie - "I'm guessing that the oldest subject in literature isn't love or war or the struggle for survival, but revenge.". This movie is about that and a thoroughly entertaining one at that. From the very first tale of the flight travel scene where everyone is shocked and surprised after gradually learning something till the last tale where the bride and bridegroom undergo the "till death do us apart" ceremony - it's a wild journey - edge of the seat engagement. My favorite Ricardo Darín as Simon the demolitions expert is a treat to watch.


                
Who would have thought Argentina would deliver the best dark comedy of the last decade? Here is a movie that explores confusion, revenge, cheating, road rage, and a few other dark situations in the modern world, in a place that we call civilized.The film is composed of various stories, all dealing in one way or another with getting even. We know we are in for a special treat when the passengers of the plane realize they're all in for the ride of a lifetime, as they discover the common link that brings them together for this special flight.First, we encounter a waitress that is given the opportunity to avenge the sad events in her family. However, things don't always work out as one expects, and there's a little thing called conscience that keeps interfering with carrying out what could be the perfect crime. Yet when we think things can't be properly solved, a "fairy godmother" intervenes.In the second story, a man finds himself the victim of his own short temper, but we realize that his last actions are the result of probably years of bureaucratic abuse. He has complied before, but the events in one day are just too much to take, or maybe it would have been a matter of taking a deep breath and thinking it through. Unfortunately, he chooses to act, and things get more and more complicated. Once again, in a clever twist, one can say that our hero gets what he wants.We have one of the most hilarious depictions of road rage on the screen. As an upper middle class man confronts one "deliverance" type, and he discovers what hell on wheels really means. Abuse after abuse is portrayed on the screen, and each of the parties tries to outsmart the others, only to have the most ironic twist at the end. Prepare to laugh.We get to see the most fantastic wedding since "The Wedding Banquet", but the Ang Lee film was a masterwork of comic timing. This one is funny but it's because of the tragedy that forms the basis of the events. We just can't believe what we're seeing, as the battle of the sexes heats up and the twists keep coming. In the end, we wonder if it any of it was truly necessary."Tales" is a masterwork, with the presentation of the various situations, the humor in the lines, the way it was photographed and edited. Much praise is giving to particular topics. Why not explore the extremes we go to when anger becomes madness, and we forgot that we are civilized creatures, yet capable of the most animalistic actions we can imagine. Not sure if one can truly enjoy this, but one can certainly admire what has been done here.
Just these words, A MASTERPIECE! Once again I can see why Argentina continues to be a country that excels at movie making by just telling human stories. Superior cinema is not about astronomical budgets, overpaid actors, complicated plots. That is why, I highly recommend seeing this film because we can all identify with aspects of one or more of the independent stories portrayed here.The film manages to seamlessly move from a highly tense moment to an amusing one within the situation at hand. This is what makes it brilliant in my opinion. The acting is superb, the directing impeccable. The plots excellent and to the point. Each story is well told, engaging, poignant, suspenseful, intriguing, tense, dramatic and funny. And that is how life is, thus it a film about real life. The lives of all of us.


                
Perhaps the best omnibus dark comedy ever made. This movie is funny, it explores some of the darker parts of humanity but it does so with so much wit and intelligence. It was a great hit in South America, and understandably so. Despite dark and cynical take on the human condition, the movie is lighthearted and highly watchable, and uncompromisingly original.


                
This movie was unexpectedly enjoyable. We laughed, admired the writing, the pictures and the acting. A splendid combination of humor, great scenario, great actors, great director and fantastic director of photography. I loved it, each story is a jewel, with incredible funny details, and a perfect sense of progression and dramatic moves. Human imagination at its best! How can some people hate and destroy culture, forbidding movies, music, painting, dancing, theater, etc. : this movie is a triumph of culture and talent, and it makes life lighter, witty and enjoyable. This is the best cure for anyone feeling desperate or depressed, you will come out reinvigorated and looking at life with more forgiveness. A must go movie.


                
This movie will share with you some essence of the Argentinean culture. The plots have a reasonable foundation, although being taken to an extreme. It has some added sense of humour which we have enjoyed. A 'must see' movie. The cast is top of the line, the acting impeccable, and the direction superb. Each individual tale is fantastic.To my fellow Argentineans that have emigrated many years ago: you have to see this movie because it will bring you back sweet memories of our country, it is a satiric reminder of our culture, and you will be thrilled of watching on the big screen our youth favorite actors.Well worth the two hours plus of this movie. You will not be disappointed. Time flies, taking you from one tale to the next, and each story will grab your attention in less than a minute.


                
Six short vignettes on the theme of human despair and revenge, it's utterly brilliant! The road rage scene reminiscent of Duel, the unhinged midnight diner cook, a pilot with epic logistical preparation. Each and every character is superb. Is all Argentinian cinema like this?? Every story is a belter, brilliantly performed, wonderfully written, incredible from the very beginning until the absolute end.


                
This movie is possibly the best movie I have ever seen. Possibly, since I'm from the sixties and I've seen many. By the way, that might also account for the fact that it is the BEST!
Six stories telling one story.
When you watch you'll recognize your own anger and frustration. You'll be ready to indulge in supreme forms of revenge. 
I wonder whether where you'll indulge in what?
Explore & enjoy this wonderful trip in both the worst & the best in you and your fellow men!
Anyway, this most certainly is "one to watch".
Cheers! :-)


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Relatos salvajes" (2014) is a one helluva ride. Can't remember the last time i was simply blown away by a movie, but "Relatos salvajes" just did it with my. It brilliantly tells a multiple not connected stories, all filled with bad human behavior - to say the least. I was involved into this movie more then i could have imagined i will be - it is an amazingly involving picture from the very opening shot. All stories are superb, one topping each other with first off all brilliant writing and directing. Writter / director Damián Szifron created this unforgettable movies with many stories, one which you won't forget soon, from which maybe the last ending of the last story went a bit way over the top.Overall, "Relatos salvajes" is amazingly dark and funny movie. 2 hours run like a minute, can't remember when i was last time so involved into picture. Acting was outstanding by each and every actor, but the true star in here was a director and writer who did this brilliant job. What a movie...


                
Best of argentina movie...yu cant stop it for one time watch.This is a masterpiece, if you are asking yourself whether or not you should watch it stop.. You MUST watch it you will NOT regret it.<U+FEFF> Wild Tales is not just a film you'll enjoy. It's one you'll want to talk about when it's over, either to debate the morals of the film - or to convince someone else to watch it. It's crisply and cleanly shot throughout, and the filmmaker shows a rare feel for how to not only make comedy land, but also to make it actually feel cinematic too. Revenge may be a dish best served cold, but Argentine writer-director Damián Szifron allows it to sit until it congeals in the dreary six-part anthology Wild Tales.


                
The 6 stories are very good and the direction and acting was mind- blowing. I had zero knowledge of the movie before watching, just started watching it after noticing it's good IMDb rating. But oh my God after first 5 minutes I was like: "This movie is really different" . Every story endings are very unusual and full of humor. I will always recommend this movie to the people who are open to a thrilling movie. My favorite story among the stories is the story with the Audi car owner's awkward dispute with a fellow driver. And the last story around a marriage ceremony was little unrealistic, still you will wonder what just happened after watching that part. So many things happened on their wedding night.So fellas, go for this movie. 10/10 from me.


                
Instead of ordinary film based on the story of a single , brief but dramatic legend tells the story of the film. Each story in itself a major It has been working . Nevertheless, if are forced to get rid of stereotypes . Argentina has also made <U+200B><U+200B>a film that allows the formation of a warm atmosphere. You have to hand it to the director , the film was actually shot very natural . Human certainly this film he gets carried away . As a Turk , I also would like to express my own people likened to Argentine . Finally, he told us something else by the last part of the director. Review should not miss . Pleasure to be followed , go to a movie avail of a second.
