The movie is actually 6 short films, all related by brutal violence motivated by different situations. Family. Society. Government. It works very well like that, lasting over 120 minutes that go by quickly. It feels very fluid. Szifrón's eye is very precise. You can tell everything was very well thought. I wouldn't say this is a philosophical film, but it is clever entertainment, that makes you think if this wild tales are actually that wild... Even though this stories are taken to the extreme, everything feels somehow possible when you look back. Darkly humorous. Watch it.


                
Hilarious and very, very black comedy consisting of six episodes about people who get driven to the edge of reason (and a little beyond). The acting and writing in this gem from Argentina are superb, and the beautifully photographed segments keep you thrilled and unable to guess just what crazy turn they will take next. A wonderful joy of a film for film lovers with a rather twisted sense of humor. 8 stars out of 10.In case you're interested in more underrated film gems, here's some of my favorites:imdb.com/list/ls070242495


                
This Argentine film that found itself nominated for the 2014 Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award comes to us from director Damián Szifrón who has crafted a feature film comprised of a series of 6 vignettes/small stories about human beings from all walks of (Argentine) life who are all tested and taken to their limits ... until they finally lose control. While mostly disastrous the film is also WILDly thrilling and wholly original in its daring cheekiness ... as the film is a bitter dark comedy (with tinges of brutal drama).It is a film about a myriad group of people on a plane; a young waitress who still finds herself grieving over a family tragedy of the past; an encounter between two men from different social classes on a desolate highway; a man growing tired of the rat race of life in which we are all destined to lose; the aftermath of a horrible automobile accident; and a wedding reception like none you've ever seen before. All feature one or two characters taken to the edge ...It is how each of them handles their various situations that give us our WILD stories. Fascinatingly grim at times, the film almost always miraculously produces laughter and grins. Much of the laughter might be heavily muffled as one chuckles under his/her breath as others around them fail to see the director's (WILDly) wicked sense of humor come into play in some of the film's intense situations; but the dark tone pervades the entire film.While the film is most definitely tragic in many instances, Wild Tales is a comedy of errors about human nature and who we are. Some can watch this and most-likely not pick up even a hint of humor; but it is there ... and it is fantastically facetious.Wildly thrilling. Wildly fun. Wildly original. It is courageously wild.


                
Never watched any Argentine/Spanish film before. Actually, the number of foreign language (ie. other than English and Hindi) films I have watched till date is not even two digit. Still, this movie was mind-blowing!! Wild Tales, is a package of 6 short films which are dark and explosive comedies. All of them has the theme of revenge strikingly common and each one of them is unique and funny in its own way. Each one of them puts forth wild yet realistic situations. The first short story is the shortest of them and is shown pre-credits.Its story of a psych who is not even seen on the screen who makes revenge plan which ends on a bang giving us an overly wild ending. The second film slightly more dark and longer, will make you think before deciding what is right and what is wrong. Third one even longer, is my favorite alongside the fourth. Its violent and brutally hilarious with explosive ending(literally). The fourth one sheds light on realistic situation of a common man troubled by the abusive government system. Another explosion in the climax(again literally)! The fifth slightly less on humor quotient but portrays the human characteristic of greed perfectly. Its darker and has a shocking finale! Th last one, longest and wildest of them all will take you to one of the craziest weddings you have ever seen. Beneath its madness it subtly touches upon the issues of trust and betrayals in human relations.Besides the common notion of revenge and letting oneself lose control in rage, all these tales also focus on how tiniest of our actions can lead to monstrous consequences. The comedy is satirical and dark still its outright hilarious in many scenes. There are many actors (each story has different cast), can't highlight anyone as most of them have done a good job. Director Damian Szifron executes all the ridiculous madness and explosive twists with sheer brilliance leaving dazed at the end of each story. The soundtrack is also quirky and beautiful.The two hours fly away like a breeze. Even if you don't understand the language you will be so invested that after sometime you won't even realize that you are watching a Non- English film. Highly enjoyable!RATING: [4/5]


                
Mixing modern rage with black comedy this collection of shorts rises above expectations to become one of the best and funniest movies from Argentina along with The Secret In Their Eyes and El Aura, and probably the most accessible for international audiencesSix unrelated stories that share a common theme of revenge are shown back to back, and not edited back and forward like it's usual with these kind of movie, some of them are better than others: the opener, the road rage incident, the hit and run, and the wedding stand out, while the more conventional and predictable "Bombita" and "The Rats" still entertain thanks to superb writing and directingThere's a few annoying problems with logical plot holes like why would the rich yuppie go out of his way to put the damaged spare tired in his trunk (and thus leaving it open) when running for his life and factual errors like on the wedding episode the bride's threats about this husband's companies are meaningless because in Argentina possessions are considered marriage goods ("bienes gananciales") only if the are acquire during the marriage and not before like the screen husband's companies, and like these are others but among such high quality stuff glaring mistakes like these are more evidenthighly recommended


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Do you often get accused of having a slightly demented sense of humor? Do you have secret crazy thoughts of seeking revenge on those who have wronged you? If so, writer/director Damian Szifron has a collection of short stories just for you!Nominated for Best Foreign Language Oscar, Argentina's entry is just now opening in the Dallas market where I live. To say Wild Tales is a wild ride would be quite an understatement. There are six short stories blended together, and while you may not recognize the theme immediately, it doesn't take long before rage and retribution jump to the forefront in these seemingly typical slices of everyday life.The best short stories make a quick grab for attention, and manage to convey character and setting from the beginning. The writing is crucial and can easily collapse in the hands of a less-proficient short story writer. But when it works, it's fascinating to watch, and Mr. Szifron has a real talent for making us laugh in the midst of truly awful situations.Not to give away any details, but the six stories involve: a remarkable "coincidence" on a flight, an unwelcome customer at a local diner, a close-quarters brawl at a bridge, the frustration of dealing with "the system", misguided parental instincts in protecting their kid, and the most wheels-off wedding reception ever filmed.If you are ever searching for an example of a dark comedy, this one will provide clarity. The seemingly unrelated stories are woven together through payback, though the price is often pretty high. Mr. Szifron's stories remind us that life is not fair, but when it's happening to someone else, we can still laugh about it.


                
If ordinary films are like novels, this one is like an exquisite collection of short stories. The film is divided into six segments, each with its own plot and character development. Director Damian Szifron is like a modern-day Guy de Maupassant, telling each story with meticulous accuracy, carefully measuring out each twist, detail and conversation. The segments are hilarious and over the top, but at the same time satirical and somehow realistic - the extreme events could happen to any of us. That's why this is such a great film: its shows the darkest side of human nature and of Argentinian society, but in such a way that it makes you smile. The director claims the theme connecting the stories is 'the joy of losing control'. It's also the tag-line of the movie: 'We can all lose control'. Indeed, most of the segments are about losing control, although one is about keeping everything under control in a situation that can easily spin out of control. In any case, all segments are about individuals solving a conflict in an extreme way. In most segments, the solution is extremely violent or deadly. Although the trailer splashes out the name 'Almodovar' because Pedro and his brother produced the film, the style is by no means Almodovar-like. Szafron uses a sophisticated style, very different from the extreme cinematography we know from Almodovar. 'Relatos Salvajes' also surprises with original cinematographic gimmicks. In one scene, the camera is positioned in an overhead bin of an airplane. In another, in the interior of an ATM, with the image filmed through the touch screen. The film is carefully constructed, with lots of little details. In one segment, about a man fighting the parking ticket bureaucracy in his city, we see the conspicuous towing trucks constantly moving through the image, as a sort of evil force. Once again, an Argentinian film maker pleasantly surprises moviegoers around the world. Maybe such wonderful, sharp-edged movies can only flourish in a country like Argentina, where life is a bit of a struggle and not everything is taken for granted


                
If you've been feeling a mite cocky about where your life is headed of late, you might want to take a gander at "Wild Tales" for a much needed reality check. This omnibus Spanish feature, sharply written and directed by Damian Szifron, offers a series of very dark, very disturbing and sometimes very humorous vignettes, all centered on chance (and not so chance) encounters that go awry in unexpected and often tragic ways. The movie makes it clear that, while you may think you have control over your life, in the grand scheme of things, you're really just a pawn subject to the whims of other individuals, a soulless bureaucracy or, most chillingly, a cruel and mocking Fate. However, in two of the cases, the participants do manage to wrest control back from the outside forces and determine the course of their lives - to some extent, at least.As is often the case with these kinds of morality tales, most of the scenarios rely heavily on situational irony to get their points across. I won't detail the various stories (you really need to experience them for yourself), but I will note that the first one, involving an airliner, comes uncomfortably close to an actual event that occurred after the movie was released. Segments one and three contain the most visceral impact, while others cut deeper psychologically. Even the tones vary from one storyline to another. For instance, the final story, about a wedding that turns into a surrealistic nightmare, is shot through with pitch-dark humor. Replete with sharp performances from a talented cast, the movie touches on such universal human themes as revenge, road rage, class privilege, all tied to the sense of powerlessness one feels when confronted with forces bigger than oneself. In its own subtle, quiet way, the movie has a remarkable ability to keep the audience on the edge of its seat, filled with a kind of gnawing dread as we await the catastrophe we sense is just over the horizon. As with all the best horror tales, Szifron understands that the anticipation is often more terrifying than the actual event when it finally arrives. The movie as a whole has a way of unnerving us while it drives home some unpleasant and uncomfortable truths about what it means to be human.
I usually develop headaches when I see excessive violence in movies. But Wild Tales makes me feel so good because I can identify with all the underdog characters who take their revenge to the extreme with very black humor. It just makes me feel exceptionally good and relieved. It is vicarious violence without having to pay any consequences! And those jerks really deserve what they finally get. Great acting and script writing. The 120 minute film composes of six tales, all related to realistic and corrupted and abusive government or bullies in our society. To maintain the suspense, fun and unpredictability, I cannot not divulge too much details of the tales other than saying it can happen anywhere in any country. All the protagonists in the six tales are decent people but they are pressed/abused by the ruthless and ridiculous reality to a point that revenge to the extreme is the natural and only way out. It is almost like a Ben and Jerry cartoon played by real people who resort to their actions with very strong reasons. Thus I can guarantee that you would feel good. The sad part is that reality sometimes really happened as depicted in the movie – such as the Germanwings incident and indifferent bureaucrats. But still, if you feel your life is suffocated in anyway, go see this and get wild for two hours. It will clear your frustration, makes you laugh hard, and help you look at things from a new perspective.


                
With Pedro Almodóvar's name credited manifestly as one of the producers, viewers will not be too surprised that this portmanteau film from Argentinian director/writer Damián Szifrón is ripe with Almodóvaresque touch - six short, surreal, dark comedies, (most of them are) deeply rooted in the injustice presented in the current Argentinian society (however, it can be feasibly comprehended elsewhere since the situations are all the same), with a recurrent theme of vengeance flows through all of its components, as the pre-credit prologue named "Pasternak" glaringly sets the tone from an all-inclusive reprisal from an unknown man towards every single person who mistreats him in his life, it is absurdly implausible to effectuate such a scheme (too many variations are involved), but as the opening gambit and the shortest one, it effectively kick-starts the film with an offbeat grin beckons an unconventional wild-ride sinisterly awaits the audience, also it tells us revenge has no mercy at all.The opening credits furthermore impress with designs of different animals for the film's protagonists and the crew. Then the second story is "The Rats", confined in a small restaurant near the highway with minimal characters (two customers, one waitress and a cook) to play out a morally righteous murder starts with expired rat poisons to the appalling backstabbing, Rita Cortese as the experienced cook, is fearlessly ruthless to eradicate any excrescence of the society within her limited power, plainly because there is no other efficacious way to deter the evil ones ascending in the societal hierarchy. This time revenge is all for a good cause. Next chapter is called "The Strongest", a road rage clash between the posh car driver Diego (Sbaraglia) and a churlish imbecile Mario (Donado), one might recall Steven Spielberg's DUEL (1971, 7/10), but here there is no ominous car-chasing, due to a flat tyre, Diego has to pay for his stupidity to offend a low-class boor, and is driven by revenge when he has the chance to flee the scene, it is so naturalistic that the intention of killing has been induced even viewers in some level subconsciously concur with Diego's motivation, but the payoff is both ludicrous and horrendous, so revenge can be a crime of passion. The fourth one "Little Bomb" stars Ricardo Darin as a demolition expert, whose automobile has been towed by DMV when he is buying a birthday cake for his daughter, the next day he tries to reason with the clerks when he is coerced to pay the fine, but loses his temper and attack the partition with all the bureaucracy poppycock. Soon, the aftereffects cost his job and marriage, while his car still being towed again and again. Finally, he loads his car with explosives and the final towing blows up the towed-car lot. But Szifrón prepares a happy-ish ending for the tale, as the explosion is accurately calculated to avoid any casualties, and his bold behaviour is regarded as a potent testimony to decry DMV's money-extorting towing policy, he becomes an urban hero thanks to the social media, he gets the sobriquet "Dynamite", his wife and daughter visit him in prison for his birthday with all the inmates and prison guards hailing for him. Darin is so compelling as the good-gone- bad stereotype pushed to his limit by a despondent reality. The final revelation is a bit far- fetched and too much a wishful thinking, but it educates us, revenge needs meticulous calculation. The fifth story is "The Proposal", a rich kid cries for help from his parents after a hit-and-run accident leaving a pregnant woman died, the father (Martínez) buys off his gardener (de Silva) to bear the blame, but when a greedy lawyer (Núñez) and a police prosecutor (Velázquez) are involved, it evolves into a game of shameless blackmail, when those three all up their profits, the canny father abruptly turns the table and uses this case as a bargaining chip to regain the initiative (this smart move shows how Szifrón is a sharp observer and an acute thinker in his storytelling), but no one can predict an unexpected denouement. This is my favourite one, it purposefully blurs the line between the opposing sides of rich and poor, and when facing a windfall, human's avariciousness is impartially triggered albeit of their different backgrounds and social status, someone is more adroit at it, and for someone it is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, alas, it is the most detrimental original sin in us and we should all constantly being reminded to overcome it. In this chapter, we learn that revenge can be achieved even one is at the apparent disadvantage. Last but not the least, the grand finale is "Until Death Do Us Apart", it is at the wedding banquet of Romina (Rivas) and Ariel (Gentile), they seem to be a perfect couple, until Romina's one unintentional glance prompts the most sensitive antenna - a woman's sixth sense, she finds out that Ariel has cheated on her with one of the wedding guest. Subsequently, she vents her ire and dismay by having sex with a random staff in the kitchen as a requital, which is witnessed by Ariel, afterwards, the wedding descends into a madcap buffoonery, yet no one can expect, all the mess actually hones up to a perfect foreplay for the pair, the story ends when the two engage into a passionate sexual intercourse in front of all the guests. Rivas is blazingly radiant in the wedding dress, with her tear-tainted make- up, she refuses to be a runaway bride, instead, she fights back to get even. And lastly, revenge can turn on one's libido, too!
Pedro Almodovar produced this suite of six short films all based on the theme of revenge, written and directed by Argentinian filmmaker Damián Szifrón and at times astoundingly photographed by Javier Julia.(His use of bokeh in the final film on a Buenos Aires Rooftop is particularly worthy of merit – but I apologise for even mentioning it because I know how wonky that reads;)So, in six short films there will be winners and losers and to get the bad news out of the way quickly they slightly outstay their welcome towards the end, partly because we've worked out how Szifrón thinks and so we can spot the plot twists a little too early.But put that to one side and you have a sextet of extraordinarily original little gems.The advantage of being penned, directed and shot by the same team is that they really do hang together as a unit and there are a number of sit up in your seat bolt upright moments along with number of belly laughs.The first of the six is something of a premonition of the Germanwings disaster but with a huge dollop of humour built in.What follows includes a number of automotive moments. Two of them have road rage at their core (or at least road tax rage) and both stand out.The movie was nominated for the Foreign language Oscar but faced pretty stiff competition this year.Me? I think we'll be seeing a lot more of Szifrón. It reminds me (in a different way of Amores Perros in that it uses a short film format to establish the credentials of great south American film making and that didn't do Alejandro González Iñárritu any harm, as he has progressed to nominations for best picture with Babel and then rightfully take home the moolah with Birdman this year.Supreme film making of nearly the highest order.


                
Wild stories are just that stories of everyday life that they become violent for different reasons. Each of the stories is not consistent with the others, the only common thread is the violence that is outspread beautifully by Szifron with a photograph (Javier Julia - blessed by fire) and accompanying soundtrack (Gustavo Santaolalla - Biutiful, 21 grams) to the incredible performances by the entire cast. Szifron there led to an elegant widescreen so true human nature and has resulted in these 6 stories that have left everyone wanting more. Without doubt that wild stories is the movie of the year from Argentina.


                
"Wild Tales" (Relatos Salvajes) is not based (as far as I know) on the transcendental Freud's essay, but it really could be an adapted screenplay from that. The film has become one of the most graphic, accurate and enthralling depiction of what modern times are doing to modern people. It is hard not to feel portrayed by these hyperbolic and extremely appealing characters and situations, despite the fact that none of us (and I hope it will never happen) have to live the extreme circumstances shown in this movie. In terms of cinematography this film is flawless: stylistic and technique are subordinated to storytelling in a way we don 't see in many movies. In terms of the tonal range is wide and empathic, with a chord of healthy black humor running underneath the six stories. These actors and actresses are well known and very much loved here in Argentina: Darin, Sbaraglia, Martinez and the AMAZING Erica Rivas (for those who have seen the film this name is unforgettable); they deliver some of the best performances in years of excellent and high quality acting careers. "Wild Tales" is a complex construction of "right on target" choices, solid screenplay, skillful direction, and superb acting. And above all else the feeling of what movies mean to us: a particular time and space where we can see the best and the worst of us, to make our lives better. I can't recommend it hard enough!


                
The movie definitely paid homage quite well to Pedro Almodovar who produced this, he is the master of absurdist anger and chaos and this director made a case for himself as somebody who can carry that torch. If you enjoy sharp social critiques about what drives us crazy in modern society, this is for you. There was also some not very subtle swipes at the upper classes and some commentary about how corruption is so normalized in Argentinian society. Despite being bleak, the movie was visually appealing and had a great soundtrack that did not overwhelm. You will find yourself laughing at some things you hope nobody else notices.Everybody can debate about which of the stories is their personal favorite. There is a little something for everybody. I liked Gabriel Pasternak, the vengeful engineer, and the wedding from hell best but all of the stories were good. I am not overly familiar with Argentinian cinema, I did recognize one of the actors from "The Secret in Their Eyes," it makes me want delve more into the movies of that country. I can see why it was popular there and hopefully it gets the attention it deserves here in the United States.


                
"If poison reaches its expiration date, does that mean that it is more or less effective?"Wild Tales (Relatos Salvages), written and directed by Damian Szifron, is Argentina's official submission in the category of best foreign language film for next year's Academy Awards. I find it hard to review these anthology films at times considering some of the short stories work really well while others don't. In Wild Tales, Szifron manages to structure the film beautifully into six stories with a great sense of pacing and storytelling. The two hours flew by and I never found any of the stories tedious or boring. When making an anthology it is important that you establish an important connection between each story, and Szifron manages to do just that. Each story focuses on characters who in some way seem to lose control and act out on impulse or revenge. It's a film about our reactions and how we can behave as animals at times. Szifron manages to set a dark tone in each of his stories while keeping the audience in suspense during some scenes and exploding in laughter during others. It is a perfect example of a dark comedy that manages to maintain the thrills throughout the narrative. Szifron plays with the genre conventions and balances the different tones of the film very well. It's hard to point out a weak link because each story brings something different to the film, but at the same time they all feel connected. Szifron cleverly satirizes different institutions in each of his six segments including marriage, justice, bureaucracy, and social classes. Wild Tales is a well executed and entertaining film, and one that might turn out to be a contender at next year's Oscars. One major issue with anthology films is that since they are separate short stories we get little time to invest in each of the characters, but somehow Szifron manages to establish each character in each scenario so well that we end up caring for them. The performances are all solid. The only familiar face in the cast is Ricardo Darin who delivers his segment extremely well. He plays a disillusioned character who is tired of the bureaucracy in his country. It doesn't take much to see him explode and we see how one small incident escalates into an overblown reaction. As much as I enjoyed that segment, it wasn't the most memorable one. I was a huge fan of the road rage segment, which in my opinion was the highlight of this film. Juan Pablo Colombo and Walter Donado give terrific performances as they are placed on an everyday scenario in the road which very quickly escalates into cartoonish violence. I could go on mentioning the rest of the segments, but they are all worthwhile. This was a perfectly executed black comedy and one worth checking out.


                
Damián Szifrón is the Argentine writer director (with producer backup from Agustín and Pedro Almodóvar) who present us with a series of stories that present the human animal and how it reacts to stress: six dark stories, involving six savage situations full of revenge and the dark sides of human beings - dreadful revenge to hated persons, accidental or intentional, dangerous and unexpected arguments, misunderstandings, and horrid confrontations that permanently change the lives of people involved. The film is advertised as wildly funny, and perhaps if we all view human foibles and anger management crises as food for laughter then the term comedy is appropriate. What the audience sees are situations most of us confront daily (on a much more quiet level) – frustrations with politics, misunderstandings of conversations, immediate flash hate responses like road rage, jealousies mishandled, bullying – and because we can relate to each of these stories the film works.Briefly, the six stories have been summarized as '1) "Pasternak": one model and a music critic in a plane find that they have a common acquaintance called Pasternak. Soon they discover that every passenger and crew on board know Pasternak. Cosmic coincidence? (2) "The Rats": a waitress of a diner recognizes her client as the loan shark that caused a tragedy in her family. The cook suggests mixing rat poison in his food, but she refuses. But the cook decides to proceed in her plan. When his son arrives, the waitress tries to fix the situation. (3) "The Strongest": Two drivers on a lone highway have an argument with tragic consequences. (4) "Little Bomb": The demolition engineer has his car towed by a truck for parking in a wrong place and he has an argument with the employee of the towing company. This event destroys his private and professional life, and he plots revenge against the corrupt towing company and the City Hall. (5) "The Proposal": The reckless hit-and-run son of a wealthy family hits and kills a pregnant woman. He wakes up his parents and his father calls the lawyer. They propose to pay the groundkeeper to take the blame. Soon the father discovers that he is victim of extortion of his lawyer and the detective in charge of the investigation. What will be his decision? (6) "Until Death Do Us Apart": During the wedding party, the wife discovers that her husband has cheated her with one of the guests and decides to payback.'Stylish photography, a fine cast of basically unknown actors (with major exceptions) and excellent direction make this macabre human comedy work. This won top honors in Argentina<U+0085>


                
That's one of the sickest (literally) intros to a movie that I have ever had the chance to see. I immediately knew that I'll be on the edge of my seat for the next 2 hours. And indeed I was. Sadly, although 6 very great stories, I really wish they we're either a bit longer, or they'd share a bit more than the motive of revenge alone. Couldn't really get my self to connect to the characters (probably 'cause they we're all so f'd up) but I somehow managed to get past it, and really enjoy watching their craziness develop. I gave it a solid 8/10, would definitely watch again.P.S.: I always thought my wedding would be weird, but damn, that is one hell of a screwed up wedding.
Here is an interesting work from Argentina. It will not get wide distribution but it is worth the time and energy to track it down.The movie consists of six short movies. Most of which if presented alone would be award worthy live action shorts.There is plenty of black comedy that works. There is a level of violence that some may find disturbing. Some of the excellent acting performances are lost while reading subtitles. If a particular story doesn't work for you, not to.worry it will on to the next one fast enough.You may not easily find this in a theater, but it is worth watching on a platform in the comfort of your home.
Surprise, surprise. A wide (kinda) release for a Spanish language film, that's sub-titled, in a region such as this, where even film festivals struggle to find an audience (other than for 'those' 'specialty' flicks). Needless to say, anything that supposedly corrupts audience members in this region has been excised, so you can be sure that your moral compass remains intact even after viewing the sinful acts committed by the main leads in the 6 shorts that unfold.The first one, beginning something as a slow-burn dramatic thriller, was the perfect kinda short to grab everyone's attention by the eyeballs with its pitch-perfect/ironically poetic denouement.The 2nd one, consistently enough, continues the introduced theme of revenge, while being consistently slow-burn enough, ends with an appropriate (although a tad lesser) display of irony.The 3rd one, on the other hand, plays out like Steven Spielberg's 'Duel', or 'Joyride', and is very tight, perhaps the tightest of the bunch, and very effective. Overarching the theme of revenge, and a huge touch of irony towards its final sequences, especially, make it really special, almost dominating the very strong initial short.This almost immediately leads into the 4th segment - almost the longest of them all, and sets up the main lead as a lone/reluctant crusader against the typical stuff one Has to Put Up With nowadays, a la 'Falling down', or its local cousin, 'Dombivli Fast'. however, in spite of the time spent in characterization and the ironic sense of revenge, and pride, I felt it was the weakest of the bunch, since there was no sense of a hard payoff. However, this one had the strongest lead of them all, the Argentine De Niro - Ricardo Darin (Carancho / El secreto de sus ojos). The one that comes next though, sweeps aside the theme of revenge, but follow up on a theme introduced in its previous segment, Bombita, of a corrupt system allowing certain perpetrators of crime not to pay the price, for a (ahem) price. The sense of irony, though, is at its strongest in the narrative of this segment, especially when one of the characters who's been meek and kinda cowed down by circumstances starts exhibiting atypical responses, that lead to...ahem...you gotta watch it, and enjoy it.The final segment, embraces irony completely, and keeps you guessing right until its denouement, while eschewing revenge (umm, some might say its all about that emotion though - not for me) almost completely in favor of something even nastier, cutting-edge, and something that hurts immediately, right out in the open, almost completely naked (emotion). Powerful stuff, and wonderful in terms of the milieu against which the entire tale is enacted.A thoroughly entertaining time at the movies, but to be enjoyed theatrically only at a progressive location, unlike where I got to watch.
Wild Tales is just that, a six story anthology dealing with revenge. The first and shortest is my personal favorite, is fairly simple. A passenger on an airliner engages in a casual conversation with a man who turns out to be a classical movie critic. They discover that her ex boyfriend was a struggling musician who was ridiculed for his lack of talent by the critic. As the flight continues, as others overhear the first two talking, they all share a link to the failed musician. The ending is great; funny and sick at the same time. Story number two concerns a waitress at a diner who serves a customer who in the past has caused her much misery. He is a nasty politician and, oh boy, does she serve justice. Number three is universal to anyone who has driven a car, as I have, and suffered road rage. An arrogant jerk in a new Audi is driving down a road when he gets stuck behind an old car weaving back and forth. As he is finally able to pass, he curses out the other guy while giving him the finger. A flat tire puts him in a bad situation, as the other man catches up and does things that can't be described in a nice way. Again, a good ending. Short number four is another common theme, a man fighting city hall, in this case a tow truck which costs him both time and money. He fights a losing battle until he uses his expertise from his job to get even. Number five is different in that revenge is not the theme here. A young man comes home distraught at the fact that he has run over a pregnant woman and left the scene. The wealthy dad schemes to hide the accident by using his money and bribing several people. A lesson in greed is the moral. The final segment is a huge wedding party where the newlywed bride discovers that her husband has cheated on her with a guest at the reception. All hell breaks loose, and my least favorite ending. Overall, a good way to be amused for two hours and a 8/10.


                
It's not very common to see an anthology film not belonging to the horror or thriller genres. However, I'm glad to say that the format works pretty well for a tragicomedy... or whatever way you want to classify Relatos Salvajes, because its combination of drama, violence and black humor rejects easy labels, while leaving the spectator satisfied in all those levels. Director and screenwriter Damián Szifrón applies ingenuity to this eclectic combination of tales, whose thematic variety builds an interesting cultural tapestry which isn't only limited to Argentina, because the ethic and ideological conflicts from the characters are universal. The performances are excellent, and the member of the cast who stands out the most is the great Ricardo Darín. A common problem in many anthologies is the fact that the short running time from each segment avoids an adequate establishment of characters and situations, but that wasn't the case in Relatos Salvajes; despite their briefness, the stories feel complete in their structure and development, showing narrative efficiency and a good dominion over the cinematographic language. And the technical aspects are perfect, from Javier Juliá's cinematography to Gustavo Santaolalla's incidental music. I would like to analyze each segment from Relatos Salvajes, but I'm afraid of revealing too much; so, I will only say that my favorite segment was "Bombita", while "Hasta que la Muerte Nos Separe" was a bit longer than it should have and has some forced details in its story... even though its farcical tone and bittersweet ending work as an appropriate conclusion of the whole film. In conclusion, I wouldn't consider Relatos Salvajes an excellent movie, but I liked it pretty much, and I definitely consider it worthy of a recommendation. Oh, and I would also like to mention the initial credits, which are simple, but full of meaning.


                
Short story collections rarely work as feature length films, usually because one strand is stronger than others or the overall message is weak or tenuous. Here the links between each tale are subtle genius and as a whole it plays beautifully. Also rare is how well the dark comedy translates from a non English language culture, so universal are the human emotions on display. A perfect blend of drama and pathos across the board. I'll definitely be watching this again and recommending it to people for many years. Well directed, written and acted. Each scenario far fetched yet thoroughly believable. A strong 8/10.


                
This six stories into a film are clever, daring, and something wild.The point here is to put people in extreme situations in which revenge is often the triggering factor. Anyway there is more content. It also raise questions as the use of violence, exploitation between the citizen and the State, corruption on a personal level, emotional reactions and jealousy .... all this taken to the extreme and seasoned with black humor.It seems that everything is exaggerated with the aim of look at ourselves in the mirror. Eventually, humans may not be so different from what is portrayed in the movie.7,5/10


                
Wildly toothsome, if not equally well-prepared, six nasty snacks!(8/10)


                
This movie ilustrates perfectly the idiosincracy of argentine society; sadly people would get very mad for silly stuff like a traffic argument (Sbaraglia's story) or being mistreated by a picky and annoying customer (Cortese and Wexler's story). This was perfectly plasmed on screen by Szifron.I didn't enjoy the very violent scenes, but understand that they had to be done this way.On the other hand, I loved the bombita story, not only because of the great acting by Darin, but also for representing the absurdness of argentine's burocracy that would get you mad. And also, because he didn't kill anybody, he carefully planned the explotion only to cause material damage at the impound lot.
