C.C. Baxter is a junior clerk with a giant New York insurance corporation who has found an unusual way to get on. He is the tenant of a small apartment which he allows senior executives of the firm to use for sexual assignments with their mistresses. He does this not in exchange for money but on the understanding that the managers involved will use their influence to advance his career. As a result Baxter quickly finds himself promoted from his lowly position to that of a junior executive with his own office and a key to the executive washroom. Complications arise, however, when Baxter falls in love with Fran Kubelik, the elevator girl who just happens to be the mistress of Jeff Sheldrake, the head of the company's personnel department, who has often taken Fran and his other mistresses back to Baxter's apartment. This film is in the tradition of the "sophisticated" comedies centred upon adultery and divorce which were considered very daring and risqué in the forties and fifties. Director Billy Wilder had made another film of this type, "The Seven Year Itch", several years earlier. The difference between that film and "The Apartment" perhaps reflects the growth in permissiveness which took place between the mid-fifties and the early sixties, "The Apartment" being considerably bolder in its treatment of sexual themes. In "The Seven Year Itch", Marilyn Monroe's character is the object of the fantasies of the married man who lives below her, but nothing ever takes place between them. In "The Apartment", however, although there are no bedroom scenes, we are given to understand that adulterous sex takes place in Baxter's apartment on a regular basis (to the horror of his neighbour, a Jewish doctor, who mistakenly believes that Baxter himself is the lover of all these different women). Moreover, the film is a romantic comedy which has as its heroine a woman who is conducting an affair with a married man, something that would have been unthinkable a few years previously. In this respect "The Apartment" can be seen as looking forward to the fully-fledged sex comedies of the late sixties and seventies and to modern rom-coms in which it is no longer necessary that the characters be chaste and virginal. It was also one of the first films to deal with sexual harassment in the workplace, something that has become a staple theme of modern office-based films. In other respects, however, it is rather old-fashioned. In a seventies sex comedy Baxter would probably have been presented as an attractive jack-the-lad whose pursuit of self-interest is wholly admirable, Fran as a go-getter happy to sleep with her boss all the time she thinks she is in with a chance of becoming the second Mrs Sheldrake but equally happy to throw him over when she realises he is not serious about her, and Sheldrake himself as a groovy swinger. "The Apartment" takes a more moralistic line. Baxter may not be the drunken womaniser that Dr Dreyfuss imagines him to be, but the film condemns his conniving at the sexual immorality of others for the sake of his own self-advancement. Fran is hopelessly in love with Sheldrake, even after she discovers how insincere and selfish he is. At times the comedy becomes much blacker than the average romantic comedy; Fran's suicide attempt shows how dangerous and destructive the casual philandering of a man like Sheldrake can be. Another difference between this film and the more traditional romantic comedy is that the humour is often very satirical in nature. Most of the satire is at the expense of American big business- the impersonality of big corporations (Baxter proudly announces that his firm employs more people than the total population of Natchez, Mississippi), the culture of corporate philandering, the bullying of junior staff by senior management, the snobbery of the top brass. Combined with the satire is a more serious study in character development, of how Fran overcomes her hopeless infatuation with Sheldrake and how Baxter becomes (in Dreyfuss's words) a "Mensch" by learning that his love for Fran is of more import than his selfish pursuit of success by dubious means and that there are more important things in life than who gets the key to the executive washroom. (The word "Mensch" is German for "human being"; its use in this film, and the character of Dreyfuss himself, possibly reflect Billy Wilder's own German-Jewish roots). The script is often witty and Jack Lemmon as Baxter shows just why he was regarded as being among the best comedy actors of the period. (At times, as in "Days of Wine and Roses", he got the chance to show that he could be a very good actor in serious dramas as well). Nevertheless, I am surprised that the film won the "best picture" Oscar ahead of not only "Elmer Gantry" but also "Spartacus" and "Psycho", neither of which were even nominated. It is overlong, and the character of Fran seems problematic for a modern audience. Shirley MacLaine does her best to portray her as a feisty, independent woman, but this portrayal sometimes seems at odds with the way the character is written. The fact that she remains hopelessly devoted to Sheldrake even after it becomes clear to her what a scoundrel he is can make her seem weak and passive. Perhaps the audiences of the early sixties would only accept as a romantic heroine a woman involved in an adulterous affair if it was made clear that she was truly in love with him. This is an entertaining film, which has dated better than "The Seven Year Itch", but I would not rate it as highly as Wilder's other great comedy from this period, "Some Like It Hot". 7/10
It's heralded as one of the all time great comedies and even won a Best Picture Oscar, but I'm somehow just not feeling the love here. Though essentially a good hearted guy, C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon) is easily pushed around by his superiors at work, all with the goal of hijacking his apartment for their extramarital affairs. Fred MacMurray is cast against type as a heel with not a single redemptive quality, and I had to do a double take when he treated Shirly MacLaine's character like a hooker by pulling out that hundred dollar bill. MacLaine has some good moments, but overall, she's as one dimensional as her co-stars, which is a shame, because there were a few times that you felt genuinely sorry for her abuse at the hands of Sheldrake (MacMurray). But then you had to wonder why she didn't pull the plug on the relationship a whole lot sooner.Back to this comedy business - I can think of a few times where Lemmon's facial expressions and posture denoted an element of humor, but the more obvious attempts fell flat. Like the tennis racket spaghetti strainer - that would have been funny in a setting like "Animal House", but if you're trying to impress a girl with your wit, I think I'd stay away from going the unsanitary route. Seriously, who thought that was a good idea? Probably more than anything else though, it's probably not wise to mix a lightweight script with a suicide attempt. There wasn't much funny about Doc Dreyfuss trying to save Miss Kubelik's (MacLaine) life and Baxter's noble gesture to nurse her back to health over the course of a couple days. I think the movie would have gotten more mileage out of going for a straight dramatic approach, but then again, I'm not the expert here and the film did win big in the Oscar race that year. Maybe I watched a different picture.
It's an impressive movie -- well acted, nicely written, heart-breaking in its own way, very funny in parts, and highly moral in tone. I'll never forget seeing it for the first time in a Drive-In Movie in Red Bank, New Jersey. I haven't seen it that often since, nor would I want to. Nobody really wins anything.The last scene has Shirley MacLaine rushing to the empty apartment of Jack Lemmon on New Years' Eve, plumping herself down next to him on the bed, handing him a deck of cards, and ordering him to "Shut up and deal." She's just found out from her cardboard lover, MacMurray, that Lemon gave up a promotion as a matter of personal honor. But I don't think she loves Lemon. Certainly she's never shown the slightest interest in him as a potential mate before. To her, he's been nothing but a pathetic jerk for whom she sometimes feels sorry. And now they're going to live happily ever after, both of them deeply in love, jobless, and broke.The doctor next door is a good man but isn't going to change. Why should he? The four randy aging office boys who have been using Lemon's apartment have learned nothing. They're probably already scrounging around for a new lair.Those are all reasons I wouldn't want to watch it too often. That melancholy is encapsulated in a few shocking moments, as, for example, when MacLaine offers Lemon her tiny mirror so he can admire his new bowler hat and he realizes that MacLaine, the girl he idolizes, has been getting shoved this way and that on his own bed two or three nights a week during bouts of intercourse with the exploitative MacMurray.Those may be reasons for not seeing it too often but there are plenty of reasons for actually watching it. It's amusing, for instance, to see and hear Dr. Dreyfus's disbelief in the hallway when he realizes another loud party is about to begin. He attributes all of this activity to Lemon, who is actually a nebbish. A shady young girl is dancing alone with a pair of maracas in the hall, waiting for Lemon's door to open. "Mil-DRED!", cries Dr. Dreyfus hurrying into his own flat.I don't know why Wilder was fond of the name Sheldrake but he must have been. He resurrects it here after it was used up on the bald guy to whom Joe Gillis make his baseball pitch at the beginning of "Sunset Boulevard." I like the other names too. Kubelik, Dobisch, Matuschka. They sound real, not made up. And the blond who "looks like Marylin Monroe" is priceless.
This movie can be very fun and funny at some times. Overall, it is a very fun family movie. It is a romantic comedy which fills the heart. However, every once and a while, it seems like the movie should be over, and it's not. That is a problem. It bored me at some points. About an office man who falls in love with the elevator girl, is giving up his apartment for a promotion, and with a suicide attempt involved, this is a fun film. Jack Lemmon and Shirley McClaine are a perfect match in a movie. Jack Lemmon is a hilarious lover, and Shirley is the loved one. However, there are some obstacles on the way to get them to be together, and that is what is good about this movie; the twist in the obstacles.


                
A great story is built on great characters, characters whose plight and ambition defy their generations. Their stories ring true years after they should have passed and they mirror our actions and internal thoughts. Billy Wilder's The Apartment features such characters. The protagonist, C. C. Baxter offers his apartment to morally ambiguous executives, hoping that he may gain their approval and a promotion. But as time goes by, he realizes that the cost is greater than the payoff. His personal crashes to shambles.The Apartment features an elaborate story to compliment its honest characters. Every element of the plot feels natural and never rushed. "Buddy Boy" (Jack Lemmon) is fully relatable and loveable. He maintains a natural presence and guides the film's flow. Baxter's crush Miss Kubelik (Shirley Maclaine) is adorable irresistible. We hope and pray that Baxter will win her yet. Finally, Baxter's boss Mr. Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray) is dispicable. His every move should be met with spite.Though shown in black and white, the film feels colorful and engaging. The set pieces hold depth and there are plenty props with which the audience to engage. Baxter's work environment may even visually remind you of Scorsese's The Wolf of Wall Street, no doubt his homage to this 1960 classic.Overall, The Apartment is worth its salt. Even at over two hours run time, the work is devoid of boring material. The moral of its story instills that happiness found with loved ones is often more meaningful than happiness found in job status.


                
My Rating : 7/10Witty, clever and timelessly relevant comedy-drama from the mind of Billy Wilder.
Jack Lemmon is at his wryly humorous best.Great musical score with...gin rummy, champagne and laughter!


                
Being that "The Apartment" won the "Best Picture" Oscar (in a year where "Spartacus" wasn't even nominated), I was really expecting something exceptional. I bought the DVD on Amazon after watching a documentary on Billy Wilder. I wanted to see Wilder's work and figured I'd start out with one of his Oscar winners.Honestly, after spending over two hours watching the movie... I was left relatively unsatisfied. The only aspect of the film that really kept me going was Jack Lemmon. In my eyes, Lemmon is one of the greatest actors Hollywood has ever seen.It's a decent film, and perhaps I was expecting too much- but it certainly doesn't seem to warrant the accolades attributed to it. I believe that in the year "The Apartment" was made (1959-60) it broke certain cinematic mores with it's relatively open perspective on sexuality. I get the sense this novelty had something to do with it's appeal at the time. In today's world (except for Jack Lemmon's great performance), IMHO this movie comes off more like a mediocre made for TV movie.


                
THE APARTMENT is one of the more successful American comedies of that era that illustrates my point, liberated by lack of strict censorship.It staggers the imagination to wonder how this kind of tale would have been accepted in the more prudish '40s or '50s when Ozzie and Harriet still reigned supreme as the prime example of American mores.Evidently, by 1961, censorship was out and the anything goes morality was in--because the tale of a man who climbs the executive ladder by giving the key to his apartment away to a flock of office higher-ups, is the core of this Billy Wilder comedy. The theme is unsavory but the manner of delivering it is full of witty and sardonic humor.Director Wilder takes this raw material and turns it into high class sentimental comedy that gives the talented JACK LEMMON one of the best roles of his career and showcases SHIRLEY MacLAINE in one of her best ditzy dame roles. Furthermore, it provides FRED MacMURRAY with one of the last "bad guy" roles he had before becoming the clean-cut hero of "Father Knows Best" on TV.It's all given a nice B&W sheen by cinematographer Joseph LaShelle and a perky background score by Adolph Deutsch. The sharp dialog gives a lot of memorable quotes to a number of supporting players, including Ray Walston, Jack Kruschen and Edie Adams. Everyone benefits from a superior script by Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond.Tasteful? Well, it hardly matters any more. It's funny.


                
Jack Lemmon in this movie is brilliant. A really great film that makes you laugh


                
Wilder is known to be able to deliver the laughs as well the dramatic tones. The proof of this Sunset Blvd. and Some Like it Hot. In The Apartment he tries to mix the two but he never truly lands the dismount as it were and the character of Baxter has every drop of comedy stolen from him as we watch him be abused by everyone around him including his love interest. The piece would have been a great character study, but it is never allowed to be. The acting is on point, Lemmon does what he can with a character that is penned in by a script that does not know how to portray him. He breathes life into a man so morally drained and emotionally inept that one would loathe him if there were not that ray of sunshine peaking through. The script bleeds Hollywood which is fine as this is a romantic movie and they tend to not need a heady dose of gritty reality. Ultimately it is a lighthearted romantic movie with the sexism of Madmen thrown in. So if you wish to know where the mould for modern romance was created look no further.


                
"The Apartment" is a comedy movie which also is being combined with drama in some moments. In this movie we have a man who works in an insurance company and he wants to move up and distinguish himself from all the other lowly people. To succeed this he borrows his apartment key to his supervisors but everything changes when a romance comes in front.I liked this movie because of the plot and the whole storyline. But because I watched it now in 2015 and I have seen plenty of movies with such a plot I did not like it as much as I wanted to. I believe this happens because in some moments in the movie you understand what is going to happen. But if we think that this movie was filmed in 1960 and we "judge" it with that year's criteria then I have to say that for these times was a masterpiece. We have also a really good interpretation made by Jack Lemmon who played as C.C. Baxter, and of course we have to mention also the beautiful Shirley MacLaine's interpretation who played as Fran Kubelik.Finally I believe that "The Apartment" is a really good movie to spend your time because it combines very good comedy with drama and in some moments romance. In addition to this I have to say that from this movie we learn many things and we can think a little different after we watch it.


                
I have a different view of this film than most. Admittedly, it's a classic, and was a commercial success at the time of its release. But, I often find Billy Wilder's films cynical, depressing, and sort of "off-color 2 hour jokes". Even when I watched one of my favorite entertainers, Dean Martin in "Kiss Me, Stupid", I felt that way. Almost always emphasizing and, in my view, glorifying infidelity and adultery.Having said all that, it is a pleasure watching the 3 stars of this film -- Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine, and the before "My Three Sons" Fred MacMurray. This film displays so well the diverse talents of Jack Lemmon. A flair for comedy...it's there early in the film. A flair for drama...even more evident, though later in the film. And that's what made Lemmon so good...he could do drama or comedy equally well...sort of like Cary Grant. And then there's Shirley MacLaine. Who could fault her performance here? And, though his role here is not at all sympathetic, Fred MacMurray plays his role as "the philanderer" extremely well, though this film was a bit after his prime in movies.And, other than being a very cynical story, the plot is very good. A man who works in the bowels of an insurance company is sap enough to allow his superiors at work to use his apartment for trysts...although why the rich president of the company wouldn't choose to go to a hotel with his bimbo, rather than a dingy apartment (and it is dingy), escapes me. Then he meets his "Miss Right", only to find out she is the executive's (MacMurray) mistress. She discovers MacMurray is stringing her along, attempts suicide, and Lemmon saves her...and eventually wins her. There are moments that are touching, sad, pathetic, humorous, and although they presumably live happily ever after, it just seems like one very long (over 2 hours) slightly cynical and off-color joke. Was Wilder ahead of his time? Definitely. Was that always so good? Maybe not.Worth a watch, but I don't rate it as highly as many others do.
For a film filled with largely unpleasant characters and a rather predictable plot, "The Apartment" still succeeds in being an entertaining movie that works better than it had any apparent right to work. That it does come out all right is thanks first of all to Jack Lemmon's fine performance, and second, to Billy Wilder's finely tuned story-telling abilities. While it has too many flaws to be called a truly great movie, it also has more than enough strong points to make it worth seeing.Lemmon could play the hapless yet likable character as well as or better than anyone else could, and he makes C.C. Baxter a three-dimensional character who becomes a lot more interesting than he looks on paper. Lemmon has a way of being slightly unpredictable while never making it seemed forced or unnatural, and it works well here. The young Shirley MacLaine is also engaging, although her role is less difficult and less crucial. Fred MacMurray works surprisingly well as the oily, manipulative Sheldrake, yet he and most of the remaining characters are a lot less interesting than Baxter is.Besides Lemmon's admirable performance, Wilder keeps it on track by telling a rather slight story with skill and good pacing. The story does have a little more depth than do a lot of romantic comedies, but it is still the kind of shaky premise that in the wrong hands can easily become either numbingly dreary or offensively crass. The script by Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond is very good dialogue-wise, though sometimes too predictable plot-wise.While it really should not be compared with the likes of Wilder gems like "Sunset Boulevard", "Stalag 17", and the like, "The Apartment" is still worth seeing. Lemmon was rarely in better form, and the movie overall also has its share of good moments.


                
... as for films by Wilder, I like e.g. Some Like It Hot much more. Lemmon and McLaine are brilliant, of course, but there is not so much comedy within, you feel often sadness and compassion. Black-and-white background does not provide something extra, on the contrary - and it is still 1960 when several color films had already been made.Generally the idea of the script is nice, providing an opportunity to create a lot of crazy confusions and puttering around. Wilder has grabbed this opportunity in full, being undoubtedly a great director and producer. But somehow I feel that The Apartment would not have received so many Academy Awards decades later, it has become timeworn.


                
