Billy Wilder knew how to make a great movie. Of course it helps to have one of the greatest all-time actors, Jack Lemon, play in your movies, but Lemon aside, Wilder was a genius. His gift for the comedic moment showed brilliantly on screen and reached deep inside the audience.The Apartment, the last of the great Black and White films, showed a bit darker side to comedy than some of his other romps such as the hilarious Some Like It Hot. Some Like It Hot is just as funny today as it was in 1959. It is pure fun. At no point in the film are we approached with anything that we would take seriously. Let's face it, most of us are not running from the mob disguised as a member from the opposite sex.The Apartment, however, brings up much more human themes and issues. Wilder is an expert and at no time does he leave you worried that it will turn out badly. This is, after all, a comedy. One mistake in the script and the movie could quickly become a deep film about suicide, loneliness, and peer pressure, but Wilder balances the subjects on the edge of a knife and allows us to smile at what could otherwise be a very depressing movie.Wilder and his films like The Apartment are very similar to Shakespeare's comedies. It can be said that the difference between a Shakespeare comedy and tragedy is often not the story, but the ending. In a comedy, everyone is married; in a tragedy, everyone dies. the same is true with The Apartment, it all hinges on the outcomes. If Kubelik dies or Baxter is left alone, the movie would be a tragedy. But since they prevail in the end, the movie comes off as a great comedic success, albeit a bit dark.
A struggling office worker in a giant insurance company lends his apartment to higher ups in order to get a promotion. Set during the Holidays, the theme of infidelity turned a lot of viewers off. The Holiday setting however is what provides a lot of the film's best scenes, as in the fantastic office Christmas party where the secretaries are doing a CanCan on the table and couples are making out in the corner. The one-two punch of Jack Lemmon's classic performance and that of Fred MacMurray is fabulous, and the triangle of sorts that forms with Shirley McClaine makes this much more than the comedy that it is known for.


                
Billy Wilder's The Apartment was one of a huge list of movies that are considered classics which I haven't seen, and indeed knew very little about (other than the level of admiration which many people have for it). Having a vague knowledge of the stars of the film (Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine), for one reason or another I was expecting a light-hearted comedy filled with innuendo and witty banter, a tradition of filmmaking that was common around the period when this film was released. Thankfully I wasn't disappointed, as these elements are all in play in The Apartment, but what really thrilled and surprised me was the much more serious subject matter that the film deals with. To say this is simply a comedy is completely false, as it's a somewhat dark and daring study of the nature of love and infidelity, and the stunning performances and filmmaking on display had me enthralled from the first frame.The film certainly begins as a comedy. C.C. Baxter (Lemmon) is a young bachelor trying to ascend the corporate ladder by allowing a group of his superiors to use his apartment for their extra-marital liaisons. After he falls for charismatic elevator attendant Fran (MacLaine), who is engaged in an illicit relationship with Mr. Sheldrake, the married head of the company, Baxter tries to free himself from the demands of his bosses, with hilarious results. While this is certainly risqué subject matter (for 1960), the film takes an unexpectedly sombre turn when Fran makes a suicide attempt in the apartment after learning the truth behind Sheldrake's motives. What follows is a touching, and at times heart-wrenching flowering of Baxter and Fran's relationship, and if the ending is a little predictable, the journey getting there is really something wonderful.The Apartment features an excellent selection of fully-formed support characters, but the film really belongs to Lemmon and MacLaine. Lemmon's reputation as cinema's greatest everyman is really on show here, and it's impossible not to root for him and sympathise with his plight. Playing Baxter as a charming yet awkward underdog, his character is the embodiment of the 'nice guys finish last' maxim, and although some elements of his life may be a little shady to say the least, Lemmon is flawless. MacLaine is completely up to Lemmon's high standard as Fran, effortlessly making audiences fall in love with her just as Baxter has. She's just so damn cute that even when she's recovering from an overdose of sleeping pills, she exudes such a potent 'girl next door' allure that can't be avoided. Her chemistry with Lemmon is palpable, and when they inevitably end up together, it's one of those truly satisfying romantic moments seen all too rarely in modern cinema.I'm not usually one to get nostalgic when it comes to film periods, but while I do have great fondness for many more recent romantic comedies, Hollywood really doesn't make movies like The Apartment any more. Wilder's screenplay (co-written with I.A.L. Diamond) is clever, witty and engaging, particularly in the subtle motifs and unique idiosyncrasies of all the characters, and the film is just so expertly crafted. I'm determined now to seek out more Wilder films, along with catching up on my Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine. I can't recommend The Apartment highly enough!


                
Billy Wilder has made some tremendous satires. "Sunset Boulevard" is one of the greatest satires on film. "The Apartment", though not as cynical, is a very good one as well. I like that the satire is a backdrop for the main love story, and yet an integral part of it. The film shows just how much people are will to prostitute themselves in order to get what they want, whether that be a family or an executive office. Wilder handles some very serious and bawdy themes with a precise touch. This film could have easily turned into a wacky comedy of errors, but he is much to talented and sympathetic for that. He gives Baxter's character some sincere emotional depth. I could almost feel his loneliness and longing in many scenes. He is never really sure what he wants and how he can get it. He is a man searching for something, and he doesn't quite know it. Lemon plays this role to perfection. He doesn't go overboard. He gives the character the right amount of silliness and charm. McClaine is very strong. Her character is not stereotyped. She is a wounded soul that is looking for respite in the absolutely wrong place. I found her very charming and lovable. Some much of the film is in the wonderful cinematography. Wilder uses the widescreen to its fullest capability. The framing is so precise. You get a feeling of utter separation and distance. I really like the nearly infinite succession of desks in the office.


                
The Apartment is a story that sparkles with a scintillating script, humour, and interesting characters as employees of a large insurance company come into conflict with each other. The story set in mid-20th century Manhattan is considered a "classic". The acting, the mix of characters and script are outstanding. New York City, 1959 is written all over it. The bar scenes, the office Christmas party, the walk-up apartment on the Upper West Side, the White Plains home of one of the executives all evoke the era. Jack Lemmon is C.C. Baxter a young employee trying to climb the greasy pole of success in a huge Manhattan insurance company. Shirley MacLaine is Fran Kubelik, an elevator operator in the company's office skyscraper, who falls in love with one of the higher-ups, and Fred McMurray is Jeff Sheldrake, director of personnel. All deliver great performances with a strong supporting cast. The movie presents the characters, particularly Kubelik and Baxter,in ethical dilemmas and as the movie goes along, we see these two come to grips with how they are living out their lives. A great movie by director Billy Wilder, who created some heavyweight movies like Double Indemnity, The Lost Weekend, Some Like It Hot, and Sunset Boulevard. The movie held my interest from scene to scene. It is superbly acted, and very funny.


                
Billy Wilder is one of those film-makers who tackled so many genres throughout his career. "Double Indemnity" and "Sunset Boulevard", one of his earliest productions, saw him take on film-noir and drama; with "Stalag 17" he showed that he could make films about war too; and with "Some Like it Hot" he made one of the best-loved comedies of its time. So where does "The Apartment" fall in all of this? Well it's a credit to the director, in that he merges genres so skilfully. He brings both comedic and dramatic elements together throughout, and it's all so incredibly watchable.The film follows "Buddy Boy" Baxter (Jack Lemmon), a worker in a dull office building, who allows his superiors to borrow his apartment in order to have affairs in secret. This action gets him promoted to much more senior positions, due to good favour, and his neighbours are none the wiser, assuming that he comes home each night with a different woman. He soon falls in love with Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine), who is also caught up in an affair with Baxter's boss, played by Fred MacMurray. The love-triangle is a classic comedy device, and is pulled off here so well, as Wilder adds drama to it as well as comedy.Jack Lemmon shines throughout the film, giving a comedic performance at the height of "Some Like it Hot". He is a remarkable actor, and can make even the smallest things be charming and humorous, through the use of intonation or facial expressions. MacLaine is also brilliant, and portrays Kubelik as lovely but depressed. A scene where Fran tries to overdose on sleeping pills should break the flow of a comedy by adding a very serious element of drama in, but thanks to the duo's performances, it never feels too solemn. Their shared charm, with Baxter trying to cheer her up with card games, is what makes the movie work so well. The ending which the two share together is simple yet beautiful.Even though the film isn't at all shocking today, in its time the concept of adultery was one which was not widely portrayed in mainstream cinema, and Wilder's script is a firm satire on adultery throughout. It's visually fairly ordinary, but the clutter of Baxter's apartment and business of the office are things which help to add to its appeal. In all, it's a simply charming film which hits home on some important dramatic points, while never straying far from its initial comedic intentions.
A timeless classic in director Billy Wilder's typical anti-establishment satirical style, this is one of Jack Lemmon's best imho. He plays the protagonist CC Baxter, working in a large insurance firm in New York City, just one of many faces in a sea of desks and office machines on a floor of the building. Though he is surrounded by a multitude of people in and out of the office, he is alone socially, having no visible family nor close friends. The main diversion (if it can be called that) he has is lending out his bachelor style apartment to the middle-ranking executives of the insurance firm for their extra-marital trysts, in return they promise him that they will put in a good word with the higher management for him to get promoted to a better position. This he complies with, even if it puts him at such as a disadvantage as having to stand outdoors in freezing weather while waiting for the current occupant to vacate the apartment. In reply to one reviewer who questioned why the philandering men don't just take their lovers to a hotel, there are two possibilities: First, they were too tight-fisted to pay the expense of a room in a hotel - why spend money when they could just use a low-ranking junior employee's joint for free, and the second and more likely reason, is that there's the risk that they would be seen by known associates and acquaintances if they were to conduct trysts in such a public place such as a hotel, and their personal affairs revealed to their detriment. But then I digress. A lot of viewers find no humour nor romance in this movie, even if it is classified as a romantic comedy, and to an extent they are right. The supposedly funny scenes are not the sort that you would want to guffaw at, maybe just a snicker or two, but on the whole it does have its light moments, mostly based on misunderstanding and misinterpretation of situations, like Baxter's doctor neighbor assuming that he (Baxter) is a womanizing playboy causing a lot of ruckus most nights in his apartment when actually it's the doing of others. The fact that he leaves a wastebasket full of empty alcohol bottles (courtesy of the executive's liaisons) outside his door doesn't help improve his standing in the doc's eyes either. If by definition of romance, one would expect hot steamy kissing and bed scenes, then prepare for disappointment, as this movie contains none of that. Baxter does eventually fall for pretty elevator operator Fran Kubelik (played so expertly by Shirley McLaine), but does so in a modulated, hesitant way, and only because circumstances begin to arise such that she ends up in his apartment (after being left behind by her lover Sheldrake), and he's left to pick up the pieces of her failed romance literally, just like he's left to collect the litter left behind in his apartment by his higher up bosses after their dalliances. Fred McMurray is memorable as the sleazy despicable Personnel Director Jeff Sheldrake, a role as far from what we expect from McMurray, who usually plays nice guy in previous movies. He is deliciously detestable in playing on the emotions of Kubelik, making her think that he truly loves her and will divorce his present wife to marry her. The other characters - the middle ranking managers, the office workers, etc serve merely as cogs to fill in the completeness of the wheel to get the story going. All in all this is a very watchable film, and one deserving to rank as one of the classics in film history.


                
With thematic content that is still relevant today anywhere from NYC to Tokyo, the heart of this very real human dramedy is that quiet, simple love endures and triumphs in the end, and that there is hope for the millions of people feeling trapped and lonely in what seems to be otherwise insignificant lives. The Apartment is a beautiful and endearing film that shows its audiences the greater meaning behind the vanities of life. How love, modest elegance and principles in character ultimately overrule self centredness, indulgence, and materialistic corporate ladder decadence. In fact, regardless of the corporate settings for the main character, the essential element of the rat race that everyone plays today, as well as the content delving into extramarital adulterous liaisons, considered taboo during its time, is what ensures the film its very timeless quality, and its relevance to the modern world till today. It is these qualities that have caused the film to earn labels like, being 'ahead of its time' or a 'classic'. And what a classic it is.Billy Wilder, the writing talent behind such brilliant works as "Ninotchka", makes this film his second outing after the highly celebrated "Some Like it Hot". Many felt he might be hard pressed to top that, but in a totally different direction thematically, does so with this film. The story is much more about the dramatic pinpricks of human tragedy and loneliness insofar as it is laced with comedic turns about a man who loans his apartment out to bosses for their extramarital liaisons in order to gain their approval and climb the ladder at work. But complications ensue when he discovers a beautiful woman he desires to court is actually inimically one of the objects exploited beguilingly by his very boss in his very apartment, forcing him into an impugning quagmire. Wilder blends these elements in perfect harmony in this film, with the chemistry between the cast of the wry humoured Jack Lemmon and the cloy beauty of Shirley MacLaine (Wilder would pair them again for Irma Douce) neatly balanced with the pure wit and pacing of the script, whilst always undergirding the whole film with a sense of a genuine sanctity for compassion for the whole plot. Far from considering the film an insult on the many who play sycophantic roles on the way up the rat race or corporate ladder, or the adulterous men, the cynicism can be construed with much verecund indignation as it highlights the sadness of it all without being condescending. In fact, the characters speak of the struggle each City dweller in modern living can identify with. There is no condescending need to present anyone as perfect, overtly altruistic, overtly feminine nor elegant (MacLaine's character is a lift attendant) nor flawless in their life choices. They make mistakes, sweat over them, and regret. A real rarity for films emerging out of Hollywood on the back of the 1950s with swashbuckling heroines and heroes. Lemmon's character is a simple bachelor with an air of inevitable loneliness in the meanderings of life in a NY apartment. That's why they call them a-part-ments. You live apart. And alone. He is an amalgam of a laid back yet pre-emptively self serving corporate machine, who ostensibly is forced into playing the only role he knows in order to better his predicament of being merely yet another average diploma staffer on Wall St- to climb up the corporate-ladder in his General insurance firm. The real beauty here in Wilder's script is that Lemmon, and also Maclaine (who makes the wrong choices by being mistress to Lemmon's boss), is that both characters harness a true propensity for love and care that is nestled within, waiting to exhale whilst in the midst of them being stuck in their cyclical ruts of despair. The real satisfaction comes when both these characters reconcile each others pains, heal each other (literally too in the classic doctor scene) and find love amid the hustle bustle of the rat race in the world that goes on around them, championing each other on. They play gin rummy in the final scene, in heart wrenchingly beautiful emotional overtones, kept painfully modest by Wilder, and celebrating the simple love that triumphs over all hurts. The themes are relevant till today, and the quality of what this film achieved stylistically (as the last of the B&W generation) remains extant in full living colour today, because of the sheer timeless message of hope this film carries to anyone who's ever been that insignificant other, or ordinary person to be forgotten in that apartment out there.For that alone, it deserves an 8/10.By Stephen Thanabalan


                
In an age of cinema thriving on relatively simple black and white tales of right and wrong, director Billy Wilder had always stood out as daring to recognize the ambiguity in characters and situations, making his films more difficult to classify than those of his contemporaries. And while Wilder's follow up to the tremendously successful Some Like It Hot may be visually black and white (the last best picture winner in over thirty years made without colour) its classification is far more elusive than such simplistic terms. Part corporate satire, part character study, part societal critique, part comedy, part tragedy, all melding together for a superbly emotionally affecting effort , The Apartment proves to be one of Wilder's finest works in a career inundated with tremendous successes. Contrary to its reputation as one of the funniest films of its era, and its jovial sounding plot of a businessman (Lemmon) attempting to rise in the office by lending his apartment to superiors having extramarital trysts, The Apartment is no light watch, coming across as surprisingly dark and morose even when viewed in a contemporary context, let alone for its time. Tackling such heavy themes as suicide and existentialism in a surprisingly straightforward fashion for its time, Wilder works in some stellar instances of expressionist lighting to add to the frequently melancholy mood, as the viewer's heart leaps out to the genuinely sympathetic characters. But this heartbreaking drama only makes the perfectly honed laughs all the more necessary and effective, with Wilder and co-screenwriter I.A.L. Diamond's brilliant one-liners cutting through the tragic overtones with snappy wit and bristling punch (Wilder even gets a sly dig in at reportedly difficult former star Marilyn Monroe, and the closing line "Shut up and deal" has become a classic, paralleling its predecessor in Some Like it Hot). Far from being a simple comedy or drama, The Apartment blends the two seamlessly, in a bold emotional balancing act, truly showcasing the saving power of laughter. While in the midst of balancing the tragic and the comic, the film may occasionally lose its emotional poignancy, such is a small complaint in such a phenomenally impressive work. Jack Lemmon is pitch perfect for the role of constantly downtrodden but tenaciously upbeat everyman C.C. Baxter - his tremendously endearing charisma captures the viewer's heart as he chuckles through countless struggles, a cheery testament to perseverance through hard times. Shirley MacLaine gives a powerful and moving performance as Fran Kubelik, a woman struggling to make good in a one sided relationship, act outside the confines of her gender and make sense of the increasingly bleak world around her. MacLaine's offbeat charm makes her a perfectly sympathetic and endearing foil to Lemmon, with whom she shares superb chemistry. Fred MacMurray, playing savagely against type, is a scream as shamelessly self-serving corporate boss Sheldrake. MacMurray's snappy timing is put to uncommonly caustic, but just as effective use, stealing most of the scenes he appears in. Jack Kruschen and Naomi Stevens similarly raise many a laugh as Baxter's distrustful neighbours. Alternating between staggeringly funny and heart-wrenchingly downbeat, Wilder's masterful achievement easily justifies the countless accolades bestowed upon it. With a sharp script surprisingly daring for its time, and an enormously charismatic lead trio of actors, The Apartment makes its mark as easily one of the most moving, sporadically comical, and ultimately human films of its time.-9/10


                
I've admired The Apartment for a long time, and watching it again last night reinforced all the good feelings. Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine and Fred MacMurray all give wonderful performances, full of nuance and grace. Billy Wilder's direction flows effortlessly between sharp satire (e.g. the treatment of the four philandering managers) and touching human drama (e.g. the doctor repeatedly slapping Shirley MacLaine to bring her back from an overdose of sleeping pills). The writing is great.(It's interesting to watch The Apartment as a period piece. You have to factor out Billy Wilder's satirical exaggerations - the long rows of anonymous workers at their desks, etc - but you can still see things about working life in the 50's that would make us shudder today. For example, when Jack Lemmon admits that he looked up Shirley MacLaine's insurance information, there is only a tiniest hint of disapproval from her, instead of the outrage we would expect somebody to feel today at such a blatant invasion of privacy.)
THE APARTMENT is a romantic comedy which, at an explicit and fun way, shows two frustrated and lonely souls in a capitalist madness. Loneliness and love have resisted to a business greed and a loose moral. Mr. Wilder has filled delicious humor with a sentimental and melancholic tone.The main protagonist is a lonely office drudge at a national insurance corporation in a high-rise building in New York City. He allows four company managers, in order to climb the corporate ladder, to lend his apartment for their extramarital affairs. His neighbors assume that he is a playboy, who's bringing home different women every night. Soon, his personnel director becomes the fifth <U+0084>occupant" of the apartment. However, the director's mistress might be a problem...Some very sensitive topics, such as the exploitation of women as sexual objects or corporate power of men, have been masterfully handled through comical situations. Mr. Wilder had a clear goal. He has managed to make the audience laugh and at the same time he showed some of diseases of a capitalist society.A crazy sexy comedy on the border of good taste, through a festive mood, goes into a serious romantic drama. The protagonists become dark and dramatic in the second half of the film. A very good characterization comes to the fore. Romance is lost in satirical reviews on human ambition, viciousness and infidelity.Jack Lemmon as Calvin Clifford (C. C.) "Bud" Baxter is a proved comedian and dominant character. A character, who will discover, in the hard way, that love and advancement in a company are not closely related. His acting virtuosity is evident in almost every scene. Shirley MacLaine as Fran Kubelik is a big trouble. A woman who suffers from the syndrome of "a powerful man". They are like two sparks of flame which cannot light a candle. I think she does not love him, but, unlike the others, she understands him.Their support are Fred MacMurray (Jeff D. Sheldrake) as an evil boss and inconclusive lover, Jack Kruschen (Dr. Dreyfuss) as the voice of reason and Ray Walston, Willard Waterman, David Lewis and David White as horny wolves.These films are like a good wine, which has accidentally spilled from a barrel.


                
Billy Wilder is a really swell guy. He takes serious matter and makes it entertaining: Sunset Blvd. blew me away, and now The Apartment has put a big smile on my face. Wilder injects this uppity- atmosphere into almost every scene and it makes the film a pleasure to watch, no matter how serious the plot gets. And behind the charm of Lemmon's C.C. Baxter, there is a serious plot.The Apartment is about Baxter, a New York business cog, trying to move up in his company not through hard work, or extra socializing, or self- pitching, but by lending his apartment to his coworkers' extra-martial affairs. Being a 60's film, this cannot be said directly, but the hinting is so strong you pick up instantly. The film is quite liberal, content-wise. The film shows that blackmail goes both ways: Baxter may believe he has the upper hand, with his clients on a string... but he does not, and he sinks deeper into his lie. Of course it comes across humorously, with his neighbours scolding him for his 'sexpot' antics, though the good doctor would also like if his body could be donated to science.Baxter is quite a character, an innocent everyman with his own set of faults and quirks. Lemmon is magnetic: we always root for Lemmon, even as he tells pitiful lies to his landlady and can't stand up to his clients. Even his borderline creepy knowledge of Ms. Kubelik comes off as just charm. An immensely likable character.The object of his affection, Fran Kubelik, is also quite a charmer. Her problem is men, but she knows it. She doesn't fake innocence. We have all known that flirty girl who ends up on your nerves... but Fran isn't that girl. Wilder knows just how to handle his characters.Now, more than 50 years after its release, trying to look at The Apartment academically is strange, because its era has passed. Things like that don't happen any more. Right? Perhaps not as specifically, but the cost of power is a universal theme. What do you sacrifice to try and get ahead? Property, dignity, even your love? C.C. Baxter knows how much he'll give, but also what he won't. The film ends positively, which is nice, and deserving, especially after seeing Sunset Blvd. The Apartment is wonderful, sharply written and performed, and makes a great evening. 8.9/10


                
The Apartment is a classic comedy. It has a great cast, a funny story and is unique. I have seen many movies but none like this. This film manages to have dramatic moments and moments that will make you laugh out loud. you will not regret watching this comedy. After all it is on the greatest movies of all time list for a reason. This is a rare movie that has both extremely serious moments and moments that you cannot take seriously. Most movies that attempt this are terrible but this one makes it work. I would recommend this to fans of classic comedies or fans of Shirley maclaine, jack lemmon, and fred macmurray. Watch this film as soon as possible.


                
Over the years, I have heard that THE APARTMENT was a comedy, however I really saw nothing particularly funny about the film. Instead, it's a drama about human nature and its darker instincts. A good film, yes, but I really can't see this as a comedy.Jack Lemmon plays a guy who is determined to get ahead at the huge insurance company where he works. His plan is to ingratiate himself to the supervisors so they'll notice him and owe him a promotion. The problem is that to do this, he lowers himself to the level of a pimp, of sorts. You see, the bosses all want to have a secret place to take their mistresses. Often this means that Lemmon is stuck outside waiting for these "men" to finish up their sexual escapades instead of sleeping or otherwise enjoying his own little apartment. However, with his eyes on the prize, no matter how thoughtless these cads are, Lemmon is always obliging.Eventually, however, the big boss (Fred MacMurray) finds out and Lemmon is happy--maybe the shenanigans can stop and he can finally have his apartment back each night. However, MacMurray, too, wants in on the love shack and his fling involves a nice lady that Lemmon has admired for some time. However, being basically a coward and power-hungry, Lemmon says nothing and goes along with MacMurray's sleazy plan.Eventually, Lemmon gets the advancements he wanted but also has a hard time living with what he's become. His neighbor's words--"do you want to be a mensch (Yiddish for 'man' or 'person')" come to haunt him. Will he continue to do just about anything for a raise? Or, will he stand up, for once, and be a man? The movie has a lot going for it. In particular, Jack Lemmon's performance is exceptional as are the other performances. In a role that is rather against type, MacMurray plays a low down dog--a character even more unlikable than the one he played in DOUBLE INDEMNITY. Otherwise, excellent direction, a gritty and amazing script and some haunting music all contribute to make this an exceptional picture--though I do think it's a tiny bit overrated (given that it received so much notice at the Oscars). Still, you can't do wrong with this surprisingly adult drama from 1960--though younger kids won't enjoy it and the sexual innuendo is a reason not to let them watch it as well.


                
Jack Lemmon plays a nice guy sad sack and Shirley MacLaine the wayward waif with whom he's smitten in Billy Wilder's bittersweet romantic comedy that's long on the bitter and short on the sweet.Wilder nails the sterile world of corporate American anonymity in this film. Lemmon's character is a worker bee, whose work space is lost amid a sea of identical spaces, captured brilliantly by the art direction as a black and white version of a human ant hill. The only thing distinguishing Lemmon from the multitudes is his apartment, which the good ol' boy management staff like to use for their adulterous trysts, and which Lemmon himself never seems to need for the same purpose. He falls for elevator operator MacLaine, a brassy yet wistful cutie, who happens to be one of his boss's said trysts. Things get complicated as Lemmon has to decide which is more important to him: the moral high ground or climbing the corporate ladder.Lemmon essays a tricky role beautifully. I would have been instantly annoyed by this character had anyone else played him. It's hard to feel sorry for a doormat who can't say "no," but Lemmon makes it virtually impossible not to like his character. MacLaine, too, delivers one of the best performances of her career, a rather ballsy one in a way, as she makes her elevator operator unsympathetic through much of the movie. This pair of unconventional actors creates a refreshingly bleak romance, if there can be such a thing. The only thing that seems to be preventing both of these characters from getting completely lost in the crush of indifferent humanity is their tenuous connection to one another."The Apartment" is a perfect New Year's Eve film. It superbly taps into that feeling of being lonely while surrounded by people that only those who live in big cities can understand. Anyone who's commuted to work on a subway or bus will instantly recognize the feeling this movie conveys.Grade: A


                
I wish I had come into this movie not knowing what happens, because I have a feeling I would have enjoyed it even more. As it was, I still loved it.The idea on which this movie is based is so clever, it's hard to understand why they hadn't made it before. A young man named C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon) allows the executives of the company where he works to use his apartment for pleasure, usually with women other than their wives (figures). While this is going on, Baxter finds he is in love with a certain elevator girl at the company named Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine). I'm going to go ahead and stop there so I don't ruin anything for you. The plot is too creative to waste in a comment.It is hard to pinpoint exactly why The Apartment succeeds so well. Perhaps it is because the characters ring so true. This is the first movie I've seen Jack Lemmon in, and I have to say I like him a lot. He manages to be funny without breaking away from his character, something I admire in the actors of the Golden Age and something the actors of this age need to learn. There was not a moment in this movie when I felt like Bud wasn't doing what he felt was the right thing. In fact it seems to me like this movie is about Bud and Fran discovering what "the right thing" actually is. Fran is played by Shirley MacLaine in what could have been an over-the-top, whiny performance. MacLaine manages to turn Fran into a wonderfully sympathetic and strong-willed woman, despite the fact that she's stuck on the wrong guy. Fred MacMurray has a nice turn as a man who never quite understands the girl he brings to Baxter's apartment, and ends up selfishly pushing her over the edge.Of course, Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond have written such a witty and character-driven screenplay, it must've made the actors' jobs easy. This is more than just a comedy, and while at first glance it seems to be very simple, the more you think about it, the more you realize how much is really there.


                
A comedy is either an experience in very funny footage that makes you laugh out loud, and not that there is anything wrong with this first category, but a comedy can also be a more classically written, film-oriented experience. This is the latter. And it utterly excels at it, being in nature a comedy but displaying very fine attention to detail in crafting drama themes and preciously knitted principles, the chief one as the morality of the whole story being the old 'being a mensch' concept. This is a beautiful film. It's subtle, excellently crafted, the dialog is interesting and relevant to the plot, and the film-makers make sure they develop each scene's concept, and elements are laid out early in the film to come back later and give the film more depth and coherence. Acting is just excellent. Just an excellent comedy, with everything that entails.


                
The Apartment is a wonderful film that was nothing short from amazing. The acting done by Jack Lemmon was phenomenal and his facial expression reminded me of a 60's Kevin Spacey.The acting was very good, but the sounds that came from this movie where very well placed. The ending popping of the cork, knowing Lemmon's past from the movie had me on the edge of my seat. The story was witty and original that kept me laughing days after watching the movie. This is a must see for a black and white fan and will remain one of my favorites for a while. The only downside I thought was the very last scene. Although nit picky I thought they could have ended it stronger. I wasn't satisfied with her just telling him to deal the cards. I left a little disappointed in the ending, but it shouldn't hinder this wonderful film.
Billy Wilder is one of the most highly regarded directors of his generation and The Apartment is one of his most acclaimed films. The Apartment is a funny and dramatic, aimed with a script that is witty and tragic. Both Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine have great chemistry and give great performances, Lemmon giving a nervous energy to his character, a little like Woody Allen but much less self-obsessed whilst MacLaine has plenty of charm and wit, but also has tragedy about her. The comedy is gentle amidst the controversial material for the time, filled with witty lines, character interactions and subtle sight gags. We get plenty of melodrama and the characters go through typical arcs, but the screenplay is so well written and the direction and acting that it makes The Apartment a rewarding experience, even during its darkest moments.


                
This movie won 4 other Oscars-- including director and writer-- and a handful of nominations like nods to the 2 lead roles in Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine. Lemmon plays Mr. Baxter, a gullible schnook (his coworkers' words, not mine. Well... yeah, my words too) who can't say no to his superiors at the office. They borrow his key to the apartment, and they use it for their scandalous affairs; in return, Mr. Baxter keeps getting high recommendations which result in promotions. It's not exactly the lightest of fares, but a consistent script and an endlessly likable lead keep the comedic tone.
 The light-hearted tone mixed with egregious company behavior is seen in full swing on the elevators. Here, executives are quick to play off contact with the elevator girls that laugh it off; such is not the case with the respectable Mr. Baxter. He treats elevator girl Fran with care and shows genuine interest in her. It is indeed the makings of a rom-com, but the film actually gets quite melancholy. Mr. Baxter's boss Mr. Sheldrake finds out about the key, and it turns out he wants in on the action. Only, unbeknownst to Lemmon at the time, that action is supposed to be with Fran. There's an interaction that takes place halfway through the movie that, to me, shows the style of wit, character interaction, and overall mood of the film. Mr. Baxter is feeling down on his luck since it is New Year's Eve and everyone seems to be having the time of their life (including a coworker who has Baxter's apartment reserved for the night), and even though he is being promoted at a breakneck pace, he does not really have any companion to tell about-- now not even Fran. This leads him to a bar with quite an intoxicated woman whose husband is currently on the other side of the country. She tries striking up a conversation, asking about his family (he has none) and relationships (none). After his deadbeat attitude, she says, "Night like this, it sorta spooks you, walking into an empty apartment," to which Lemmon replies, "I said I had no family. I didn't say I had an empty apartment." It's not really laugh-out-loud kind of wit that we think of in today's sense, but it is just that clever twist in writing that tries to uplift a story that has its darker moments.
 This will not be the funniest comedy you see, but there are plenty of reasons to watch it. The story unfolds nicely, and I think the leads bring loads of charm to the screen. But really, the main quality brought about upon a viewing today is the level of nostalgia that comes along. The music is fitting but completely over the top, the dialogue is clever without pushing the envelope, the clothes and cars and elevators and lights all reek of 1960, and heck, it is a black and white film. There is inexplicably some joy of watching people have to twirl their fingers to dial each number to make a phone call, and I had the greatest time seeing the remote control Mr. Baxter had for his tv. 
For those of you that think old films are too slow-paced, unrelatable, too black and white, and simply not interesting, really take a look at this movie. The story is one of the most engaging, the characters are vibrant (and yes, a little old-timey), and you will ultimately leave the movie feeling better than before. I'm not really sure how stiff the competition was, but the Oscars for this film feel well-deserved. You hear about Casablanca and Citizen Kane and To Kill a Mockingbird and whatever else, but despite all the acclaim, you don't really hear about The Apartment. And I think that is a bit of a shame because this film should be right up there in being considered a classic.
You can find this review and dozens more at gillipediamoviereviews.blogspot.com


                
Director Billy Wilder and screenwriter I.A.L. Diamond were known to write witty dialogue and pertinent films that took a look at what was going on around them. Who could have foreseen that one of their movies would be as timely in today's world as it was when it was released over 50 years ago?THE APARTMENT stars Jack Lemmon as C.C. Baxter, an insurance office worker who's making his way to the top. While he definitely qualifies for his position it's not his abilities that are helping him step up. Instead it's the use of his apartment by various heads above him for their non-marital trysts. They take advantage of using the apartment with promises of moving him up in the insurance world.While this may involve giving up sleep when a sudden need arises Baxter has his eyes set on a top spot. He gets that opportunity when the head of human resources Mr. Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray) calls him into his office. At first fearful that Sheldrake is going to reprimand him for allowing his apartment to be used, he discovers that Sheldrake has a need to use it himself. He gives him a key and Baxter is suddenly in the office next door.Baxter has another item he's interested in as well. An elevator operator by the name of Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine) has caught his eye and he wants to take her out on a date. They make plans when Sheldrake gives him 2 tickets to a hit play. Unfortunately Fran can't make it. Unbeknownst to Baxter she is the woman Sheldrake has been seeing and is planning on taking to his apartment that night.With promises of leaving his wife Sheldrake keeps Fran on the hook until at the office Christmas party she learns that this is the norm for Sheldrake, leading a woman he's having an affair with on until he moves on to someone new. That night at Baxter's apartment he adds insult to injury giving Fran a $100 bill rather than a gift for Christmas and leaving her there.She takes the rebuff poorly and attempts suicide only to be found by Baxter and saved with the help of the doctor next door. Over the next few days Baxter and Fran talk things out and become close. But what will this mean for him? Is he willing to ignore the actions of Sheldrake in return for office success? Will he toss those dreams aside for a potential romance with Fran? And what about Fran, is she still holding out hope that things will change with Sheldrake?The movie combines melodrama, office politics, romance and humor in just the right dosages to make it an entertainment where one wouldn't expect to find it. There are no clear cut heroes or villains in the movie. Nearly everyone involved has some sort of self-interest involved in their motivations. The higher ups at the office appear to be sex starved louts who think nothing of their families and only about their libidos. Of the characters here only Baxter comes across as a decent guy who allows himself to be caught up in something he isn't fond of.The movie is a look back at the times, how things were going in the high level offices of the time. AMC's MAD MEN took a look at the same sort of behavior. What makes it interesting to view now is the social climate we're in with men like Harvey Weinstein being accused of sexual harassment. The actions of the characters involved in this film would have resulted in major upheavals at the insurance company had they taken place in today's world. That's what makes this movie even more interesting to view when put in perspective.The performances of all involved are near perfect. Lemmon was always the average ordinary guy, an actor that was skilled at playing roles like this. He was the guy that knew the good jokes in the neighborhood, who was friendly with all and well liked. MacLaine comes off as an innocent waif caught up in the idea of romance and love but who fails to consider who she's offered those emotions to. And MacMurray offers a completely different character to those who grew up with him as the father on MY THREE SONS or the nutty professor in THE ABSENT MINDED PROFESSOR. His slimy side shows here and little sympathy can be felt for his character.Wilder and Diamond made many films together and this was one that won them the Oscar for best picture. It stands the test of time even though the New York depicted isn't quite what we think of now. But the story remains solid and that makes it a film worth watching.Arrow Video is releasing this as part of their Arrow Academy collection. The quality of the picture is amazing to see. Many think that black and white movies aren't a) worthy of noting and b) can't tell that a restoration of a b&w film would make a difference. They are and it does. One of the nice extras included here shows the restoration process comparing images of before and after restoration. It makes a nice item to have on hand to explain it to those who don't understand the process.But there are more extras as well. Included are a commentary track by film historian Bruce Block, a short entitled "The Key to The Apartment" and a select scene commentary by writer/critic Philip Kemp, a video essay by David Cairns called "The Flawed Couple", "A Letter to Castro" is an interview with actress Hope Holiday who is in the film, a 23 minute conversation with Wilder done for the Writers Guild Foundation, the 2 minute long presentation on the restoration of the film mentioned earlier, a short entitled "Magic Time: The Art of Jack Lemmon", a documentary called "Inside The Apartment" and a booklet on the film.Readers may tire of me saying this but Arrow Video is proving to be a company to be trusted when it comes to the way they handle their releases. One can only hope they are allowed access to more great films like this one.
Many consider this movie to be one of the best of all times. I wouldn't go that far, but it certainly is evergreen classic. Billy Wilder well deserved all three Oscars he won, for best movie, best screenplay and best directing. Movie won five Oscars out of ten nominations. Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine will mesmerize you with combination of drama, comedy and romance. This is one beautiful movie that everyone should see.9/10


                
Great movie, this one. It shows one of those big American companies with lots of floors, each one a symbol of corporate success, with employees trying their best to please their employers, where women are employed only as secretaries, phone operators or elevator girls (because they can type, but can't spell) and their only true chance for success is to attract the attention of a man with money. There is even a scene with a really black man shining the shoes of a company director and thanking for a tossed coin.It is interesting to see how 50 years ago people were basically doing the same thing we do, only marginally less civilized. They had TV, obnoxious landlords, oven dinners (already packaged to be thrown in and prepared), electric blankets and computing machines. Of course, they needed a man to operate the machine and they all worked with paper, but still, no change there.The story itself is a romance between employees, and what I really enjoyed about the movie was that up until the end, things could have gone either way. Actually, I have a feeling the original story would have a different ending, one that would preclude the one in the movie, because then it would feel more real, add more meaning.Bottom line: great acting, great script, a very interesting look into a past that someone like me did never know except from movies, one that feels so frighteningly similar to the present, yet looks completely different. I recommend this to just about everybody.


                
I first saw this some 40 years ago as a raw teenager and I remember being impressed by it, only couldn't recall why. Bought the DVD some weeks ago and have now picked it up and watched it again and wished heartily that I never waited! Billy Wilder knew how to make a movie and this stellar cast knew how to act. The story is simple enough but it holds you until the final moment (good point about a 40 yr gap is that you forget the ending!)when you exhale. Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine are beyond any comments I could dare to make - they would be impertinent - and the rest of the cast supports ably, may I say brilliantly. The whole damn lot of them were so convincing. This is one of those movies you want to tell all your friends about.


                
I don't normally watch old movies, let alone black and white ones, but The Apartment was well worth watching.It tells the story of C.C. "Bud" Baxter, a struggling clerk in a New York insurance company which has A lot of employees. So to climb the corporate ladder, he decides to lend his apartment to his superiors as a place for them to take their "women on the side." Promised by his boss not to be forgotten when it comes to shifts in personnel, Bud allows his superiors to be entertaining their mistresses in his apartment, until he finds out that the mistress of the company's boss, and his recent flame, Fran, are the same person! Jack Lemmon, in the lead, is absolutely brilliant and wonderfully entertaining and sympathetic to watch, it was a shame when I decided to look him up and found out he died a few years back. He shines here and makes the movie the gem it is. The Apartment is really worth watching, so if you get the opportunity to, do so.


                
