I agree with "suavebloke", Hong Kong.  In my opinion, this is not a racist series.  I am enjoying the re-runs on Sky Satellite at the moment & it's a funny as ever.  The late Barry Evans is excellent in the role of the teacher.  I wonder what ever happened to the extremely attractive Francoise Pascal, who played the French student?


                
This show is the show that really defines British Humor. It is a show that is so clean, yet at the same time it has some crude jokes. The plot of this outrageous story stars Barry Evans. He plays the young English Teacher who teaches even more outrageous foreign students. There are many races in this comedy including, Indians, Chinese, German, Italian (my favorite), and French. There are more, and more races joined to this remarkable school. Like I said, this show defines British Humor, it is the show that every person should watch, own, and cherish.Buy the entire collection, I am sure it is available on Amazon. com


                
It confuses me to see that some folks see this show as being racist, I think they might have got the wrong end of the stick. The exact opposite is actually the case, whilst it played to the Brit mind set of stereotypes, it actually served a different purpose. This show in no small way eased the discomfiture common to all people when dealing with different and often strange cultures and customs. It breached the walls of fear through the expedient of comedy, it coerced an emotional response in viewers, because for the majority of viewers, the day to day reality of dealing with a large influx of new immigrants was the very real language barrier and the frustrations that this brought about. MYL, used this theme to illuminate problems and societal frustrations, by showing the efforts newcomers to the UK make to become accepted as "English", watching Sid teach Max and Giovanni cockney phrases is priceless; it underlines the entire theme of the show, that of striving for acceptance.The characters were all sympathetically styled as to engender endearment rather than distrust, it showed that all were equal and worthy of respect. Watch this show a few times, get to know the characters, and you will soon see the warmth and deep interpersonal attachments that develop regardless of race, creed, religion or colour.All of the characters in this show were on equal footing, Jeremy Brown as the teacher may come across as being superior, but his position in this regard was eminently challenged by all the characters and their individual sense of worth. From the aloofness of Taro, through the haughtiness of Danielle, who can say that these characters were demeaned or portrayed in a "racist" manner? In fact, their own national, political prejudices are brought out time and time again only to be set aside by the obvious familial love that is evident throughout the entire series. This show did more than make people laugh, it helped create an understanding and appreciation of those portrayed. It highlighted even the subtlest of racism amongst those that thought themselves non-racist and exposed it for what it is; which is rotten. The school inspector episode (series 1 #2) sets the matter very straight and confirms the underlying story theme that racism is a curse. To view the characters as being created for ridicule and to be the object of the joke, is to have watched this show with only one brain cell operating. The acting and the overall comedic timing were as good as any of the era or previous, and few comedies of the modern era capture the overall "zeitgeist" of their time as succinctly. One hopes that the current problems with releasing the remaining three episodes will soon be overcome, as they would be much appreciated by fans.This is a delightful and charm filled show, the characters are wonderful and truly likable. Every character is a larger than life stereotype, including all of the English roles. Miss Courtney, Sid (the cockney) and Jeremy Brown (the teacher), play their respective societal types in amplified form; they are stereotypes in the true sense. These elements perhaps over the top on their own, succeed in reaching across the class spread of British society. This combined with the warm performances of the cast in total, produces a show of eminent quality and one worthy of watching many times.


                
The most hilarious show ever,watch out for these characters 1.Ali Nadim-Pakistani 2.Juan Ceravantes-Spanish 3.Ranjeet Singh-Indian Sikh 4.Maximillian Papandrious-Greek 5.Giovanni Coupello-Italian If u ask me the show does not run without these characters and i have named them in the top 5 order Ali Nadim being no#1,u have 2 look out for him he's like the Michael Jordan of basketball,the Sachin Tendulkar of cricket,the Pele of football call him w/e he is the best.This show was considered to be racist.But,if you ask me i do not think so at all.As a matter of fact i think there can't be anything better than this.This show was made in the late 70's and early 80's.During that time it was mainly aired in England.People still find it very funny ,so you could possibly imagine how funny it would have been back then.


                
I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.


                
This is one of the best comedy serials i have ever seen. I happened to watch an episode "Queen for a day" in my cousin's house at Bangalore. I was determined to get this serial either in print or by download back in my town. I downloaded it on Torrentz and now I have all the episodes of the first three seasons with me. Anybody can relate to this serial very easily as each and every character comes from a different nation. I recommend that anybody feeling stress or pressure must immediately watch a single episode, as watching only one can make everybody laugh out loud and want to see the rest. Even though it belongs to a different time gap (1977- 1989), everybody will immensely like it and make it their daily pastime like me. Cheers.....


                
Santa Maria, Skuzy...etc etc... Giovani is my fav character from Mind your Language. Awesome series. Though it was run before I was born, I am in complete awe of this serial since I saw it on Z cafe this year. Too good mann !!! Everyone from Oh Bliemy, Thousand Apologies, German Mau, Santa Maria, Vorfa vor and many more were too good. The serial is evergreen as it still makes you laugh continuously... I rate it as one of my all time favs...:-) I wish i get the DVD of the complete series somewhere so that I can keep it as a personal collection for me. Best scene: Very difficult to judge as i like all the scenes in it. Mr Brown: I have been shown the bullets by Miss Courteny (on being fired) Giovani: Santa Maria, she tried to shoot you :):):)


                
I was 10, sitting with my dad in pain with laughter as we watched this potent classic piece of British TV craftsmanship. i remember missing parts of the next scene because of the uncontrolled bouts of pain every character dished out to me and my dad. Not racist, not, "politically incorrect" but absolute purist, honest humour, a televisual feast the likes of which will probably never be aired again even though we live in a nation where our diverse culture could be humbled with some good honest lessons from 1977. Mind your language is a lesson of unity for us all. Please keep our simple pieces of TV heritage as pure as the writers intended. Classic.
i feel this series has an age of 70s and 80 s they tried to remake something like this in India too for an Hindi version it was awful distastethis show is a all time legend.pity some of these characters are doing small role jobs but these characters have a charm for this serial if ask me to try out any characters who could replace them then the producer would have any egg in his hands .great show great cast a showthat will live forever.i wish i would live back in the 70s but i can only wish


                
Actually, this show is way beyond (In Max's words) "Ho-kay".Full of colorful characters, this show very cleverly portrays their struggles in trying to get some semblance of a grip on English language. Each episode made for an eventful and enjoyable 30 minutes of my life. I can relate very much to this show myself, being a Pakistani and learning English in primary school as my second language. I am sure other "foreign" people can too.Some of my favorite dialogues:Max: (About Cricket) When he's out, he's not really out, he's in. And when he's in, he's not really in, he's out.(Brown finishes explaining what "Sold a Dummy" and "Sold a Pup" means) Giovanni: I get it, but its just one-a thing I don't-a get. Do he buy the "dummy" before or after he buy the "pup"?Ali: Squeeze me please lady.Brown: We can't talk about sex right now! There's a time and place for everything. Danielle: You just give me the time and the place and I shall be there.Needless to say, a throughly enjoyable show.


                
This is not one of the best tv shows. This is the BEST tv show of all time ever. #1 <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0098><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0098><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0098>


                
When I watched "Married with children" I laughed at heart; When I watched "3rd from the sun" I laughed again madly; Also when I watched "Alo, alo". But when I was watching this movie, I would have fainted. Sweet aliens, whose ignorance of language led to the most incredible comic situations, will remain forever unforgettable to me, and the movie I will look at many more times. A wonderful and exclusive comedy.
I have just discovered this and it is total fun. Whatever happened in Europe at that time (I had just been born when this was aired) , it is nicely wrapped up and played down in that classroom. For me, being an English teacher in 2015 myself, it is nice to discover that the wars in the classrooms have not really changed since then. Everything is about sex, religion and politics, not about talking to each other... A good follow-up to Monty Python's Flying Circus! I was just told I should add more lines to this text. OK. Subversive ideas: the headmaster is a woman who would preferably hire another woman. Gender ideas reversed from the beginning. Colonial history is reversed as Ali, the student, proves smarter than the teacher. Summing up, this was shot in 1977 way ahead of its time.
I watched this comedy back in the early eighties when it was still fresh. I have to say that it made me laugh then and it makes me laugh even more now. There is a certain innocence about the way this show looks at cultural collisions, and there is by no means anything malicious about the way it portrays students of English in light of their own native cultures.The excellent humour of this show emphasises what a different place today's world is. The cultural differences have been levelled by our global culture and, above all, the proliferation of the Internet and social media as well as smartphone technology. At the same time, we have entered into a new much more insidious era in which the differences between cultures are not sources of laughter but rather reasons for hate. The current sociocultural atmosphere is so supercharged with suspicion and animosity that it is hard to say how a rerun of this show would go down. Would present-day viewers even understand the humour with the absence of the omnipresent smartphone in every student's hand? Back then, it was all about the society in which we lived and contributing to that; today it's about me and my constant stream of social media feed. Nevertheless, 'Mind Your Language' will always bring tears of laughter to my eyes. It is simply a timeless gem that I highly recommend for everyone to watch, irrespective of culture, creed or ethnicity.


                
It is best English comedy series ever made. Any county people can watch it as it is diverse,I wish these characters remains intact till date.Download it from Torrent or watch it on you tube. Its a worth watching series. you may improve your English as well.All the characters are super funny especially that Spanish character. Professor is too cool & french girl as well. I loved that episode where everybody goes to party at Max place.I also liked that episode where Queen Elizabeth was supposed to arrive. Few jokes made my stomachache. I was dying of laugh. Sikh person, Pakistani & Japanese characters are also add on


                
I Started Seen When I Was 10-15 Years Old With My Elder Borthers. The Best Comedy London Weeken (Color Production England TV Show's Mr.Jeremy Brown(Barry Evans)The Good And HelpFull Class Teacher, Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek)Skuzi Me Please...And Jolly Good,Ricardo Montez(Juan Cervantes) Por Favore...., Robert Lee(Taro Nagazumi)Asso..,Jamila Massey(Jamila Ranjha) Hai Ji..., Albert Moses(Ranjeet Singh)Thousand Aopolgies...,Françoise Pascal (Danielle Favre)Seducing Teacher,Kevork Malikyan{Maximillian Papandrious)Ho-K,Pik Sen Lim(Chung Su-Lee)Start Every Word Using L As An Prefix,Jacki Harding(Anna Schmidt)Start Every Word Using V As An Prefix.George Camiller(Giovanni Capello)Santa Maria And Professori Si... And Many Other Character's Accents Came Along In New "Mind Your Language" Show I Loven All.But I Just Names Above Were The Besties Milestone To Start Given This Shows Out-Stansing Laughing Rates In History Forever


                
