I used to watch this as a 10 year old kid. Not even knowing what rasism was I thought this was the greatest show ever. I guess I could relate to the characters trying to learn something new. They were almost like children in that classroom which made it really easy for someone of my age to find it ammusing. It's a shame that in these times of politcal correctness that it'll never be shown on Australian TV again. I don't even think its on pay TV. I doubt it. So heres to one of the best TV shows of its time. A laugh a minute. Nothing more. Nothing less.


                
This may not be in the league of Monty Python or some other classic British TV series out there but it definitely has it's own cult following. I noticed one reviewer here mentioning of the shows popularity in India and that's really true. My friends from India, who had watched this back in the 80's, still claim it to be amongst the best TV shows ever. Some of them went so far as taping them all (to save it for some good laughs on a rainy day, I guess!).If you are looking for some profound depth here then don't even bother with this. But if you think the mixing of folks from different cultures, in a British classroom, can be funny then you won't be disappointed. It's good, harmless humor, a little dated perhaps, but in situations that people may encounter in a foreign land due to language barriers mainly. Some bits may be exaggerated but is mostly hilarious and does not use any of the plots or characters as a pretext to demean any culture or race!!!Wish it were available on DVD in the States!


                
I agree with "suavebloke", Hong Kong.  In my opinion, this is not a racist series.  I am enjoying the re-runs on Sky Satellite at the moment & it's a funny as ever.  The late Barry Evans is excellent in the role of the teacher.  I wonder what ever happened to the extremely attractive Francoise Pascal, who played the French student?


                
Mind Your Language might not have been smart comedy, but it was good comedy <U+0096> with the misunderstandings stemming from a valid observation of differing cultures. The idea was not dissimilar from other sitcoms of this time such as Robin's Nest: a small matter, concealed, becomes a major matter after 15 minutes. Throw in the xenophobia of Britain after it joined the EEC and what we had was a very fine comedy about the country's relationship with her former colonies and the new Johnny Foreigners across the channel.If anything, the students got the last laugh <U+0096> if it had not been the narrow-mindedness of characters such as stiff-upper-lip principal Miss Courtenay, or teacher Jeremy Brown finding himself out of his depth, then the joke wouldn't be on them.It's a pity the political correctness brigade will probably prevent this show from being rerun. As a "minority", I never found the portrayal of my race offensive on this show when it aired in New Zealand. To the PC thugs, I say this: we minorities are OK without your defending us. The real insult is that you don't believe we are up to it.


                
This show is the show that really defines British Humor. It is a show that is so clean, yet at the same time it has some crude jokes. The plot of this outrageous story stars Barry Evans. He plays the young English Teacher who teaches even more outrageous foreign students. There are many races in this comedy including, Indians, Chinese, German, Italian (my favorite), and French. There are more, and more races joined to this remarkable school. Like I said, this show defines British Humor, it is the show that every person should watch, own, and cherish.Buy the entire collection, I am sure it is available on Amazon. com


                
Mind Your Language is the sort of programme that could never be made now, in these days of political overcorrectness. Barry Evans is terrific as the teacher, and every one of the ridiculously stereotyped students are hilarious. My personal favourite is Dino Shafeek as Ali. A lot of people would see this show as racist, but I would argue that it is not. All of the satire is done good-naturedly, and almost every student is played by an actor from the country being mocked, which they would not have done if they thought it was offensive. The English characters are not spared being reduced to stereotypes either, and the programme really showed the nasty side some of us Brits have when dealing with people who don't speak very good English. This was an amazing programme, the likes of which will never be seen again. Few, if any of the jokes miss the mark, and just the spectacle of the class is outrageous enough to provoke a giggle.


                
Never a dull moment. The international students are hilarious in the way they express themselves in English! I am not a native English speaker, so I can identify with some of their difficulties.Some racist jokes occasionally, but besides being funny, they make one realise how hostile a few English-speakers can be toward foreigners who are trying hard to master the language.


                
I use to watch this programme as a kid, it was hilarious.  I'll never forget the catchy tune music too.  I wish they'd repeat again here in New Zealand. But knowing my luck, the political correctness of TV these days won't show it.  Even though they show some vile programmes full of nakedness and profanity, it's hypocritical.


                
It confuses me to see that some folks see this show as being racist, I think they might have got the wrong end of the stick. The exact opposite is actually the case, whilst it played to the Brit mind set of stereotypes, it actually served a different purpose. This show in no small way eased the discomfiture common to all people when dealing with different and often strange cultures and customs. It breached the walls of fear through the expedient of comedy, it coerced an emotional response in viewers, because for the majority of viewers, the day to day reality of dealing with a large influx of new immigrants was the very real language barrier and the frustrations that this brought about. MYL, used this theme to illuminate problems and societal frustrations, by showing the efforts newcomers to the UK make to become accepted as "English", watching Sid teach Max and Giovanni cockney phrases is priceless; it underlines the entire theme of the show, that of striving for acceptance.The characters were all sympathetically styled as to engender endearment rather than distrust, it showed that all were equal and worthy of respect. Watch this show a few times, get to know the characters, and you will soon see the warmth and deep interpersonal attachments that develop regardless of race, creed, religion or colour.All of the characters in this show were on equal footing, Jeremy Brown as the teacher may come across as being superior, but his position in this regard was eminently challenged by all the characters and their individual sense of worth. From the aloofness of Taro, through the haughtiness of Danielle, who can say that these characters were demeaned or portrayed in a "racist" manner? In fact, their own national, political prejudices are brought out time and time again only to be set aside by the obvious familial love that is evident throughout the entire series. This show did more than make people laugh, it helped create an understanding and appreciation of those portrayed. It highlighted even the subtlest of racism amongst those that thought themselves non-racist and exposed it for what it is; which is rotten. The school inspector episode (series 1 #2) sets the matter very straight and confirms the underlying story theme that racism is a curse. To view the characters as being created for ridicule and to be the object of the joke, is to have watched this show with only one brain cell operating. The acting and the overall comedic timing were as good as any of the era or previous, and few comedies of the modern era capture the overall "zeitgeist" of their time as succinctly. One hopes that the current problems with releasing the remaining three episodes will soon be overcome, as they would be much appreciated by fans.This is a delightful and charm filled show, the characters are wonderful and truly likable. Every character is a larger than life stereotype, including all of the English roles. Miss Courtney, Sid (the cockney) and Jeremy Brown (the teacher), play their respective societal types in amplified form; they are stereotypes in the true sense. These elements perhaps over the top on their own, succeed in reaching across the class spread of British society. This combined with the warm performances of the cast in total, produces a show of eminent quality and one worthy of watching many times.


                
This has to be the best comedy ever created on earth. It features everything descriptive of the world. Of the people that make it, of their relations with each other, and of their diversity, with English as their main component for unity. I remember having good laughs with this series when it was re-run on Malaysia's RTM Channel 2 for the umpteenth time between 1993-1994. It was also the programme that made me love the English language even more. No other comedy seem to catch the wit this one had.


                
"Mind Your Lanuage" is the best British comedy I've ever seen!!  I never miss a series which is on Sky.  Although when everyone was in their national costumes, Japanese one didn't look like it at all!! :-) Well, obviously all the nationalities are especially stereotyped, but it is really funny, and the mistakes, the attitudes, the events, everything is absolutely hilarious!!  It's a shame that they don't have it in UK at the moment.


                
The most hilarious show ever,watch out for these characters 1.Ali Nadim-Pakistani 2.Juan Ceravantes-Spanish 3.Ranjeet Singh-Indian Sikh 4.Maximillian Papandrious-Greek 5.Giovanni Coupello-Italian If u ask me the show does not run without these characters and i have named them in the top 5 order Ali Nadim being no#1,u have 2 look out for him he's like the Michael Jordan of basketball,the Sachin Tendulkar of cricket,the Pele of football call him w/e he is the best.This show was considered to be racist.But,if you ask me i do not think so at all.As a matter of fact i think there can't be anything better than this.This show was made in the late 70's and early 80's.During that time it was mainly aired in England.People still find it very funny ,so you could possibly imagine how funny it would have been back then.


                
Vince Powell came up with the idea for this L.W.T. sitcom after his au pair innocently asked him one day if he had received any 'French letters' for her. She was of course referring to mail, but to an English comedy scriptwriter the double meaning was unmistakable.'Mind Your Language' was set in an adult education centre where foreign students struggle to master the complexities of the English language. They include a sexy French girl, a Spaniard fond of saying 'Por favore?' a lot, a Mao-quoting Chinese woman, a hot-blooded Italian, a surly German woman, a fast-talking Greek, a head-waggling Indian lady, and a Chinaman who gets to his feet and takes a bow whenever asked a question. Later additions were a Swedish sex-bomb and a confused Hungarian.Presiding over this microcosm of international relations was well-meaning but naive English teacher Jeremy Brown, played by the late Barry Evans. The show provided a welcome return for the popular actor, who had been off British television screens since 'Doctor At Large' in 1971.Also around were Mary Whitehouse lookalike Zara Nutley as the fearsome principal 'Miss Courtney', Tommy Godfrey ( 'Arthur' in Powell's 'Love Thy Neighbour' ) as 'Sid' the caretaker, and Iris Sadler as tea lady 'Gladys'. 'Mind Your Language' is often cited as an example of 'racist' '70's British comedy. I personally think it is no more offensive than those American movies that depict the British either as plummy-voiced toffs or chirpy Cockney sparrows. The main source of ridicule in this show is the English language itself.Yes, the students were stereotypes, but British comedy has always been full of them - check out 'Fawlty Towers' for yet more 'funny foreigners'. Manuel could easily have been one of Jeremy Brown's students. Besides, the English characters were also stereotypes. The students themselves came across as altogether likable. This was never intended to be serious social commentary. My main bugbear is that the characters never developed from one episode to the next; it would have been nice to have seen say, the students gradually mastering English, coming to understand each other's customs, maybe even getting married ( Danielle and Giovanni would have made a nice couple ). Michael Grade axed the show despite its popularity, yet in 1986 it returned as an independent production, courtesy of one of its stars - Albert Moses. If he - an Asian actor - did not find the show offensive, why on Earth should anyone else?Superbly parodied by L.W.T.'s 'End Of Part One' as 'Mind Your Foreigners'.
I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic.


                
I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.I saw this comedy in sri lanka around 1991 actually it was one of the best i have seen nearly 16 years later i still find it funny. but what i can't understand is why it is considered racist. As a sri lankan if i don't find it racist i have no clue why others find it racist.


                
I first became a fan of this great show at the age of 13 , in the 1990s when it was being repeated on the Granada Plus Cable TV Channel. My Mum and Grandma had been huge fans in the 70s when it was originally aired.The humour may be simple at times but that is part of it's charm. Jokes such as Juan, the Spanish character getting the words Fete and Feet confused are just easy for anyone to laugh at. I hate it when you miss five minutes of a comedy show because you're having to get someone to explain a joke to you that you didn't understand. That NEVER happens with this programme and although the characters are kind of stereotypical(Including the English ones), they're not racist and there really are people out there who conform to stereotyping. Everybody knows someone who conforms to a stereotype. Besides, some of the characters go against stereotyping. For example, Ali (PAkistani) and Jamila (Indian) get on really well. Ali has even stuck up for JAmila when she was being pestered by a man in one episode. ALi, instead, reserves his hatred for Ranjeet, a Punjabi, for religious reasons; Ali is Muslim and Ranjeet is a Sikh.MIND YOUR LANGUAGE is basically just good, clean fun. It's not meant to be clever, it's not meant to have some big political message. It's just meant to make people laugh and it does.
I first watched this show as a kid in the late '80s and laughed my head off. I watched it on DVD again today - 2 decades later, and it's as funny as I recalled it.I remember all the actors' lines, and wonder what they're up to. I know Barry Evans was found dead in 1997. The rest? So what if the show's about national stereotypes? I find that in almost every country, MYL was hugely popular. People can laugh at themselves.A word on the theme music - unforgettable, and an instant way recollect the show. Some amazing lines: 'You not want second Hungarian mojik?' 'Minks are bred for differ' 'I have lost my rittle led book' 'I cannot mally Ali' 'I want the plenty money job'LOL!


                
This show is one of the greatest comedies ever produced. I knew it when it was shown in the late 1980s in Saudi Arabia where I lived with my family when I was a kid. It was popular there with English speaking viewers of all ages and backgrounds. We always wished there would be an Arab there amongst the students to make the fun even more relevant to us. We never found it racists or thought it would be racist if an Arab character was involved. I am glad the "political correctness" bunch were not able to ban the DVDs from the shelves of London mega-stores, where I was lucky enough to find my supply from the hilarious show.Caring for the minorities and their rights is nice and a very well appreciated value of all civilized societies. Yet, sometimes, when you add too much salt to a stew, you would end up eating out for dinner.


                
my family used to be in Nigeria in the 70s and they got the tapes from there when they came back. i cannot comprehend why this sitcom is seen as racist in the country that it was made in...its just a celebration of how different we all are....the juxtaposition of the various ethnicities against the same backdrop is sure to intrigue the sociologist and the layman alike....i guess its just because i am an Indian and we are a country of diverse ethnicities ourselves and we are tolerant (barring those few who are intolerant due to political reasons). we have leaned to laugh at ourselves....high time the world does it...and while its at it...y not send me cds of the serial?avinash


                
Powell is often castigated for racism - but his sitcoms employed ethnic minority actors in an age where there were not many genuine ethnic minority representations on screen. Powell himself cites his sitcoms as dramatised working-mens' club jokes, was friends with black performer Kenny Lynch and facilitated the careers of many black actors - despite the admittedly questionable scenarios they enacted. The so-called 'politically correct brigade' was a complete bluff. 'The Young Ones' and 'Blackadder' contained no black actors whatever, despite their creators being lauded as in some way morally superior to Powell and (the more well-intentioned artistically) Johnny Speight. In fact one could well cite examples of remnant racist, public-school humour in 'Not the Nine o'clock News' and 'Who Dares Wins' - alleged vehicles for 'alternative' comedy. One could go further and argue that writers such as Powell and of Powell's generation remained proletarian in their outlook. The 'alternative' vanguard, spearheaded by Richard Curtis, Ben Elton et al in the 1980s have gone on to exemplify the capitalist commercial media spirit Thatcherism encouraged - the attacks on Thatcher, ironically, being the very meat and drink of the act they peddled in the 1980s.Further still, Ben Elton created a play based around the hits of the band 'Queen', a pop band who defied taste and decency - never mind perceived 'political correctness' - to play the rich-white-exclusive 'Sun City' resort in South Africa in the 1980s. Powell has had no such links with racist tyranny. He is the victim of a virulent snobbery that cannot tolerate his non-Oxbridge writing credentials.


                
About half way through the first series, I thought this was one of the funniest TV shows ever. I didn't even mind that there was virtually no continuity and that a group of people who can barely speak English constantly use British slang. It was funny and had good stories. About half way through the second series, I was getting disappointed. The writing got dramatically worse in the second series. They were clearly out of funny ideas so all but one episode had them going outside(something that never happened in the first series). They also added two completely unnecessary characters. Another hot girl to create friction(ugh) and a guy who never learns any English at all. The writers quickly realized they were terrible characters and rarely gave them any lines. About half way through the third series, I couldn't take it any more and had to stop watching. The new characters just disappeared. They eventually explain that the man went back to his country but the female's disappearance is completely ignored. By this point the stories had become painfully unfunny and the show was a chore to watch. Watch the first season and act like that's all there was. Trust me.


                
This is one of the best comedy serials i have ever seen. I happened to watch an episode "Queen for a day" in my cousin's house at Bangalore. I was determined to get this serial either in print or by download back in my town. I downloaded it on Torrentz and now I have all the episodes of the first three seasons with me. Anybody can relate to this serial very easily as each and every character comes from a different nation. I recommend that anybody feeling stress or pressure must immediately watch a single episode, as watching only one can make everybody laugh out loud and want to see the rest. Even though it belongs to a different time gap (1977- 1989), everybody will immensely like it and make it their daily pastime like me. Cheers.....


                
I've just seen the whole series available on DVD and I'm really surprise that: 1. I haven't heard about this series before 2. anyone could find this racist or politically incorrect 3. British don't seem to find it funny 4. it was canceled so quicklyI simply loved the series - all the characters are sympathetic (even the principal played by Zara Nutley), the writing was great, dialogs funny and the whole show very entertaining.Perhaps some people only see stereotypes in the characters, but I think they were all presented in good light and the differences between them created space for the humour. Pity they didn't have chance to continue the series...


                
An absolutely terrific comedy show.There's nothing much to say really,A bunch of foreigners come to england and they try to learn English.But they don't seem to fully learn the language because they're like a bunch of kids.A really nice comedy show with nothing offensive and nothing that leaves a burden on your mind.Absolutely recommended for people who like some comedy after they're tired of work or studies.The main tragedy is that most of the people don't even know this show because of two main reasons.first off,its an old show.Second,Its not shown on TV now a days because people think its offensive(as it includes people from all around the globe),for diplomatic reasons one may say..Nice show though..
Santa Maria, Skuzy...etc etc... Giovani is my fav character from Mind your Language. Awesome series. Though it was run before I was born, I am in complete awe of this serial since I saw it on Z cafe this year. Too good mann !!! Everyone from Oh Bliemy, Thousand Apologies, German Mau, Santa Maria, Vorfa vor and many more were too good. The serial is evergreen as it still makes you laugh continuously... I rate it as one of my all time favs...:-) I wish i get the DVD of the complete series somewhere so that I can keep it as a personal collection for me. Best scene: Very difficult to judge as i like all the scenes in it. Mr Brown: I have been shown the bullets by Miss Courteny (on being fired) Giovani: Santa Maria, she tried to shoot you :):):)


                
