Vince Powell came up with the idea for this L.W.T. sitcom after his au pair innocently asked him one day if he had received any 'French letters' for her. She was of course referring to mail, but to an English comedy scriptwriter the double meaning was unmistakable.'Mind Your Language' was set in an adult education centre where foreign students struggle to master the complexities of the English language. They include a sexy French girl, a Spaniard fond of saying 'Por favore?' a lot, a Mao-quoting Chinese woman, a hot-blooded Italian, a surly German woman, a fast-talking Greek, a head-waggling Indian lady, and a Chinaman who gets to his feet and takes a bow whenever asked a question. Later additions were a Swedish sex-bomb and a confused Hungarian.Presiding over this microcosm of international relations was well-meaning but naive English teacher Jeremy Brown, played by the late Barry Evans. The show provided a welcome return for the popular actor, who had been off British television screens since 'Doctor At Large' in 1971.Also around were Mary Whitehouse lookalike Zara Nutley as the fearsome principal 'Miss Courtney', Tommy Godfrey ( 'Arthur' in Powell's 'Love Thy Neighbour' ) as 'Sid' the caretaker, and Iris Sadler as tea lady 'Gladys'. 'Mind Your Language' is often cited as an example of 'racist' '70's British comedy. I personally think it is no more offensive than those American movies that depict the British either as plummy-voiced toffs or chirpy Cockney sparrows. The main source of ridicule in this show is the English language itself.Yes, the students were stereotypes, but British comedy has always been full of them - check out 'Fawlty Towers' for yet more 'funny foreigners'. Manuel could easily have been one of Jeremy Brown's students. Besides, the English characters were also stereotypes. The students themselves came across as altogether likable. This was never intended to be serious social commentary. My main bugbear is that the characters never developed from one episode to the next; it would have been nice to have seen say, the students gradually mastering English, coming to understand each other's customs, maybe even getting married ( Danielle and Giovanni would have made a nice couple ). Michael Grade axed the show despite its popularity, yet in 1986 it returned as an independent production, courtesy of one of its stars - Albert Moses. If he - an Asian actor - did not find the show offensive, why on Earth should anyone else?Superbly parodied by L.W.T.'s 'End Of Part One' as 'Mind Your Foreigners'.
A treat to watch. No matter how old it gets, the amazing comedy is capable to make you laugh and laugh until it hurts.It is a shame that such humor is not allowed on TV anymore. I have met a lot of people who enjoyed watching this hilarious series and not a single person found this series to be racist or an offender to anyone.It is even more enjoyable for people living outside UK, enjoying all these stereotype humor. The characters such as Ali Nadeem and Giovanni Capello are awesome. With such solid characters and so much spontaneous comedy, this series deserved a lot more recognition and admiration.In short, a worth-watching show.


                
'Mind Your Language' was yet another offering from sitcom veteran Vince Powell. This LWT sitcom from 1977 featured Barry Evans, fresh from 'Doctor At Large', as Jeremy Brown, an English teacher who tries to teach foreign students the English language. Predictably, much of the humour arises from the students' inability to master the language and, unfortunately, this had led to the show being branded as racist.Jeremy Brown is English teacher at an adult education centre where a motley group of foreign students - hot blooded Italian Giovanni Capello, grumpy German au-pair Anna Schmidt, constantly laughing Spaniard Juan Cervantes, French beauty Danielle Favre, bad tempered Sikh Ranjeet Singh, inept Pakistani Ali Nadim, smarmy Greek Maximillian Papandrious, Japanese electronics executive Taro Nagazumi, Chairman Mao quoting Chung Su-Lee and head bobbing Indian Jameela Ranjhat - all attend to master the ways of the English language. Their first day at the class is a nightmare. For instance, Ali greets Brown with: ''Squeeze me please, I am hoping to be unrolled!''. What of course he really means is: ''Excuse me please, I am hoping to be enrolled!''. Corny I know but then what more do you expect from a Vince Powell show.Later episodes saw the appearance of sexy Swede Ingrid Svenson and dim-witted Hungarian Zoltán Szabó. Other characters included starchy headmistress Ms. Courtney ( played by Zara Nutley ) who makes no effort to hide her dislike for Brown, Tommy Godfrey's caretaker Sid and Iris Sadler's tea lady Gladys.Gradually, the students became close friends with one another and also Ms. Courtney grew less contemptuous of Mr. Brown. Even Ali and Ranjeet stopped hating one another.Despite its huge popularity, Michael Grade pulled it from the airwaves after its third season. It was revived in 1986 as an independent production but it did not take off in the same way. Since then it has been virtually forgotten. Was it really so offensive? Far from it, if anything the English language itself came in for more of a bashing and overall it was pretty harmless stuff. While not riveting comedy, it certainly deserves a far better status than the one it sadly enjoys today.
