I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic. I have lived all my life without there being a single day where I don't think about those episodes. Mr. Brown(Barry Evans) was really superb. Very sad to say that he is no more today. I wish I could have met him. Same goes with Ali Nadeem(Dino Shafeek) who was very funny too.Too bad that he also is not alive anymore.My best episode has always been KILL OR CURE, where the students pay a visit to the "Flu" struck MR. Brown.I also like the one when they go on a picnic.


                
I've just seen the whole series available on DVD and I'm really surprise that: 1. I haven't heard about this series before 2. anyone could find this racist or politically incorrect 3. British don't seem to find it funny 4. it was canceled so quicklyI simply loved the series - all the characters are sympathetic (even the principal played by Zara Nutley), the writing was great, dialogs funny and the whole show very entertaining.Perhaps some people only see stereotypes in the characters, but I think they were all presented in good light and the differences between them created space for the humour. Pity they didn't have chance to continue the series...


                
An absolutely terrific comedy show.There's nothing much to say really,A bunch of foreigners come to england and they try to learn English.But they don't seem to fully learn the language because they're like a bunch of kids.A really nice comedy show with nothing offensive and nothing that leaves a burden on your mind.Absolutely recommended for people who like some comedy after they're tired of work or studies.The main tragedy is that most of the people don't even know this show because of two main reasons.first off,its an old show.Second,Its not shown on TV now a days because people think its offensive(as it includes people from all around the globe),for diplomatic reasons one may say..Nice show though..
Created and written by Vince Powell, 'Mind Your Language' was a very funny sitcom that ran on I.T.V. for three years ( 1977 - 79 ), with a brief revival in 1986. It starred the late Barry Evans ( a struck- off 'Doctor At Large' ) as 'Jeremy Brown ), a naive but well-meaning teacher presiding over a class of foreign students struggling to master the complexities of the English language. The show was popular enough to warrant a comic-strip in the children's publication 'Look-In'. The students were stereotypes, of course, but in a sitcom, that is perfectly acceptable. The much-praised 'Fawlty Towers' features a Spansh waiter ( 'Manuel' ) who is not much different to the characters in this show. Zara Nutley played 'Miss Dolores Courtney', the fearsome Principal, with Tommy Godfrey as caretaker 'Sid'. Powell has often been castigated for racism, not just in this but also in his other work, most notoriously 'Love Thy Neighbour'. What tends to be forgotten is that his shows cast black actors in key roles at a time when not many were visible on the small screen. He had no pretensions about his writing; he regarded his scripts as dramatised workingmen's club jokes and nothing more. He was friends with black entertainer Kenny Lynch and assisted the careers of many black actors, such as Rudolph Walker. The 'P.C. Brigade' is, unfortunately, a complete bluff; no black actors appeared in 'The Young Ones' and 'Blackadder', despite their creators being lauded as morally superior to the likes of Powell and Johnny Speight. Racist, sexist humour crept occasionally into alternative comedies such as 'Not The Nine O'Clock News' and 'Who Dares Wins'. Powell's political views remained consistent throughout his career. Richard Curtis and Ben Elton both embraced the Thatcherite spirit they once railed against. The latter wrote the book for a stage musical about Queen, the same band that played South Africa's Sun City at the height of the apartheid regime in the 1980's. Powell has no links with racist tyranny. He is the victim of virulent snobbery that is intolerant of those with non-Oxbridge writing credentials.'Mind Your Language' was axed by Michael Grade despite its popularity, but was revived a few years as an independent production set up by one of its stars, Albert Moses. If an an Asian actor was not offended by the show, why should anyone else be?
As a Chinese, I want to say we were more or less like Suli at that time. I enjoy the show very much. Love every character, esp Mr. Brown.It's a pity Barry played too few shows. Sometimes I cannot help wondering if he had had a normal family, would everything be different for him?


                
While primarily somewhat simplistic situational comedy occasionally verging on slapstick or farce, Vince Powell's "Mind Your Language" should not be condemned lightly even by today's at times over-pedantic standards, let alone those at the time it was made (which is to say 1977-79). Surely, stereotypical presentations are present here, and certainly some individual jokes do even verge upon the sexist or even racist, but MYL was made primarily to demonstrate how different races, peoples and cultures could face a common challenge (the universally familiar one of learning a new language), and could overcome differences and cooperate harmoniously together in doing so. And the series carries that noble banner before it with quite tangible pride, no matter what.In the above context, the stereotypes certainly present delight vastly more often than they shock or appall (which they rarely in fact do), while the overwhelming impression is one of a group of very nice people. A teacher-pupil scenario inevitably puts even the adult learner in a childlike circumstance, and here even slightly edgy or corruption-prone personalities assume a measure of innocence as they struggle with the English language, all the more so as the delightful Mr Brown (played by the late and lamented Barry Evans) mostly emerges as incorruptible and overridingly fair and decent in his teacher's role.While the students are not above cheating each other, or working together to put one over on Mr Brown, there are regular occasions when all work together to pleasant effect, and the general impression is of people looking out for each other. This is not to say that divisions and conflicts do not emerge, and it is frequently the case here that short exchanges of maybe a few words or a couple of sentences do bring to life serious-ish, real-life cultural and cross-cultural issues. In the context, and in the safe and democratic surroundings, of a London night-school classroom ruled over by Mr Brown, these issues can be dealt with safely, fairly and peaceably to the benefit of all. And of course they represent a learning experience in respect of more than just the actually-incredibly-demanding language that is English. MYL is actually more effective at this than the United Nations, and I'm not even joking...But are they? A big question might be whether Mind Your Language is actually sweeter than it is funny (and it would be no worse for that, by the way); but, on the whole, we do find every possible linguistic pun or joke used mercilessly (leaving it as "ouch"-inducing as it may be funny); but there is also some visual humour, quite a bit of risqué stuff, and regular situation-based circumstances that are as reasonably chuckle-inducing as we might expect from comedic circumstances mainly confined to a single room...In essence, it is unreasonable to expect the gentler side of British comedy to achieve much more than "Mind Your Language" does. Add that to the compelling amiability and warmth of the piece, and it's worth a nine from me any time!
I remember picking the DVD set at some store in a mall, near where I used to live, and I think it is one of the best comedies to this day. I was never around during it's original airing either.This show would not be aired today, due to the fact that it is not 'politically correct', and that people would see it as a goldmine for lawsuits, to get money.I think this show had some character progression as well, seeing the cast member learn English, and new members coming in/leaving mid- series. This show, even if you aren't the most educated in linguistics, is easy to watch, and understand. It is great watching some of them trying to grasp the idioms of the English language.My only criticism, which isn't major one, was that there was no solid ending... I don't know if it was because the show had the rug pulled out from underneath them, and had it canceled prematurely, or that there are some lost final episodes that were never captured.Regardless, it is sad that now, the cast members are either dead, or old and tired. What a pity.Anyway, give this show a watch... You don't need to be smart to enjoy it! :)
I thought that was one of the funniest sitcoms I have ever seen. I did not feel it was racist, it was a rather light-hearted take on cultural differences. The English people were equally target of humor. One of the funniest episodes was when Queens English speaking rich Arab wanted to teach English to his Scottish chauffeur but ended up learning Scottish himself.In spite of many politically incorrect jokes i did not feel the program was racist because it was all warm humour and all the kooky characters were incredibly lovable. Also the relationship between the teacher and his grazy bunch of students was hearth-warming.As setting, it was very realistic. The kind of classroom and school building is until today a very typical setting of TESOL and ESOL type English courses for adult foreigners in London. As for characters they were not too far from truth either. In this type of English classes for foreigners there are always lots of colorful characters and the kind of mischief and crazy stuff they get up to in sitcom is not too far from the truth. In this kind of courses adults become like children again also in real life.


                
I can understand why some people feel the subject matter of Mind your Language is a bit "politically incorrect" (yes the brigade, run amok and all those things), but admittedly Mind your language is a very funny show that makes fun at itself.Now that we're in the post-Brexit age, a reboot is necessary and we need to go the full hog, and introduce more politically incorrect characters. I suggest we introduce a student who can speak only Scottish Gaelic and wears a kilt. We introduce a LGBTI character from Monaco. Now that would be fascinating. The episodes can focus on same sex marriage, Brexit, Birmingham and anything outside the Westminster Village.
