If there is one Charlie Chaplin film to recommend, as others have pointed to in the past, City Lights is the one. Though Chaplin played his Tramp character superbly in other movies, like Modern Times and The Gold Rush, City Lights displays the Tramp at his funniest, his bravest, his most romantic, and his most sympathetic. It's tough for filmmakers in recent days to bring the audience so close emotionally with the characters, but it's pulled off. The film centers on three characters- the Tramp, the quintessential, funny homeless man who blends into the crowd, but gets caught in predicaments. He helps a drunken businessman (Myers, a fine performance in his own right) from suicide, and becomes his on and off again friend (that is, when it suits him and doesn't notice his 'friend's' state). The other person in the Tramp's life is the Blind Flower Girl (Virginia Cherrill, one of the most absorbing, beautiful, and key female performances in silent film), who are quite fond of each other despite the lack of total perception. The emotional centerpiece comes in obtaining rent and eye surgery money, which leads to a (how else can I put it) magical boxing match where it's basically a 180 from the brutality and viscerality of a match in say Raging Bull. Though there is no dialog, the film achieves a timelessness- it's essentially a tale of two loners who find each other, lose each other, and find each other again (the last scene, widely discussed by critics for decades, is moving if not tear-inducing). And it's never, ever boring- once you get along with the Tramp, you find the little things about him, the reaction shots, the little things he does after the usual big gag (look to the ballroom scene for examples of this, or when he gets a bottle of wine poured down his pants without the other guy noticing). Truth be told, if this film makes you indifferent, never watch Chaplin again. But if you give yourself to the film, you may find it's one of the most charming from the era, or perhaps any era.


                
Let me join the consensus and call Charlie Chaplin's "City Lights" a masterpiece. It's only 81 minutes long, but they are among the best 81 minutes you could spend at the movies, and the last five minutes are simply exquisite. Keep your Kleenex box at arm's length as I doubt if there has been a more honestly heartbreaking scene captured on film. When the formerly blind girl gives the Little Tramp a flower and ultimately says "Yes, I can see now", the scene takes on such emotional gravity as to defy explanation.Chaplin was at his zenith in 1928 when he started a journey of more than two years to develop and film this story, and the Little Tramp had already been a familiar character to audiences for over a decade. He had already made the classics "The Gold Rush" (1925) and "The Circus" (1928) starring his character, so it's obvious he felt a need to take a slightly different direction and deepen the character this time. The advent of talkies didn't stop Chaplin from making this "Comedy Romance in Pantomime" (as he subtitled it), as he knew giving the Little Tramp a voice would limit his appeal as a universal character. What I particularly enjoyed in this film is how the Little Tramp fancies himself as a well-mannered gentleman in spite of all the circumstances that bring him down, even going to prison for love. It is this self-delusion and his subsequent mistaken identity as a millionaire that leads him to the blind flower girl, played in an effectively plaintive manner by Virginia Cherrill. Her performance is a greatly underrated element in this film, as she displays the right amount of vacant innocence to make the last minutes so memorable. Simply compare her to the screen test shown of Georgia Hale, Chaplin's leading lady in "The Gold Rush" and an obviously more experienced actress than Cherrill, as Hale struggles to show the right balance between condescension and beatific revelation when she realizes the Little Tramp is the "wealthy" gentleman who paid for the restoration of her sight.Of course, this would not be a Chaplin film without the brilliance of his comedy routines and there is a treasure trove of classic scenes - the rising and lowering of the street elevator, the shifting musical chairs scene at the nightclub, the mock suicide at the canal and especially the boxing scene, which has been imitated by so many lesser filmmakers (and was according to the footage included as a DVD extra, inspired by an earlier Chaplin short "The Champion" from 1915). Even a simple moment, for example, when the Little Tramp mistakes a piece of thread from his vest for a ball of twine, is impressive for the sheer delicacy of the moment. And special mention needs to go to Chaplin's musical score, where he beautifully interweaves José Padilla's "La Violetta" as his love theme.The transfer to DVD is very good, and the 2-DVD set has plenty of extras though they vary in quality. The Serge Bromberg documentary provides an informative supplement to the film, and the footage of Chaplin from a Vienna press tour is fascinating since it captures the long-forgotten worldwide frenzy he created back then. The aforementioned Georgia Hale screen test is a worthwhile addition but runs on a bit too long. The 10-minute home movie of Chaplin's trip to Bali has a certain anthropological interest but seems rather pointless otherwise. Regardless, the movie itself is rewarding enough and an exquisite jewel that completely justifies Chaplin's reputation as one of the world's leading filmmakers.
Chaplin takes himself a little more seriously in City Lights, and the results are spectacular. The musical score which Chaplin composed for the film was one of the many highlights, and even though Charlie's performance is much more dramatic than usual in some scenes, the hilarious comedy for which he is known and loved is still abundant. City Lights is so well made that it is one of the very few movies in which the obvious flaws can be gladly overlooked. Yes, you can clearly see the string holding Chaplin up in the sidesplittingly funny boxing scene, but who cares? That is such classic slapstick that little things like that really don't matter. Besides, let's keep in mind that this movie was made seventy years ago. Chaplin does a phenomenal job in his traditional role of the tramp, and develops a perfectly convincing romantic relationship with the blind flower girl on the sidewalk. His friendship with the drunken rich guy is hilarious, but it also makes a significant comment about the problems of alcohol. This is truly a great film, which should not be forgotten.


                
CITY LIGHTS (United Artists, 1931), written, directed and starring Charlie Chaplin (1889- l977), is a silent comedy-drama released at the height of the sound era. Distributing a movie in the silent film tradition at the time when silents were considered a fad, Chaplin gambled with this production, and made it pay off. Although Chaplin hails THE GOLD RUSH (1925) as the one movie he would most want to be remembered, CITY LIGHTS nearly dims out his GOLD RUSH and at the same time, practically places his other silent masterpiece, THE CIRCUS (1928) to oblivion. CITY LIGHTS has stood the test of time, balancing perfectly a mixture of comedy and drama, but in Chaplin's case, pathos.Subtitled, "A comedy romance in pantomime," the story opens in the early morning where the mayor is dedicating a statue to the citizens of the city. After the unveiling, the crowd finds a little tramp (Charlie Chaplin) sleeping on the lap of one of the figures. As he tries to climb down, he encounters one problem after another. This opening scene alone is priceless. With such a great beginning, Chaplin adds in more comedic insertions blended into the plot. The theme to CITY LIGHTS is remembered mainly about a tramp's love for a blind girl. However, there is a subplot, involving the tramp's involvement with a millionaire drunk, which, by far, takes up more time than the sentimental love story. These two segments actually set the pattern. First segment, set in the afternoon, finds Charlie walking down the street, examining a nude statue in a shop, being annoyed by some newsboys making fun of his tattered clothing. He encounters a beautiful blonde girl (Virginia Cherrill) selling flowers. After she drops one of her flowers, Charlie notices her feeling about the sidewalk for it, thus, realizing she's blind. Smitten by her beauty, he picks it up and pays her for it. Minutes later, the slamming of a limousine door is heard, with the girl believing the kind gentleman, Charlie, to be a millionaire. Second segment, set at night, finds Charlie encountering a drunk (Harry Myers) trying to commit suicide by drowning himself. Just as Charlie is about to save him, he in turn falls into the river. The drunk, in gratitude for saving his life, takes Charlie under his wing to accompany him to various night clubs until dawn. By morning, the millionaire, now sober, fails to recognize or remember Charlie and orders orders his butler to escort this stranger out of his mansion. This running gag that's repeated in the story might play itself as repetitious, but Chaplin manages to breathe new life and funnier routines through his encounters with the drunk and their all night binges. By day, Charlie looks after the blind girl and worries when she's not at her usual corner selling flowers. Finding that she's ill and being cared by her grandmother (Florence Lee), whose behind with her rent and threatened with eviction, Charlie offers to help by obtaining and losing various jobs, ranging from street-cleaning to fighting in a boxing match. Reading in a newspaper of a European doctor who restores sight for the blind, Charlie gives the girl $1,000 for an operation, the money offered to him by the drunken millionaire, who, after sober, accuses Charlie of robbing him, has his arrested and serving jail time. The climatic finish is truly the best thing Chaplin has ever done and certainly one not to be missed.Featured in the supporting cast are Henry Bergman, Allan Garcia, Albert Austin, and Hank Mann. While much has been discussed about Chaplin's performance, his co-star, Virginia Cherrill, as the blind girl (no name given), should not go without mention. Even though her future film career consisted of forgettable programmers, and at one time being one of the future wives of film actor, Cary Grant, her performance is excellent by all means. Although it's been said that future film star Jean Harlow (1911-1937) appears as an unbilled extra in the night club sequence, she is visible in a surviving still photograph, but no such scene appears in the finished product. Unlike THE GOLD RUSH, CITY LIGHTS had limited showings in revival houses in later years, and was never allowed to be distributed to television. Being first introduced to CITY LIGHTS at New York City's revival movie house, The Regency Theater, formerly located on Broadway and 67th Street, in 1979, the memorable thing about this event are the roars of laughter from its theater packed audience. There was one man, probably a big fan reliving his childhood memories, whose laughter almost drowned out the underscoring of the film. No doubt he was having more fun watching this movie than anyone else. Watching CITY LIGHTS surrounded by an appreciative audience theater is one way to truly appreciate and experience the feel of silent film comedy, and to think back as to how the audience reacted in same back in 1931.After Chaplin's death in December of 1977, CITY LIGHTS, along with his other silent features, were not only resurrected for a new generation to endure, but became readily available on video cassette at the time of Chaplin's 100th birthday, 1989. In later years, CITY LIGHTS was frequently revived on various cable channels, ranging from Turner Network Television (TNT) in the early 1990s, American Movie Classics up to 2001, and finally Turner Classic Movies. The complete musical soundtrack that accompanies CITY LIGHTS happens to be the original score composed to perfection by Chaplin himself. Much has been written and said about CITY LIGHTS over the years. To learn more about the making, difficulties and long term preparations to CITY LIGHTS, either watch Kevin Blownlow's 1980 documentary, Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film, as narrated by James Mason, or Brownlow's other documentaries dedicated entirely to Chaplin's career, including outtakes to CITY LIGHTS as well as scenes involving Virginia Cherrill's temporary replacement, Georgia Hale, Chaplin's co-star in THE GOLD RUSH. (****)


                
Spoilers herein.For me, this film falls not into the category of favorite films (I'm a Marx brothers kind of guy) but earns instead a place on a very short list of most important movies.That's because it has two features that I truly appreciate.It is as pure a vision of its creator as is possible. Nearly all other films are engineered from prior work. Not so with a small list of projects from Welles, Kurosawa, Eisenstein, ... and this one project of Chaplin's. They are wholly original, springing from some nether world.But the other element is the one that impresses the most. This film is about itself, about the art of visual narrative. Chaplin was intelligent enough to know that what he was doing was new. The issues are centered on what the audience `sees,' so while he struggles with what and how the audience sees, he builds that into the fabric of the story.The primary framing is about the blind girl who falls in love with him by `seeing' him in her own way. Then `sees' him at the end in a different way. The rich man recognizes the tramp when drunk but does not when he is not. Nearly all the jokes, indeed every element of the film is about this same dynamic: the elevator which is not seen but then was, the burglars the same, the Tramp on the statue, on the barrel. Even seeing the cigar before the bum does. Even us seeing the soap and the foreman not.The `seeing' is carried over to `hearing' with the politician and whistle jokes. And then even further as Charlie turns his back on the new technology of giving us speech and instead `shows' us something else: he writes and conducts an amazing score instead. This is truly amazing (and one reason to take Mike Figgis seriously).No wonder Orson Welles considered this the most important film ever made. But as to the best to watch? Because film is so derivative, my own gold standard for the Tramp is Robert Downey's (and to some extent Depp's). Comic timing is something that evolves, and those men make a more effective Tramp for my modern ability to see.Trivia: Chaplin found the `blind' girl in a group of spectators at a fight and was struck with how her expressions reflected what she saw. She's pretty as well of course, but certainly not the prettiest Chaplin knew. See how Chaplin separately works in both the fight (a performance) and her reaction to his performance in the film.
Waddling along with his cane and derby hat, and that tiny mustache, the little tramp (Charles Chaplin) is visually unlike any character in film history. The tramp is kind-hearted, always dignified. He's a simple soul who in "City Lights" tries to help out a young blind woman (well played by Virginia Cherrill). This is a silent film, of course, but the tramp's body language is his speech.The really noticeable feature of the tramp character is how he blends into everyday life. He's more or less ignored by many, laughed at by others. The girl's grandmother never "sees" him at all. And only when the millionaire is drunk does he "see" the tramp as a friend. Curious ... and deep.The tramp gets into his fair share of trouble, but only through his bumbling efforts to help the girl. The boxing match is a hoot, and very well choreographed, as are all the skits. And what a beginning for a film, with city leaders spouting gibberish, probably as Chaplin's dig at the "talkies". Then the way Chaplin makes his grand entrance ... just terrific!Melancholy at times, the film's music really tugs at your heartstrings. Maybe it's sentimental and manipulative. But given the abiding and Zen-like qualities of the tramp, some sentimentality is quite appropriate. And the music is choreographed totally in sync with the plot action.Production design is sparse and at times drab. That the film was made during the Great Depression is beyond obvious.Comedy here is simple and effective. The main character expresses heart and humanity. The little tramp is an unforgettable character. And "City Lights" is a wonderful film.


                
Chaplin was a unique presence in the history of the early cinema.  Coming up through the ranks, he gradually achieved a god-like stature, being awarded total control of every facet of the production.Not only was he often the sole person who knew what the end product was to be (as in "The Kid") but he was also allowed to elaborately improvise in the creative process.  This often meant doing countless scores of retakes over days, weeks and even months; holding up the cast and crew for days while he brooded over just what to do next; and even (in the case of "The Gold Rush") cancelling expensive weeks of location shooting and returning to the studio to start all over again.He cleverly duped chief studio- and bank chiefs into somehow going along with his free-wheeling and gross inclinations, thus mesmerizing their conservative senses into supporting his hit-and-miss schemes and trial-and-error "madness."In other words, Chaplin used the entire productional company as merely as his paintbrush, with which he toyed at his pleasure to create his personal canvases.  Fortunately, he was a genius, and at the right place in time to be allowed to get away with such unprecedented extravagence.It was a young and growing industry when Chaplin began emerging, and there were no set rules.  People were still trying to figure out just what could be done with the medium -- and Chaplin helped to establish its early parameters.He was certainly and autocrat, yet that doesn't really matter when it comes to film works.  It's the product that counts.  In the case of "City Lights," all the blood-sweat-and-tears that it took to achieve the finished product was more than worth the effort.  Now that all the frustration, anger, and outrage associated with the behind-the-scenes unfoldment of this highly troubled production are well in the past, what remains is a genuinely moving film classic.
Sometimes great enterprises require considerable hardship to forge them into being.  The greater the achievement, often the greater the challenge and period of endurance. Whatever the case, we are the appreciative recipients of this masterwork, which takes its place besides "Modern Times" and "The Gold Rush" as one of Chaplin's consummate expressions.


                
The victory of the sound picture over the silent was a speedy and decisive one. The first full-length talkies were released in 1928. By 1929 theatres were being forced to convert to sound in order to stay in business. By 1930 silent film production by the major studios was completely discontinued and the medium became generally viewed as an anachronism. But in 1931 a new silent picture was released that, far from being an embarrassing failure, became the fourth-highest grossing picture of the year, being even more popular than such classics as the Bela Lugosi Dracula and The Public Enemy. The picture was City Lights and its producer, writer, director, editor, composer and star was Mr Charlie Chaplin.Chaplin was of course primarily a comedian, and his humour was of broad appeal, but audiences of the time were not exactly starved of easy comedy. The Marx Brothers were making great strides on the verbal quipping front, and the ever-popular Laurel and Hardy had made a successful transition to sound. What makes Charlie stand out, and what gave him a level of accessibility that allowed him to continue with his slapstick antics well into the sound era, is his equal devotion to story which allowed him a scope for social commentary, empathetic characterisation and deep poignancy. Of all Chaplin's silent pictures, City Lights is probably his least memorable in the funny stakes. The number of classic gags here is fairly small. Not since The Kid a decade earlier has Chaplin given story so much precedence. City Lights is riddled with coincidence and plot contrivance, but it's a tale of such beauty and sincerity that this does not matter. Within this story, the comedy becomes functional, often serving to puncture a schmaltzy moment before it becomes overdone. Ironically it is the occasional forays into slapstick that help keep City Lights real.As if to snub the talkie, City Lights is a remarkable achievement in complex visual narrative, even only occasionally relying upon title cards and then often only as an embellishment to the more comedy-driven moments. Most plot points and character traits are implied rather than stated, which gives the picture a continual smoothness – another thing that would have gone down well with audiences glad to see the back of the intrusive title card. Out of necessity Chaplin's technical approach is more overt than his usual. He often cuts to a close-up to give us a necessary reaction, and there are even some whip-pans in the scene where he and the flower girl first meet, but all of this is in keeping with the rhythm and tone of the picture. Those whip pans after all reflect an abrupt emotional moment, and are in no way a blatant or showy manoeuvre.But what really makes City Lights work, what makes it connect, is the man himself on the screen. Those additional close-ups, once a rarity for a man who acted mainly with his body, now show off a capability for intense facial acting. An older, more meditative Chaplin may have been keeping the traditions of silent cinema alive, but his own career trajectory was entering new ground, where emotional expression was increasingly intimate and personal. The result is profoundly moving.


                
If i have to choose which movie have the best ending, it is very easy to choose city lights, it is very very easy. Chaplin was genius, seriously genius. This is the movie that truly inspire me. After i watch city lights, i just know there is such a movie power that exist in this world that can move and touch me really deep. I never feel such a sharp sensation ever from any hundred movies i watch before. and this movie, pierce me through the heart within silent. only gesture, eye- contact, and camera-works with no dialogue.sometimes i try to analyze deeply, why this movie have such a magnificent power. i think the reason is the connection between scenes. if we ask ourself what makes a good ending ? maybe the answer is how good you make the scene before the ending. how good you correlate the prologue and epilogue and also between them. how you fill the mid-duration of a movie. if the director took a right decision, a movie will not have any wasted scenes. its only genius film-maker can do and chaplin is one of them.silent movie such as city light is a hard-kind of movie to made. it needs next level of acting skill from the actors and actresses because there are no dialogue in it. and most of the duration, this movie is flawless in casting. and the ending scene were unbelievable and unpredictable. maximum genuine art-beauty of silent movie.i recommend everybody to watch this movie at least once. this movie is special. it definitely will pierce you.


                
Four years into sound Charlie Chaplin wrote, performed, directed and scored one of film's finest masterpieces.The story is about the "Little Tramp" befriending a blind woman who mistakenly thinks he is rich. Along the way he manages to get into a series of unintentional fixes with a large cast of foils at his disposal as he struggles to finance an operation for the woman.In an incredible display of comic talent Chaplin bombards the audience with scene after scene of magnificently choreographed comedy. Drunk, dancing or boxing his graceful slapstick is a rare combination of comedy and beauty, a comic ballet. Chaplin's performing artistry as well as his ideas reach their apex with City Lights where only Chaplin would dare to challenge the naturally progressive trend and technological status quo by daring to make a silent. By pulling it off with aplomb he solidified his place atop the history of the profession. Some sound is used sparingly (brilliantly with a statue dedication and a piano keyboard) but no intelligible words are uttered. The track and Chaplin's score is lyrical, energized and integral. The film is perfectly constructed.In the masterful hands of Chaplin he avoids bathos in his scenes with the blind woman by severing the sentimentality and the scene with a comic moment, saving it all for the incredibly touching and moving finale. Up until then it is a display of comic genius that only a handful of others might lay claim to.


                
As much as I loved The Kid, The Gold Rush, Modern Times and The Great Dictator, City Lights is the film I consider Charlie Chaplin's masterpiece. And there are several reasons why this is so for me.I love how City Lights is filmed, once again the cinematography is stunning as are the costumes and sets. The music is also a delight(though my favourite soundtrack in a Chaplin movie is the one for Modern Times) with plenty of themes that stuck in my head, while the sound effects are wonderfully incorporated and the subtitles easy to understand. The comedy is brilliantly done, the scene in the boxing ring is not only one of my favourite scenes in a Chaplin movie(along with the final sequence and the dance of the bread rolls of The Gold Rush, the final scene of The Kid and the speech from The Great Dictator) but ever in a comedy, while there is a very touching love story between the Tramp and the little blind girl(played touchingly by Virginia Cherrill) he falls in love with. And I also found the close-up climax achingly poignant because of its beauty and ambiguity. Chaplin is superb, his pantomime skills and physical humour are extremely well judged and he is acts beautifully with Cherrill.Overall, yet another Chaplin masterpiece, yet for me this is the best of them all. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I've always loved Chaplin- "Modern Times" has long been one of my favorite films, and I enjoyed "The Circus," "The Gold Rush," "The Great Dictator," and "Monsieur Verdoux." I can easily see how many people consider "City Lights" his masterpiece. It's hard to even speak rationally about this movie. It's very layered, but also very simple, and that's what I think defines a great film.The plot is easy to describe: the Little Tramp befriends a blind flower girl who mistakes him for a millionaire. Then he saves a drunken millionaire from suicide and uses his money and car to make the flower girl think he's rich. However, the millionaire sobers up and forgets the Tramp; the flower girl desperately needs money to pay the rent; ultimately, after a series of comical attempts to earn money, the Tramp receives $1000 from the millionaire, which (after being mistakenly branded a thief) he gives to the flower girl, before being sent to prison. He gets out months later, the flower girl has had an operation to restore her sight, and as he stumbles about outside her new flower shop she gives him a flower, recognizes him, and the film ends.No complex subplots, no dialogue. Just a pure and simple story about a Tramp and his love. Chaplin possesses perhaps the greatest gift for changing the audience emotionally: the movie is never blunt or outrageous; I laughed out loud several times, but it wasn't explosive laughter. And I also very nearly cried at several points. When the Tramp finds he's falling in love with the flower girl he's trying to help- that made me cry. It's so touching, how the Tramp's weaknesses are his strengths. If Chaplin is a communist, then I'm a fellow traveler. The Tramp has nothing to give but his heart and his life. He goes through hell and comes out smiling. Sure, filmmakers today could learn a lot from "City Lights," but so could people today: if you are human, you can learn from this movie.The movie is called a "romance comedy," and that's what it is. The Tramp voluntarily undergoes several ordeals for the flower girl, but he's also subjected to a number of funny situations: the nightclub party that showcases the Roaring '20s (how he drunkenly struggles to find a girl to dance with), the millionaire's attempt to get back home ("Am I driving?"), and of course the classic boxing match. The Tramp is the ultimate underdog: he can never win, but there is beauty is his failure. He finds happiness in life without going along with society's standards. And he gives us happiness, too, and a little inspiration.Then, of course, there is the ending. I love Chaplin's endings. The last title card in "Modern Times" ("We'll get along") and the final shot of "The Circus" (makes me choke a little just to think about it) are both great examples. This ending is overflowing with tenderness. The flower girl loves her mysterious savior, and has said before that money isn't her greatest concern. But then the Tramp shows up: filthy, pathetic, and right out of jail. She laughs at him and teases him a little good-naturedly. He's a little reluctant to come to her- he stands back a little. Then she takes his hand and suddenly realizes the truth. She confirms it by feeling his arm and then says, "You?" and he asks if she can see now and she says, "Yes, I can see now." Their expressions convey just enough for the viewer to understand completely, without being entirely able to say what they understand. You can read the thoughts in her head, and then the camera turns to the Tramp, and his face is a heart-broken, heart-fixed, strange, sad smile. The screen goes black, it says THE END, and the music continues with a flourish, ending on a bittersweet note. I think the ending lets us know that these are real human beings in front of us, not just actors. They have real lives, and those lives can be changed, for better or for worse. It's absolute pathos. You can't be entirely the same after watching "City Lights."
I just finished watching this movie for the third time in this month and wow what a great movie is it. Charlie Chaplin was a great comedian and everybody knows that but in this movie along with some great comedy you get to watch some amazing story of romance with emotions and love. In those days there was no sound at all in the movies and the actors have to perform very well in order to convey their messages to the viewers and every single artist in this movie did it beautifully. Virginia Cherrill portrayed the character of blind girl beautifully. I have seen many movies that were made before 2nd world war but with all do respect those were nothing as compare to this movie. On the whole this movie is great and I recommend it to everyone especially who likes classics and comedy. I give it 10/10.


                
I've seen many of Chaplin's best films, and have just finished watching City Lights for the first time.  In my opinion, it tops even the brilliant Modern Times.  It seems to me that many who claim to be film "connoseuirs" stick up their noses at anything that does not have excessively complicated plots or incomprehensible imagery.  To these people I would say, "I feel sorry that you are unable to appreciate some of the greatest works of art ever created".  This movie is a nearly ideal case in point.  The story is simple: the Tramp falls in love with a blind flower girl and does anything to help her.  Although there are some very funny moments, the movie is not really what I would call hilarious.  But I don't see these as flaws.  The very simplicity of the story gives it enormous impact because it obviously comes straight from the heart, and the humor is present to soften the blow of the drama and make it bearable, the exception being the very end.  Much has been said about the ending, and deservedly so.  There is nothing outlandish, nothing over the top about it: everything is very subtle, but the way that it is set up, the subtle facial expressions, the lack of dialogue, and the music all have the impact of a sledgehammer.  It has to be seen to be believed.  I don't want to reveal any more details for fear of spoiling it. 	Well, I hope that was of some use; at least I hope it helped someone decide to watch this masterpiece.


                
Orson Welles once cited as his favorite movie Charlie Chaplin's tribute to the art of body language and pantomime, "City Lights."
"I was determined to continue making silent films," Chaplin recalls in "My Life in Pictures" of his decision to make a silent four years into the talkie era, "for I believed there was room for all types of entertainment." "City Lights" features Chaplin's musical composition and various sound effects, but no dialogue. Chaplin opens the film with a lampoon of talkies: at the unveiling of a Greco-Roman stone statue, the dignitaries' speeches are heard only as unintelligible squawks.
Smitten by a flower-selling Blind Girl (Virginia Sherrill) who has mistaken him for a dapper gentleman, the Little Tramp takes on odd jobs (including a prizefight, shown in a masterfully choreographed sequence) to raise money for an operation to restore her vision. After the Tramp intervenes to prevent the suicide of an alcoholic tycoon, the tycoon befriends him; but it is an on and off friendship, as when sober the tycoon doesn't even recognize the Tramp. Despite a series of mishaps, the Tramp pays for the operation. But in the process he lands in prison. On the Tramp's elease, the Blind Girl learns the true identity of her benefactor in one of the most rarified scenes in cinema.


                
Let's face it: Chaplin's "City Lights" is a great film, but it's not flawless.  The inspired bits: Charlie making the acquaintance of the Flower Girl, the boxing match, the achingly beautiful, ambiguous, close of the film where Chaplin walks an emotional tightrope between sentiment and sincerity, and succeeds brilliantly - these are incredible and unforgettable moments in cinema, and Chaplin deserves the plaudits he's received.  But such moments are interspersed throughout the film, which is punctuated with long stretches of tedium. Chaplin's inspiration was fitful, and it shows. Nevertheless, on balance, "City Lights" is a masterpiece, rising above it's author's shortcomings to become a cinematic landmark which any student of Film would do well to study.


                
Chaplin produced gem after gem, but this is the one that I rate the highest. We have both the famous comedy and the pathos.  Unlike so many other comedians, there is a genius in plotting as well as in the action. Chaplin's Tramp defied the world by remaining silent to give us his most perfect film.


                
This is one of the greatest movies of all time. Chaplin's use of humour and pathos are unparalleled in this, his greatest film. Who among us can say that they didn't shed a tear when watching the final scene of the picture. A true masterpiece.


                
Charlie Chaplin always made great movies, and "City Lights" is no exception. He plays the Tramp, befriending a blind woman (Virginia Cherrill) and helping her out in her life. He also befriends an eccentric millionaire. Unfortunately, the millionaire only recognizes him when he is drunk; whenever he is sober, he considers the Trump some kind of intruder. The Tramp spends much time in jail, basically as punishment for being homeless.Once again, Chaplin has used humor to show the plight of the disenfranchised. A particularly funny scene is when he is helping the blind woman make yarn (you'll never guess what the yarn is). Either way, this is a movie that everyone should see.


                
Charlie Chaplin's City Lights is about the Tramp who has fallen for a blind flower girl and tries to come to aid. This has to be one of the most beautiful movies i have seen! both visionary and story wise. It features some of the best acting I've seen from Chaplin ever, mixed with tons of giggles romance and a beautiful score also written by Chaplin! and just to add on to that it has in my opinion the best ending to a film period! City Lights should be seen by anyone, both by people who watch silent films frequently and by the general public alike. It is a film with so much charisma that you can't help falling in love with the tramp and the blind flower girl. This is truly a one of cinema greatest achievements and a stepping stone in film history.


                
I watched this movie as part of a class project. I could have chosen any movie on the IMDb top 250. I chose this particular movie because I had never seen it. I was not expecting to like it or be able to get into it because it is a silent movie. I was completely wrong. This movie is basically a love story between a tramp and a blind flower girl. There is also the millionaire that the tramp saves and becomes friends with, sometimes. I believe that this movie would not have been as good with dialog as it is without. This is because Charlie Chaplin's acting and musical score were perfect. The music fits the action on screen perfectly and keeps you drawn in. Chaplin's character, a tramp, conveys his message through pantomime. The blind girl played by Virginia Cherrill was also done perfectly. The ending between these two characters is one of the best that I have ever seen. Harry Myers plays an eccentric millionaire, This part is also played very well. This character is a kind of Jeckyll and Hyde. When he has been drinking, he is the tramp's best buddy, when he is sober he wants nothing to do with him. The boxing scene is extremely funny. I won't give away any spoilers but the interaction between the two boxers and the referee is hilarious. Overall this is a masterpiece. The romance, humor, and drama were all very convincing and like I said before, this was all done with no words. This movie was so good that I will watch Charlie Chaplin's other work.


                
In this film Charlie Chaplin plays the role that he is most known for: the tramp. This was my first Charlie Chaplin film and i really enjoyed it. there were to many gags in this film to count but almost all of them were funny unlike some of today's comedies were all of the gags seem to either be unfunny or just fall flat! This comedy tells the heartwarming story of a tramp who tries to make money so that he can pay for a blind flower girls eye treatment so that she could see again. The tramp always seems to get himself into some kind of trouble where ever he goes! i highly recommend seeing this! It is not boring at all and it is very funny! Bravo!
I love black and white films, it's amazing to see history before your eyes. It's always great to see the passion of these early actors/directors. Charlie Chaplin was both an actor and a director and did well in both roles. So many think that Chaplin was a simple jester, just making people laugh. But he was much more than that, and this movie attests to that. It can be seen in his movies that Chaplin carries meanings in his roles and this movie is about loving someone more than you love yourself. It's about how a kind man remains kind regardless of the mistreatment that come his way. It's about how love for someone can provide purpose and meaning in someone's life. It's about how miracles can come in the most strangest and unlikely forms. The movie is filled with laughs, joys and tears. For those who like the simplicity of first time cinema, I recommend this movie.


                
The first time I saw this movie I fell in love, and it instantly became one of my favorites. I just watched it the other night again and it still had a similar effect. This masterpiece directed by the great Charlie Chaplin is his best I've seen so far. It tells the tale of a poor tramp who meets a beautiful women selling flowers, and quickly finds out she is blind. When she begins to believe he is a wealthy man, the poor man goes along with it and begins to try and impress her. This may sound like some kind of romantic comedy that no one would want to see, but trust me, its far from that.The tramp starts off with his antics right from the get go, and even though its all through the movie, they never get old. It is always something new, and it keeps it interesting. That's the thing about this movie, its not like The Kid or The Great Dictator where all or most of the gags revolve around a certain topic or event, this story was made where the lead character can go on many adventures during the film, but it still ends up coming full circle to the most important story of them all. That's why this isn't just a romantic comedy, its more than that.For people who have never seen a Chaplin movie, or at least a full length film of his, it may seem like this movie would be all slapstick. Yes, there is slapstick, and a lot of it. However, the comical time is perfect and I found myself laughing at a lot of these gags, and I normally don't find that type of humor funny, Also, if you look deeper, you will soon see there is much more depth then one would think. It tells the story of a kind poor man trying to help everyone he meets and especially the ones he cares about. The Tramp meets this young women and soon goes to great lengths to help her when she is in need, more then most people would ever do. This loving side of him brings him through hilarious and memorable journeys. Along with the amazing score, this movie is prefect.For anyone who even is CONSIDERING watching this, I strongly, strongly suggest you do. With gags that will leave you laughing for weeks, but also a heartwarming tale that will leave you satisfied, it is enough to make any movie lover happy, no matter what kind of person you are.The only person I could think that would not enjoy it would be someone who hates slapstick, but really, I was never a fan of it, but when I found Mr.Charlie Chaplin's work I realized how funny it could actually be when done right. 10/10, one of the greatest movies of all time.


                
Simply put, this is one of the greatest films of all time. Chaplin, playing the familiar tramp, meets a blind flower girl (Virginia Cherrill) and is touched by her. He also meets a millionaire (Harry Myers) who only seems to be able to tolerate the tramp when he is drunk. The tramp looks to raise money to cure the girl's blindness. The film is funny, poignant and heartwarming. Its full of Chaplin like pratfalls and sight gags, but it also has a tenderness that is both welcome and inspired. A "silent" film (Chaplin composed the music, also wonderful), it just doesn't have any dialog. Its so much better for that, it means more. The last scene is probably the greatest in movie history, but watch the whole film and just get immersed in the artistry and brilliance that was Chaplin.


                
