If there is one Charlie Chaplin film to recommend, as others have pointed to in the past, City Lights is the one. Though Chaplin played his Tramp character superbly in other movies, like Modern Times and The Gold Rush, City Lights displays the Tramp at his funniest, his bravest, his most romantic, and his most sympathetic. It's tough for filmmakers in recent days to bring the audience so close emotionally with the characters, but it's pulled off. The film centers on three characters- the Tramp, the quintessential, funny homeless man who blends into the crowd, but gets caught in predicaments. He helps a drunken businessman (Myers, a fine performance in his own right) from suicide, and becomes his on and off again friend (that is, when it suits him and doesn't notice his 'friend's' state). The other person in the Tramp's life is the Blind Flower Girl (Virginia Cherrill, one of the most absorbing, beautiful, and key female performances in silent film), who are quite fond of each other despite the lack of total perception. The emotional centerpiece comes in obtaining rent and eye surgery money, which leads to a (how else can I put it) magical boxing match where it's basically a 180 from the brutality and viscerality of a match in say Raging Bull. Though there is no dialog, the film achieves a timelessness- it's essentially a tale of two loners who find each other, lose each other, and find each other again (the last scene, widely discussed by critics for decades, is moving if not tear-inducing). And it's never, ever boring- once you get along with the Tramp, you find the little things about him, the reaction shots, the little things he does after the usual big gag (look to the ballroom scene for examples of this, or when he gets a bottle of wine poured down his pants without the other guy noticing). Truth be told, if this film makes you indifferent, never watch Chaplin again. But if you give yourself to the film, you may find it's one of the most charming from the era, or perhaps any era.


                
Let me join the consensus and call Charlie Chaplin's "City Lights" a masterpiece. It's only 81 minutes long, but they are among the best 81 minutes you could spend at the movies, and the last five minutes are simply exquisite. Keep your Kleenex box at arm's length as I doubt if there has been a more honestly heartbreaking scene captured on film. When the formerly blind girl gives the Little Tramp a flower and ultimately says "Yes, I can see now", the scene takes on such emotional gravity as to defy explanation.Chaplin was at his zenith in 1928 when he started a journey of more than two years to develop and film this story, and the Little Tramp had already been a familiar character to audiences for over a decade. He had already made the classics "The Gold Rush" (1925) and "The Circus" (1928) starring his character, so it's obvious he felt a need to take a slightly different direction and deepen the character this time. The advent of talkies didn't stop Chaplin from making this "Comedy Romance in Pantomime" (as he subtitled it), as he knew giving the Little Tramp a voice would limit his appeal as a universal character. What I particularly enjoyed in this film is how the Little Tramp fancies himself as a well-mannered gentleman in spite of all the circumstances that bring him down, even going to prison for love. It is this self-delusion and his subsequent mistaken identity as a millionaire that leads him to the blind flower girl, played in an effectively plaintive manner by Virginia Cherrill. Her performance is a greatly underrated element in this film, as she displays the right amount of vacant innocence to make the last minutes so memorable. Simply compare her to the screen test shown of Georgia Hale, Chaplin's leading lady in "The Gold Rush" and an obviously more experienced actress than Cherrill, as Hale struggles to show the right balance between condescension and beatific revelation when she realizes the Little Tramp is the "wealthy" gentleman who paid for the restoration of her sight.Of course, this would not be a Chaplin film without the brilliance of his comedy routines and there is a treasure trove of classic scenes - the rising and lowering of the street elevator, the shifting musical chairs scene at the nightclub, the mock suicide at the canal and especially the boxing scene, which has been imitated by so many lesser filmmakers (and was according to the footage included as a DVD extra, inspired by an earlier Chaplin short "The Champion" from 1915). Even a simple moment, for example, when the Little Tramp mistakes a piece of thread from his vest for a ball of twine, is impressive for the sheer delicacy of the moment. And special mention needs to go to Chaplin's musical score, where he beautifully interweaves José Padilla's "La Violetta" as his love theme.The transfer to DVD is very good, and the 2-DVD set has plenty of extras though they vary in quality. The Serge Bromberg documentary provides an informative supplement to the film, and the footage of Chaplin from a Vienna press tour is fascinating since it captures the long-forgotten worldwide frenzy he created back then. The aforementioned Georgia Hale screen test is a worthwhile addition but runs on a bit too long. The 10-minute home movie of Chaplin's trip to Bali has a certain anthropological interest but seems rather pointless otherwise. Regardless, the movie itself is rewarding enough and an exquisite jewel that completely justifies Chaplin's reputation as one of the world's leading filmmakers.
This is my favorite Chaplin film, but I don't want that to diminish his other work, either. MODERN TIMES was an outstanding work of social satire, THE GOLD RUSH was great slapstick, and even the largely-neglected MONSIEUR VERDOUX strikes a certain unforgettable tone. Chaplin didn't make a bad movie, and I'm not even sure that CL is his best, exactly. But it IS my favorite, if only for the ending.That ending has been the subject of much comment here. I think it's a masterpiece in a single scene. Chaplin's little tramp has never seemed less like a character and more like a living, breathing human being. It's a monument to understated sentimentality.To me, the rest of the film exists largely to set the context for that one magnificent piece of celluloid. Yes, the boxing scene is great, and the scene where he rescues the millionaire is also wonderful, but it's that ending that makes us all love this movie.


                
Once again Chaplin plays his famous creation, the beloved Tramp<U+0085> The noble Little Fellow meets and falls in love with a blind flower girl<U+0085> She assumes he is wealthy man and offers him a flower, which he attentively accepts with his last penny<U+0085> One night by chance he rescues a drunken millionaire from drowning<U+0085> The rich gentleman becomes a generous friend when drunk but doesn't recognize the tramp when sober<U+0085> Chaplin takes the blind girl under his wing, and takes flight with the millionaire's money to cure her blindness<U+0085> "City Lights" engaged a true genius in a graceful and touching performance which arouses profound feelings and joy with great simplicity of style and tragic tale<U+0085> Each scene was the result of hard-working detail and planning<U+0085>


                
Chaplin takes himself a little more seriously in City Lights, and the results are spectacular. The musical score which Chaplin composed for the film was one of the many highlights, and even though Charlie's performance is much more dramatic than usual in some scenes, the hilarious comedy for which he is known and loved is still abundant. City Lights is so well made that it is one of the very few movies in which the obvious flaws can be gladly overlooked. Yes, you can clearly see the string holding Chaplin up in the sidesplittingly funny boxing scene, but who cares? That is such classic slapstick that little things like that really don't matter. Besides, let's keep in mind that this movie was made seventy years ago. Chaplin does a phenomenal job in his traditional role of the tramp, and develops a perfectly convincing romantic relationship with the blind flower girl on the sidewalk. His friendship with the drunken rich guy is hilarious, but it also makes a significant comment about the problems of alcohol. This is truly a great film, which should not be forgotten.


                
Charlie Chaplin's "City Lights" contains a blend of humor and humanity that make it memorable for everyone who watches it.  Although made very much in the old-fashioned silent film tradition, much of it is timeless, too.After a few minutes of slapstick at the beginning, Charlie's "little tramp" character makes two acquaintances.  He meets a blind girl selling flowers, who mistakes him for a rich man, and the two become very fond of each other. Then he meets a real millionaire, who is drunk, depressed, and about to commit suicide.  In a comic scene, the tramp persuades the millionaire not to go through with it, making himself a devoted friend.The tramp soon learns that there is an operation that could give the girl her sight, and tries to think of some way he could help.  His scenes with the girl and her grandmother are moving, while his determination to help lead him into some comic escapades - his attempt to win money in a boxing match being particularly funny, and one of Chaplin's best comic pieces. Meanwhile, when his millionaire friend is drunk, he dotes on the tramp, but when sober he forgets who the tramp is, leading to more amusing scenes and occasional trouble for Charlie.All of the comedy leads up to a finale that is one of the best-remembered scenes in any film.  "City Lights" shows the power of the camera in the hands of a master, who without words can move his audience or make them laugh.  Anyone who appreciates good cinema should see it at least once.


                
Film has become a medium that is strongly influenced by nostalgia.  Old films have become journeys to the past; ways to visit times and people that no longer are.  Since film is an art that is based on the innovation of previous works, it has an element of nostalgia in its foundation.  We look on the old to find what elements should make up the new.  In City Lights, and other silent works of film, a passion emerges that is uniquely honest and sincere.  While watching the film, I was impressed that Chaplin really did love the story, the sets, the crew; the whole project.  While this may not have been the complete reality, it felt that way, and thus made the film more enjoyable.  In silent films the audience is forced to be completely reliable on the visual elements of the film; there are no elaborate sound effects or dialogue to provoke an emotional response.Since film is at its very core a visual medium, I find silent films to be the basic form of the medium.  I don't use the word basic here in a demeaning sense, but I compare the beauty of silent films to the beauty of early European art, before the concept of perspective was developed in the Renaissance.  Many books and tomes featured people as tall as the castles they stood in; these works of art were not technologically advanced, but they were, and are, beautiful.  The same example is found when comparing early darreographs of wild animals to contemporary photographs found in National Geographic. There is a warmth found in City Lights, and other Chaplin films (The Kid, Modern Times) that would be lost in the sea of cinematic technology that floods films today.  Maybe it's just that with simplicity comes honesty, and honesty is perhaps the most powerful emotion that can cross through the screen and be felt by the viewer.


                
City Lights is simply put one of the best movies out there. Every scene is classic and had a huge impact on the history of film-making. Chaplin's last 'silent' film tells the story of a poor little man the tramp played by Chaplin who falls in love with a blind flower girl. He becomes friends with a wealthy man who constantly tries to commit suicide. The man only recognizes the tramp character when he is drunk. To impress the flower girl the tramp uses the man's wealth to make her fall in love with him. The only problem is that when the man is sober he doesn't recognize the tramp anymore. On top of this the flower girl has to pay 22 dollars of rent or she will be thrown out of her apartment. Now the tramp desperately seeks for jobs in the city to help his love. Out of this simple plot great comedy and heart breaking moments come forth.The outcome of the movie is to almost all people known. It is regarded as one of the best endings ever taped on film. The movie itself still is masterpiece more than 70 years after it's release. I personally rate this as Chaplin's second best I have seen so far. My favorite remains The Gold Rush. Still this movie gets 5/5 stars from me.


                
I always thought this was one of Charlie Chaplin's nicest, most under-appreciated silent movie gems. Then I discovered it really wasn't underrated; it's rated very high on most critics' lists. It may be that I usually hear about some of his other movies than I do this one.Part of the reason I think so highly of this is simply that I'm a sentimentalist and story in this film is a very touching one. It's a romance between Charlie's tramp character (no name) and a blind girl, who also had no name in this film. Virginia Cherill, who played the blind woman and had a wholesome, pretty face which I found very attractive.I'm not always a huge fan of pantomime except for some great comedians of the era like Chaplin, Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton, but Chaplin was so good at it and this is one of the last of dying breed as "talkies" were out in full force by 1931. Chaplin was at his best in silent movies, anyway, and his comedy routines are legendary. He gave me a lot of laughs in this film, as always, and I particularly laughed (I love slapstick) at the boxing scene. Kudos, too, to Harry Myers as the "eccentric millionaire."There's a lot of drama as well as humor in this 86-minute gem as the Tramp tries to aid a blind girl, raising money so she can get an operation to restore her sight.Comedy, romance, drama (with suffering) all combine to make this an extraordinary piece of entertainment. It's hard to believe this movie was not up for one, single Academy Award.


                
CITY LIGHTS (United Artists, 1931), written, directed and starring Charlie Chaplin (1889- l977), is a silent comedy-drama released at the height of the sound era. Distributing a movie in the silent film tradition at the time when silents were considered a fad, Chaplin gambled with this production, and made it pay off. Although Chaplin hails THE GOLD RUSH (1925) as the one movie he would most want to be remembered, CITY LIGHTS nearly dims out his GOLD RUSH and at the same time, practically places his other silent masterpiece, THE CIRCUS (1928) to oblivion. CITY LIGHTS has stood the test of time, balancing perfectly a mixture of comedy and drama, but in Chaplin's case, pathos.Subtitled, "A comedy romance in pantomime," the story opens in the early morning where the mayor is dedicating a statue to the citizens of the city. After the unveiling, the crowd finds a little tramp (Charlie Chaplin) sleeping on the lap of one of the figures. As he tries to climb down, he encounters one problem after another. This opening scene alone is priceless. With such a great beginning, Chaplin adds in more comedic insertions blended into the plot. The theme to CITY LIGHTS is remembered mainly about a tramp's love for a blind girl. However, there is a subplot, involving the tramp's involvement with a millionaire drunk, which, by far, takes up more time than the sentimental love story. These two segments actually set the pattern. First segment, set in the afternoon, finds Charlie walking down the street, examining a nude statue in a shop, being annoyed by some newsboys making fun of his tattered clothing. He encounters a beautiful blonde girl (Virginia Cherrill) selling flowers. After she drops one of her flowers, Charlie notices her feeling about the sidewalk for it, thus, realizing she's blind. Smitten by her beauty, he picks it up and pays her for it. Minutes later, the slamming of a limousine door is heard, with the girl believing the kind gentleman, Charlie, to be a millionaire. Second segment, set at night, finds Charlie encountering a drunk (Harry Myers) trying to commit suicide by drowning himself. Just as Charlie is about to save him, he in turn falls into the river. The drunk, in gratitude for saving his life, takes Charlie under his wing to accompany him to various night clubs until dawn. By morning, the millionaire, now sober, fails to recognize or remember Charlie and orders orders his butler to escort this stranger out of his mansion. This running gag that's repeated in the story might play itself as repetitious, but Chaplin manages to breathe new life and funnier routines through his encounters with the drunk and their all night binges. By day, Charlie looks after the blind girl and worries when she's not at her usual corner selling flowers. Finding that she's ill and being cared by her grandmother (Florence Lee), whose behind with her rent and threatened with eviction, Charlie offers to help by obtaining and losing various jobs, ranging from street-cleaning to fighting in a boxing match. Reading in a newspaper of a European doctor who restores sight for the blind, Charlie gives the girl $1,000 for an operation, the money offered to him by the drunken millionaire, who, after sober, accuses Charlie of robbing him, has his arrested and serving jail time. The climatic finish is truly the best thing Chaplin has ever done and certainly one not to be missed.Featured in the supporting cast are Henry Bergman, Allan Garcia, Albert Austin, and Hank Mann. While much has been discussed about Chaplin's performance, his co-star, Virginia Cherrill, as the blind girl (no name given), should not go without mention. Even though her future film career consisted of forgettable programmers, and at one time being one of the future wives of film actor, Cary Grant, her performance is excellent by all means. Although it's been said that future film star Jean Harlow (1911-1937) appears as an unbilled extra in the night club sequence, she is visible in a surviving still photograph, but no such scene appears in the finished product. Unlike THE GOLD RUSH, CITY LIGHTS had limited showings in revival houses in later years, and was never allowed to be distributed to television. Being first introduced to CITY LIGHTS at New York City's revival movie house, The Regency Theater, formerly located on Broadway and 67th Street, in 1979, the memorable thing about this event are the roars of laughter from its theater packed audience. There was one man, probably a big fan reliving his childhood memories, whose laughter almost drowned out the underscoring of the film. No doubt he was having more fun watching this movie than anyone else. Watching CITY LIGHTS surrounded by an appreciative audience theater is one way to truly appreciate and experience the feel of silent film comedy, and to think back as to how the audience reacted in same back in 1931.After Chaplin's death in December of 1977, CITY LIGHTS, along with his other silent features, were not only resurrected for a new generation to endure, but became readily available on video cassette at the time of Chaplin's 100th birthday, 1989. In later years, CITY LIGHTS was frequently revived on various cable channels, ranging from Turner Network Television (TNT) in the early 1990s, American Movie Classics up to 2001, and finally Turner Classic Movies. The complete musical soundtrack that accompanies CITY LIGHTS happens to be the original score composed to perfection by Chaplin himself. Much has been written and said about CITY LIGHTS over the years. To learn more about the making, difficulties and long term preparations to CITY LIGHTS, either watch Kevin Blownlow's 1980 documentary, Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film, as narrated by James Mason, or Brownlow's other documentaries dedicated entirely to Chaplin's career, including outtakes to CITY LIGHTS as well as scenes involving Virginia Cherrill's temporary replacement, Georgia Hale, Chaplin's co-star in THE GOLD RUSH. (****)


                
Spoilers herein.For me, this film falls not into the category of favorite films (I'm a Marx brothers kind of guy) but earns instead a place on a very short list of most important movies.That's because it has two features that I truly appreciate.It is as pure a vision of its creator as is possible. Nearly all other films are engineered from prior work. Not so with a small list of projects from Welles, Kurosawa, Eisenstein, ... and this one project of Chaplin's. They are wholly original, springing from some nether world.But the other element is the one that impresses the most. This film is about itself, about the art of visual narrative. Chaplin was intelligent enough to know that what he was doing was new. The issues are centered on what the audience `sees,' so while he struggles with what and how the audience sees, he builds that into the fabric of the story.The primary framing is about the blind girl who falls in love with him by `seeing' him in her own way. Then `sees' him at the end in a different way. The rich man recognizes the tramp when drunk but does not when he is not. Nearly all the jokes, indeed every element of the film is about this same dynamic: the elevator which is not seen but then was, the burglars the same, the Tramp on the statue, on the barrel. Even seeing the cigar before the bum does. Even us seeing the soap and the foreman not.The `seeing' is carried over to `hearing' with the politician and whistle jokes. And then even further as Charlie turns his back on the new technology of giving us speech and instead `shows' us something else: he writes and conducts an amazing score instead. This is truly amazing (and one reason to take Mike Figgis seriously).No wonder Orson Welles considered this the most important film ever made. But as to the best to watch? Because film is so derivative, my own gold standard for the Tramp is Robert Downey's (and to some extent Depp's). Comic timing is something that evolves, and those men make a more effective Tramp for my modern ability to see.Trivia: Chaplin found the `blind' girl in a group of spectators at a fight and was struck with how her expressions reflected what she saw. She's pretty as well of course, but certainly not the prettiest Chaplin knew. See how Chaplin separately works in both the fight (a performance) and her reaction to his performance in the film.
Waddling along with his cane and derby hat, and that tiny mustache, the little tramp (Charles Chaplin) is visually unlike any character in film history. The tramp is kind-hearted, always dignified. He's a simple soul who in "City Lights" tries to help out a young blind woman (well played by Virginia Cherrill). This is a silent film, of course, but the tramp's body language is his speech.The really noticeable feature of the tramp character is how he blends into everyday life. He's more or less ignored by many, laughed at by others. The girl's grandmother never "sees" him at all. And only when the millionaire is drunk does he "see" the tramp as a friend. Curious ... and deep.The tramp gets into his fair share of trouble, but only through his bumbling efforts to help the girl. The boxing match is a hoot, and very well choreographed, as are all the skits. And what a beginning for a film, with city leaders spouting gibberish, probably as Chaplin's dig at the "talkies". Then the way Chaplin makes his grand entrance ... just terrific!Melancholy at times, the film's music really tugs at your heartstrings. Maybe it's sentimental and manipulative. But given the abiding and Zen-like qualities of the tramp, some sentimentality is quite appropriate. And the music is choreographed totally in sync with the plot action.Production design is sparse and at times drab. That the film was made during the Great Depression is beyond obvious.Comedy here is simple and effective. The main character expresses heart and humanity. The little tramp is an unforgettable character. And "City Lights" is a wonderful film.


                
Chaplin was a unique presence in the history of the early cinema.  Coming up through the ranks, he gradually achieved a god-like stature, being awarded total control of every facet of the production.Not only was he often the sole person who knew what the end product was to be (as in "The Kid") but he was also allowed to elaborately improvise in the creative process.  This often meant doing countless scores of retakes over days, weeks and even months; holding up the cast and crew for days while he brooded over just what to do next; and even (in the case of "The Gold Rush") cancelling expensive weeks of location shooting and returning to the studio to start all over again.He cleverly duped chief studio- and bank chiefs into somehow going along with his free-wheeling and gross inclinations, thus mesmerizing their conservative senses into supporting his hit-and-miss schemes and trial-and-error "madness."In other words, Chaplin used the entire productional company as merely as his paintbrush, with which he toyed at his pleasure to create his personal canvases.  Fortunately, he was a genius, and at the right place in time to be allowed to get away with such unprecedented extravagence.It was a young and growing industry when Chaplin began emerging, and there were no set rules.  People were still trying to figure out just what could be done with the medium -- and Chaplin helped to establish its early parameters.He was certainly and autocrat, yet that doesn't really matter when it comes to film works.  It's the product that counts.  In the case of "City Lights," all the blood-sweat-and-tears that it took to achieve the finished product was more than worth the effort.  Now that all the frustration, anger, and outrage associated with the behind-the-scenes unfoldment of this highly troubled production are well in the past, what remains is a genuinely moving film classic.
Sometimes great enterprises require considerable hardship to forge them into being.  The greater the achievement, often the greater the challenge and period of endurance. Whatever the case, we are the appreciative recipients of this masterwork, which takes its place besides "Modern Times" and "The Gold Rush" as one of Chaplin's consummate expressions.


                
The victory of the sound picture over the silent was a speedy and decisive one. The first full-length talkies were released in 1928. By 1929 theatres were being forced to convert to sound in order to stay in business. By 1930 silent film production by the major studios was completely discontinued and the medium became generally viewed as an anachronism. But in 1931 a new silent picture was released that, far from being an embarrassing failure, became the fourth-highest grossing picture of the year, being even more popular than such classics as the Bela Lugosi Dracula and The Public Enemy. The picture was City Lights and its producer, writer, director, editor, composer and star was Mr Charlie Chaplin.Chaplin was of course primarily a comedian, and his humour was of broad appeal, but audiences of the time were not exactly starved of easy comedy. The Marx Brothers were making great strides on the verbal quipping front, and the ever-popular Laurel and Hardy had made a successful transition to sound. What makes Charlie stand out, and what gave him a level of accessibility that allowed him to continue with his slapstick antics well into the sound era, is his equal devotion to story which allowed him a scope for social commentary, empathetic characterisation and deep poignancy. Of all Chaplin's silent pictures, City Lights is probably his least memorable in the funny stakes. The number of classic gags here is fairly small. Not since The Kid a decade earlier has Chaplin given story so much precedence. City Lights is riddled with coincidence and plot contrivance, but it's a tale of such beauty and sincerity that this does not matter. Within this story, the comedy becomes functional, often serving to puncture a schmaltzy moment before it becomes overdone. Ironically it is the occasional forays into slapstick that help keep City Lights real.As if to snub the talkie, City Lights is a remarkable achievement in complex visual narrative, even only occasionally relying upon title cards and then often only as an embellishment to the more comedy-driven moments. Most plot points and character traits are implied rather than stated, which gives the picture a continual smoothness – another thing that would have gone down well with audiences glad to see the back of the intrusive title card. Out of necessity Chaplin's technical approach is more overt than his usual. He often cuts to a close-up to give us a necessary reaction, and there are even some whip-pans in the scene where he and the flower girl first meet, but all of this is in keeping with the rhythm and tone of the picture. Those whip pans after all reflect an abrupt emotional moment, and are in no way a blatant or showy manoeuvre.But what really makes City Lights work, what makes it connect, is the man himself on the screen. Those additional close-ups, once a rarity for a man who acted mainly with his body, now show off a capability for intense facial acting. An older, more meditative Chaplin may have been keeping the traditions of silent cinema alive, but his own career trajectory was entering new ground, where emotional expression was increasingly intimate and personal. The result is profoundly moving.


                
City Lights is a different film from what I am used to seeing. I have not watched a Silent film or pantomime in a few years. I really enjoyed the story that Charles Chaplin helped to create and produce for our enjoyment. The plot seems to be commonly used now, with a boy falling in love and trying to win the girl's love in return. In City Lights, there are a few twists to the plot. The girl is blind and poor, the Tramp<U+0097>Chaplin<U+0097>is poor, in love, and wants to help the blind girl. The Millionaire can help the tramp out by giving him money, but he is an on-again, off-again friend depending on whether or not he is drunk.Being that this is a silent film, there is more importance on the use of props and the acting of the character. Since in a silent film they can't tell us how they are feeling, it is important that we can understand feelings through action. This may be through facial expressions, body language, dress, eye contact, kinds of touch, or the use of written statements, like title cards in a silent film. A prop that stood out to me was the use of flowers. From the flower girl selling her flowers, to how Chaplin was always holding or smelling one of the flowers from his special girl, the use of flowers helped show the emotions and feelings of the two characters. It symbolized the affection he had for her, because like the flowers she couldn't see, she couldn't see the true him or his true affections. Another prop that was used was money. From the millionaire's point of view, money was really of no matter. He threw a party just because he had been reunited with his friend, he went out to the dance club, and when Chaplin needed money in order to help the flower girl pay for rent and surgery he was willing to give him one thousand dollars. To the millionaire this money is nothing, but to Chaplin and the flower girl this is a showing forth of love and charity. When the movie was made in the 1930s, many people were poor and hopeless, but the portrayal of Chaplin as a poor but happy and hopeful man might have given hope to others who watched this movie during the Depression. In the film I noticed the use of a repetition, or rather a parallelism, as was read in the Film Art book dealing with The Wizard of Oz. They show shots one way in Kansas and then reverse the shot in Oz, as I saw in City Lights. In City Lights, parallelism is done with sight, not necessarily with eyes, but with the mind. We see the reverse where the poor blind girl "sees" Chaplin as a millionaire, and then at the end, she sees him as the tramp he is with her new eyesight. The true reverse is emphasized because she is now working in a shop and making money. The two characters are somehow always at perceived opposite ends of the social class spectrum, yet he still has a desire for her to be happy because of his love. Another reverse is the happy friendly drunk millionaire who sees Chaplin as his friend and hero for stopping him from committing suicide. However, when he is sober he wants nothing to do with him, throws him out and even has him arrested.In a way, this film is different then what our generation might be used to, but by watching these "classics" we can better learn where the movies we love today came from and gain a better appreciation for the art of film.
The tramp tries to nurture and help a blind flower girl regain sight despite scant resources and the prejudices and graft of the big city. Although the physical gags lack the large-scale invention of the factory scenes in Modern Times and the criticism of the wealthy doesn't transcend an admittedly witty recurring joke<U+0097>the aristocrat friend can only demonstrate compassion and friendliness in an inebriated state; he's always inviting the tramp in, only to incredulously throw him out the next sober morning<U+0097>the tramp's touching earnestness in rescuing his angel from a life of abjection is simple and selfless and deeply moving. I would say it also fades out at the perfect moment of open-ended ambiguity<U+0097>the viewer is forced to make resonant meaning out of the final troublingly cathartic shot, even as the film articulates a consistent worldview in relation to what has come before. In my eyes, Modern Times is Chaplin's masterpiece, but City Lights would probably better merit repeat viewings, which is as much a testament to the film's power as anything else.
City Lights is probably one of the most well loved, along with Modern Times, Chaplin movies. The iconic and everlasting character of The Tramp, one of the most lovable, truly human and sympathetic characters perhaps of all time. Sometimes there is some hate towards tramps, like they are labeled lazy and troublesome. It is very hard to hate The Tramp, because he gives so much when he has so little. He spends his time and money giving to people - whether it be saying a millionaires life or buying a flower from a blind girl. Undoubtedly, we all have a little bit of The Tramp in us.The plot is as follows: the Tramp meets and falls in love with a blind girl who sells flowers on the street. She is poor and by a mere coincidence, believes that The Tramp is rich. He also saves a drunken millionaire from suicide, and despite his gratefulness, doesn't remember the poor tramp unless he is drunk.City Lights is no doubt a magnificent feat in motion picture history. It's poignant view of the world and society leaves you laughing and crying at the same time. Some believe this should really be called a drama instead of a comedy. I believe it is a strong mixture of both, and a great balance of the two. Both comedic and touching, City Lights should not be missed by anyone.


                
... it's perhaps a test of a person's outlook to ask them what they see in the final scene. If they've never seen City Lights before and they instantly notice the major continuity issue (Chaplin holds a flower to his lapel from the rear shot, it's up to his mouth on his close up) then maybe they've placed film studies over romance.It took a few viewings before I spotted this, and once I did I can't help but notice it. Yet even despite this, I never fail to get choked up on the beauty of that final scene. If you want to impress the right kind of girl, put it on and show her what a sensitive soul you are during those final moments.As for the rest of the film, then while the final five minutes are classic and perhaps the best thing Chaplin ever did, the rest of it is episodic and patchy, necessitating my relatively low score. Still a fine film, but never a completely great one, what presages those beautiful final moments is merely fine entertainment.
If i have to choose which movie have the best ending, it is very easy to choose city lights, it is very very easy. Chaplin was genius, seriously genius. This is the movie that truly inspire me. After i watch city lights, i just know there is such a movie power that exist in this world that can move and touch me really deep. I never feel such a sharp sensation ever from any hundred movies i watch before. and this movie, pierce me through the heart within silent. only gesture, eye- contact, and camera-works with no dialogue.sometimes i try to analyze deeply, why this movie have such a magnificent power. i think the reason is the connection between scenes. if we ask ourself what makes a good ending ? maybe the answer is how good you make the scene before the ending. how good you correlate the prologue and epilogue and also between them. how you fill the mid-duration of a movie. if the director took a right decision, a movie will not have any wasted scenes. its only genius film-maker can do and chaplin is one of them.silent movie such as city light is a hard-kind of movie to made. it needs next level of acting skill from the actors and actresses because there are no dialogue in it. and most of the duration, this movie is flawless in casting. and the ending scene were unbelievable and unpredictable. maximum genuine art-beauty of silent movie.i recommend everybody to watch this movie at least once. this movie is special. it definitely will pierce you.


                
As always the little tramp is fleeing the long arm of the law when he is mistaken for a wealthy man by a blind girl selling flowers by the roadside. While he longs to help her the tramp knows he cannot. However when he is at his lowest he stumbles upon a drunken man who he helps out who may be able to help him in turn <U+0096> if the two of them can sober up long enough.In response to seeing some modern trash posing as "comedies" recently (Little Man, Norbit, Pluto Nash <U+0096> I'm looking at you) I decided to check out some comedies that have stood the test of time <U+0096> a few Chaplin films being among them. City Lights is one of those film that you will think you have seen even when you have not. I knew I had never actually seen it but the wonderful opening scene on the statue and the scenario of the blind girl by the side of the road were very familiar to me and I was right into it from the start. As was often the case, this film has a thin narrative but one that allows for several scenarios for Chaplin to work his magic. And so he does with some classic sequences across the whole film.The statue scene is memorable for how he makes so much out of so little but the brilliant choreography of the boxing match had me rolling with laughter as it moved so beautifully and imaginatively around the ring. Chaplin is a master and this is just one of many films that shows it as he creates a great little clown that we care about but can also laugh at. His support do no more than that <U+0096> support him <U+0096> but yet they are also roundly good. Cherrill provides attractive heart despite her simple character, while Myers, Garcia, Mann and a few others do good physical work alongside Chaplin.City Lights is a really great film that is all the more impressive for still feeling fresh and funny more than seventy years after it was made. The simple narrative is the frame but it is the wonderful and frequent set-pieces that tickle and also stick in the mind. So tonight you might be looking at your film queue with lots of modern comedies but it is worth bumping this classic to the top of the list instead.


                
(Do you really need to post a spoiler warning for a movie that as of tonight is 77 years old?)I haven't read other reviews so forgive me if I repeat any previous postings. "City Lights" is, with nary a doubt, the greatest love story ever told. Forget "Casablanca". Forget "An Affair to Remember". Forget "Love Story". (For the love of Christ, forget "Love Story".) This is a movie about the purest love.We have the simple, ubiquitous Tramp. He is smitten with a blind flower girl, who has mistaken him for a wealthy man. There is a new operation that "cures" blindness, and the Tramp will do anything to help Flower Girl regain her sight. He tries to win a boxing match in which he is clearly outclassed. In an era that is forgotten in modern times (pun gleefully intended), he cleans the streets of dung. (One of the best sight gags in screen history happens when the Tramp has to clean up after an elephant.) Finally he steals from a wealthy man to get the money he needs to pay for Flower Girl's operation.And then, after he has spent many years in prison, the Tramp is reunited with Flower Girl.My fellow males, this is a wonderful "Chick Flick." If your lady friend isn't reduced to tears by the last 4 minutes of this movie, you need to find a new lady. I've seen it a dozen times and it always gets to me.
Four years into sound Charlie Chaplin wrote, performed, directed and scored one of film's finest masterpieces.The story is about the "Little Tramp" befriending a blind woman who mistakenly thinks he is rich. Along the way he manages to get into a series of unintentional fixes with a large cast of foils at his disposal as he struggles to finance an operation for the woman.In an incredible display of comic talent Chaplin bombards the audience with scene after scene of magnificently choreographed comedy. Drunk, dancing or boxing his graceful slapstick is a rare combination of comedy and beauty, a comic ballet. Chaplin's performing artistry as well as his ideas reach their apex with City Lights where only Chaplin would dare to challenge the naturally progressive trend and technological status quo by daring to make a silent. By pulling it off with aplomb he solidified his place atop the history of the profession. Some sound is used sparingly (brilliantly with a statue dedication and a piano keyboard) but no intelligible words are uttered. The track and Chaplin's score is lyrical, energized and integral. The film is perfectly constructed.In the masterful hands of Chaplin he avoids bathos in his scenes with the blind woman by severing the sentimentality and the scene with a comic moment, saving it all for the incredibly touching and moving finale. Up until then it is a display of comic genius that only a handful of others might lay claim to.


                
As much as I loved The Kid, The Gold Rush, Modern Times and The Great Dictator, City Lights is the film I consider Charlie Chaplin's masterpiece. And there are several reasons why this is so for me.I love how City Lights is filmed, once again the cinematography is stunning as are the costumes and sets. The music is also a delight(though my favourite soundtrack in a Chaplin movie is the one for Modern Times) with plenty of themes that stuck in my head, while the sound effects are wonderfully incorporated and the subtitles easy to understand. The comedy is brilliantly done, the scene in the boxing ring is not only one of my favourite scenes in a Chaplin movie(along with the final sequence and the dance of the bread rolls of The Gold Rush, the final scene of The Kid and the speech from The Great Dictator) but ever in a comedy, while there is a very touching love story between the Tramp and the little blind girl(played touchingly by Virginia Cherrill) he falls in love with. And I also found the close-up climax achingly poignant because of its beauty and ambiguity. Chaplin is superb, his pantomime skills and physical humour are extremely well judged and he is acts beautifully with Cherrill.Overall, yet another Chaplin masterpiece, yet for me this is the best of them all. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Charlie Chaplin made some extremely funny shorts but of his longer films, this is one of the best, along with "The Gold Rush" and "Modern Times." Two stories are woven together. One is Charlie's on-again off-again friendship with a wealthy drunk. The guy has a case of multiple personality. When drunk he showers Charlie with friendship and gifts. When he's sober he doesn't recognize Charlie at all.The second story involves a pretty, blind flower girl who, given certain distances, angles, and lighting, resembles Uma Thurman. Charlie falls for her and accepts a thousand dollars from the drunken rich guy in order to pay for the operation that will refurbish her eyeballs.Charlie is accused of stealing the thousand bucks but when he appeals to the rich guy, he's sober and won't support Charlie's story. Charlie manages to get the money to the girl anyway but then is picked up by the police and spends some time in jail. When he emerges from the Crowbar Hotel, broke and bitter, he bumps into the now sighted girl and she recognizes him by his voice and the feel of his hands. The happy ending.There's sentimentality in the story of course. There often is in Chaplin's later films. But, as usual, it's somehow tempered. Here, it's undercut by irony.When Charlie meets the wealthy toff, the guy is about to kill himself because his wife left him. He ties a noose around his neck and a big rock to the other end of the rope. He's about to hurl himself and the rock into the river when Charlie intervenes, gives him a pep talk, and changes his mind. His spirit revived, the rich guy spread his arms to the sky, dropping the boulder that falls on Charlie's foot.And when Chaplin meets the blind flower girl, she's enthralled by his gentleness. Unseen by her, the smitten Charlie tip toes behind her to the nearby water fountain where she fills a pail. Her expression is dreamy and far away as the pail fills. Charlie is sitting on a bench next to the fountain, himself enraptured. Then she empties the pail by throwing the water in Charlie's face. Well, it's not the blind Mr. Muckle busting all the light bulbs in W. C. Fields' general store, but what is? A note. There have been some comic prize fights recorded on film, not counting the Dempsey-Tunney debacle, but I don't think any are as funny as the one Chaplin has choreographed here.It's hard to imagine the kind of talent that could pull off a story like this in a medium like this. Black and white, and silent. Applause, please.
City Lights (1931) **** (out of 4)Charlie Chaplin returns as The Tramp and this time he falls in love with a blind girl (Virginia Cherrill) and sets out to help her. The Tramp eventually meets a suicidal drunk (Harry Myers) and their friendship leads to what might eventually help the girl he loves.Chaplin made great films before and after CITY LIGHTS but for my money this here is his greatest film as well as one of the greatest films ever made. Not only is it one of the funniest movies ever made but I'd also argue that it's one of the greatest love stories, if not the greatest. It really says a lot when a movie can conqueror two genres at one time but CITY LIGHTS is simply one of the greatest movies ever made.I think it says a lot that you get one classic scene after another and there's really not a weak spot to be found here. Being 1931 it took some real guts for Chaplin to deliver a silent film and I think he knew that he had to deliver something special because people had moved onto sound. He certainly delivered something special as this here was easily the funniest film he had made up to this point. The opening sequence with the introduction of The Tramp was priceless and we got one hilarious scene after another from that point. The scenes with the drunk are downright hilarious as is another scene where The Tramp is trying to eat but without much success. The cigar sequence is a masterpiece as is the by the water. In fact, the story between The Tramp and the drunk would have made a terrific movie on its own. Just like the stuff with The Tramp and the blind girl would have made a perfect film. What's so special is that you get both stories wrapped up in one and it really delivers.Chaplin played The Tramp countless times but he was never better than he is here. Just check out the timing in countless scenes including the boxing match and you can't help but be impressed with the actor. Myers also deserves a lot of credit as the drunk as his timing has to match that of Chaplin throughout and the two men do a wonderful job together. Then you've got Cherrill who wasn't a professional actor but the director makes her shine throughout.CITY LIGHTS contains one great scene after another and all of the laughs lead up to one of the most powerful endings in film history. There's really not enough great things that can be said about this film as it continues to get better with each passing year.


                
