City Lights is a different film from what I am used to seeing. I have not watched a Silent film or pantomime in a few years. I really enjoyed the story that Charles Chaplin helped to create and produce for our enjoyment. The plot seems to be commonly used now, with a boy falling in love and trying to win the girl's love in return. In City Lights, there are a few twists to the plot. The girl is blind and poor, the Tramp<U+0097>Chaplin<U+0097>is poor, in love, and wants to help the blind girl. The Millionaire can help the tramp out by giving him money, but he is an on-again, off-again friend depending on whether or not he is drunk.Being that this is a silent film, there is more importance on the use of props and the acting of the character. Since in a silent film they can't tell us how they are feeling, it is important that we can understand feelings through action. This may be through facial expressions, body language, dress, eye contact, kinds of touch, or the use of written statements, like title cards in a silent film. A prop that stood out to me was the use of flowers. From the flower girl selling her flowers, to how Chaplin was always holding or smelling one of the flowers from his special girl, the use of flowers helped show the emotions and feelings of the two characters. It symbolized the affection he had for her, because like the flowers she couldn't see, she couldn't see the true him or his true affections. Another prop that was used was money. From the millionaire's point of view, money was really of no matter. He threw a party just because he had been reunited with his friend, he went out to the dance club, and when Chaplin needed money in order to help the flower girl pay for rent and surgery he was willing to give him one thousand dollars. To the millionaire this money is nothing, but to Chaplin and the flower girl this is a showing forth of love and charity. When the movie was made in the 1930s, many people were poor and hopeless, but the portrayal of Chaplin as a poor but happy and hopeful man might have given hope to others who watched this movie during the Depression. In the film I noticed the use of a repetition, or rather a parallelism, as was read in the Film Art book dealing with The Wizard of Oz. They show shots one way in Kansas and then reverse the shot in Oz, as I saw in City Lights. In City Lights, parallelism is done with sight, not necessarily with eyes, but with the mind. We see the reverse where the poor blind girl "sees" Chaplin as a millionaire, and then at the end, she sees him as the tramp he is with her new eyesight. The true reverse is emphasized because she is now working in a shop and making money. The two characters are somehow always at perceived opposite ends of the social class spectrum, yet he still has a desire for her to be happy because of his love. Another reverse is the happy friendly drunk millionaire who sees Chaplin as his friend and hero for stopping him from committing suicide. However, when he is sober he wants nothing to do with him, throws him out and even has him arrested.In a way, this film is different then what our generation might be used to, but by watching these "classics" we can better learn where the movies we love today came from and gain a better appreciation for the art of film.
... it's perhaps a test of a person's outlook to ask them what they see in the final scene. If they've never seen City Lights before and they instantly notice the major continuity issue (Chaplin holds a flower to his lapel from the rear shot, it's up to his mouth on his close up) then maybe they've placed film studies over romance.It took a few viewings before I spotted this, and once I did I can't help but notice it. Yet even despite this, I never fail to get choked up on the beauty of that final scene. If you want to impress the right kind of girl, put it on and show her what a sensitive soul you are during those final moments.As for the rest of the film, then while the final five minutes are classic and perhaps the best thing Chaplin ever did, the rest of it is episodic and patchy, necessitating my relatively low score. Still a fine film, but never a completely great one, what presages those beautiful final moments is merely fine entertainment.
Ah, a Charles Chaplin film. I remember watching my fair share of the silent clowns back in film class and here I watched another. City Lights is about a tramp who falls for a blind girl and works to help her out. That's basically the story; here's the twist: she thinks he's a millionaire and he wants to help pay for an operation that will give her sight (which means that she finds out he's not a millionaire). Okay, the story is done.Honestly, I have to say that I like Chaplin, but I don't love him. This film does nothing to change my mind. There are many cute clowning sequences and they are strung together, although early on, they don't do a whole lot to help the story out and serve almost as distractions. However, taken as individual scenes, they are entertaining, although nothing that caused me to laugh out loud.The film is helped in that it doesn't resolve too neatly but leaves a little room for our own projection of how we think things happen after we see "The End". And it's a bittersweet plot twist which allows for some empathy, rather than just clowning for the sake of clowning. So, City Lights is enjoyable and human, but suffers from gag-stringing and being a little drawn out. Decent, but not a must-watch. 7/10.


                
This celebrated Charlie Chaplin film may not be the absolute masterpiece that all the glowing reviews prepare you for, but it is undeniably a classic motion picture. The ending has been praised justifiably - it is close to perfection. And there are some very funny visual gags, too; the boxing match is a perfectly sustained set-piece (it's probably the funniest boxing match in the history of cinema). But some other sequences run on slightly too long. Chaplin's own music score is wonderful, and there are sound effects (a whistle, a gunshot, a piano, etc.) which creatively bridge the silent and the sound era of movies. *** out of 4.
Jack Lemmon had every right to love the ending of City Lights. Especially for 1931, Chaplin delivers the most powerful ending in any of his early comedies. The entire film is filled with one comical situation after the other. But, the ending, the ending is perfection. The entire audience is crying while still smiling at the Tramp.


                
This was my first Charlie Chaplin and first silent film. I wasn't sure what to expect and I was surprised that despite the lack of dialogue, it was easy to follow. The storyline wasn't particularly complicated or difficult to understand. The humour also worked well too. Charlie Chaplin is a great comedy performer and here his talents for physical comedy are showcased well.That being said I did feel like the comedy was overdone at times. There were occasions where the same joke was repeated again and again and I got a little bored. I also didn't find the film entirely engaging. My interest did wander a little at times.Read my full review here:http://goo.gl/V1YfzS


                
City Lights is a film which is beloved and revered. And it is easy to see why. As comedies go, it may not be among the funniest films ever made. But if there is any shortfall of laughs the film more than compensates with an overabundance of charm. And it is not as if the film is totally lacking in laughs either, there is plenty of good humor here. But in this case it is the story, more than the jokes and gags, which really is the key to the film's success. That story draws you in, makes you root for Charlie Chaplin's famous Tramp. It's a beautifully unique love story which will definitely bring a smile to your face and ultimately maybe even a tear to your eye. City Lights is the brilliant result you get when you have a master of his art form at work.The simple, though thoroughly captivating story, follows The Tramp as he falls in love with a beautiful, blind flower girl. She can't see him for the lowly hobo he is, a misunderstanding upon her initial meeting leads her to believe he is a wealthy gentleman. The Tramp is more than happy to allow her to maintain that illusion. He gets some help in this endeavor from a drunken millionaire who befriends him. The Tramp gets money from the millionaire, stays in his house, drives his car. All very helpful in keeping up the ruse of wealthiness for the blind girl. Unfortunately the drunken millionaire is only friends with The Tramp whenever he is in fact drunk. When he sobers up he doesn't remember The Tramp at all. This of course causes awkward, and funny, complications. Meanwhile the flower girl has problems of her own. She's behind on the rent and, unknowingly since her grandmother hides the notice, about to be evicted. The Tramp is determined to save the day, pay the rent and also somehow pay for surgery to cure the girl's blindness. How will our shabby little hero pull this off? Chaplin is a master of his craft at the peak of his powers. When City Lights was released the era of silent films was at its end, the talkies had taken over. But Chaplin was determined to tell his story his way, really the only way a story of The Tramp could ever be told. Who would want to hear The Tramp speak? The brilliance of the character is in the pantomime, the expressions. Chaplin tugs on the heartstrings without ever saying a word. Other performers in the film, most notably Virginia Cherrill as the blind girl and Harry Myers as the millionaire, play their parts well. Cherrill in particular deserves much credit for the film's ultimate emotional wallop. But this film is Chaplin's through and through, his fingerprints are on every frame. A brilliant performer, a brilliant director. Every moment is so well thought out. Maybe the film is not outrageously funny but there is plenty of humor to appreciate. Even if you think a scene may drag on too long, like a boxing match late on in the film, you can't help but appreciate the effort that went into it. It may be a little long but the scene is undeniably worked out beautifully, Chaplin showing an absolute mastery of choreography. It is a comedy film in which ultimately the comedy is secondary. Yes, there are jokes and gags and no, not all of them work perfectly. But there are definitely enough good comedic moments to keep you entertained. But more importantly there is a story to keep you enthralled. The love story between The Tramp and the blind girl warms your heart and makes City Lights a true feel-good movie, one worthy of its status as one of the most beloved films ever made.


                
I've seen for Chaplin's, I've placed them in this order: 4. The Gold Rush, 3. Modern Times, 2. City Lights and 1. The Great Dictator.When you think of it, City Lights has everything people look for in a movie - comedy, romance, tragedy, action. The one thing City Lights misses is the true meaning that everyone should hear - The Great Dictator has that.The plot is about a tramp (Charlie Chaplin) who falls in love with a beautiful young flower girl. Being blind she suspects the tramp to be rich.There's a great range of humour in the great dictator - ranging from a scene subtle making fun of talkies (City Lights is a silent film) to a blatantly slapstick boxing match. This film could be enjoyed by people of all ages.When you think of a modern comedy you get slightly disappointing, because they have nothing on City Lights. Well, Bob Dylan had it right, The Times They Are-A Changin'.I give City Lights 10/10 for being there to cheer me up and doing that job better than most movies.


                
City Lights has many limitations: film-making was new, it's shot in black and white, and it's a silent film. So it's really unfair to say that it compares poorly with the modern film, "Shakespeare in Love". But it does. When you watch City Lights, you're doing so not for the story itself but for a glimpse into the past.It's a glimpse worth seeing but there are many problems. Lacking speech, there isn't much plot, and with just gestures and facial expressions there are limits to how much emotional impact the film can have. The high point is some good physical comedy along the lines of what we'd see in a modern Jackie Chan film.Who should see this film:-- Those interested in classics only-- Tramps who can read, drive, and always wear a suit and tieIf this film were made today it would get zero. But as a short peek into antique film-making, I'll give City Lights a 7 out of 10.


                
