A technical masterpiece, making it a must see at least once in one's life. Watch it as a film-study exercise, but not as the great film it is claimed to be.We follow the life of Charles Foster Kane, a fictionalized character based on the life of William Randolph Hurst. There are strong performances in the film, magnificent use of shadows, angles, sets, as well as the fact that Orson Welles wrote, directed, starred in and had complete control over editing it. (This was unheard of at the time. But this was not really the first independent film production. Look to Howard Hughes and John Ford for this.) Good or great film-making is ultimately about story telling. For me, a film that moves me emotionally and/or intellectually, employs subtlety rather than insulting my intelligence, has true-to-life characters, presents believable situations, can be enjoyed over and over again, and stands the test of time, earns such praise. I confess that I do prefer to have a strong reaction to the main character, be it empathy, hatred, love or disgust, and some understanding and sympathy of motives. I am well aware that there are people whom are extremely difficult to completely understand, (John Ford, for example), but they are not a complete mystery.I originally saw this film about 25 years ago. As a college student, I was very quick to parrot traditional perceptions and said, "Great flick!" rather than form my own opinion. I recently re-watched it, and am quite content to wait another 25 or more years before doing so again. When the audience has to don deep-sea diving gear to attempt to understand something about the character via interpretation rather than subtlety, then the film missed the mark. The only character I found evoking any emotion, empathy or real comprehension was Kane's second wife. The film ended without any real understanding of Kane or his why his final words are what they are, nor do you care.Study the cinematography once in you life. But that's quite sufficient.


                
That about sums up my reaction to this manipulative film that so obviously wants to be intriguing. I suppose that in the era when this film was made, there was some good reason for supposing audiences would be enthralled to learn the inner goings-on for a famous and powerful man such as Kane. Those days are gone and I must report that everyone I know considers this film a dinosaur and utterly lacking in both plausibility and attractiveness. The very last thing I will do is to sit around attempting to learn the wheres and why-fores about a completely fictional person who I couldn't care less about. Kane was an unimportant nothing, in my book, be he fictional or the representation of someone real. The supposedly enthralling "Rosebud" clue was almost an insult to my intelligence - an obvious gimmick to hook the viewer. And in the end, it was nothing more than a cheap sham. For this film era, might I recommend a good Charlie Chan film?


                
I really don't understand - and those who disagree with this comment are probably thinking it's beyond my comprehension - I have one thing to say before you click that 'not useful' button and that is that your mind is easily led, like to go with the flow and you would be an ideal candidate for brainwashing! You're as eccentric as Mr Kane himself!In this films heyday when people lived by gaslight, and film direction was still evolving after the emergence of sound and the demise of silent movies - this film might have been an inspiration to 'budding' directors as it broke much ground back then in relation to editing/angles/utilisation of advanced filming techniques but that's just like saying we should immortalise the CRT's they were viewed on back then just because they too were ground breaking! This film will one day be recognised for what it is, utter rubbish - but it will take a few generation changes for this to fall in the ranks and I for one cannot wait. What a waste of time for me in this day and age where this film presented to me nothing I have not seen before.Yes the director did get a hold of our attentions early on with this storyline revolving around Kane's last word "ROSEBUD", and so we stick with this boring and tedious film until the very end to try and discover what in god's name was so important about his last utterance only to be let down by a revelation that makes you think you've wasted the last 90 minutes plus of your life.Citizen Kane gradually developed into a self-centred, spoilt, narrow-minded geriatric whose views of the world and the people around him did not actually match up with reality and thus as an inevitable result he ended up alienating himself left only with his material belongings which he'd collected over the years in his little castle (if you will) which secluded him from the world because he had lost the plot. Rosebud was a reference to a sleigh board from his youth which is probably where he was at his happiest.1/10
Even though I have studied this film numerous times and fully appreciate its artistry <U+0096> for which it deserves praise <U+0096> the basic pace of this film and its script leave me wondering if so many 'critics' place it as the best simply because it is the 'enlightened/snobbish' thing to do.Although it has a deep, sad story within it; the film, to be blunt, is boring. Each shot truly is a wonder of technical staging, special effect, and cinematography, but the film itself lacks life.The scenes are presented one at a time as different pieces in the puzzle of who Kane really was, but there are too many pieces and so little connectivity between them that they become a confusing blur from which little understanding is gleaned. The individual scenes themselves actually can be distracting from the overall film in that their rich qualities, lavish sets, and dramatic lighting often overshadow and overpower whatever information they contain. Even though the audience is supposed to be going through the same dilemma as the investigator, there are far too many lengthy subplots and red herrings. By the time the final scene is presented, the significance of what is seen is easily lost on an audience that has to think back across the entire movie to determine how it all fits together. So many with whom I have seen this film were asleep before that last scene.The film was so well hyped at its release - and has such a great story of Hearst trying to destroy it, that it is a kind of legend in film history. I simply fail to see how it is the 'greatest' film ever made. Technologically beautiful, yes. An overall great film, no.


                
I know that this is regularly voted as the best movie ever made, and is even in the top 20 or so on this very site, but i saw nothing in this film to convince me that this was the case.The plot seemed laboured, and even if it was based on a true story, it could surely have been livelier or at the very least a bit shorter. By the time the film finished i could not wait to forget all about it, and watch a proper movie.Maybe it's the films reputation that makes it appear so bland and boring. Anything with so much hype is always going to be a let-down, but i honestly just think that it's so popular simply because of the reputation that its Director/Star has built up over the years.Take my advice: Avoid this film unless you need a quick-working cure for insomnia.


                
Completely. Who thought it would be a good idea to make a movie about a newspaper editor? How boring of an idea is that? If this weren't a "Great Movie" I would have already forgotten about it by now. Some of the techniques used to make the film may have been revolutionary but that is irrelevant in terms of how good the film actually is. That is significant but should go down in some cinematography textbook, just because someone discovered some revolutionary method of film-making doesn't mean it makes his/her story interesting, quite the contrary. If you want to see a classic see Mrs. Miniver, The Best Years of Our Lives, or His Girl Friday. Anything but this snoozer.


                
Citizen Kane is a film made in the 1960s often voted as the greatest film ever. Sadly, this is not the case and i'll tell you why. Citizen Kane stars Anthony Hopkins as the newspaper mogul who goes on a steady downwards spiral as the film progresses. However Marlon Brando, whom i find to be a great actor, does a poor job in directing this supposed 'epic'. First of all opting to direct it in black and white as well as devoiding the film of laughs. There is no comedy here and i like to at least laugh when i'm watching a film, who does'nt? I guess, long story short, i really advise against seeing this film unless your looking to be bored for an hour and a half (though it feels more like 8 hours! lol).


                
I like Orson Welles as a person. He was warm, witty, intelligent, a great conversationalist. So, why do I have such an intense dislike for his entire body of work? I find his films nauseatingly morbid and draining. These very, very dark films make the darkest film noir look like a light comedy. My least favorite of his films is "Citizen Kane", a veritable compendium of everything that should be avoided in films: time spans that are too long, villainous heroes, insufferable pretentiousness and gross overreaching. This film unintentionally glorifies Hearst. He did not merit such a hatchet job. It honors him by implying there is complexity in the man. One gets the feeling that Welles secretly admired Hearst, and that behind the critique is a bit of envy.


                
but why ? apparently, this movie is a real treat for the connoisseur, and the viewers who have no knowledge about cinema and movie making are not able to appreciate the quality of this work. but to save yourself the disgrace of being seen as a layperson you can study it and try to like it. than hopefully you will understand what exactly is so great about this work and why it has such an important significance in the history of film making. I have seen this movie and I strongly recommend to reed supporting literature in advance. as for me, I find this movie overrated and I agree fully with Ingmar Bergman's opinion (see Wikiquote). rating : 2 of of 10


                
"Rosebud." Charles Kane's last words. The whole movie focuses on finding out why Kane's last word was "Rosebud." If you're into the flashback and mystery movie, it's for you. I disliked this movie because it is very hard to get into. I personally did not like this movie because I would get confused with who everyone was and when it was happening. One second he was a little boy and the next he was a grown man dealing with newspaper troubles. You learn all the mistakes he has made and how he grew up. He struggled with building his newspaper empire and keeping his affairs under wraps. The movie goes back through all of the most important events in Kane's life, like when he was adopted, building his newspaper empire and through his marriage. The movie was released in 1941. I didn't like the how the scenes and dialogue flowed. I also didn't like how the camera angles where and the actor choice. If you are into all the new advancements, like those, this movie is not for you. If you like the black and white, flashback, and boring movie, Citizen Kane is for you. I would rate the movie and 1 ½ out of five stars.
All my life I've heard how great this film is.  All my life I've heard that this is *the* masterpiece of cinema.  Finally I get a chance to watch it. I hated every second of it.  I found *NO* redeeming qualities to it whatsoever.From the opening "let's do painfully clumsy exposition in a really bad, really loud, really obnoxious faux newsreel" to the painfully obvious identity of Rosebud this film was a dog.  The only thing that kept me from falling asleep while watching it was the annoyingly loud, nasal voice of (I think) Joseph Cotten.  (It may have been Everett Sloane.  I lost track through sheer ennui....)It's possible that I'm just "not connected" to the era or style of Citizen Kane, but I pretty much have to rule that out.  I like many movies contemporary to Citizen Kane.  (Casablanca and Key Largo leap to mind immediately.)  I've also enjoyed several movies made by and/or starring Orson Welles.  (Touch of Evil leaps to mind in a big way here.)  I just found this movie annoying and irritating.This was probably the second-largest movie letdown of my entire life.


                
"Citizen Kane" is very disappointing. Of course, the technic is great, and inspired many and many great filmmakers... but it is so heavy and pretentious sometimes, as if the director of photography was telling you" hey, see how great my style is!" I should also add that camera angles and original lightning don't make a story, and in the case of "the best film ever made", it is plain boring... In a way "Citizen Kane" is like "the phantom menace". You can tell whatever you want to their fans, they will always say that they're great because thinking different would be like betraying great legends...


                
Why can't IMDB just take the actual average of all of the thousands of people who have rated these movies and come up with a real list. Citizen Kane wouldn't really be #11. Why does the "weighted average" give bonus points to a film like this while it handicaps other films that people rated higher. People would get a lot more out of an accurate list that doesn't use a bogus mystery formula to keep stuffing the same old boring films down our throats. Lose the weighted averages, IMDB. Citizen Kane would still rate high enough to appear somewhere on the list. But lets face it. It is a very boring film that wouldn't really stand the test of time on its own merits. Too many dinosaurs fighting to keep this one alive and at or near the top of these kinds of all-time lists.


                
At long last, I finally saw this film.  It's dull.  We had to take a break in the middle because it was putting us to sleep, and when we returned to it later in the day, I was in danger of slipping into a coma.  Yes, there is a lot of skill exhibited in terms of directing, but the story itself is not engaging at all.  I'm still reeling from the shock at how lifeless and boring it is, what with the stellar reputation this film enjoys.


                
Whenever I read about what a great movie 'Citizen Kane' is I am reminded of the story of the king who wore invisible clothes. The king had this suit of clothes made which the tailor said "could only be seen by honest people" , in fact there were no clothes but the tailor relied on no one admitting that they could not see them. So as the king paraded by everyone commented on how lovely the king's new clothes were though they could see nothing. Finally, a child pointed to the king and said ..."But he has no clothes, he's naked!" ... and everyone understood that they were not dishonest people but that the king was a dunce.That's exactly how I feel about this movie. EVERYONE says this movie is the greatest thing since sliced bread and I think half of them simply don't want other's to think they are artistically  challenged, a remaining fourth have been convinced that they do like it even though down at the bone they don't, and the rest really see something good in the film.I have tried repeatedly to find merit with this movie because everyone else says it's so good (so they must be right and I must be wrong) I have studied the reviews and looked for all the devices within the movie that supposedly make it so great ... but I have come to one conclusion .... the king is really naked.


                
While this movie has received many glowing reviews and critical acclaim I cannot fathom why people would consider it a great movie.  It's not even worth watching.  Aside from being slow moving and of relatively little interest it lacks plausibility on some key points.  For example why would someone, upon coming into money, send their child off to live with a banker?


                
This film is so horribly boring and uninteresting.  I sat through the worst over the top acting just so i could say i watched citizen kane.  Frankly, i don't know what the big damn deal is about this film.  it took orsen wells 2 hrs to say he wanted his childhood back?  wow, that makes for a damn compelling character and story.


                
My wife and I could not understand what the fuss was over this film.  We were lost as we tried to follow the fragmented plot and gave up after an hour.  The end would have to be great to make up for the very slow start.


                
Citizen Kane is one of these films that one feels obliged to watch in order to be able to discuss it with other film fans.I found that as sound take is still 1941 technology the low quality of the sound makes the dialogue nearly impossible to follow. Am I unfair? Possibly, but when Orson Wells rejoices in background noise over spoken dialogue, not so muchActors are awfully static, and they do not convey emotions, they do not raise empathy, I found it impossible to connect with them.The shooting is sometimes innovative, fairly modern, but I do not judge the merits of a film for the impact it had on other films, nor how good or how new it was when it came out, I judge it for what it produces on me now.As for the story, the "mystery" of Rosebud being the sort of philosophical thought that a man always longs for his childhood happiness, sorry about that, but it does not justify 90 minutes.I resent the lack of clues towards that mystery too. It seems that Orson Wells thought "I'm going to do the biography of a media tycoon, what could I do to pretend there is a story?" and then came up with some sort of vague philosophical idea about the meaning of life, et voila!If you disagree with this opinion and think "He did not get the true meaning of the film", just remember this one thing: I judge a film for what it brings to me now, not for what it brought others a long time ago. By today's standards, Citizen Kane has fallen into the "old boring film" category.
So, I'll give this film credit for the message it sends with the importance of youth and the whole searching for rosebud idea. It seems like an overplayed film theme but Citizen Kane does a decent enough job with it. With that said, I will now proceed to rake this film over the coals. I hated it. I felt like it was dull and incredibly uninspiring. Like I said before, it had potential with it's message but it never delivered. There's an incredible lack of focus on his youth and most of the film falters in my opinion as it doesn't make Kane out to look like a confused man, it makes him out to be more tyrannical and sinister. He; cheats on his first wife, beats his second wife and forces her to perform an opera to prove that HE is not a failure, and on top of that he fires his "best friend" from his paper for writing an honest review of his wife's pitiful performance. Oh and he never sees his son, so what kind of youth is he providing for him? Now on top of all of this, how is this film innovative? I've been taking History of American Cinema at my college and I don't see anything that is new and adds to the way movies are made. I was expecting a real masterpiece and boy was I ever disappointed. I just don't understand how this film is so well spoken of.
