For the life of me, I have tried hard to understand how and why this movie could possibly be considered the #1 film in the first 100 years of American film-making. The first time I tried to watch it, I got a few minutes and hated it; I couldn't make myself care. I tried again, because it's a "classic" made by a "genius", and I sincerely wanted to understand how it could possibly be voted higher than Casablanca.It is boring and noisy and the makeup is horrible. I will never understand why this movie was voted #1. I wouldn't even put it in the top 100.It has failed in every way a film can fail. I don't care about the protagonist. I find it cliché, obnoxious and dull. Perhaps in its day it was fresh, but it doesn't stand the test of time the way Casablanca does.I don't care what anyone else says about this movie; in my opinion, it is the worst thing a movie can be: boring. I will never force myself to watch it again.


                
So as many know, in recent years, Citizen Kane has made the top of the lists of prestigious "Best Films of All-Time". To be fair, that's an extremely bold claim, and those who make it have to understand they've already set expectations too high. I was aware of that, however, going in to my first time viewing as I've been there before with bold claims and know how to adjust to a more realistic preliminary mindset. Still, I did have some hopes it would live up to some level of greatness.It didn't. It was a mess. This was just a boring mess of a movie, and I was beyond disappointed. I was so bored and disengaged, I turned it off about an hour in. Not only was it boring, it was not even well done. The biggest problem is the ridiculously horrible editing. This movie is jumping all over the place with titles, voice overs, flashbacks, and current time scenes. That's effective if it's clean and not sloppy and if the film is entertaining, but this was none of those things. Now, I admit, I'm not a black and white, old movie fan. I've tried to like them through the years, but the quality compared to the last 3-4 decades is so much less, it's hard to relish in what it must have been like when these films were first released. However, I usually recognize something in them that I could understand why it might have been so popular or successful during its time. For example, It's a Wonderful Life and Casablanca had recognizable redeeming qualities. I rarely can ever raise an old classic film above an 8 rating out of 10, even when I find it good, usually due to the poor effects and camera work, in addition to other technicalities compared to more modernized, polished movies today and recent decades. But I can still find a reason why they were popular and found prestige. With Citizen Kane, I couldn't. People can like this movie if they want and critics can list it as one of the top 10 movies of all- time, even put it at number one, but I couldn't stand it. I truly found it boring, poorly made, poor quality, and a waste of my time and emotions.3/10. Awful.


                
This movie is critically acclaimed as the greatest movie of all time. In addition to critical opinions, it is ranked 33 in the top 250. I went into this film, fully expecting to be blown away by the acting, plot, storytelling, and music. I was none of these things. I have no complaints with the acting, and the story is told effectively through the use of flashback.The music is for the most part not bad, although it does not set the mood as effectively as the works of John Williams or Bernard Herrmann (Alfred Hitchcock), nor is it integral to the movie like the works of Danny Elfman (Tim Burton) or Enrico Morricone (Sergio Leone). One song in the middle of the film is supposed to be a composition written for Welles' character, and it is atrocious. I won't criticize the operatic parts, as they are intentionally sub par. All in all, the music is unremarkable.Where this movie really fails is the plot. It is the most boring movie I have ever seen. Many movies, such as "12 Angry Men," contain no action, yet rank among the greatest and most captivating movies ever made. This movie is not one of them. The plot drags at a snails pace, and not very interesting in the first place. A few things are well done, such as the slow reveal of Kane's first relationship, and the twist at the end with Rosebud is impressive, but hardly enough to save the movie.Many people call Citizen Kane timeless. I disagree. While the media still exercises considerable power today, the very way we access information has changed in the digital age. However, the death of newspapers does not kill this movie, as by that logic, any period piece would bore audiences. What kills this movie is how boring the plot is. I found myself not caring about 20 minutes into the movie. By the end of the movie, I cared even less. This movie is terrible, and though I speak against the widely accepted critical opinion of it, I am not afraid to say it because I truly believe that this movie ranks with the worst of them. I would rather watch Manos the Hands of Fate, because at least with that movie I can laugh at how bad it is. With Citizen Kane I can only cry.


                
Honestly, the mere fact that this movie is ranked so high by so many people and organizations just proves that behind the greediness of Hollywood lies a smug bunch of people who consider themselves more artsy and intellectual than everyone else in America. Unless they grew up during the great depression, they didn't actually enjoy this movie and the only reason that they move it to the top of their list is because everybody else has and they think that by not having it up there others will see them as being less artistically advanced. This movie may have been great when only 5 movies were being made in Hollywood per year, but since then hundreds of movies have been whose quality far surpasses that of Citizen Kane.


                
Why this movie gets any hoopla or adulation is beyond me. It's not that its bad or terrible (oh sure that's part of it-just kidding it's just forgettable and mediocre not terrible although it is terribly, terribly disappointing} it's just not memorable in any way and you would expect a movie of this hype to at least be good or have some memorable scenes. The majority of the movie revolves around the life and career of a newspaper editor/owner if that doesn't give you pause nothing will. What's next?-a 3 hour bio of a CPA or the long arduous tale of the life of an insurance claims adjuster. I can honestly say almost nothing in life befuddles me as much as the praise of this movie (O.K. maybe Jackson Pollock's craptacular paintings, but this movie is up there). Every scene in this movie that is supposed to be dramatic and exciting inspires a so-what kind of response. The best way I can describe how I feel about this movie is this: if it wasn't so critically acclaimed I am absolutely certain I would have completely forgotten about it by now.


                
Infantile, sentimenal, repetitive fable of lost innocence; tricked out with perspectives (see Hitchcock, Eisenstein), and depth of field (see Wuthering Heights, 1938, AA gregg Toland). Regarded as influential by superficial critics, but largely disregarded on release.Had it not been for the notoriety surrounding the source of the story, Citizen Kane would have sunk into well deserved obscurity as an impressive debut for an ultimately minor talent. It's continual appearance in list of "Greatest Movies Ever" would appear to be a matter of conditioning, and inertia, as I have yet to meet anyone who has enjoyed watching it, and have yet to hear of a film maker who was influenced by it.


                
Who hasn't heard Kane hailed as the 'greatest film ever made'??  Having heard this 1,000 times, I watched Kane with high expectations.  All I saw was average character and plot development covered up by above average (pretty excellent, actually) cinematography (which, let's admit, is fairly dated by today's standards).  Yes, it was a ground breaking movie.  Yes, it inspired filmmakers all over the planet.  Yes, it changed the industry. Even admitting all this, I still feel that Kane is over-rated.  There have been much greater films made in recent times.  To call Kane the 'best film ever' is to do so for nostalgic reasons and to ignore that better films have come along since.  I can't pick 'the best film ever made' but I can list some that are better than Citizen Kane.  How about The Godfather, Schindler's List, Gone With the Wind, Forrest Gump, or even American Beauty? These could all out shine Citizen Kane any day.


                
Why would you watch this movie...well simply to understand those "rosebud" references found in comedies. This movie had NO point! If you would like to watch a documentary about a fictional character go right ahead, but I for one think that a plot thicker than finding out why his last word was "rosebud" would have made a better movie. I've seen better plots in a pornography.


                
The plot of Kane was evident, but it was slightly monotonous (in my opinion). The prospect of a reporter attempting to find the origins of a mysterious name sounds dull, and seemed to play even duller on the screen. This is one of the movies that can be watched only with a sharp mind -- anything lesser and boredom, then sleep, seems to set in.


                
I saw Citizen Kane (CK)  some years ago, but the sense of deep dissappointment still lingers on.Some points.1. The storyline in CK: Inching ahead, tiresome, drawn-out, and at some points directly boring. Other movies from this era (and other eras) are far better. When "Rosebud" is mentioned the umpteenth time, I lost all interest - simply too thin a plot for my likings. This doesn't have something to do with the age of the movie or that is it black/white, simply my opinion about the story.2. CK as a portrait of the archetypical "Great man, who ultimately fails".This is done a lot better elsewhere. Need I mention Michael Corleone in the Godfather series. Doughboy in "Boys in the Hood" also makes for a far better and more believable "Great man, who fails at the personal/relational level" as well. Of course, I realize that CK came before these movies, but that doesn't quite make up for all of it. I simply don't find CK believable or interesting as a character.Some of my disappointment possibly stems from all the "hype" CK has received thru the times, but not all of it. Usually I tend to like what serious critics acclaim as "great movies", but this time I found myself completely at odds with the moviewatcher "establishment".3/10


                
When I was growing up, I heard about various films that were considered "Classics". Citizen Kane was one of them. Eventually, I got round to watching it, and Orson Welles follow up, the Magnificent Ambersons on TV. Both of them I found tedious, and the products of an over inflated ego. Whereas his radio broadcast of The War Of The Worlds was an excellent piece of radio history, I do not believe that his "genius" was much in evidence behind the camera, rather, he should have stuck with the medium of sound, or to working for other directors, such as Carol Reed on The Third Man. As is the case with so many "classic" movies, Citizen Kane suffers from great expectations being thrust upon a mediocre picture, with the resultant effect that the film seems even worse than it actually is.


                
I have no idea what people find in this movie. I do not know how influential it was from a cinema history standpoint, if it was I can accept that. But then, the train arrival "movie" was even more influential and about as interesting. Really, the movie is extremely boring, I really couldn't care about the "secret of Rosebud" and the "revelation" at the end wasn't anything exciting either.


                
Given the legendary status of this film I was expecting something special. It isn't.The acting is mixed, Welles is excellent in the lead role but others, in particular Comingore, are wooden at best.It is very dated in it's style and feels sluggish and melodramatic, the newsreel style is quite annoying.I can, sort of, see why it was a classic in it's day but it is definitely showing it's age.There is no empathy generated or emotion of any sort evoked by the events and the whole thing left me bored.It might be worth watching as a curiosity but not for any real enjoyment.


                
If u r the kind of person to sit down and watch a completely philosophical movie with infinite patience, that drags on and on and on, and finally appreciate the significance of the omnipresent "Rosebud", then this movie is definitely for u...The theme though is quite good and the movie wld have been quite enjoyable and a definite joy to watch if the scenes were to move a lot rapidly and the happenings were to be made less dramatic...It happens that all the artists in the movie r right out of the theatres and the drama quotient is pretty high throughout the movie...Appreciable in a sense...
This film is a prime example of the difference between film critics and film watchers. Whilst there is no doubt that the script, acting, cinematography, direction etc are first rate, it's actually rather boring. It's worth watching once, to see what all the hype is about, but it just doesn't have that entertainment value. I'm probably alone in this view, but if it came out now it'd most likely bomb at the cinema because it's just not watchable enough, particularly for today's audiences who only really want to see modern stars they know or special effects and loud explosions ! Maybe my rating of 3 is a bit harsh, but I'm a great lover of 30s and 40s films, and if you hold this up against, say, The Adventures of Robin Hood, Gone with the Wind, or Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, it just doesn't have that X factor. I'd be the first to admit it's a landmark film, but too many critics still hold a candle up to this film as the ultimate movie experience, but I'm sorry... it's not !


                
If your name is Sarah Esther Bonos, please do not watch this film. Ate Sar, listen to me. This may be on the list of the must-see movies of all time but don't bite into it. We have watched so much more worthy films.Maybe it only is generation gap: people in the Citizen Kane era might be more appreciative of the plot or theme of these kinds of stories but today's generation has a lot more depth to offer. I would like to give Citizen Kane all the glory rendered to it because I am not a film- expert. I am not well versed when it comes to cinematography,stylistics, etc. But today's kinds and types of movies are (or thankfully enough has become) better than Citizen Kane. I hope this do not come across as mockery to this film. It just did not suit my "era," so to speak, and that is all.When I watch movies, stories make the most impact to me. Story-wise, Citizen Kane is circumloquacious and superficial. The twist is also a 'meh.' When you get to it, you'll ask yourself: 'so that's it?' We are introduced to a supposedly great man by the name of Charles Foster Kane. Then we are allowed to take a peek of his life from the points of view of those who have come to know him. Finally, the end reveals how Charles Foster Kane's life is really not defined either by his popularity or people's opinion about him. Instead, Charles Foster Kane's life is harnessed in one word - the final words he uttered before he died: Rosebud.There is a line in the movie that says: "I don't think there's one word that can describe a man's life." But by the end, we are shown how this is an irony. Charles Foster Kane's life is Rosebud - the name of the sleigh he received as first Christmas present away from his parents. He is Rosebud because he was playing with a sleigh on the snowy day when he separated from his parents. He is Rosebud because this sleigh represents his yearning to be with his parents once again. If he grew up with his parents, he would not have longed so hard for someone to love him the way he wanted to. Love would not have been a requirement for him. He would have welcomed it freely. But no, this is not the case for Charlie Kane. He grew up far from his parents. He was sent away. He was unwanted. That is why he has this constant sense of desire to gain people's love. That's basically it.I just do not think it should have taken two hours for a story like that to be revealed. There are a lot of layers you can create to a story within the span of two hours. All the yada-yada about Charles Kane - his dry greatness, his influence and non-influence in politics, his popularity - they are just fillers to the story. The entire time, the movie is suggestive. Charles Kane is great. Charles Kane is rich. Charles Kane is the man of the masses. Charles Kane is a philanthropist. As an audience, I don't like to be fed with impressions. If the character is great, let me recognize it myself. Don't put it to my face. In the beginning of the film, I was "told" that Charles Kane is an interesting character. But as I have discovered afterwards, he is not. He is dry. He is unintelligible. He is not charismatic at all. He is an old-school confused fraud. That is how he appealed to me.In addition and as a final note to this review, I would like to mention that the musical score is bad. There were several moments in the movie that I had to lower down the volume of my laptop because of this loud annoying musical score whenever Kane is about to be introduced. I don't know, maybe I really am stupid because I do not get it at all. But Citizen Kane is frankly ordinary to me. We have made several worthier and weightier movies; and I am glad that we continue to make more. A look in the past is not bad when it gives you hope for the future.
I found Citizen Kane to be rather boring. The story sort of ends where it begins and plays a back seat to the overbearing message the film is forcing on the viewer. The emotions didn't feel genuine or powerful enough to support that message and move me in any significant way.The time line felt sloppy. At some points, too slow. At others, too fast. The film climaxed after a "fast forward" of what seems like several decades. You have to appreciate the film's point of witnessing Kane's transformation from one person into another but the road to do so feels like it's full of potholes and shortcuts. I feel critic's praise for it's "revolutionary" accomplishments for the era it was produced in is well deserved but unfairly considered for the "Best Movie of All Time" title. I didn't find anything about Citizen Kane to be remarkable other than it's ability to stand out against other films of the era.


                
WHY do so many people think Citizen Kane is one of the best of all time? I know that I am not the only person (especially man) who was bored to tears by this movie and never have understood why I was told to use it as an example of how to make a great movie.Of how to make an old fashioned Soap Opera YES.If you want to talk and talk and bore people to death then Kane is just the example you want to follow in how to be long winded and dull.Eschewing action and a good story line for a pedantic plot that is right out of the lecturers handbook then go ahead and sit through Kane and let people know you think Rosebud was brilliant.I'll watch an action movie or cartoons...anything that keeps me awake which this sure as hell won't now that I don't have to write a report on it


                
I saw this movie some years ago and as a few others here, I fell asleep..Tried once more and I don't even remember if I was able to finish it.Yes, it could be the most boring movie I have ever seen and I just don't get the hype about it. At least a few others here has realized that as well.


                
Apparently my expectations were too high but I was very disappointed in "Citizen Kane". I had heard the hype for years and was savoring the moment of watching the "greatest film in cinema history". I love movies from the silent era through the late 40s and there is the occasional 50s and 60s movies that I enjoy as well. Perhaps it's the movie stars that attract me to those movies. However, "Citizen Kane" didn't fulfill my expectations and I was disappointed in the story and especially the ending.


                
To call Citizen Kane " A Great Cinematic Achievement" ranked #1 on many so called "experts" list simply means too many people watch movies drunk, stoned and half asleep... I did notice the cinematography. There some really nice camera angles show depth of field and the use of shade and light that were novel for that period, but nothing to call this movie, exceptional? The story line was beneficial in moral and exploration of the human condition, but you had to "hunt" for it and want to find it. Movies like "Forrest Gump" accomplish the same thing with more imagination and identifies with "everyman" not just privileged men who "gag on the sliver spoon"... To truly call something "great" in my opinion, is to have lost out if one is to never have had the opportunity to experience it... There are probably a hundred movies I would recommend seeing and calling #1 or at least worth watching and this movie shouldn't even be in the conversation... "Rose Bud" is a "Rose Dud" and doesn't mean anything to anyone except one person... an insider insult from Orson Wells to William Randolph Hurst! Why should we care?<U+FEFF>This movie at least in part, is about the manipulation of citizens by the press... I think friends of the makers of this movie called it number 1 and reduced it's availability so people would simply PAY to see it and something that should be collecting minimal revenue is still VERY viable to it's producers and or beneficiaries ... which ironically is part of the plot of the movie itself... now in that way it might be worth ranking NUMBER ONE... cause we are gullible and fell for it! LOL<U+FEFF>
