OK look, let me settle something between those who love and hate this film. A lot of people hail this film because it is technically brilliant and ground breaking. Director Orson Welles did a lot of things visually that no one had ever done before. Nearly every film maker was in some way influenced by this movie. This movie also had a great impact in its time. The title character was based on media giant William Randolph Hearst. He was that generations Donald Trump. He opposed this film so much he did everything in its power to stop its release and almost succeeded. Lastly this film contains some of the strongest and most common themes in literature; Life versus death. It is for these reasons why this film is so revered.On the contrary people who hate this film mainly complain that it is boring. Which is a legitimate complaint. The story is slow compared to today's standards, and there is no real Hearst character alive today in which to relate. So yes, the story on the surface is outdated. However, this does not make it a bad movie. It was not made as a Matrix/Star Wars type of movie which can be enjoyed even at surface level. This is not pure entertainment. Remember there is more to film than storytelling. This film was designed to be cinematically beautiful and to tell a basic story of love and redemption. There is much more to the story than the thinly veiled attack on Hearst, one just needs to look deeper. Look at Shakespeare or Hawthorne for example, their literary works are universally loved. Yet, many people blow them off because they refuse to look past the outdated language into the beautiful prose and simple ubiquitous themes. Just because something is outdated does not mean it lacks worth in today's world.My advice to those who did not like it the first time or have not seen it yet is simple. Watch it again for what it is. Do not expect to be on the edge of your seat for two hours. Watch it for the cinematography that alone makes this film among the best (I don't agree with AFI's number one ranking but I think it still ranks high). Look deeper into the story and try to connect with it on some level. At the very least appreciate how influential this film was and where the industry would be without it. If you can do this, then maybe some of the naysayers will change their minds. Again, you do not have to love Citizen Kane, but at least respect it for what it is.


                
Okay. First of all, I DO like many old movies. 12 angry men, Casablanca, Where Eagles Dare, Psycho, The Treasure of Sierra Madre, The Great Dictator, Some Like it Hot and more. They're all brilliant and I enjoyed them throughout.But Citizen Kane...I just can't see what's so great about it. It made no impression on me whatsoever. When it comes to plot, camera-angles, themes, characters, acting and such, it seems like few movies are as praised as this. Still, when I read reviews on other classics, for example Casablanca, it feels like they say many of the same things.I'm not an expert on what makes some films objectively better than others, but if the other classics with most of the other "greatnesses" actually ARE interesting and fun to watch, then Citizen Kane should also be able to entertain as well as just being "great".You can say what you want about movies, but no matter how well they're made, they should also entertain in some way or another to be classified as great. And I'm not one of those guys who only like action movies. An example of a great movie is Requiem for a Dream. It's disturbing, repulsive and scary as h*ll, but I couldn't keep my eyes from it, and it made a brutal impression. Other examples of movies that are deep, makes an impression AND are entertaining could be One flew over the Cuckoos Nest, The Visitor, American Beauty and Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind.But entertainment isn't all. I see that. If Citizen Kane had made an impression it wouldn't fail no matter how uninteresting. Taxi Driver is another movie I bored me through, and don't want to see again, but still I find it good because I couldn't stop thinking about it afterwards. It made an impression. Citizen Kane doesn't do that either.And to all you die-hard-fans who hate me, wants to disgrace me, and finds it horrendous to call a classic "not entertaining" I'll just quote the great Ingmar Bergman: "Citizen Kane is a total bore!" To call me retarded or something like that would be to call one of the greatest directors of all time the same. In addition it's clear that many more agree as well. It's not long since the feature was in the top 3 on IMDb. Today it's number 29.So all in all, I may not know how to judge objective qualities of movies, but I'm certain that movies that doesn't leave any impression whatsoever AND isn't entertaining at all aren't great no matter what. And that's why "the greatest movie ever made" fails for me. 3/10


                
OK so you've watched the movie and saw that its terrible and wanted to see what other people think or you're reading reviews before you watch it and you find people giving it 10 stars for the saw called amazing "cinematography" well its not only you who hated this movie i hate it too as well as many others this movie is completely dull and boring !!! I wasted 2 hours of my life, i read reviews before i watched it and saw that some people hated it, i slept when i came to watch it the first time so i said maybe i was tired that day but i gotta admit i slept really good while the movie was still running. Next day i thought that i maybe should watch it again but it was still boring i mean how more pathetic can a movie be !! This movie should never be on the top !! It should be on top of the IMDb's Bottom 100 list !! I regret watching this movie, if you haven't watched it yet i advice you NOT to watch it ! its PATHETIC !


                
Citizen KaneDepicting a marriage within few minutes or even a career of an entertainer represents a keen and devoting man behind the camera as it probably is the first time the cinema must have encountered a 'biography' genre film with such powerful sequence and fast paced acts. Citizen Kane is considered to be one of the few masterpieces ever to be set in cinema history but for me it doesn't quite works for I fail to connect it on the first instinct and the soul of it as its genre is something that I can't seem to understand but having said that I can definitely observe and appreciate the craft ensemble by the actors and projecting it majestically along with the writers and makers who are not only completely attentive to each and every frame of it but speaks the cinematic language through their work. And as its genre suggests and asks for, Orson hasn't let it down through out the course of it pushing Citizen Kane onto the major league with the help of a gripping screenplay, stellar performances and some nail biting sequences that genuinely oozes brutality and humanity in the characters.


                
Citizen Kane is one of the greatest movies ever created on planet earth and it's the greatest American movie ever produced. Charles Foster Kane had everything power,beautiful wife and girlfriend.Kane is also the biggest mystery film from 1940s. Orson Welles remains as one of the greatest directors and actors of all time.the film started about Charles Foster Kane death and his final words "rosebud".the main character Kane was inspired by newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst. i personally like it better than Godfather sorry godfather fans but it's overrated.Kane is ego,but he is main character. i recommend it.


                
I've been told that Citizen Kane has been regarded as the greatest black and white film and ALSO the greatest motion picture of all time, that is until 'Vertigo' surpassed it. My initial reaction to this statement was REALLY!?! Don't get me wrong; I have loved some black and white films most notably one of my favorite films of all time, '12 Angry Men' and also Alfred Hitchcock's 'Psycho' Checking the perfect Rotten Tomato rating convinced me to watch this film although there were mixed "Top Reviews" on IMDb. I enjoyed the start and found it extremely unique as it started with the death of Charles Foster Kane uttering his last word 'Rosebud'. I thought that was a great way to start and the mystery behind why he said it was definitely mysteriously and got me interested in the story, much like '12 Angry Men' did. However, to me, this film heavily suffers from poor pacing. At sometimes, the film seems to be speeding along brilliantly, with the plot and characters flowing through perfectly. At other times, the pacing is completely off and the film seems a bit of a torture to watch. I NEVER expected or wanted any action of any sort for this type of film as '12 Angry Men' did not and that was a spectacular masterpiece. However, the tone of the film just put me off as some flashback sequences dragged on a bit too long. What I can't understand about this film is how it STILL is regarded the "Second" greatest motion picture. I mean, back then, it would've been a revolutionary film with all the special editing and the camera work and the great acting but now??? I mean, to be honest, there are plenty of FAR SUPERIOR black and white pictures such as 'Cascablanca', '12 Angry Men', 'Psycho', 'Schindler's List' and so on. These films I listed keep you emotionally connected to the story more (or at least it did for me) and have far better characters and a plot.This isn't to say that I hated the film or found it extremely boring. Not quite true. I enjoyed the film as a whole but there are certain elements lacking from the film. One is, after a while the mystery behind the film starts to get away from people as the film at times goes onto focus on stuff that end up not really relating to Kane's last word. It also became extremely difficult to connect with 'Singer' aka Susan. I found her character, ENTIRELY annoying as she turned out to be one of the main parts to Kane's life. One thing I definitely loved about the film however, was that it perfectly illustrates how Charles' life completely changes when he falls for fame and power. The scene where he starts off in love with Emily and slowly shows shots and shots of his feelings toward her changing was superbly done. Overall, the film brilliantly illustrates how Kane's happy life changes when he falls for fame and power. *******MAIN SPOILER***********************I enjoyed at the end how 'Rosebud' to Charles meant that he could've the last of his years happily. That was a clever twist right there and I enjoyed that.Overall, I feel that this is NOT a must see film and those who absolutely love classic old films should see this and decide for yourself.
Over the years ive grown to not hate this movie, I don't love this movie, its not a horrible movie by any means, its shot well, and well acted, that's what happens when you're a perfectionist, but the story is just uninteresting, its the tale of I newspaper tycoon who gains vast amounts of wealth, and lives a fantastic lifestyle. And what did his last word mean? who is this guy and why should I care? that's what I ask myself every time. I'm not trying to hate on this movie, I'm just not interested in the story that's presented
"Citizen Kane," released in 1941, was ahead of its time in cinematography. Many long cuts, showing action in real time, fill the film. The few short cuts are taken mainly to emphasize dialogue. This story of newspaper tycoon Charles Foster Kane is based loosely on the life of William Randolph Hearst, who fought the release of this film into theaters.The story is not told in chronological order. The first impression we get in this film is of a run down mansion, inhabited by a dying old man, whose last word in life was "rosebud." The quest of the film is to discover the meaning of this word."March of the News," a satire of the theater weekly "Time Marches On" newsreel, is footage of Kane documenting his lifetime, and gets the audience inside the life of this powerful, yet uncaring man. The story of his life is told through a series of flashbacks, some spanning many years through one dissolve. Kane collects statues, paintings, animals in a zoo, and a vast area for his home and castle in Florida known as Xanadu, based on the "castle" of William Randolph Hearst, who did his best to destroy the film before it was shown to the public. Charles Foster Kane is a montage of several real-life characters, Hearst among them.As a boy, Kane is removed from his mother's home because she has come into money, and wishes for the boy to be well cared for. In addition, the father is excited about receiving $50,000 each year during the boy's absence. The mother, played by a young Agnes Morehead of "Bewitched" fame, is solid, stoic and almost unfeeling at the loss of her child. Similarly, Kane does not visit his parents during the film, referring only to his mother's passing, and possessions he ought to go through.The shot of a portrait of the newsmen of "The Chronicle" dissolves into a shot of his new "Inquirer" staff. Kane paid these reporters well to come to work for him. One senses Kane has no scruples, despite the fact he gets his way by being charming. During an office celebration, Kane dances charmingly with chorus girls, his dancing reflected in an elaborate shot with his image reflected in the mirror as his friends Mr. Bernstein and Jedidiah talk of him as a great and famous man, and all sing an original some about Charle Kane. Kane announces his engagement, and consequent marriage to the niece of the President of the United States, Emily. He wants not only to fit in with the elite, but to have high society to bend to his whims. His is not a happy marriage, shown in a series of montage cuts over the breakfast table. His wife eventually leaves Kane and takes their son because Kane doesn't spend time with them, or understand and empathize with family feelings.He treats his wives like another of his many possessions, telling the women what they are, what they will think, and what they will do. His second wife pursues a career in opera, which is a mistake because she has no talent. Her misery falls back on him, but he pushes her to continue.Kane has political aspirations which burst like a bubble once his extramarital affair with the second woman is made public, and his first wife divorces him. The grandiosity in which Kane presents himself is actually very shallow, his work for his fellow man's benefit appears only in his early life. As an old man he is callous and uncaring of anything that doesn't have directly to do with him. "All he ever wanted was love," recollects Jedidiah as an old man.We learn of the meeting of Kane and his second wife on a street corner, as she leaves the drugstore with toothache medicine, and he has just been splashed with mud by a passing horse and buggy. Thety retire to her boarding house room, and his attempt at first seduction is quelled by her keeping the door open. Their relationship shown on screen is harmless, but the audience knows that more comes to pass between them. Kane loves Susan because she loves him, without realizing he is a wealthy powerful newspaper man. But, the more she knows him, the less she likes him.Kane pursues the governorship of the state, expressing his concern for the "working man." His dreams for the Presidency of the United States die, but out of his grasp because his affair is exposed. "A toast to love on my terms. That's the only terms that anyone really knows," says Kane when defeated at the hands of his precious working class, now represented by organized labor.Kane is a man of wealth and power, and builds an opera house in Chicago for his wife to sing in. As well, his newspapers across the country give her rave reviews. Only his friend, and arts editor prints a scathing review which Kane finishes as the man, Jedidiah Leland, his friend from college days passes out from drinking before he finishes the review of her performance. "Some kind of friend he is," shrikes his lame songstress, now wife.Despite a palace of 49,000 acres of scenery and statues, and the still being built compound/castle of Xanadu, Susan leaves Kane, and he erupts into a violent temper explosion in which he destroys Susan's room. Kane lives his final years alone, in what Leland refers to as his coliseum.As a group of reporters and photographers survey more possessions than can be counted, the audience sees Kane's sled, burning in an incinerator. Can one word really sum up the wishes of one's life?


                
It would be difficult at best to contribute any insight in what might be the most analyzed movie of all time. So I think I'd like to just give my initial impressions of this film after seeing it for the first time in over a decade. This is a hauntingly powerful work. This is a film that many will relate to and revisit mentally. The strength of the film lies in the writing. The unique way in which the story is revealed and the smart believable dialog. The technical aspects are also unique and the use of light is superb. It's one of the best and certainly one of the first. Some of these images will sear themselves through your eyes into your brain. Orson shows his story telling and visionary talent in this piece. He was well beyond his time which is why his peers booed this film multiple times during the academy awards. It's looks as though Orsen had the last laugh as this one time art house film becomes one of the films against which all others are measured.


                
A few weeks ago I was in the position to see Casablanca and Citizen Kane in the same week, after not having seen them for a long time. I came to the conclusion that Casablanca was still a great movie, and that CK was not that good after all. It's actually very boring and slow. The acting is, except for the last part, not convincing and at times really outdated. The film-techniques that are supposed to be that great, didn't help the story at all, and that should be the main purpose of any technique. My conclusion is that CK is still a hype, and it doesn't deserve to be one. Maybe it's worth the 250th place in the poll, just for the supposed historic importance (which I don't get, but I give the 'learned' some credit).


                
Any art becomes harder to appreciate as time passes. We look at statues and paintings from, lets say the Ancient Greece, and we appreciate them for their aesthetic, their style and the craftsmanship that went into making them. Yet we often know very little about why or even how they were made. Were they political in their time, like art often is nowadays, or were they made simply to feed the artist, like some of the greatest works of art in history have sometimes been made? And if we somehow found out that a painting of a human figure in some prehistoric cave was actually a political satire of the rival clan chief, would it add value to the work?I ponder this because I don't think I fully get Citizen Kane, or if I even can get it without a degree in history. Back in its days, the film was widely applauded for its groundbreaking style and its cinematographic feats. Orson Welles put himself on the map by pulling off tricks and visuals that had never been seen before. He also based the story of one Charles Foster Kane on a real life business tycoon William Randolph Hearst, a polarizing figure back then, thus tying the film to the days of its release.And I view this film and I must admit that it didn't blow me away. The cinematography is brilliant and impressive, but I've seen most of the tricks already in newer films, and thus their impact is lessened. And while it's an interesting character study about the meaning of contentment, wealth and American ideals, I was left with the impression that I was missing something. And I think it's that I have no real life parallels to compare this film to. Especially seeing as I'm not an American.Is it still a good film? Oh, definitely. It's a pioneer of its field, its themes are very deep, it's beautiful on the technical level and even the story, while rather slow, does keep you interested through the capturing presence of Welles' acting. I do recommend seeing it, though I must admit that I respect it more than I like it.


                
Citizen Kane is the motion picture which, since its release, has been widely regarded by almost all critics, filmmakers & even many viewers around the world as the greatest film of all time. And although I agree to some extent that, purely on a technical scale, this might be the most influential picture ever made but based solely on its plot & story, there are far better examples in cinema than this one.Still, there is no denying that Citizen Kane is a boldly crafted feature which not only defied all the typical methods of filmmaking that were in use at its time of production but also ended up completely rewriting the manuals of filmmaking in the process. The film tells the story of a publishing tycoon whose death makes news reporters scramble around to discover the meaning of his final utterance.While there is a lot to take in here, the best part of Citizen Kane remains its stupefying cinematography & the overall structure of its narration while the worst was, in simple words & in just my opinion, an insufferable boring story. So boring that it took me 6 unsuccessful attempts to finish it. But once it accomplished that, the end result was surprisingly better than what I was expecting from it.The film presents an unusual portrayal of a larger than life character told through different people & is wonderfully assisted by its carefully crafted screenplay, innovative sharp focus photography, non-linear narration, inventive use of make-up, sound & transition effects, splendid score & a strong central performance by Orson Welles in front as well as behind the camera.On an overall scale, Citizen Kane is arguably the most experimental cinema of its era that has somehow managed to stand the test of time and is certainly one of world cinema's highly influential & important works whose significance to the film medium is simply as mysterious & profound as the symbolism behind the word, "Rosebud".


                
The elegance and production quality of this film are absolutely stunning and flawless for the time. The plot and storyline, however, left much to be desired to me, as they were slow developing and not as exciting as I had hoped. The extensive length of the movie also hindered how I felt about the overall quality of the film. My negative criticisms of the film aside, I do still believe that this film is deserving of the high praise and prestige that it receives and is known for. Overall this movie was an excellent masterpiece that was well designed, put together, and thought out, unfortunately, it was just not to my tastes and I could not enjoy it like most people did.
It's hard to watch a movie that you know was innovative and considered one of the greatest movies of all time and not be overwhelmed by it.Those who were not there when the Beatles first arrived or when Elvis first hit the stage or when Brando first graced the stage, etc, etc. could not possibly appreciate the full impact of the artistry of these artists. Regarding Citizen Kane. I am one of those people. I really like the movie, but to be overwhelmed by it, I would have to place my mind set back to the time when it first premiered. I'm sure I would have been.Mr. Wells is a great director. The actors in the move are all skillful professionals. Everything technically was a little ahead of its time. I think it's a must see for anyone who follows the history of movie making.


                
I had very high hopes for Citizen Kane. First off, the cinematography was amazing. There was a consistent yet still complex way to how it was shot. For example, there were scenes where the opening would be a close up of someone's face while at the same time you could see another subject in the background, just as in focus as the main image. This opened a few scenes and was stylistically a great choice. 
The plot was great, I loved how detailed and complex it was. The flashbacks were done very well and did what they needed to do. They helped move the plot along but in an artistic and helpful way. The acting was great. The only thing I had a hard time with was the overall point of the film, but I can see why people liked it so much at the time. However, even given its historic/political tones, as a viewer I found it to be a very basic, white washed story. It looked great and was told well but meant nothing to me as a young person in 2018. I still appreciate it. The moral that you should savor life and that money doesn't buy happiness was my biggest take away.
Excellent movie. Not my personal style of movie. But very professional. And should be seen at least once.This is definitely a movie I would recommend to watch at least once. There are some great scenes. Professional all around, everything from story, dialogue, acting, cinematography, editing, music, etc. A special note on the cinematography. Although it is professional and inventive, I did not care for it. It is too all over the place. I like camera work where you don't notice the technique. This camera work, you definitely notice. One of the best scenes is towards the end when Orson Welles destroys his wife's room. Great stuff. If they had a TV set that would have crashed through the window and out to the swimming pool. Think drunken rock and roll band. But more the wife just left him, and the last thing he told her is please don't go, don't do this to me. This is a thinking movie. Very intelligent. Lots of areas are covered. Watch the movie. But some may find the documentary style boring. My rating is a B, or 7. Because it is not the style of movie that I prefer. It is basically a fictional biography.
Citizen Kane has been labelled as one of the greatest movies ever made. The story of a newspaper tycoons life and how a reporter try's to find the meaning of his last word. Directed and starring Orson Welles.It pains me to say it but I found this film disappointing. I tried to go through my mind after the film searching for why I didn't enjoy it and I considered that maybe it was because of the age of the film, but then I remembered that there were many films from this era that I loved so that didn't stick. The only thing I could say is that maybe it was because it was literally the first big film after the new era of sound and at its time was considered groundbreaking while now it seems tepid. Even this reason doesn't really feel right with me and honestly I think it's down to the following reasons why I truly found this film a let down.The biggest hit to this film for me is the acting, it mentions at the credits that this film gave a first break for some of the actors and it really does show. Firstly though Welles acts his role perfectly as the love starved Kane, perfectly finding his electricity and his need for people to love him. Other than Cotton (perhaps the lead female deserves credit) I found the supporting cast poor in general but this is really to be expected as looking back to most pre 1960 film there are not normally more than two good actors in a film. This does not sound like much of bad point but I coming to why the acting in this film ruins it for me. There is one pivotal scene in the movie, the scene where the child is taken away towards the start. This scene was supposed to show the child's carefree nature and then how this is ripped from him by the corporation coming in and removing him from his family. The scene annoys me, the child actor does not portray the feeling of this emotion correctly and you watch feeling like it could of been done so much better and without this scene being done properly the metaphor for the film is lost. Now you may say this is harsh on the child actor but the people who made this film should have seen this and either re-shot with a different actor or thought of a different idea on how to work the loss felt by the child into the film.My second criticism of the film is partly to do with the way it is filmed, splicing different segments of his life story in different order due to them being told by different people. While I must firstly say this sort of thing in 1941 is groundbreaking and perhaps the fact that they even attempted it shows my following to be a moot point, but I still wouldn't expect this from the "Greatest Film Ever Made". Because of this way of film making the scenes with Kane himself are short and sharp, showing change in character very quickly, see scene with his first wife having dinner, this doesn't allow a true character arc. With more time spent in each scene perhaps a feel for the character or an understanding of why he changes could be seen. Also I would of preferred the film to have been perhaps 30 minutes longer to allow for more of Kane's character to be seen with perhaps some delving into his childhood or more of why he no longer ran the paper.I would like to make clear that while I did not completely love this film it must be seen as a groundbreaking film for its time and at the time, the best film ever made. It's use of camera angles and focus is far beyond anything seen in that age with some absolutely amazing cinematography. Two scenes stick out for me, but it must be said that there are many scenes throughout the film which look fantastic. Firstly where Kane is finishing Leland's review of his wife's performance and Leland slowly walks towards him from the distance showing Kane's madness and Leland trepidation of approaching him in one perfect shot. Secondly a scene where Kane signs away his newspaper shows Kane becoming smaller as he walks towards the window and then underneath it. It shows to our perception that the window is bigger than we think and that Kane himself has shrunk in stature.Lastly I would just like to add that after reading the film I read several posts on this films wall wondering why more was not said about Charlie's son. The people on the boards point to it as a flaw in the film while I claim it to be probably it's biggest success. The lack of attention to the child by Kane and the film overall(more so as a metaphor in terms of the film) is down to Kane's own loss of childhood. Being taken from his family and forced to grow too quickly causes Charles Kane to becoming a wreck, a man who will do anything to be loved. He buys possessions and creates a temple, he tries so hard to help the working man by promising to remove corruption and bring truth, he does anything for his wives but in the end does not listen to them thinking only selfishly. All of these thing's he does for love and attention but in the end the loss of his family and childhood leaves a gaping hole in a young Charlie and though he tries to fill this void he cannot, showing the true meaning of this film, and of of "rosebud", money cannot buy you happiness. 7/10


                
I don't get the point. Why is this film considered one of the best ever? I can understand that Orson Welles was pioneering in this film, but that was 60 years ago, so that can't be the reason it's rated so high... But what is? You knew from the beginning on what Rosebud meant, and I mean the symbolism as well, and the only thing left was the story of Mister Kane. What's so special about that? Does that make it a top 250 film? I don't think so... It's just a drama, I'm not saying it sucks, but to place it in the top 250... that's just overrating. I don't understand how it got there.


                
great acting, touching story but overall more of an atmosphere movie than a full storyline.still a good movie by todays standarts.. and it does deal with the antropological question of the true value of a mans life.


                
Citizen Kane, as the movie says, "he wasn't brutal, he has done things brutally". The movie gives us a perspective of America's culture integrated with the biographical evidence through flashbacks. Mystery is discoursed during the interviews with Kane's friends. It shows us that even if you have the power to buy all of the ancient masterpieces such as statues, diamonds etc. , you are not perfect in life. Kane ha ups and downs and due to his lost childhood, he has a missing piece from his puzzle.
This film makes the audience search for a man called "Charles Foster Kane" to see if he is a real person yet fictitious.
It is classified as a mystery movie, but it is, indeed, a biographical drama.
If you want to make a movie seem even better than it already is, don't ever tell someone it is the greatest movie ever made. Not only will you most likely be telling the truth, you will also avoid setting a potential viewer's expectations far too high.Over the years, countless professional and amateur film critics have been herolding Citizen Kane as the greatest movie of all time. It is logical, then, that when I watch it in 2002, it should be the greatest movie I have ever seen. As you have already guessed, it is not. This movie is for a certain breed of people. It's dark realization on screen and an obvious lack of a character the audience can readily sympathize with can easily turn off many-a viewer. I found myself making a serious effort just watching the TV, obviously something that rarely happens.Potential viewers be warned: you will not be blown away the first time you watch this. The "killer" ending has been spoiled for everybody and the many great themes contained in this rich (maybe too rich) story will not be picked up when first watching this. My advice to anyone watching this for the first time is to wade through the twisting, often uninteresting plot, then rewind and enjoy the characters and images without having to worry about following the story.In conclusion, while Citizen Kane must have been the best movie when it came out, contemporary viewers might find it unappealing at first viewing and anticlimaxes thanks to the now-unsurprising surprise ending (not its fault, but something to consider), which in my opinion makes it fall short of best movie status. For a movie to work on many levels, which Citizen Kane does (but certainly isn't the only one) it must first work at the most superficial and let the viewer dissect it on his own. If you want to watch a fun classic that also has something to say, I recommend Casablanca.


                
The protagonist Charles Kane is a brash and jovial woman-grabbing, wife-cheating, promise-breaking, populist-talking, election fraud claiming, gilded and opulent billionaire of inherited fortunes, who is a "champion of the people" and who's favourite pastime is to manufacture and spread fake news. When campaigning to become governor, he even makes a promise in a speech at a rally to appoint a special district attorney to investigate, prosecute and convict his political opponent. Not to mention that he has a fabulous retreat in Florida by the name of Mara... I mean Xanadu. Does any of that sound familiar? I cannot believe I am watching a movie from 1941. Ever since the movie's release, people have been talking, how much ahead of its time "Citizen Kane" was. Boy, if they only knew.Apart from the uncanny coincidences with modern times, the virtues of the movie itself are numerous. The script is witty and the mystery keeps us guessing. The direction, cinematography and camera angles look modern even today and must have been ground-breaking back in the day. Jumping back and forth in time keeps the viewer on his toes, which also brings us to the age transformations displayed in the movie, as those are simply marvelous. Especially believable is Orson Welles himself, either as an energetic young man, a more reserved middle aged one or a visibly aged old one. This must be the first movie, where I don't get the jarring feeling of seeing a young man play the part of an old man or vice versa (although the same can't quite be said of the actresses, who must have resisted being made up to look old). Having pulled together all the different parts needed to make a movie work, you really feel like you are seeing the work of a genius here. No wonder this movie is considered one of the towering masterpieces of cinema. If my hunch is correct and a certain political figure has taken away and implemented all the wrong messages from this movie, it is still having a very real effect on everyone's lives today. How many movies from the 1940s (or even at all, up to the most recent ones) can claim that? A unexpectedly tremendous achievement indeed.


                
One scene sums this film up for me. Welles, as Kane, walks to a window which appears to be of normal size. As he approaches it, we see it is enormous and 6 feet off the ground. He then walks to the foreground again, and once more the window looks normal.This seems to say "Look how clever I am, to do this". This cleverness pursued for its own sake is the hallmark of Welles in general and Citizen Kane in particular. As Welles himself said in the film which provides the other bookend to his career, F For Fake: "I am a charlatan".This is not to say that Kane is not a good film, merely that its constant gimmickry detracts from it. It has as many special effects as a modern day science fiction film and Welles, being the infant terrible he was at the time, has an endless need to put in as many trick shots as possible even if they seriously overbalanced the rather slight storyline. Never do a simple shot when you can have a camera crane in, then dissolve, then have a piece of furniture open up and so on. All this has made the film beloved among cinephiles and uncriticisable among anyone else.But is the story any good? Does the pacing and narrative hold up? The answer is just about yes, although the story is not as good as it thinks it is.


                
I'm 53 and just a few days ago I purchased this movie on DVD and watched it for the first time in my life. Don't get me wrong, it's a good movie. But the best movie ever? Really? (Many lists I've seen of top X movies of all time rate this #1 or #2.) I mean come on, 78 years worth of movies later and the best ever?? No way. I'm sorry.


                
To hear critics and many reviewers, this is THE movie. The movie to end all movies. Imagine my surprise when, eagerly, I started watching it, only to find out that I don't like it. I endured through all of it though, for art's sake.It's a visual spectacle, alright. It's got everything a movie needs to succeed as a technical feat. But the story failed to grab me and I didn't feel anything for any of the characters. It's a drab chronicle of some man's life.From Tarkovski and Bergman to Riddick and Guardians of the Galaxy I can find entertainment in movies in many shapes and sizes. But be it brainless action, suspense, existential pondering or mere wordless atmosphere, a movie has to give me something to munch on. Citizen Kane doesn't. I'll watch it again, for sure, but as of now, my impression of it aligns with Bergman's. A glorified bore of a movie.


                
