Kane "Citizen Kane" (1941) was Orson Welles' film debut, and in it he created an enduring masterpiece that is considered by many to be the greatest movie ever made.Story: Shortly after "Citizen Kane" opens, we see aged newspaper tycoon Charles Foster Kane (Welles) softly drawl the word "Rosebud" and die. Sensing that there's a story behind Kane's dying word, a magazine editor shows a reporter a newsreel obituary that chronicles how Kane created a business empire, married a U.S. President's niece, ran unsuccessfully for Governor of New York, divorced his first wife and married a second, collected art, built a fabulous estate called Xanadu, and divorced his second wife. The reporter is then assigned the task of ferreting out the significance of "Rosebud." As the reporter's investigation progresses, fascinating details about Kane emerge.My opinion: Citizen kane is maybe for a lot of people (myselve not included) not a real entertaining movie, But there is no doubt about it that aws one of the most important movies ever made.The visual style of "Citizen Kane" looks stunningly fresh and inventive even today, and the unconventional narrative structure of the Oscar-winning screenplay still seems daring. Welles' portrayal of a character who gradually ages from 25 to old age is unexcelled, and the movie's supporting cast, most of whom had worked previously with Welles on stage and radio productions, is superb. In short, everything came together in "Citizen Kane" to make it one of the greatest character studies ever captured on film.Citizen kane is also one of my favorites and is listed in my top 5 of all time: 9.5 / 10 Masterpiece !!!


                
Citizen Kane was an incredible film. I was sort of mesmermized by it, more so the camera work with the unusual angles than with the story. I liked the way Orson Welles played with time and the beginning was really the end and the film was told through flashbacks which were really told by different characters. There were a few grand, grand scenes that I really enjoyed-the party at the newspaper with the dancers, ice sculptures, and the rousing song. I was overwhelmed by the scene when Charles Kane was giving his campaign speech. I did start to lose interest in the story somewhere in the middle and really felt no sympathy connection with Charles Kane. Maybe I wasn't supposed to connect with him, as his character was larger than life and because we learn about him through others recollection of him, making him mysterious and unknown. We can only infer from his last word that he was forever impacted by being torn from a place that he held such dear memories of. This film made you realize that you were looking at a film and not someone's real story.
Orson Welles' debut feature 'Citizen Kane' stands as one of the twentieth century's most revered films, and, indeed, the title of "The Greatest Film Of All Time" has often been bestowed upon it, from as early as Sight and Sound's 1962 rankings, when it indefinitely dethroned De Sica's 'Bicycle Thieves (1948).' After two viewings, I can't say that I find it to be the greatest film of all time, but any work with such a label would find it extremely difficult to live up to impossible expectations. Having said that, however, 'Citizen Kane' is nothing short of masterful. In 1939, in an unprecedented studio contract, RKO offered young prodigy Welles, fresh from his success on the stage and the radio, a two-picture contract with full artistic control (a promise that ultimately wasn't kept). Borrowing elements from the lives of tycoons Robert McCormick, Howard Hughes, and Joseph Pulitzer, but especially American newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst, Welles and fellow screenwriter Herman J. Mankiewicz weaved together the tragic story of Charles Foster Kane, poignantly highlighting the inescapable shortfalls of American Dream.Charlie Kane (Welles) rises from humble beginnings to become one of the most famous and powerful people in America. At a very young age, Kane's mother inherits a gold mine and becomes suddenly wealthy, sending away her son to live with Walter Parks Thatcher (George Coulouris), his mother's banker. Proving something of a disappointment for Mr. Thatcher, Kane shows little aspirations for success until the age of twenty-six, when he decides to head the 'Inquirer,' for the simple reason that he "thinks it would be fun to run a newspaper." Kane eventually becomes rich and powerful through publishing "yellow journalism," which, though frowned upon by most critics, proves immensely profitable. Decades later, after two unsuccessful marriages and a failed bid for public office, Kane sits alone in his massive, unfinished Xanadu mansion (the most massive, impersonal and even sinister abode ever to grace the silver screen), pining for the lost innocence of his childhood. This is the story of a tragic life, and the ultimate testament that money can't buy happiness.The most remarkable thing about 'Citizen Kane' is its narrative structure. The film opens with Kane's death. As the image fades into a large "NO TREPASSING" sign on the gate of Kane's vast and lonely dwelling, we progressively cut to images closer and closer to his house, witnessing the enormity of Kane's wealth, and yet all his riches seem to be in disrepair. A lone lit window stands eerily amidst the snow, before the light inexplicably goes out, the figure hunched within suddenly plunged into darkness. We see Charles Foster Kane's withered hand clasping at a snow-globe, and his lips utter the mystifying words, "Rosebud." With a sudden crash, the snow-globe slips from Kane's hand and shatters on the floor. A maidservant enters the room and covers the dead man's body with a blanket. Following his death, the producer of a newsreel about Kane asks a reporter, Jerry Thompson (William Alland), to uncover the significance behind Kane's final words, a well-meaning but rather naive attempt to encapsulate a man's entire life in a simple seven-letter name.A criticism often levelled at 'Citizen Kane' is that it feels less like a warm, involving biopic than a formal masterclass in film-making technique. It's true that Welles was exploring largely unmapped cinematic territory at the time, and there's a certain sense of experimentation about the film. Mankiewicz and Welles constructed the screenplay as a series of fragmented, non-chronological flashbacks, each sequence filling in the missing parts of Kane's life, sometimes even showing the same event from differing perspectives. Greg Toland's elaborate cinematography makes unprecedented use of deep focus, in which everything in the frame <U+0096> foreground, background and anything in between <U+0096> is constantly held in sharp focus; the end result is a film that feels far more dynamic and "animate" than anything preceding the French New Wave. All innovation aside, anybody who suggests that the life of Charles Foster Kane is somehow uninvolving really needs to revisit the film; Welles pours his heart and soul into portraying the arrogant, tormented and ultimately lonely millionaire, and it's uncanny how the director's own tragic career drew clear parallels with that of his most memorable character.
It's important for all people to explore the world and pursue their dreams and goals for themselves. It's important for people to be happy with their lives and not force people to help them become successful. Money, greed, and selfishness don't bring happiness to someone that was forced to get into a career at an early age or of any age at all. It's important for a person to enjoy their childhood while looking ahead towards a brighter, happy future.The actor's portrayal of Kane and his colleagues was shown very well throughout the film. The juxtaposition of the flashbacks and the present time research of Kane's life were used well and made the plot flow through fast and easy for the viewers to understand what was happening in the film. The news reel and the voice narration of providing the back story of Kane's life and death was effective to set up the main idea that the viewers are going to see and find more information about Kane's life and what the meaning of the last word that Kane said at his deathbed was all about. The use of framing and cinematography was used well throughout the film. The lighting on the back of the actors and the front of the actors was really dramatic, sharp in focus in the depth of field, and kept people guessing what was going on inside their minds and the emotions that they're feeling at the present time as Kane and the reporter are searching for success. In other scenes, the use of lighting was soft and sometimes balanced through the film. The double exposures in some parts of the film were used well.Overall, it's a good film to watch. It has a great moral story that everybody should follow in their lives.
Why another review of Citizen Kane, a movie that made its mark in cinema history and is often regarded as the best film of all time? I'm not sure why. Perhaps it's to put my two cents in and to share what a 36-year old first time watcher but movie aficionado thinks about it. I was amazed it was made in 1941. It's in black and white but has modern original cinematography. It was revolutionary back then and I still regard it as original today. The plays of shadows and lights, who is lit up or not, and how, are not only beautiful but are evocative and serve storyline purposes. The transitions from scene to scene, backgrounds and foregrounds old and new fading out or in, are amazingly well done. Even today, you rarely see anything as artistic as this. The flashbacks and flash-forwards are very cleverly done (witness the diner table scene between Kane and his wife going from early twenties to middle age). The makeup in Kane is for the most part positively astounding and ages the characters better than most modern films. The camera angles are mostly unconventional, playing often with perspective for story purposes (notice Kane smaller in the background during bad moments or bigger than life when things go well). There are quite a few shots (Kane standing underneath a giant poster of himself for one) that are quite memorable and still powerful. I could go on but technically this movie is a marvel even today.Despite the unconventional story structure, you never get lost, although you might be temporarily confused, and it makes the whole storyline very engaging. It follows the trials and tribulations of a very rich and influential newspaper mogul from childhood to his death but not in chronological order. As a matter of fact, the film starts with the death of Kane, followed by a newsreel (like in old World War II screenings) recapping his whole life and then followed by an investigation into Rosebud, his mysterious last word. It's inspired by the life of real newspaper mogul William Randolph Hearst who tried his very best to destroy this movie... literally. There are lots of creative liberties taken but if you study the background, you will notice the similarities. It's a great story extremely well told. You might not care about Kane but he's certainly a rich, complex and fascinating character. He's played by the director Orson Welles and he shows a wide range of emotions and acts differently according to age, not just in demeanor but physically. The other actors, most of them newcomers to cinema, are very fine although a few succumb, including Welles sometimes, to overacting just a tad (they were mostly theater actors which would explain the theatrics I suppose). On first viewing, I found the mistress of Kane particularly annoying and badly acted to the point of being grating but on second thought, I think she was supposed to be that way, a bit of a superficial simple floozy.Overall, I was impressed, despite high expectations, at how original, enjoyable and artistic Citizen Kane remains in 2009. It might not be one of my favorite films, nor would I consider it the best film of all time but I think it still appeals to modern sensibilities and deserves its reputation as a masterpiece. I highly recommend finding a copy of your own, preferably with the great commentary track by the famous critic Roger Ebert (Kane being his favorite film of all time) and with the illuminating documentary about the Battle of Citizen Kane showing the conflict between director/main actor Orson Welles and Kane's inspiration: Hearst, as well as their biographies.Rating: 9 out of 10 (not a 10 because I wasn't moved or awed as much as a few other select films)


                
before i watch citizen Kane i was expecting a complicated, boring and slow paced movie. nevertheless i wanted to watch it to see what is all the fuss about. and i was surprised that it was a well made movie and i understand why people calling it a masterpiece of all time. i watched it once and maybe there are somethings that i didn't pay attention to. but anyway, this is my review of the movie. keep in mind that English is not my first language, so i apologize in advance for any possible error. ..... when Kane was a kid his parents send him to city so he may be fortunate and wealthy and have a better life. he loved his mother and didn't want to go, but his mother chose that wealth is better than love for him. it made an impression on Kane. he for the rest of his life seeks love through wealth and fame. he tries to buy the love of people, friends, even his wives with money. he can't love, but wants to be loved. he lost millions of dollars trying to keep the newspaper running because he doesn't care about money, it doesn't mean anything to him. for him, it is a tool to buy something that he didn't have as a child. at the end of his life, his wife was the last person that could love him and when she left, there was nobody else. people didn't love him, his wives left him, he fired his (maybe only) friend and he realize that he lost everything he fought for in life. when he see the snow ball, it reminds him of the day he was playing and making snowman when he was a child. it reminds him a name, a name that he forgot for a long time, "rosebud", the sled he used to play with as a child. rosebud is the reminiscent of his childhood. the story is good, acting is good and the way of story telling is great. it was not boring or complicated for me, but i get it that for some people it may be boring. many people says that the movie has a slow pace but i disagree. the only problem i can think of is that it is hard to get attached to characters and i think that's why some people get bored. but i was interested in the story and Kane's character and followed the movie easily. citizen Kane is a great movie and i know i will watch it again some day.
RKO was the smallest of the Big Five Hollywood studios and the purveyor of mainly undistinguished genre pictures. For this reason they hired a young theatre producer called Orson Welles to make a prestige film. Welles had just shook up radio with his production of The War of the Worlds, a broadcast that was so innovative and realistic it caused widespread panic throughout the United States with some people really believing that Martians were attacking. Welles was given free reign to make the film he wanted. This was unprecedented for an untried film-maker. The film's central character resembled newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst. The film was delayed several months while RKO tried to appease Hearst's lawyers. It was well received by the critics but not a popular success. It would remain the high point of Welles career and the one time he enjoyed such complete control. This led in part to the auteur theory where masterpieces of cinema were attributed to the director's genius. However, this is too simplistic as Welles had great collaborators here such as screenwriter Herman J. Mankiewicz and cinematographer Gregg Toland. The former provided a disciplined structure for Welles to work off and the latter the deep focus photography that allowed him to manipulate cinematic space in a way that strengthened the story. The combination of deep focus and long takes allowed for scenes where characters moved around the cinematic space in ways that heightened the drama considerably.Citizen Kane is often considered a triumph of technique but it's really the way in which the technique was used and controlled to strengthen the story that makes it so notable. It wasn't the first film to utilise deep focus or long takes but it was the first one to use them so systematically. It combined many opposites – social comment / surrealism, European art film / Hollywood entertainment, comedy / tragedy, realism / expressionism. Kane himself is presented in a variety of ways – dreamlike images of him dying, a remote public figure, a man known by wife and friends and finally a detached being. This reality is expressed by a combination of objective fact and subjective opinion. The beginning of the movie illustrates opposites of approach. We begin with a subjective dreamlike death scene and immediately are thrust into the objective 'News on the March' segment that mimics the news documentary in a similar way to how Welles mimicked the radio news in The War of the Worlds. In this part we are told the whole narrative in summary. It's a microcosm of the film as a whole. After this we then piece together the story of Kane's life via the accounts of various people who knew him, all interviewed by Thompson, a man whose face we never see because he really represents us. The use of flashbacks, multiple narrators and an ambiguous conclusion was a very innovative one for the time. The film as a whole resembles one of the jigsaws that Kane's second wife Susan works on, each piece contributed another truth but some pieces are missing. To add to the complexity of the film, different people offer contrasting judgements that make up the differing periods of his life. Welles once remarked that 'the point of the picture is not so much the solution of the problem as its presentation'.Thompson realises that no single word can 'explain a man's life' and so it proves with 'Rosebud'. The sledge and paperweight represent the time when Kane was happiest and the love he lost but it's left essentially ambiguous and is never fully explained. Kane seeks to regain the love he lost for the rest of his life but always on his own terms, this leads to the ruin of his career and relationships. He winds up in Xanadu his very own pleasure dome with caves of ice. The final tracking shot moves slowly over the expensive rubbish that Kane has accumulated; as we pan forward we see items from further and further back in the story until we find the fateful Rosebud sledge. The 'answer' to our quest.
I think the quote that my friend made about this movie sums it up pretty much: it is a modern day work of literature. I agree with him precisely on that point. I do not give it a 10 because at places it is slow and dull, but one does not appreciate the brilliance that is this movie until after one has sat down and thought about it. Citizen Kane is not a movie is simply watch, it is one to think about and mull over the ideas that come through it. Another friend stated that it was the most boring piece of crap that he has ever seen, and though that might be his opinion, I feel that he missed the entire point of this movie.Citizen Kane is about a man named Charles Foster Kane who is a US newspaper magnate. I will not delve into the plot because that is not the purpose of the movie. Rather it is a character study on Kane and it is also a tragedy for we see how Kane's life not only slowly disintegrates to its inevitable conclusion, but also we see how his life ended up as it is.There has been a lot of discussion over the precise meaning of Rosebud, the word that he mutters on his deathbed. At the end of the movie we discover that Rosebud is the name of his sleigh, and we see this as it is thrown into the fire. A journalist spends the entire movie trying to find out the meaning of Rosebud, but he fails to do so, walking out of Kane's manor, Xanadu, behind a huge amount of possessions packed away in boxes. We learn that the answer to the Rosebud question is an insignificant item amongst all of these meaningless possessions.What does Rosebud mean? It may be the name of the sleigh, but what does it really mean. I guess to answer that question we must look at what Kane had, and what he did not have. At the beginning of the movie we are told all about Kane, or what the media knew of it, but as we follow the journalist we slowly come to learn more about the more intimate and personal period's of Kane's life. We are allowed into Kane's personal space and into his mind to try and understand how he thinks, and by doing that we are given clues as to why he mentioned Rosebud.Charles Foster Kane was incredibly rich, having almost everything that he could want. Xanadu, his palace in which he died, was a tribute to his wealth. The palace was not finished, but that only says something minor about his character which I will not address. What I wish to draw out of that is that Xanadu represents his wealth and his ability to claim whatever possession that he wants. I use the word possession because there are three things in the movie that his money cannot buy: the presidency, love, and his childhood. The presidency is a minor thing, and love becomes more important after his first divorce. It is important because he uses his money to make his second wife famous, but one thing that this does not do is make her truly love him. He dies in bed a lonely man.I believe that the major thing that Charles Foster Kane could not buy was his childhood, and we see evidence of this throughout the film, and tied together at the end where we see his sleigh, Rosebud, burning in the fire. His actions and his attitudes all show signs of a little boy trapped in the body of a man, trapped since the days he was sent off to boarding school.The first instance is when Kane's mother decides to send Charles Foster Kane away. His father is against this, but his mother is adamant that Kane has a good education. When Kane learns of this his first reaction is to lash out at Thatcher, his trustee, with his sleigh. For the rest of his life he hated Thatcher with a passion. He refused to listen to him, and made his job incredibly difficult. Even though he was sent to the best schools, he reacted violently against them and was never able to last long. In the end he purchases a Newspaper because it seems like a good idea.He hated Thatcher because Thatcher was the man that stole Kane's childhood. When Kane came of age he was able to dissolve the trust, and as such remove Thatcher from his life. He reaction to the schools is his hatred of having his childhood stolen from him, and the newspaper was him trying to reclaim the childhood that he had lost. In the end he is too old to live out a childhood, but tries to anyway.The final thing that I wish to discuss is the reaction by Randolf Hurst against this film. It is a reaction that I really do not understand because I do not see Kane as an unflattering character. My friend described Kane as being a real and a repulsive character. I did not find him that repulsive, rather rash and unthinking. He actions which lost him the presidency was not due to any immorality, but rather due to lies fostered by his opponents. The divorce of his first wife is never explored, and it is doubtful that it was because of this because she knew the truth. Maybe it is because she did not really love him, but because she loved the fact that one day he might be president.
Is Citizen Kane truly the greatest of all films? That depends on who you ask but the film is indeed a force to be reckoned with. The story is about a lonely newspaper magnate as he loses touch with society and descends into madness and frustration. The cinematography was so influential that many DOPs even today consider Kane to be the film that influenced their style. The emphasis on deep focus, long takes and shadows is revolutionary. Of course at the center of Citizen Kane is Orson Welles who not only is the main lead but also the soul producer and co-writer, and of course the director- this film defines the wunderkind talent and genius of Kane. Such was the impact of this film Orson Welles probably never came out of its shadow. Citizen Kane is a masterpiece and there is no reason to not be enthralled by it.


                
In this film we see the arc of a wealthy man's life from childhood memories to his aspirations after college, from wielding power in the middle of life to an end that, amidst vast wealth and opulence, simply looks back on childhood, and then goes up in smoke. Charles Foster Kane (Orson Welles) may have been based on William Randolph Hearst and the film a critique of the 'rich and powerful', but there are elements it that are also universal. It takes a piercing look into how people change over time, how power corrupts, and how all life is transient. Kane may have all of the benefits that money brings, but he's also a little broken inside, with perhaps a narcissistic or attachment disorder stemming from having been given up for adoption by his own biological parents when he was a boy (and that, in turn, hinted as being due to his father's abuse). He therefore has no real friends, or true love. He positions himself as a 'man of the people', but he's aloof and above them from all, using them to amplify his own power. He may collect all of the statues he can find in Europe for his castle in America, but ultimately dies like anyone else, without any real meaning, and his possessions disbursed. It's fascinating to watch Kane evolve over the film. His days as a young man are full of hubris and the desire to run a newspaper, mainly to push social messages. While he also has a knack for increasing circulation via sensationalism, he's also pure enough to pen a 'Declaration of Principles' that promises to publish truth, free of special interests. In a fantastic exchange, his friend Jedediah (Joseph Cotten) points out that his first two sentences have started with the word "I", and as we'll see, the 'special interest group' that Kane sells out to is Kane himself. He gradually morphs to begin abusing the power he has as a publisher, swaying opinions on war, and flat out saying that the people will think what he tells them to think.Kane's relationships also evolve in interesting ways. Early on he seems so close with Jedediah, jovial and dancing at office parties, but he fires him without thinking twice about it when Jedediah dares to publish the truth in a review of his second wife's awful performance at the opera. In a parallel way, we see this second wife (Dorothy Comingore) go from a humble, nice, and honest woman he meets on the street one night to a spoiled and vindictive wife, then bitter alcoholic. She speaks about Kane over a drink in a two-bit club, and Jedediah speaks about him from an assisted living facility. The film has a rather dark view of the endgame that awaits us all.The transience of life is further emphasized by little moments in the supporting cast, such as Bernstein (Everett Sloane) saying of his own life these fantastic lines: "A fellow will remember a lot of things you wouldn't think he'd remember. You take me. One day, back in 1896, I was crossing over to Jersey on the ferry, and as we pulled out, there was another ferry pulling in, and on it there was a girl waiting to get off. A white dress she had on. She was carrying a white parasol. I only saw her for one second. She didn't see me at all, but I'll bet a month hasn't gone by since that I haven't thought of that girl."Orson Welles is excellent as both actor and director, and the way the story is told, via flashbacks from multiple perspectives and short jumps in time, is compelling. He also utilizes a number of innovative and interesting visual techniques that feel modern. If you're looking for a film with an uplifting message, one with action, or one that will leave you feeling warm, this is not your film. On the other hand, there is such honesty here about power and about life, the filmmaking is fantastic, and it has an ending that is absolutely devastating, in those plumes of smoke going up into the night sky.
The first time I rented and watched Citizen Cain, I actually fell asleep. This was shortly after AFI listed it as the #1 movie of all time a few years ago. I didn't understand the movie at all and I certainly didn't understand why it was #1.Now I realize how ignorant I was.Last year, I took a course in college on Film (I'm working on being a film director myself). Citizen Cain was a topic that the professor brought to us early in the semester. This would be my second time viewing the movie. But by this time, I had a basic understanding of film history, shots, camera angles, script writing, etc.You see, you have to understand what movies were like before Citizen Cain, and after. Citizen Cain was a revolutionary movie in terms of edition, camera angles, and story. It was also ahead of its time.Let's start with story. The movie starts with his death. The entire story is told through interviews and flashbacks by everyone who was involved with Cain. Unlike other movies with a linear narrative, this movie required you to think and put all the pieces together.Another big thing was the way light and dark was used. High and low camera angles were used to the extreme. I can't point out every single one but you could ask a film expert point them out.Another big thing was that the movie was pretty much a satire of William Randolph Hearst, the newspaper mogul. I recommend watching the movie "RKO 281" with Liev Schreiber and James Cromwell so you'll know what I'm talking about.Sadly, the movie failed at the box office. It wasn't until years later when critics saw the movie and realized how great it was.So if you saw Citizen Cain and didn't get it, I don't blame you. I didn't get it the first time either. It's largely due to the fact that the movie is so old, so there's a large generation gap. Also, you need to know a bit of film history, what happened during the making of this film, and how this film influenced virtually every film make after.


                
<U+0085>And imho those years 1915-1955 were the most entertaining in movie history too. I've never called myself or written down that I'm a film "reviewer": unless you get paid for it by someone else and it's your job title the internet is generally the place to simply pass comments about this, that or the other. There's more than enough reviewers out there in the world anyway, and critics or snickerers too. I dislike passing bad comments on anything because 99% of the films ever made took some effort and brainwork even if I didn't personally approve of it. I could never "review" Kane, passing some paltry comments on such a monumental film is hard enough, but over the last 40 years I've now seen it so many times think it's high time I gave my opinion too.Disjointed story told by disparate people at different times of boy growing up to be ruthless newspaper magnate who is used to getting his own way with everything and everyone, and a newspaper reporter trying to find out what he meant by his dying word. So: It's relentlessly inventive and near perfect in every department, script, acting, production-direction, camera-work, sets, costumes etc, with the available technology they had at the time presenting a movie that still looks fresh as a daisy to someone who doesn't. A nitrate-gleaming black and white production, with no colour, cgi cartoonery, swearing, relevance to ordinary peoples' lives, sex or violence for enlightened modern audience tastes (but containing some analogue cartoonery for those who need the fix) – it's the lack of these absolute essentials that most people today can't forgive in Kane. And the plot isn't incomprehensible and no one grunts through their parts like today. On the other side are people who think that after all the decades this has now been proved to be the unbeatable ultimate in cinematic art, and all other films are simply also-rans with Kane in its somewhat traditional role of being unassailable. Both sets are wrong of course - it's all personal taste and nothing lasts forever, even criticism isn't static. However, Kane is set in the amber of the Golden Age of the movies and is to me the best movie from that celebrated era. Indubitably. Again however, if I could only take one film with me to watch on a desert island this isn't it.Far from being mediocre the end ties everything up beautifully, and it helps make poignant sense of the previous two riveting hours. Unlike the vast majority of films, come good, bad or indifferent criticism it'll still be here after we're all gone so let's hear it for Good Old Citizen Kane!


                
I'm gonna be brutally honest here. I didn't exactly like this film. After years of hearing how it was by far "the greatest film ever made" perhaps it's expectations were too high. How can any film possibly meet expectations when expectations are nothing lower than perfection? With the knowledge that this film is universally considered the best ever made, there is no way it could possibly meet that bar especially for someone who rarely agrees with such massive popular agreement. Many scenes were enjoyable, and many were boring, but maybe I didn't "get it" or maybe I didn't want to.A large problem with this film has nothing to do with the media but the people who love it. Professors who adore it, critics who dissect and people who say they love it to sound smart and artistic. No film can possibly survive after 60 years in those conditions.You can shoot me for saying this, but the acting was overdone, and the film was very dark physically. Normally I don't mind that but in some scenes I wasn't able to make out the emotions and faces of the characters. I understand that this film was a massive undertaking as far as films that do creative things such as camera angles, mixed up narratives and things of that nature, but that does not mean its the best one out there. It served as a good first stepping stone but talented film makers have gone a long way since then.People seem so eager to praise it they forget that there are also many problems with it and that in some instances, it's greatest assets are it's greatest liabilities. While it had character development I was hoping for more, although I enjoyed the fact that the audience would have to insert their own opinions about Mr. Kane in attempt to understand him. Despite this, I wasn't that interested in this man's life or the people surrounding him, and in such a character driven film, concentrated around one man, that is a very large problem.Maybe I'm too saturated in the sugar-coated world of Hollywood but I was expecting more from this film. Many scenes were boring, and a movie can be the best ever made, but if half of its boring, whats the point? Maybe upon a second viewing I will appreciate it more. Does it deserve to be acknowledged for technical and narrative innovations? Yes. Best film ever made? No.


                
i don't think that there is Any other film that raises so many expectations as 'Citizen Kane' does.i watched it for the first and second time a couple of days ago and i really don't remember myself being full of so many expectations ever before watching any other film.of course there are new films coming out all the time where a favorite actor of yours is playing or a director directing etc' where you also have high expectations.this case is different, here it is a film that is considered to be one of the best if not the best film ever made,leaving the fact of it being so old that just makes it much easier for a first viewer to be disappointed.anyways, i loved it!almost everything about it.the start, the ending, the story - that is alone so amazing and truthful, its just as if its a real man's life we are seeing a film about.the characters and obviously their acting as well, Jedediah, Kane, Bernstein, all of them really unforgettable.it took me by surprise, thinking before watching it that its a almost 70 year old picture I'm about to see, what could i possibly see in it that i haven't seen before?well, it doesn't get much more original then this.the only reason i didn't rate it with an excellent 10 is that i kind of disliked Kane.in the start of the film you just adore his character but as you learn more and more about it you stop liking it.i surely understand the reasons for it, and how it is making the film realistic and Kane's story so similar to many other people's with their own minor lifts and major falls just like his.i didn't like many decisions Kane made and also in general i just couldn't relate to his character.besides that personal little problem i had, Citizen Kane is a flawless movie that shouldn't be missed by any movie fan, not even in a 100 years from now.


                
Love the aspect that you are memorized with the storyline. Only reason I didn't give it a 10 was some movies I just enjoyed more. They weren't better made but just more enjoyable. His mastery of the story is quite evident by his use of various techniques of story telling. you don't know exactly how he intends to direct us but you sure want to go there. When he says Rosebud, you are forever hooked on what the notion that you are guessing on how he will lead us and why he said Rosebud in the first place. The story is so engrossing and it does become timeless for all generations. I love the feel and texture of this film. I wish some film producers would learn that the price of the film doesn't make it better but on how you convey your idea's. Orsen Welles has such a great mastery of what needs to be said in a story - Bottom line, it a great movie.


                
Made in 1941, this movie is a classic and has been called the best movie ever made. That is not bad considering it was made by a 29 year old, Orson Welles. For some reason I have always put this movie aside, because people have been telling me that it is a deep movie and not to be viewed without concentration. So therefore I have always put it off, but finally I put it in the DVD player. Let me tell you, it really is a great movie. Or should I say fantastic movie? We follow Charles Foster Kane, from childhood, to his deathbed. The death scene starts the movie and you hear Kane say the word `Rosebud' and that is what the movie is about, trying to find out what he meant by it. Orson is a master at setting the scene, how the camera works, the setting etc. But I won't tell you more about this because this movie is an experience in itself. I rate this movie 9/10


                
Much of the dismissal of the quality of Citizen Kane comes about because of several factors:1) There is a disconnect between what critics expect of a movie and what general audiences expect of a movie.  To say that CK is entertaining is simply an opinion - no more, no less.  Our opinions on films can be researched and refined or raw and personal.  To claim that one is better than the other is arrogance, but we do it because of some sort of instinctual belief that "everybody should think the way I do."  This is not the case, however, and there is going to be backlash when Kane isn't the movie that people expect.  It is not entertaining in the traditional sense. It's hard to get attached to the characters unless you really want to, and the story (the life of a media titan) isn't something that naturally appeals to everyone.  It's a movie you have to work at liking.2) CK is astoundingly technically accomplished and years ahead of its time. When you compare it to the standard movies of the day, you can see how much film instinct Welles had and how revolutionary the film was.  However, most people today don't have an expert grasp of the intricacies of making movies, and most don't care about things like lighting, blocking, and camera placement.  Most people go for story and characters and see movies as passive entertainment.  They don't want to focus on extraneous things like short/long shots.  And they shouldn't be chided for wanting a movie to be simple to understand - most people watch movies as entertainment, not as a hobby, and breadth of film knowledge shouldn't be a requrement for doing so.3) CK is defended extraordinarily heavy by often-arrogant film-buffs who imply that the only people that should judge a movie's quality are the people that study the movies.  This is a dangerous and stupid position. IMDB is set up so that EVERYONE gets an opportunity to share their opinions. I'm not a big fan of Godfather (boooring) but I understand that my opinion is only one of millions and therefore not all that important.  Film geeks want their opinion to matter more, but the truth is that it really doesn't. This bothers them, because they've spent so much time loving movies only to watch their vote get cancelled out by a 12-year-old that rates the Princess Diaries as a 10.  Guess what?  That movie was made for 12-year-olds, and CK was made for people who like to watch movies that are mental exercises.4) The dangerous title of "Greatest Movie Ever Made."  Movie-watching is too personal to ever apply that title to anything.  Yes, we can all agree that certain movies are better than others, and the majority can be expected to make an opinion on how people in general view a certain movie.  But to call a movie "The Greatest Movie Ever Made" is implying that everyone should feel that way.  Everyone will not feel that way.So a good many people hate Citizen Kane.  That's their right.  Film-going shouldn't require an initiation and entrance exam.  IMDb is the sum of popular opinions, and CK-lovers just aren't going to get everyone to love such an dense, complex film.  Some people don't look for that in movies, and they are no more wrong than you are for wanting it.


                
When Charles Foster Kane was a boy, his mother sent him away from his home in Colorado to live with a banker in New York. His mother was the owner of the Colorado gold mine and wanted her son to grow up somewhere nice. As a young man, Charles was kicked out of almost every prestigious college, including Harvard. When Charles turned twenty one, his mother had orders that he would take full ownership of his mother's fortune. When he got full ownership of his wealth, he bought the New York Inquirer newspaper. He turned it into the most unique paper of its time and he began taking over many other papers in other states until he had the most circulation.
Many people think that this is the story of William Randolph Hurst who ran the New York journal at the same time when the movie was in production. There are many similarities between William Randolph Hurst and Charles Foster Kane, but the truth is this is a fictional story of a fictional character.This particular movie is the most intriguing film that I have seen. The script was written for radio broadcast and soon became a motion picture and some of the dialog stayed the same. The way that the film starts out is unique because the main character dies then summarizes his life. The main plot is to figure out what the meaning of Charles Foster Kane's last word `rosebud', meant. What was also intriguing was the lighting, in some scenes there would be very bright light, and other scenes so dark you could barely see the characters face. The acting was surprisingly good because all the co-stars had never acted before in their lives.The film was delightfully funny, sad, and dramatic. You could almost feel the characters emotions. Orson Welles was a genius when he put together this film that he stared in and also directed. It will probably be one of the greatest films that I will see in my life-time, and was one of the greatest films of its time.


                
10/10 With no doubt, THE BEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME! This film has everything, the directing is pure perfection and has influenced many movies, so I consider this too, the most important film ever made. The acting is incredible, and the writing is everything that you can expect. The angles are pretty amazing and very audacious for that time, so as the cinematography.Beside all those good points, what elevates this film is the meaning behind of all the story, the most important thing of your life, isn't the money or how rich you are, it is your childhood, inocence and the happy times that you enjoyed with your family and friends, Kane almost had the world, but not the most important thing in life, LOVE!
A lot of my friends call Citizen Kane over-rated. It is number one on the AFI top one hundred list and is considered by many to be the greatest film of all time. My friends say that it has great cinematography, but when it comes to story, it lacks.I thoroughly enjoyed the story. It was a great plot and very entertaining. Through the entire film, the audience is waiting to find out the meaning behind Charles Foster Kane's final words. It drives the plot well.So, personally, I thought Citizen Kane not only had wonderful photography, but a strong story. Now, is it over-rated? Perhaps. To call something the greatest film of all time is saying a lot. There are so many films out in this world, and plenty better than Citizen Kane, but it was good enough for me to put it's poster upon my wall.


                
Somehow you feel like everything has already been said about this movie: often at the top of <U+0091>best of' lists, certainly regarded as the greatest first film ever made by any director, and the best of all the films to be associated with Orson Welles.  Of course he was only in his twenties when he not only co-wrote and directed <U+0091>Citizen Kane', but also appeared as the central character over a span of decades <U+0096> from fresh-faced young entrepreneur to crabby old man of wealth, trapped in his white castle of mirrors and jigsaws.The structure of the film <U+0096> a series of interviews about the man who has just passed on, plus incidents from his life in flashback <U+0096> doesn't always come off, but for sheer scope and inventiveness this piece has few peers. We see <U+0091>Charlie' Kane right from the early moments of his life, when he is sent from his parents to a better life, fit to govern, through his highs and lows as a newspaper magnate.  We meet those who loved him, those who hated him, those who weren't sure.  We get swept along by the momentum of the movie.  Other films would be directed by Welles in the future that are worth seeing (The Magnificent Ambersons, plus his own takes on Macbeth and Othello with himself in the lead) but <U+0091>Citizen Kane' is the most memorable and the most important.  His own Mercury Theatre group play the various parts within the saga <U+0096> names such as Joseph Cotten and Agnes Moorehead, both of whom would have long careers after 1942.  Others such as Dorothy Comingore didn't live up to their initial promise but at least have left us this film to remember them by.  <U+0091>Citizen Kane' is certainly worth the time of anyone remotely interested in the history of film.


                
Citizen Kane is most definitely a must see classic of American cinema. It has fantastic cinematography and is just an overall outstanding film. In my opinion while watching this film you can't help but to feel bad for Chsrles Kane because throughout the film we see that everyone that enters into his life eventually leaves him and it is causing him a lot of pain. However, I also thought that great skill was used throughout the staging and shooting process of this film. The film really does show the audience watching how talented Wells really is. He acted in this film as well as wrote it and I believe that this gave him a great advantage when he created this film. Since he had wrote for the film and was starring in it as well that gave Wells more control of how his vision was portrayed on the screen and it worked out very well. Overall this is a very well put together film that I enjoyed.
Citizen Kane is the classic of American cinema. Wells's debut film shows his mastery of the visual medium by using innovate and dynamic staging and shooting. He created a visual motif of isolation throughout the film which added so much to the film. Wells also wrote (and acted) Citizen Kane which is perhaps why he was able to have such a mastery over both the form and content of the film. The writing and development of Charles Foster Kane was also incredible. Even after my second viewing I am uncertain on my opinion on the life of Charles Foster Kane. Likable of course, but I found myself questioning his motivations and then questioning why I questioned him throughout the film. The words complex character don't do him justice. One of my favorite films of all time.
Someone said the other day that Citizen Kane is considered one of the best overall films ever. I couldn't agree more with that person after seeing this movie. First off, I love what Welles does in the very beginning of the film with the news real about how Kane dies. Right off the bat, the end of the movie is given to you. Some people may hate that because it ruins the end immediately, but that's not the point of this film. Through incredible acting by director Orson Welles, you embark on the journey of a man of poverty into a successful publisher and politician eventually. The cinematography in this film is some of the best I have seen. One of my favorite scenes is the camera work done in the scene where the reporter enters the large private library that contains Kane's journal. The camera work done in that scene is magnificent. Also, the lighting done in Kane's political speech gives me a feel kind of like the Nazi party following Hitlers speeches. Makes a feel of full attention on the man and how important he is. Overall, this film may be the best work I have seen out of a director. Absolutely wonderful.
Everything that can be said about Citizen Kane has already been said - the cinematography is amazing, the lighting is incredible, the acting, the makeup... et cetera.However, I'll say what comes to mind anyways. To me, the movie is about the dangers of consumerism and greed - Kane has every physical possession anyone could ever want, yet he is a very sad and lonely man - especially later in life, when his greed is at its fullest. Although I had "Rosebud" spoiled for me many years ago before I knew what it meant, I still enjoyed the ending - the one thing Kane cared about, his childhood sled, labeled "junk" and tossed into a fire, while all his other possessions - the ones that in the end, didn't matter to him - are being sold at incredibly high prices. It's a brutally ironic scene to end the movie on, and I thought it was great. The movie was great. That's all I have to say.
