Like Fawlty Towers in the '70s and Blackadder in the '80s, this is British comedy at its very best - a handful of episodes, all of them tighter line-for-line than Alan's shorts ("the boys are back in the barracks"). Partridge may well be the most ingeniously unsympathetic character ever created - every time you start to feel sorry for him, he manages to do something truly unspeakable. Painfully funny.


                
I was fortunate to get a copy of the first season on DVD and just watched it with friends here in the States. And yes, I pretty much agree with everyone else who makes comparisons to Blackadder and Basil Fawlty and Gervais' boss character in The Office. Partridge is simply one of the funniest and pathetic characters ever to appear on TV. American TV would never have a character like this - they always make the sitcom people likable and "we have to want to root for them" and all that other bland stuff. A classic U.S. sitcom in the 80's - Buffalo Bill with Dabney Coleman was so outside the box from what had appeared on broadcast TV that they didn't know what to do with so they axed it. (His character too was a local Morning Show host in Buffalo, NY with an ego the size of Earth and total scum to everyone around him) and of course Larry David tries to pull it off on Curb Your Enthusiasm - and yes, even though the show is funny - David is very limited as an "actor" and Coogan is not. In fact, it is his performance and the fact that he adds dimension to this guy that truly makes it special and heartbreaking and hysterical. I loved it and I thought the rest of the cast was wonderful too.


                
It was much anticipated by us Partridge fans, Knowing Me Knowing You on both radio and television had been comedy gold. The Christmas Special saw Alan's Television career collapse.  How could 'I'm Alan Partridge' possibly keep up with such high standards?It did and a whole lot more.  The hilarity of Alan's misguided belief that he is still a major player in the industry and the meaningless conversations with the hotel staff combine to make his series essential watching. And the indignity of his prolonged stay in a 'one night stop venue' Travel Tavern adds to the tragic hilarity of the series.Steve Coogan delivers his finest work to date and is ably assisted by a cast whose strongest delivery is the varied reactions their characters display when in the company of the failed chatshow host.Perhaps the ultimate magic of Alan Partridge is that to fans his barrowload of catchphrases and inane comments are never forgotten and are always liable to be joyfully relayed in the company of a fellow fan.And to think there are people out there who still don't get the joke.as Alan might say,'who, who, who do you think you are?'


                
There is an unmatched concordance among the user comments on defining this series "brilliant". It is mitigated by the fact that almost all the comments come from the UK, so let me add two voices not from the British Isles.My girlfriend and I (she's American, I am Italian) both think that this is not only brilliant, it is really the work of genius. The writers, assisted by an exceptional set of actors, did a fantastic job not only in providing genuine humour at every corner, but in studying costume and society and taking advantage of real situations.This is not your typical sitcom. It is not an effort of a bunch of people that have to fabricate a show a week forever; it is instead the focused effort of three writers that sat down for months to produce six shows. You can feel this in the perfection and consistence of every detail, from the name of the son (Fernando, from Abba) to the picture of Jet from Gladiators (to host a millennium barn dance at Yeovil aerodrome, properly policed, it must not, repeat not, turn into an all-night rave) that Alan keeps in his room.


                
Alan Partridge is up there with Basil Fawlty as one of the finest comedy characters ever created. In some ways the series, "I'm Alan Partridge", goes beyond comedy. It's often painful to watch the indignity heaped on Alan. However, such feelings are always negated in the end, because Alan is an unspeakably vile little man, and the show never misses a chance to demonstrate that.Alan Partridge is a former TV presenter (ground covered in previous series such as "Knowing me, knowing you") who lost his job because... well, because he is dreadful, not to mention totally insensitive and overly literal when dealing with guests. After his sacking from TV, he loses his wife and ends up living in a desperate little travel hotel where he's the only guest - and all the employees hate him (with good reason). The series covers his attempts to get back on TV, via the radio Norwich 5 a.m  slot... various corporate videos... and a hilarious village fete.It is so difficult to pick out favourite moments... there are just too many of them: Alan's comments about farmers, and their subsequent retaliation; His crass behaviour at the funeral of the man who kicked him off TV; The special bigger plate he keeps at the travel hotel, just get get a bigger portion... and so on and on. I'm giggling just remembering this stuff.If you *ever* get a chance to see this series, do not pass it up - it doesn't get much better. I don't know whether this has reached the U.S yet, but if it hasn't then shame on U.S TV stations.


                
Steve Coogan is back once again as Alan Partridge. Good ol' Alan isn't doing a talk show anymore. Having fallen in hard times, he's now an early morning radio DJ, living in a hotel after his wife kicked him out and still hoping and dreaming for a second series of his talk show. From Partridge's car being vandalized with naughty language, sacking employees, and presenting a corporate video, to dealing with hotel renovations, meeting an...overzealous fan, attending a funeral, and everything in between, this 6 episode series is a sheer joy to behold and is even better than the already wildly funny "Knowing Me, Knowing You". Suffice it to say this is simply brilliant. Note to BBC America: Bring this out on Region 1 DVD NOW!!! My Grade: A+


                
I'm a big Partridge fan, and enjoyed Knowing Me, Knowing You, and the 1st I'm Alan Partridge. I have to say this is a more than welcome addition to the series, if not the best. Alan's character is even more childish than ever, and he's also developed a slight arrogance towards people as he has become more self-confident (at least he thinks so). Alan's interaction with the builders is classic and his ever evolving friendship with Michael is superb. I was so glad that Michael got more to do in this one, everything he says is funny, especially when describing what he'd do with the Apache helicopter. Classic. The episode with Alan making friends with Dan (the kitchen man) is absolutely hilarious, and his antics at the Norfolk bravery awards is so crude and funny. "Beep, beep, got room for a brave one ?" hehe. There are so many hilarious parts to this series - its the best English comedy I've seen for a long time, I really cant understand why some people here found it disappointing (perhaps because you wanted to see Alan succeed ??). I recommend to watch it again and pay close attention, this is genius comedy. Series 3 soon please ! Highly recommended."You've never had a cup o' beans Mr Partridge" ?


                
The comic genius that is Steve Coogan has done it again. This series is certainly as good as the previous which had some genuine laugh out loud moments. Excellent! The First episode being the best, followed by the fourth, an absolute classic BRITISH gem of a comedy


                
Along with series 6 of Only Fools and Horses, I'm Alan Partridge series 1 is the greatest set of episodes of any comedy I have seen. The sheer quality of the acting and writing makes you weep at those who think My Family is good TV.The first I saw of I'm Alan Partridge was the final episode of the original run. I can still remember being in tears of laughter from start to finish; seeing 'Castrol GTX' revealed on Alan's jacket at Tony Hayer's funeral nearly killed me. Then I saw the first run of repeats and was completely hooked.The genius of Alan Partridge lies in how many different layers of his persona are evident - his fixation with transsexuals, his obsession with war and death, his desperation to be liked, his hatred of criminality and his xenophobia to name a few. Then there's the little things - the way he has to explain his jokes, his bad breath, the daydreaming, his bad skin and receding hairline, his love of driving. The genius of many of Alan's traits lies in the fact that they were established gradually ever since his first appearance on The Day Today. We discover on Knowing Me, Knowing You that he has bad breath, he has his first run-in with a transsexual and he refuses to pull onto the hard shoulder for sex.Steve Coogan's performance as Alan is simply sublime. For example, when he is presenting the boat video and tries to ingratiate himself with 'the lads' by ogling a passing woman. Notice the look on his face just after he says "oooooooooooohhhh sex" when he starts drinking his pint, the little expressions like that are genius.Many of the strongest scenes take place in the radio studio - the Joni Mitchell rant; "Mmm, a nice big thick slice of Thin Lizzy"; the war with Dave Clifton; "So give me a call, PLEASE!! Seriously, though, do give me a call." These were certainly the better parts of the second series, which I thought was generally embarrassing and took the character in completely the wrong direction.I hope I haven't bored anyone, but it's hard not to look so closely at such an incredible series. Here are my favourite quotes: "Never throw water on a fat fire. It'll take your face off." "You know the breakfast buffet, all you can eat but from an 8-inch plate? 12 inches. Keep it in my room." "That is the best Valentine's Day I've had in 8 years." "What did you do 8 years ago?" "Just had a better one. Went to Silverstone, shook Jackie Stewart's hand - superb. My marriage fell apart soon after that." "What was he doing on the bloody roof?!" "He was getting the aerial down..." "Yeah, I was being rhetorical." "He had a second class honours degree in Media Studies from Loughborough University. What a waste." "I'd love to feel an airbag go off in my face. It'd be 'Huh, boosh, boosh'...cushion effect on the face." "Looking at the big girdles section? Amazing to think that some of these women are technically models." "Jet from Gladiators to host a Millennium barn dance at Yeovil Aerodrome. Properly policed, it must not, repeat not turn into an all-night rave."Ten on ten, Lynn


                
The TV comedy landscape began to change with The Day Today back in 1994. For me, the highlight was the Alan Partridge Sports Report - which is still frequently quoted today. Then came the outstanding Knowing Me Knowing You, I remember after watching 5 minutes of the first episode thinking everything had changed and comedy on TV could never go back.It was when I was in university that the first series of I'm Alan Partridge ran in late 1997. I had a fellow Coogan fan as a house mate and it absolutely blew us away. I've never quite laughed like that at anything on TV before or since. There are the obvious quotes which I wont bore you with now (thankfully Gervais killed off "quote comedy" on the 2nd series of Extras) - but what stands out for me most is Coogan's subtle portrayal as the annoying, rude, hopeless and heartbreaking ex celebrity trying to find his way back. It's comedy perfection, cringworthy at times (but not hide your head Office / Extras) but highly watchable. Superb supporting cast together with Coogan at his height of powers make this the finest comedy series ever made. As a side note, the 2nd series did have it's moments but was over acted and too exaggerated, lacking the subtlety of the 1st.


                
Once upon a time the BBC was the world leader in situation comedy . It was also the world leader in telefantasy and hard hitting drama but by the 1990s those days were long gone , then a show like I`M ALAN PARTRIDGE  comes along to remind you that when it really tries the BBC can still be a world leader. For those of you who have never heard of him Alan Partridge is a crass , ignorant , undertalented former talk show host who now finds himself working the graveyard shift of Radio Norwich . The first episode finds Alan trying a sales pitch to BBC controller Tony Hayers someone he manages to cheese off ( Geddit ? ) during lunch . The second episode finds Alan trying to strike up a relationship with a woman while the third sees him cause a revolt amongst the Anglian farming community . All the episodes are very very funny but the best episode is the one with a dual plot line of Alan getting it into his head that two Irish TV producers are in fact members of the IRA as the episode mutates into a stalker storyline . I can`t begin to communicate how funny the episode is , I`ve seen it many times over the years and I still laugh out loud everytime I see it .There is a danger that Steve Coogan`s character can be described as a one trick pony and I`m glad that he`s not going to do anymore Alan Patridge which is a good idea because Alan Patridge is to the 1990s what Basil Fawlty was to the 70s and Edmund Blackadder was to the 80s


                
Up with the PartridgeDVD review: "I'm Alan Partridge" (1997) BBC Video http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0129690/ "The bitter life of a failed talk show host turned early morning local radio presenter.""I'd personally like to understand man's inhumanity to man. And then make a program about it." Has there ever been a portrayal of social self-humiliation as unsparing and cringe-inducing as I'm Alan Partridge? A UK TV series, it is at times unbearable to watch. When Alan stumbled over his own words and emotions while doing his best trying to chat up the beautiful front desk clerk at the Linton Travel Tavern ("equidistant between London and Norwich") one must look away. When he bulldozes through a funeral reception in a black jacket emblazoned with the Castrol logo in hopes of putting the professional squeeze on a TV executive, the sheer dread makes the flesh creep.I'm Alan Partridge follows the arch of Partridge's career as he scrambles to organize a professional comeback. The first Alan Partridge series, Knowing Me Knowing You depicted his dire chat-variety show and ended when Partridge accidentally shot and killed a guest while on the air. The prospect of someone expending such huge amounts of money and time and energy trying to get on TV is a hilarious achievement for actor/co-creator Steve Coogan and his collaborators. At every turn, when easy pathos comes close at hand, the show steers clear with another Partridgean outrage to human feeling. Indeed, at the end of the final series episode ("Towering Alan") Partridge triumphs when he takes up a dead BBC Chief Commissioning Editor's hand to forge a signature on the contract for his professional comeback.Alan Partridge is more than a silly-ass Bertie Wooster without Jeeves. He is lightyears beyond Basil Fawlty in being socially beyond-the-pale. He is a man gifted with the ability to always share his worst thoughts and instincts at the wrong time. He tells RTE executives from Dublin this about the Irish Potato Famine: "You'll pay the price if you're a fussy eater. If they could afford to emigrate they could afford to eat in a modest restaurant." He castigates farmers on his late night radio show for animal experiments, only to end up trapped under a Holstein carcass on the deck of a canal boat.If Partridge is a luckless Visigoth, those around him make out even worse. His receptionist finds out she has been fired when she hears it on Alan's radio show as she rides home in a taxi from their tryst. In each episode, the harrowing martyrdom of his PA Liz is explored and given a scale something close to the sufferings of Job. Liz never seems able to catch up to Alan's latest whim or mania. She is treat as what used to be called a "pen-wipe." Michael, a maintenance worker at the Linton Travel Tavern where Alan lives, is continually upbraided by Partridge for this "Jordy" accent.I'm Alan Partridge is a quasi Samuel Beckett comedy about a man so corkscrewed by life that he cannot have a normal or typical social instinct about his circumstances or those of other people. His daydreams are abashedly homoerotic and his Linton Travel Tavern Pay per View orders run to Bangkok Chick Boys.Partridge sees people around him as extensions of the cash nexus, step-stools for his own egomania. Perhaps they do not appear to him as human at all. In the episode "To Kill a Mocking Alan" he meets his #1 fan Jed Maxwell. Partridge takes it as perfectly natural that his talentless TV hackwork would earn him a fan. Not until the end of the episode does he realize the fan is a stalker psychopath, and that his adoration of Partridge is simply an expression of mental illness. "You're a mentalist!" Partridge yells at Jed as he flees from the man's house in horror.The 2 disc DVD package from BBC Video is an affectless treat. In addition to the usual deleted scenes and outtakes, there is audio commentary by Alan Partridge himself, joined by Liz. The DVD menu itself recapitulates the TV menu system from the Linton Travel Tavern: adult PPV options, elevator music, and parking lot security camera footage included.Watch and weep.___________________________________________


                
Victoria Wood has recently stated that traditional sitcom is dead. I don't believe this statement is true and I also believe that Miss Wood has also not seen I'm Alan Partridge, Black Books or Father Ted. These are just a few that use a live audience.I'm Alan Partridge follows the life of a T.V. Presenter turned regional disc jockey living in the town of Norwich. He is also every TV Complaints person nightmare. He has been refused a second series of his TV show and he must live out the rest of his career as a radio presenter. He lives in a hotel because his wife has left him. Alan is also aided by his ever suffering personal assistant Lynn who bows to his ever wish from providing him with his financial repost to reminding him to use his anti foot fungal powder. Also in the cast is probably his only friend (other than Lynn) Mike who provides much humour as the ex-army Geordie porter of the hotel.Each episode is skillfully written and it has no shortage of laughs. These range from fighting with the local farmers to brunching with Irish TV Producers. The episode with the Irish TV producers is my all time favourite. I am Irish myself and I nearly wet myself the first time I saw it.In my own opinion great comedy comes from making people laugh at things and situations that maybe they shouldn't. This is probably the finest example of great comedy for the late 90's. Alan Partridges says and does things without fully thinking them through. He mainly insults others but the great thing about it is that we don't laugh with him but we laugh at him.I must also praise the wonderful talent of Mr. Steve Coogan. When you watch his programmes you are never aware of Steve Coogan as Paul Calf or Alan Partridge, but you are watching the real thing. Like I said earlier on To hell with Ricky Gervais and the Office, Steve Coogan has beat you to it.


                
Alan Partridge has "bounced back" with the third most popular show on Radio Norwich, a cable tv quiz show called "skirmish" and a young Swedish girlfriend. Back of the net!This show is the definition of comedy. There is nothing here that is not hilarious. The best bit so far is when he impales his foot trying to mount a fence and vomits while giving a speech. Or it could be when he performs James Bond in front of a bunch of confused onlookers. Priceless humour that shouldn't be missed.


                
If Knowing Me, Knowing You was good, then what is this?Lynn, I'm not driving a mini-metro. Just try and finish that sentence. Go on, just try. I'm not driving a mini metro.I think I could pretty much survive on an IV drip being played I'm Alan Partridge continuously. Maybe the odd pint now and again, but basically that would be a complete life.Scum, sub human scum.There's no such word as "spliddin'".And what were all those dream sequence/strip bar things about, anyway?!Anyone got a battery for an Eriksson?And I want one of those Castrol GTX jackets!Tell me about the "Lady Boys"!Me and some mates were lucky enough to see Coogan live in Manchester last summer and it was a night to remember. This guy is the future of comedy as we know it. Don't ever sell out, Steve.You're a mentalist!


                
I'm Alan Partridge is the funniest show of the last five years, not one joke misses the mark. Shot in spoof documentary style, the show follows fallen TV star (now Radio Norwich's star personality) in his day-to-day quest to get a second chance. The reason this show works is because of the stupidity of Alan, a racist, bigoted, closet bi-sexual who just doesn't know when to shut up. He's just so tactless ("You sound like the girl form the Exorcist" he says to a producer who has no vocal cords). In print I'm sure the show sounds stupid and offensive, and in a way it is, but I'm Alan Partridge is endlessly funny, witty and inventive, and if you get a chance to see it then do so... Fast. I really hope Steve Coogan gets picked up by the US; he has the potential to be the next Peter Sellers. "Smell my Cheese" 10/10


                
Now I know that a lot of people dislike Alan Partridge more than they hate Bush and Blair but what I can't seem to understand is why?   Probably because people don't get his sense of humour and the way he explains things. I remember once an American was saying `when watching any episode of Alan Partridge, I doesn't have a clue what his jokes mean' and that's why he didn't like him.  When I watch Friends they all tell a joke about an American sportsmen or something American sometimes which I don't understand but I will still laugh along with it because it sounded funny anyway.   You have to give comedians time when it comes to sitcom's because if you don't then you will never get them.   Alan Partridge is somebody we all have in us.  Because he is so sad he doesn't care what anybody thinks and says what is on his mind at that particular moment.  There is a history of depression in Alan but he chooses to ignore it and because he does he becomes frustrated by everything around him.   If we all lived in our own world like Alan then you have to ask yourself where would you're life be at that time and moment.  Believe it or not he is an icon to people who have a lot to say but don't want to.  When looking at Alan Partridge and the people he comes across there is always a part of him that is bitter or he finds a fault within that person and always let's them know what it is that he dislikes whether they are right and wrong which is what we wish we cold all do.I am interested in why Knowing Me Knowing You is not known as the first series of Alan Partridge.  The series after KMKY is called Alan Partridge Series 1 and then you have series 2.  It makes no sense what so ever to me because I will always look upon KNKY as the first series.  Some people say that its his introduction and not apart of Alan Partridge series 1 and 2 but it is because KMKY tells us how Alan got to who he is in Series 1 and 2.  I mean Blackadder has four terrific series but all of them are different as far as story goes apart from having something to do with Royalty but it is still known as series 1,2,3 and 4 because they are apart of each other through Blackadder so why isn't KNKY apart of the Partridge series.  We could go on forever but I think Steve Coogan have confused themselves, bless their hearts.After seeing Series 2 of Alan Partridge, the one after KNKY, Oh yeah!!!I thought how can Coogan out do Partridge anymore than he already has.  Well the first episode is the best Partridge episode ever so it was off to a flying start.  The more the series went on the worse I thought it got but I straight away after viewing the last one starting going through it again and got more in touch with the jokes because I am not the smartest and quickest tool in the shed but after viewing it many times as a whole I think it is the best one out of the three because it brings this new chapter of Alan's life and he is getting much more older and much more retro the more he ages so it gets funnier. Steve Coogan did say he was killing off his character in the last episode and when it came I was dreading it because I don't like it when they do that because it's an easy way to stop running the program.  Albert didn't die in the last Steptoe and Son, Basil Fawlty didn't have a heart attack which was sooner or later coming after his scuffles with the guests but I was pleasantly surprised to see that he didn't actually kill him off.   On the last note when he was watching his book being pulped I honestly thought that some kind of machinery was going to drop on him or something to finish it but again it didn't happen so it was nice not to see any closure to Alan as there is so much more they can do with his life.  I thought they brought it off to a great 3rd series and definitely it's best but now Steve Coogan is starting to become a big film star especially with Around the World in 80 Days coming up, can we expect him to go back to TV.  I think he will because after seeing The Parole Officer and the masterpiece 24 Hour Party People who has still not been able to shake the Alan Partridge charisma off as there are so many scenes in both films where it sounds like a young Alan.  
Steve Coogan hasn't said he won't be making another series so we have to live in hope that one day he will see sense and realise how much we love him and want him back, but that depends on what Hollywood think of Around the world in 80 Days.Best British Sitcom place for Alan Partridge was number 42 out of 50 with the overrated Peter Kay beating him by at least 8 to 10 places, Scum<U+0085>.Subhuman Scum!!


                
This BBC sitcom stars Steve Coogan as Alan Partridge - a middle-aged, divorced man whose career is failing. He's a socially inept, narcissistic local radio presenter who used to be a television presenter. It follows on from Knowing Me Knowing You with Alan Partridge.Coogan is brilliant - as are the rest of the cast, who play various staff and other people whom Partridge encounters. There are two series. In the 1997 series, he lives in a travel tavern. In the 2002 series, he lives in a static caravan.


                
I work in Curry's, and was going to write my review in Latin, but decided most of you won't be able to understand it. I watched this in 6th form in the late 90s, and could quote a lot of it word for word .... as you do back then, at that age. Now at 34, I still meet up with mates and I don't think I have had a night where I didn't slip in a quote here or there, could be something as small as "lovely stuff" .... or aqua, it's french for water. There are hundreds of varying quality, but you never run dry!Then there are just outrageous, where did the thought process come from lines like; "I know lying is wrong, but if the elephant man came in now in a blouse with some make up on, and said "how do I look?" Would you say, bearing in mind he's depressed and has respiratory problems, would you say "go and take that blusher off you mis-shapened elephant tranny"? No. You'd say 'You look nice... John'"The genius of Bohemiam Rhapsody is that you listen to it and think this is so out there, so unusual, where did it come from, what was the thought process, and that's what I think about Partridge. Some of it is just incredible genius, simple, but brilliant. I wrote a review for curb your enthusiasm, which the Americans hold up as comedy, I can see parallels between that and Partidge, but it's nowhere near as funny!


                
This is one of my top comedy shows. I love it, it never fails to make me laugh, Steve is so good at playing this role. From the first time i watched this it got me hooked... i just wish there was more eps, you can never watch enough Alan, it never gets boring.I think Alan Partridge is by far Steve's best work, I do know a few people who don't like this as they say he is stupid but i don't get that because he is meant to be, he is meant to be a person that is insulting, that makes inappropriate remarks, he is rude and people on the show don't like him because of how he is (meaning the characters the actors play are meant to not like Alan in the show).I personally love this and would love to see more Alan Partridge shows.10 out of 10 from me.
After waiting 5 years this was far from a disappointment! The writing and performances are superb especially between Alan and anyone who hasn't met him before. The "Hamiltons water breaks" flop corporate job of this series was for Dante Fires whose lax security became the target of alans own lampoonery ("unnnnbelievable") until he went one joke too far and they locked him outside the gates. The result of which was Alan trying to climb over a metal fence and piercing his foot with a spike. After returning from hospital, like a true pro he goes ahead with the corporate speech which is punctuated with the most realistically staged pain induced vomitting I have ever seen! (To audience: "You know that feeling when theres nothing coming up?") There are so many other great scenes which will probably be remembered as classics, like when Lynn spills Sunny Delight all over Alans precious James Bond video collection and "they're ruined". Alan meets his dopelganger and male hetrosexual soulmate for life in Dan Mooney (owns Kitchen Planet, 10,000 square feet of sheer kitchens) who turns out to be too good to be true when Alan discovers he and his wife are "swingers" which in Alans sexually retarded world is unthinkable, thereby ending their perfect friendship. His way of dealing with this is as ever hilarious. Despite having a different timeslot on Radio Norwich on a show called "Norfolk Nights" we still get to see the front stabbing banter between Alan and his arch enemy incased in glass Dave Clifton. As usual Dave usually gets the better of him especially when Alan decides to start a rant about Archers, The Archers, and Jefferey Archer and he wishes he had never started. The last 2 episodes were a bit disappointing! It looked as though they had run out of energy and not surprisingly when you look at the high standard of the rest of the series. Episode 5 was only partly saved by seeing Alan doing Air bass guitar to Gary Numan music in his static caravan and his ill chosen banter and lack of flatulence control ("when I raised my legs then, something happened that was unplanned") in the presence of two female tax inspectors. All in all a good note to finish on, and bound to be remembered as a classic along with Series 1.


                
This is the funniest most watchable comedy to have ever graced TV. Full of memorable scenes and imaginative witty dialogue. My favourite scenes are Alan sacking his team at Pear Tree Productions, the whole of the '...Smell my cheese...' scene, but may favourite is the Watership Alan episode with his attempts at ingratiating himself with 'the lads' and moreover his 'apology' to Peter Baxendale Thomas. Watch and be utterly inspired.10/10'Im trapped under a cow...Im not ok...Im not ok...'


                
If you liked Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, then try this more rough kind of humor. His series Coogan's Run is not to be missed and should be released on D.V.D. very soon! Alan Partridge is obsessed with himself and does lack a sense of reality. (Good for us, now he's really making a fool of himself)


                
What can i say? Every line is pure gold and quotable. This is the best comedy series i ever watched Nothing can beat scenes like when Alan does his boot video and a cow is dropped on him. The way he says i m trapped under a cow. I could go on forever Whenever i am in a bad mood i get out my Alan partridge stuff and watch it and laugh my ass off every time. I think all the Sascha baron Cohen's and Ricky gervais owe so much to Alan partridge The influence this character had on the comedy scene is incredible and can t be overestimated. I am German and i English people thank you for giving me something that funny The German comedy scene is full of awfulness And everybody who hasn t watched this i can guarantee you that you will not regret it


                
I laugh every time I watch this.  If you like cringeing at someone making an absolute "Cook" of himself then you'll love it too.  Favorite character: Sophie the travel tavern receptionist, played by Sally Phillips of "Smack the Pony".  Favorite scene: Alan shoving cheese in Tony Hayers' face shouting "Smell my cheese, you mother!""Classic!"


                
