It was much anticipated by us Partridge fans, Knowing Me Knowing You on both radio and television had been comedy gold. The Christmas Special saw Alan's Television career collapse.  How could 'I'm Alan Partridge' possibly keep up with such high standards?It did and a whole lot more.  The hilarity of Alan's misguided belief that he is still a major player in the industry and the meaningless conversations with the hotel staff combine to make his series essential watching. And the indignity of his prolonged stay in a 'one night stop venue' Travel Tavern adds to the tragic hilarity of the series.Steve Coogan delivers his finest work to date and is ably assisted by a cast whose strongest delivery is the varied reactions their characters display when in the company of the failed chatshow host.Perhaps the ultimate magic of Alan Partridge is that to fans his barrowload of catchphrases and inane comments are never forgotten and are always liable to be joyfully relayed in the company of a fellow fan.And to think there are people out there who still don't get the joke.as Alan might say,'who, who, who do you think you are?'


                
I'm a big Partridge fan, and enjoyed Knowing Me, Knowing You, and the 1st I'm Alan Partridge. I have to say this is a more than welcome addition to the series, if not the best. Alan's character is even more childish than ever, and he's also developed a slight arrogance towards people as he has become more self-confident (at least he thinks so). Alan's interaction with the builders is classic and his ever evolving friendship with Michael is superb. I was so glad that Michael got more to do in this one, everything he says is funny, especially when describing what he'd do with the Apache helicopter. Classic. The episode with Alan making friends with Dan (the kitchen man) is absolutely hilarious, and his antics at the Norfolk bravery awards is so crude and funny. "Beep, beep, got room for a brave one ?" hehe. There are so many hilarious parts to this series - its the best English comedy I've seen for a long time, I really cant understand why some people here found it disappointing (perhaps because you wanted to see Alan succeed ??). I recommend to watch it again and pay close attention, this is genius comedy. Series 3 soon please ! Highly recommended."You've never had a cup o' beans Mr Partridge" ?


                
The TV comedy landscape began to change with The Day Today back in 1994. For me, the highlight was the Alan Partridge Sports Report - which is still frequently quoted today. Then came the outstanding Knowing Me Knowing You, I remember after watching 5 minutes of the first episode thinking everything had changed and comedy on TV could never go back.It was when I was in university that the first series of I'm Alan Partridge ran in late 1997. I had a fellow Coogan fan as a house mate and it absolutely blew us away. I've never quite laughed like that at anything on TV before or since. There are the obvious quotes which I wont bore you with now (thankfully Gervais killed off "quote comedy" on the 2nd series of Extras) - but what stands out for me most is Coogan's subtle portrayal as the annoying, rude, hopeless and heartbreaking ex celebrity trying to find his way back. It's comedy perfection, cringworthy at times (but not hide your head Office / Extras) but highly watchable. Superb supporting cast together with Coogan at his height of powers make this the finest comedy series ever made. As a side note, the 2nd series did have it's moments but was over acted and too exaggerated, lacking the subtlety of the 1st.


                
Up with the PartridgeDVD review: "I'm Alan Partridge" (1997) BBC Video http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0129690/ "The bitter life of a failed talk show host turned early morning local radio presenter.""I'd personally like to understand man's inhumanity to man. And then make a program about it." Has there ever been a portrayal of social self-humiliation as unsparing and cringe-inducing as I'm Alan Partridge? A UK TV series, it is at times unbearable to watch. When Alan stumbled over his own words and emotions while doing his best trying to chat up the beautiful front desk clerk at the Linton Travel Tavern ("equidistant between London and Norwich") one must look away. When he bulldozes through a funeral reception in a black jacket emblazoned with the Castrol logo in hopes of putting the professional squeeze on a TV executive, the sheer dread makes the flesh creep.I'm Alan Partridge follows the arch of Partridge's career as he scrambles to organize a professional comeback. The first Alan Partridge series, Knowing Me Knowing You depicted his dire chat-variety show and ended when Partridge accidentally shot and killed a guest while on the air. The prospect of someone expending such huge amounts of money and time and energy trying to get on TV is a hilarious achievement for actor/co-creator Steve Coogan and his collaborators. At every turn, when easy pathos comes close at hand, the show steers clear with another Partridgean outrage to human feeling. Indeed, at the end of the final series episode ("Towering Alan") Partridge triumphs when he takes up a dead BBC Chief Commissioning Editor's hand to forge a signature on the contract for his professional comeback.Alan Partridge is more than a silly-ass Bertie Wooster without Jeeves. He is lightyears beyond Basil Fawlty in being socially beyond-the-pale. He is a man gifted with the ability to always share his worst thoughts and instincts at the wrong time. He tells RTE executives from Dublin this about the Irish Potato Famine: "You'll pay the price if you're a fussy eater. If they could afford to emigrate they could afford to eat in a modest restaurant." He castigates farmers on his late night radio show for animal experiments, only to end up trapped under a Holstein carcass on the deck of a canal boat.If Partridge is a luckless Visigoth, those around him make out even worse. His receptionist finds out she has been fired when she hears it on Alan's radio show as she rides home in a taxi from their tryst. In each episode, the harrowing martyrdom of his PA Liz is explored and given a scale something close to the sufferings of Job. Liz never seems able to catch up to Alan's latest whim or mania. She is treat as what used to be called a "pen-wipe." Michael, a maintenance worker at the Linton Travel Tavern where Alan lives, is continually upbraided by Partridge for this "Jordy" accent.I'm Alan Partridge is a quasi Samuel Beckett comedy about a man so corkscrewed by life that he cannot have a normal or typical social instinct about his circumstances or those of other people. His daydreams are abashedly homoerotic and his Linton Travel Tavern Pay per View orders run to Bangkok Chick Boys.Partridge sees people around him as extensions of the cash nexus, step-stools for his own egomania. Perhaps they do not appear to him as human at all. In the episode "To Kill a Mocking Alan" he meets his #1 fan Jed Maxwell. Partridge takes it as perfectly natural that his talentless TV hackwork would earn him a fan. Not until the end of the episode does he realize the fan is a stalker psychopath, and that his adoration of Partridge is simply an expression of mental illness. "You're a mentalist!" Partridge yells at Jed as he flees from the man's house in horror.The 2 disc DVD package from BBC Video is an affectless treat. In addition to the usual deleted scenes and outtakes, there is audio commentary by Alan Partridge himself, joined by Liz. The DVD menu itself recapitulates the TV menu system from the Linton Travel Tavern: adult PPV options, elevator music, and parking lot security camera footage included.Watch and weep.___________________________________________


                
I work in Curry's, and was going to write my review in Latin, but decided most of you won't be able to understand it. I watched this in 6th form in the late 90s, and could quote a lot of it word for word .... as you do back then, at that age. Now at 34, I still meet up with mates and I don't think I have had a night where I didn't slip in a quote here or there, could be something as small as "lovely stuff" .... or aqua, it's french for water. There are hundreds of varying quality, but you never run dry!Then there are just outrageous, where did the thought process come from lines like; "I know lying is wrong, but if the elephant man came in now in a blouse with some make up on, and said "how do I look?" Would you say, bearing in mind he's depressed and has respiratory problems, would you say "go and take that blusher off you mis-shapened elephant tranny"? No. You'd say 'You look nice... John'"The genius of Bohemiam Rhapsody is that you listen to it and think this is so out there, so unusual, where did it come from, what was the thought process, and that's what I think about Partridge. Some of it is just incredible genius, simple, but brilliant. I wrote a review for curb your enthusiasm, which the Americans hold up as comedy, I can see parallels between that and Partidge, but it's nowhere near as funny!


                
This is one of my top comedy shows. I love it, it never fails to make me laugh, Steve is so good at playing this role. From the first time i watched this it got me hooked... i just wish there was more eps, you can never watch enough Alan, it never gets boring.I think Alan Partridge is by far Steve's best work, I do know a few people who don't like this as they say he is stupid but i don't get that because he is meant to be, he is meant to be a person that is insulting, that makes inappropriate remarks, he is rude and people on the show don't like him because of how he is (meaning the characters the actors play are meant to not like Alan in the show).I personally love this and would love to see more Alan Partridge shows.10 out of 10 from me.
What can i say? Every line is pure gold and quotable. This is the best comedy series i ever watched Nothing can beat scenes like when Alan does his boot video and a cow is dropped on him. The way he says i m trapped under a cow. I could go on forever Whenever i am in a bad mood i get out my Alan partridge stuff and watch it and laugh my ass off every time. I think all the Sascha baron Cohen's and Ricky gervais owe so much to Alan partridge The influence this character had on the comedy scene is incredible and can t be overestimated. I am German and i English people thank you for giving me something that funny The German comedy scene is full of awfulness And everybody who hasn t watched this i can guarantee you that you will not regret it


                
An incredible piece of comedy. Characters are hilarious, as well as Alan, Michael the geordie is brilliant. Steve Coogan has taken his character to new levels of comedy in this series.My favourite moment in the entire series is when he has lunch with the Irish TV producers. Alan's interpretation of Sunday bloody Sunday is inspired, and his reference to the Irish famine whilst scoffing himself is brilliant.Why can't the Americans produce comedy of this quality instead of serving up dross such as Friends, Ally McBeal (not sure if you can even class that as comedy)?


                
I've had no previous experiences with Alan Partridge persona and I didn't know what to expect from this series. It was brilliant. I especially liked the episodes "To Kill A Mocking Alan" and "Watership Alan", the former had me in tears from laughing and that does not happen often. The writing is without a mistake, the characters are interesting and amusing and Alan is one ignorant, vain and rude little man - but that makes this series so fun to watch. Here in Croatia, Alan Partridge is fairly unknown - it's such a shame. I'll try to get my hands on other series that feature Alan's adventures.10/10


                
It's impossible to like the foul beast known as Alan Partridge, yet he's one of the funniest dudes around. The comedy he provides is as painful to watch as Larry David's "Curb Your Enthusiasm", the difference being that Alan NEVER means well, hasn't got a good heart nor tries to help anybody. He doesn't spend a second considering the well-being of anybody and is totally oblivious of what goes around him. He fails in pretty much everything he puts his hands on and deceives all those who approach him, all this while seeing himself as the crown prince of mankind. Yes, he's hopelessly clueless and remorselessly mean but also gives the vibe of not even being aware of what he's doing, so that bit of childish innocent stupidity is what eventually turns him into the quintessential involuntary buffoon.


                
I'm Alan Partridge follows hot on the heels of Alan's T.V outing in 'Knowing Me Knowing You! With Alan Partridge' (KMKYWAP) His last T.V appearance left many questions unanswered, this series answers some of those though not all of them.Series 1 --- The first series of I'm Alan Partridge set about showing Partridge in a different light, a light unseen by viewers ever before, in his previous adventures whether it be on the radio on 'On the hour' at the sports desk on 'The Day Today', or hosting his chat-show 'KMKYWAP' on the BBC viewers saw Alan at his shameful best during his work on air, I'm Alan Partridge set about giving the viewers an insight into the mind of one of T.V biggest catastrophes and Norwich's most infamous figures. This was done (as stated on the DVD Audio extras) as a documentary about how Alan copes with life just over 2 years after his chat show was cancelled (Xmas 94), now in 1997 Alan plots to make a comeback to mainstream T.V with a 2nd series of 'KMKYWAP' to do this he must convince BBC head of programming 'Tony Hayers' who he punched with a turkey on his last show at Xmas 94 that he merits a 2nd series, we find out he has returned to radio with the 4.30-7.00am slot on Radio Norwich, he has been chucked out by his wife Carol, is unwanted by his children Fernando & Denise and now resides in the 'Linton Travel Tavern' due the ingeniousness of it's location in that it's equidistant between London and Norwich.During this series we see the state of which Alan has become mentally more than anything else, a series during which Alan gets his Rover 800 vandalised for the third time, having a Valentine's day date with his secretary, presenting a corporate video for 'Hamilton's waterbreaks', walking up the A12 for 12 bottles of wind-screen washer fluid, meeting up with his biggest fan and judging a vegetable competition at the 'Swaffham country fayre'.Series 2 --- Series 2 sees Alan nearly 4 years after series 1 ended, we find out Alan now resides within a caravan ('doh', sorry Static home), has the third best slot on Radio Norwich, hosts a military based quiz-show on UK Conquest called Skirmish and most importantly has a girlfriend who is 13 years younger than him 'back-of-the-net' In this Series we see Alan doing a presentation at his old school, hosting a gala event for Dante's of Reading, giving out an award at the 'Norfolk bravery awards', having a 'Bond-a-thon', taking his girlfriend to U2 lead-man Bono's house and attending his PA Lynn's baptism.My personal opinion: ----- Many a time do we brand something with the word genius yet realize in fact it can be more accurately defined as good when truly analyzed yet genius is the only word to describe this comedy accurately.Why? What makes this comedy different from others out there and most importantly why do I and other viewers of the series think so too...There are many factors but the most important for me is the blend and diversity of opinion and input in the series from the cast crew right through the director and it's production.This is a comedy which you can see has been clearly well thought-out and has had huge amount of effort and detail put into it, from an immaculate set especially the locations from series 1 (Travel tavern, 5 bedroom house, etc), including great lighting a backdrops used, credit also to a casting crew which gel well and act off each other superbly, with each actor playing their part to perfection and using their individual skills to their up-most effect, Coogan's dry wit and Sarcasm, Montagu's facial expressions, Greenalls vocal impressions, etc... these maximise the feel of both series in a way which has the ability to immerse yourself into all things Partridge, and finally to the combined talents of the writers Coogan, Iannucci & Baynham who have created a truly remarkable pair of comedy series.Rarely does a comedy have the ability to make a person cry and yet laugh (Ambivalence) at the same yet this comedy does just that.The last thing that really makes the show what it is and made it a pioneer for modern comedy shows like Spaced, The Office, Coupling, etc<U+0085> is that I'm Alan Partridge is a comedy that has been given a cast-iron direction in terms of its audience maximizing its appeal to those that enjoy its humour <U+0096> but most of all understand it!!! It is because of this that I'm Alan Partridge is a show that could just not be a favourite with a mainstream T.V. audience, a testament most notably to it's dark and rather painful nature, nevertheless this is a show that provided the person understands it's content has the undoubted ability to make them howl with laughter... and that my is a guaranteed promise thanks a work of pure comedy genius!!!
A perfect comedy, with one of the best comedians of The Age. Worth a watch and is available on netflix and other streaming apps.


                
Jurassic Park! I feel like partridge fans are a certain breed of human that are leagues above all creatures.


                
Following up to the origional "I'm Alan" was a tall order.As an avid fan of the radio/TV/live shows (basically anything Coogan has done as Alan P) I was worried that this follow up would be hard pressed to match the genius of the Travel Tavern episodes.And it is true, it is not quite as good, but then the first series was sublime, not only because of the classic quotes I still share withfellow fans today, but because of the direness of Alan's Situation and how he handles it.His lot is better in 'I'm Still Alan' albeit still pretty desperate, and the series is basically very good, not a great, but very good.  Plenty of 'cringe' moments and memorable lines 'back of the net!' being the most repeated that have since been added to the mix of over a decade of Partridgeisms.Partridge was easily the funniest character to emerge in the 90s however I would be worried any further series could see declining returns.


                
