For this sort-of-successor to "Knowing Me Knowing You", Steve Coogan and his writers took gormless failed TV chat-show host Alan Partridge further down the road of fading celebrity with this very sharp and very amusing series.Partridge has ended up on the broadcasting scrap-heap, presenting the death-slot before the breakfast show on his local radio station in Norwich, never quite giving up on his hope of getting back into the big-time, retaining the services of his devoted and docile P.A. Lynn and living out of a hotel suite 24-7, although it's hardly the Ritz! The falsity of TV celebrity is exchanged for mock-realism as Partridge now interacts with recognisable everyday types, principally the staff of the cheap hotel he inhabits, which of course only highlights his own ridiculousness, making us laugh at him all the more.Coogan uses a different band of actors from those employed on "KMKYWAP", an indecipherable ex-Army Geordie hotel porter, two mocking, chiding female hotel receptionists, a randy young attendant and his afore-mentioned long-suffering, mousy P.A. They all get to share in the laughs but as ever it's Alan himself with his straighter-than-straight, true-blue persona who makes you wince as much as giggle with a string of un-P.C. phrases and actions.I could have done without his recurring daydream of dancing in a black thong as well as the tacky laugh-track which is unnecessarily employed, but otherwise these half-hour episodes are at least as funny as "KMKYWAP", which is no mean feat.


                
In On the Hour and The Day Today, the character of Alan Partridge is introduced as a bumbling, easily exasperated sports reporter. The audience gets a more focused look at him with his "failed" chat show Knowing Me, Knowing You<U+0085> with Alan Partridge, but the character does not really "come into his own" until the sitcom I'm Alan Partridge.Sometimes mistakenly labeled as a mockumentary, I'm Alan Partridge is immediately removed from that label by its use of a laugh-track. In KMKYWAP, the audience sits in the same studio as Alan's, and he often reacts to their laughter as though to heckling. With IAP, the hand-held camera-work does somewhat mimic that of a documentary, but that non-diegetic tittering causes a riff in the realism of the show, as Coogan and other cast members will time delivery in accordance with the track. Partridge is thus occasionally portrayed as a bit more of a "doof" than he might have been otherwise, in his "hamming it up" like other sitcom characters.In the first series of IAP, though the laugh-track is a bit jarring, there is still a deep sadness to Alan Partridge. He still often acts like a buffoon, but the series is emotionally connected by his fear of failure (to get his chat show renewed). This is represented visually by a dream motif, depicting Alan gyrating in a strip club for the BBC's Tony Hayers and other television executives. Alan will often act like a fool to try to avoid this nightmare, but as the other characters (particularly Sophie and Ben of the Linton Travel Tavern) are aware of how outlandish Alan is acting, the realism is reaffirmed. Realism is not a necessity for a comedy show, but as Alan Partridge was initially conceived as a lampoon of a particular type of media personality, it is important for him to be grounded in reality. Thus, the world is not wacky, but a desperate Alan Partridge is. This is particularly revealed when, so determined to please some Irish television executives, Alan shows them to the house of a random fan in lieu of his own, and that aficionado ends up being an obsessive stalker. In IAP, however, even this "crazy" fan pales in comparison to Partridge's reactions to him.The first series meanders in terms of quality, with the best episodes directly connected to Partridge's fear of failure (and thus his unhappiness), and the worst feeling undeveloped and rather pointless (in "Basic Alan," a bored Alan makes for a bored audience). The last episode brings the series to a nice close, with Alan so desperate for his career not to die, that he uses a dead man's hand to sign a contract. The cackling audience does not know whether Alan will succeed, but they do know how low he will stoop to ensure it.In the second series of IAP, filmed five years after the first (2002), Alan is immediately brought back to his "roots" in the premiere, by giving a talk at his childhood school. But these are roots the viewers know nothing about, having never been established in the first series or before. Likewise, this episode is largely about exposition – Alan's career got somehow even worse, he had a breakdown, and he got fat—all sort of "funny" things that would leave a man as fragile as Alan shattered. Instead, Alan, having "bounced back," careens around, acting doofy as ever. Yet unlike the first series, in which almost every character seems to act as a rational foil to Alan's out of touch personality, a parade of guest stars enter into the world of IAP, each seemingly trying to outdo Alan with their wackiness. There is Alan's young Ukranian girlfriend Sonja (Amelia Bullmore), who in her broken English constantly plays practical jokes that even Alan knows are shamefully unfunny. There is Stephen Mangan as Dan, a seeming younger incarnate of Partridge's personality, yet no longer is it crazy enough just that there exists another human being with Alan's god-awful disposition, and Alan ends up the saner one of the pair, as Dan is into orgies and "sex festivals." The undercurrent of melancholy in first series is replaced by a more "tragic" back-story, and "front"-stories obsessed with Alan not just embarrassing himself, but everyone else embarrassing themselves as well.(Also, the former Linton staff-member Michael, someone whom Alan never previously seemed to like or be able to understand, is elevated to the spot of Alan's best friend.) In the last episode of the second series, as Alan's book is pulped and officially regarded as a failure, the tragedy mentioned in the premiere is finally dealt with. As Alan is confronted with failure once again, he has a series of flash backs to his "Fat Alan" stage. He is invited onto a Christian radio show, and in an attempt to not look like the biggest failure there, he insults the other guest in exceedingly outlandish ways. Yet instead of responding with some bigger, hammier reaction, the other guest stops him like a rational human being would, and leaves. A sense of realism is restored. The Christian radio host remarks on Alan's book ending every anecdote with the line "Needless to say, I had the last laugh." IAP's second series seems to suffer from this obsession as well. In order for IAP to be not only funny but compelling, the characters do not need to try to outdo each other with their wacky hijincks and clever jokes. The goofy, but more subdued Alan Partridge of The Day Today and Knowing Me, Knowing You can already bring laughs just with his exasperation. But IAP's second series, so desperate to make the audience snicker, largely dismisses realism, and in doing so, reduces much character quality and consistency, and Partridge's fear of failure does in a way come true.SERIES ONE: ********/10 (8/10) SERIES TWO: *******/10 (7/10)


                
