This BBC sitcom stars Steve Coogan as Alan Partridge - a middle-aged, divorced man whose career is failing. He's a socially inept, narcissistic local radio presenter who used to be a television presenter. It follows on from Knowing Me Knowing You with Alan Partridge.Coogan is brilliant - as are the rest of the cast, who play various staff and other people whom Partridge encounters. There are two series. In the 1997 series, he lives in a travel tavern. In the 2002 series, he lives in a static caravan.


                
Its no surprise, bearing in mind some other notable comedy creations, that a socially subnormal geek such as Partridge can be such a success. But this is due in no small part to Steve Coogan's whose timing and scripts have created more of an institution than a character. He is blunt, rude, naive and snobbish to name just a few of his characteristics but despite all this you can't help but like him. Supported with a wonderful cast who have started to mould great comic characters in their own right such as Lynn and Michael, the show never fails to make you laugh out loud every time, despite knowing exactly what is to come!


                
It is absolutely brilliant but one thing totally kills it.Canned laughter.The series affects reality/documentary style and the horrible canned laughter is so cringe worthy I actually found myself gritting my teeth.If there is a re-release of the series, PLEASE remove this utter horror. Without it, it would be nigh perfect. Really I can't concentrate on the dialogue because of it. It is truly terrible.It works perfectly for Monty Python's obviously staged tableau spoofs. It even works for say, Fawlty Towers which is really a filmed theatrical production in its essence.It simply DOES NOT WORK for I'm Alan Partridge!


                
Inevitable comparisons are often made to the office and fawlty towers( god knows why) but the reality is the character Alan Partridge is a very original comic creation. Evidence to substantiate that claim is the number of times you'll crack up at odd idiosyncratic sayings of Alan's. ( While rubbing two fingers on cheek) " Kiss my face " And ( Two fists in the air) followed by " Jurassic Park " Similar to the office because both characters are socially inept which is the base for the humour...but Alan Partridge has many more memorable one-liners in my opinion.Alan Partridge has been kicked out by his wife after a marriage that turned " rrrrrather sour " He now lives at the Linton Travel Tavern, and hosts the graveyard shift on Radio Norwich. His central focus: Getting back on the tele at the bbc, after a disastrous first series on the box. Meaningless banter with the travel tavern staff is hilarious. Like the chat with Michael the geordie ex-army hotel handyman, who's garbled, indecipherable words make him almost impossible to understand.Michael: Morning Mr Partridge. Are we havin' the full cooked breakfast this morning? Alan: Yes. Can I please have my sausages burnt to a crisp? Michael: Certainly Alan: So that they can only be identified by reference to their dental records.Michael: Yeah, either that or their fingerprints.Alan: ( Sits down at table..looks perplexed momentarily)Can you fingerprint a sausage? Michael: I suppose you could, yeah.Alan: Hmm. Suppose if I was a burglar, and wanted to...avoid detection..I could strap sausages to my fingers. They'd probably survive a few break ins before they started to fall to bits...Micahel: Why not just have a big beef burger on your palm? Alan:( Thinks about this) No, I think that's a bit far-fetched.
