I doubt this is going to help anyone make up their mind about this film. To be honest this isn't really a review but more a commentary on a film that several friends have insisted is one of the great movies of all time. I've tried to come up with something to say about the film, other than its not very good, but have had trouble since I saw it in doing so. To that end I've decided to write about that, about not being able to find the words and why.I finally sat down to watch this film after several years of people grabbing me and insisting I see this film. Some wanted to share the dark "wondrous" experience others wanted me to take a crack at explaining the film to them. Some where along the way I picked up the directors cut and put it away until recently when I popped it and gave it ago.Its been a week or so since I've seen this film and I'm still wondering what it was I saw. To be certain its a unique vision of strangeness concerning the odd visions of a young man who is haunted by person in a twisted bunny suit urging him to do things in order to save the world. But outside of the strangeness I don't see this as the be all and end all or even the very good movie that some people seem to think the film is. For me this is way way way too long film thats weird for the sake of weird. For me its an angsty young kid trying to deal with change by creating a "fantasy world" of doom and gloom. What so different about that from real life? Forgive me I just don't care for the film. Its not that I don't get it, but the two plus hour march to the downbeat conclusion was almost too much for me to take. I kept wanting to scream at the film "get on with it" until I'd realize that I had the DVD controller next to me and I'd scan to the next scene.What is it about this film that draws people in? I can't say. Perhaps I'm the wrong audience for this film, having been raised on the films of David Lynch, Jodorowsky and Bunuel where strange is a way of life not a means of getting your film noticed. Even the ending, which has echoes of other films didn't strike me as anything special.Perhaps if I had stumbled upon this unaware I might have liked it, but mostly I'm left wondering if thats all there is.


                
It never ceases to amaze me how people think they're being original when they're really not<U+0097>oftentimes they're following the oldest clichés without even realizing. Donnie Darko suffers from this, like most every movie in this somewhat overdone sub-genre. More about that in a second.The sub-genre I'm referring to is the wannabe The Twilight Zone episodes turned into full length movies. Pretty much everything M. Night Shyamalan has written fits here, as well as Big Fish, The Invisible, The Cell, Donnie Darko, The Matrix, etc. But what confuses me is all the movies in this sub-genre forget the others exist and act as if they're the only one who has treaded the overdone "weird" path. In this sense, Donnie Darko is just as typical as the pointless movies released every year.With that said, I liked Donnie Darko. I liked it because some scenes were absolutely beautiful and captivating, like the movie theater scene, the hit-by-a-car scene, and all the little hilarious details that I'm not going to bother mentioning. I liked the editing. I thought the relationship between Donnie and his girlfriend was well done, for the most part . . .. . . but like a sledgehammer to the balls, the writer/director decided to use two of the most common clichés ever used in movies like this. Not only that, but he sacrificed such a likable and original movie because he didn't have the common knowledge to make the mundane original, not just the over-the-top elements: - First, he makes Donnie have mental problems. According to the Unoriginal Hollywood Hand Guide of America, if your main character has fantastic visions he has to have mental problems; if your main character has super intelligence, he has to have mental problems. From an entertainment standpoint, this movie would have been so much more entertaining to watch if I didn't have to keep thinking: "Wow, another scene with him acting like a retarded person . . ." every five minutes. It ruins the beauty entirely. It ruins the ability to take Donnie seriously, even after his visions prove to be real. From a critical standpoint, it's ridiculously sad that a movie with this much originality would use such a tired cliché that every movie uses. Why couldn't Donnie have just been a normal kid? That alone would have made this movie so much more enjoyable and original.Second, the ending. *Major spoilers* Donnie goes back in time to commit suicide. *End spoilers* Once again, this is the cheap, childish, cliché ending that every movie uses. When you're watching a Twilight Zone wannabe movie, this kind of ending is the single most generic ending there is. You expect it from the first five minutes. Through the entire movie I kept hoping Donnie Darko wouldn't end up with such a cliché finale, but it did. I assume it's a misunderstood idea that all intellectuals must be pessimistic, and all intellectual movies must end with a generic tragedy. If a movie is truly intellectual, you'd think it would break this pathetic trend.Third, the subject matter of this movie is just as generic as the other two points I mentioned. Time travel. The movie is obviously trying to be weirdly intellectual, but, really, there is nothing intellectual about the same exact arguments in every single movie like this: time travel, the fabric of destiny, and the clichéd argument of God vs. free will. Once again, a truly intellectual movie would have thought of something new to argue about, but this movie follows the exact same formula as every other movie of its kind.Overall, Donnie Darko (the movie, not the character) flirts with perfection so many times it's sad I have to give it a rating as low as this. But, listen up future directors, it becomes so pretentious by thinking it is so original, and parts truly were, that is ignores glaring clichés that break the rest of the movie. It's sad to see what could have been a truly superior film fall to mediocrity.4/10
This is a bizarre sci-fi film about a dysfunctional family, with an unstable teen-aged son who talks to a large rabbit. Where's Jimmy Stewart when you need him? Unlike "Harvey," this one isn't played for laughs. The characters are poorly drawn and none of them are likable. The Darko family is so cartoon-like that it's hard to care what happens to them.The script is meant to be thought-provoking but is instead headache-inducing. It's nonsensical, overlong, tedious, indulgent, and pointless. Kelly, directing his first feature film, is in over his head, unsure about what kind of movie he wants to make. Kelly is also responsible for the lame script.


                
Jeeze, what a seriously overrated movie. OK, a few stars in it like Swayze but nothing spectacular.I think people like to say this film was good as they think it makes them look intelligent. Nothing new in this movie, painful to watch to be honest. I understand the story but found it all very very dull. Yawn factor 8/10. Americans must be rating IMDb because as a Brit I thought it sucked BIG time. Time travel, OK, interesting subject. I'm sure we all have our own idea about it if you are a thinker and are remotely interested. I was ungripped by this movie. The actors were pretty grating. Donnie Darko was annoying - dude needed a slap and pull himself together. Tacky, I should become a director or create some dross like this I'd make a fortune. If this is the stuff that turns people on I could churn garbage out like this in my sleep.


                
This cult classic did not have such an impact on myself as clearly it has on the cult following. Whilst being dark, mysterious and interesting with the tone of the film...there was quite a lot wrong with the film. There was quite a frequent use of strong language which was unnecessary and the sexual references was not pleasant at all and i found that really off putting. Those aspects of the film put me off and prevented me to enjoy the film. Also the character of Frank was quite disturbing. The few positives that can be said about the film is that Jake Gyllenhaal was quite impressive in this film as he manages to give the performance of a very troubled teenager. The ending is imposing though, very emotional and interesting. It is also very confusing as it is open to many interpretations. Overall, not worth the watch as even though there were inklings of promise the immoral aspect of the film really put me off.


                
The reasons as to why 'Donnie Darko' is so acclaimed as it explained to me via other viewers seem all in all quite relevant and understandable. Its a movie that is opting to go in a unique direction and has moments that leave you gasping. There are three major problems with this film however, and unfortunately they far outweigh any intrigue or thrills it may provide. One: Its characters are so disconnecting to viewers, its almost like watching group of characters from a Wes Anderson movie in a serious film, it dawned on me about twenty minutes into the screening that the people in the movie were so uninteresting and so lifeless that I couldn't care less what was to happen to them. Two: The story, as inventive as it is, it is really quite basic and it seems so much has been done to draw it out, by filling the film with cheap subplots about high school/ country town/ American life, not tot say that good things can't be done with the as for mentioned, but they are like the characters quite uninteresting. Three: the major one, cinema as an art should be timeless, it should be able to be revisited again and again and still in someway impact its viewers, 'Donnie Darko' is a film that needs only to be viewed once(even those who like it agree here). It is essentially a cheap present, a one hit wonder on the pop charts, and unsustainable work that cannot bring people back to it and offering something new at each showing.


                
Don't get me wrong: the Director's Cut is still an ... (searches for a charitable term) ... "interesting" film, but it really does attack much of what was interesting in the original. The idea of time travel only makes sense when you set reason aside, so, please, LEAVE IT ALONE! Back-filling with necessarily half-baked ideas is distracting. The book extracts read like some scripting artifact or plot out-lining device designed to 'set the mood' for actors and technicians; writing NOT designed for the AUDIENCE! ... Please, no one tell me that WAS the source of the prose .. that would simply be too sad ...And the "PURGE! PURGE!" and 'eye' additions were, as others have noted, just ... plain stupid. My charity gland is spent ... please retract the Director's Cut!Just don't watch it. Do yourself a favour and watch the original three times instead. No: seriously. The original is freaking awesome.*** SPOILER WARNING *** My theory is the entire film is an exploration of the last fleeting moment of the main character's lonely life as the engine crashes through his roof: there was no bunny etc. It was all the 'best dream he'd ever had'. He realises that even IF he had a companion, death is inevitable, and everyone dies alone (and you'll not feel more lonely than if the person you're with dies). All his heroic acts were musings on missed opportunity. All you can do is laugh at the paradoxical absurdity of existence.
I decided to see this movie some weeks ago, after having read many positive reviews on it, and in the end I was terribly disappointed. While its not a really bad movie, is has some nice touches, the whole just seem to be too incoherent, just like the director didn't know in what style he should make this film, and tried to do some kind of mixture; a mixture that fails on most levels (for me, at last).The most annoying for me was the forced 80's setting. I mean, apart from the clothes, it had a whole lot of crappy 80's music... 80's pop music sucked big time, and I see no real purpose to why fill a serious film with this kind of music... So if you're annoyed by 80's music, just like me, then avoid this movie, 'case it will drive you to madness.I won't say much about the story, it's not very challenging, it's rather easy to follow if you can use your brain a little bit. I had a feeling that they tried to make it seem complex by adding themes like "time travel", "end of the world" to the mixture, but again it felt forced and some of these things just sounded ridiculous.The acting wasn't that bad, except for the lead role... This guy could be the actual "teen idol", but it is so obvious that his acting skills are not nearly complete. He just stares and tries to make *confused* faces all over the movie, he was really bad.Since the movie is dealing with teenage problems in much sreentime, I think only teenagers can resonate with it totally, and they are the ones who's trying to make this flick into a cult movie... If you're making a compassion with David Lynch's movies, well, Lynch's work is much more exciting for adults... Teenagers can settle for less, what Donnie Darko is.


                
I cannot tell you how let down I was after watching this movie. To make a movie creepy, the director/writer uses a talking bunny. OK, I started watching this movie and 10 minutes into it, I see some bunny talking. I turn it off and watch Count Of Monte Cristo (for the 4th time).I just don't understand why people LOVE this movie. I guess it's because it's extremely vague, and they feel belittled since they can't understand it.It's just one of those "OMG it's creepy" movies like The Ring. Which I must say will into the same bin of creepy by obscurity. If you enjoy being confused and cheap movie trick tactics, this is your movie, I guess.The special effects in this film (while few), were absolutely horrible. I mean I counted 3-4 photoshop filters in that movie right off the bat.


                
"Donnie Darko" is the type of film that has the pretense of being deep and insightful, yet when you get to the bottom of it you recognize that it is quite shallow and has very little substance.  The film is intriguing for a while-- you want to know just what is going on and why everything is happening.  We are promised that all of this will be explained at the end by the buildup of tension, and then when the climax comes-- you end up knowing less than you did before.  Clearly the filmmakers were going for a "Pi"-like effect in which much is left up to the viewer and that is interesting enough, but it this case it is easy to see through to the fact that not only do you have no idea what the point of the movie was at the end, but you doubt the director knew either.  Some have argued that the movie is good simply because of the buildup of anticipation and suspense leading up to the climax (regardless of whether the climax means anything or not), but a lot of suspenseful buildup and no closure doth not a good film make.  That being said, the director does make use of some good stylistic techniques, but it all seems to be going nowhere.  A worthy effort, but ultimately a failure. My rating: 3/10


                
This movie has some interesting ideas but they aren't well executed. It's also poorly written and poorly directed - notice how little Kelly has accomplished in the years since? It's also worth noting that "Executive Producer" Drew Barrymore's performance is execrable. I feel compelled to emphasize this film's downside because it is so vastly overrated by fans who are willing to supplement its many shortcomings with their own imaginations. It is worth seeing and it is gratifying to anyone who wishes they had had the courage to take a stand against nitwit teachers in high school the way Donnie does. But for all of that, it doesn't deserve to be listed among the best ten thousand films ever made.


                
Contains Spoiler Jet engines falling from the sky, a demonic rabbit and a horrible performance by Drew Barrymore are all featured in this semi-weird, slight and unconvincing film. It's watchable, there's no doubt about that. It's also, from time to time, creepy. DD is also a self-negating film. That in and of itself isn't necessarily a bad thing, but, it's Superman-like ending(remember Superman flying around the earth to reverse time to save Lois Lane) cancels out most of the film. If only it could've cancelled out just the parts in which Drew Barrymore appears. Ah, now that would've been something worth applauding.After watching the film, I found myself thinking about how the writer failed to fully incorporate some of the supporting characters into DD's storyline. The puritanical Kittie Farmer(the one who teaches Donnie and the other boys about FEAR/LOVE)is completely unnecessary. She could've been cut out of the entire film and it wouldn't have made any difference. She doesn't figure in Donnie's story in any significant way. His confrontations with her and Patrick Swayze's informercial creep are forced and irrelevant to the central story - that being Donnie's hallucinations of a demonic rabbit, his obsessions with time travel via Roberta Sparrow and his relationship with the new girl in class(Jena Malone).Of course, it's clear that the writer/director meant DD also as a satire of Regan-era America. That's all well and good. I agree with his critiques(superficial as they may be)but what, exactly, does all that book banning and info-mercial idiocy have to do with the demonic rabbit's apocalyptic talk or DD's desire to find a way to time travel or his love for the Jena Malone's character? And who cares if Ms. Pomeroy(Drew Barrymore - wow, really bad) loses her job? And what were those two creeps from DD's school doing in Roberta Sparrow's cellar anyway? Apparently waiting for DD and his girlfriend to show-up so they could threaten to kill them and, ultimately, put Jena Malone's character in a place where she would get run over by a car being driven by a guy named Frank in a demonic bunny suit so that DD could then travel back in time and commit suicide to save her.Another thing - when DD travels back in time and offs himself to save his girlfriend, he also, inadvertently, frees Patrick Swayze's character from jail, which, I guess, means that he can continue viewing his kiddie porn collection. Way to go DD!
Donnie Darko isn't merely a bad film but a genuine stinker. It's animated by the kind of sophomoric musings contemplated by kids sitting around a dorm room smoking pot late at night. Instead of a plot it offers merely a series of puzzles. (What's with the guy in the bunny suit? Will the world really end in 28 days? Is Donnie really schizo?). Instead of character development it offers the touchstones of adolescent angst that movies geared to teens have plumbed for generations (the school bully, the inept grownups who run the school, uncool outcasts and so on).That IMDb users could rate it so highly is a sad commentary on the state of our culture. But then again, these are presumably the same people who think The Shawshank Redemption (#2) is a better film than say, Shadow of a Doubt (#185).If you don't believe me when I tell you how bad this film is you could always see it for yourself and form your own opinion. But don't say I didn't warn you: You're risking an hour and 53 minutes of your life you'll never get back.


                
I've never liked movies that try really hard to be mysterious and metaphysical to the extent they make no sense at all.  I watched this movie twice and still don't understand why you'd think this movie made any sense at all.  Maybe I'm too old to care about a movie about an irritating teenager having hallucinations.  The plot line makes no sense, even after you've seen it twice, the actors all appear to be autistic, since even the most horrible things don't seem to affect them at all, and worst of all it's silly.  I had no sympathy or even interest in any of the characters, and the lead character Donnie Darko was dull and his motives ambiguous.  The second time I saw it was even worse(if that's possible), without even the promise of some sort of surprise to keep me awake.


                
Well, what is there to say. It's a poor man's David Lynch movie. First of all, if everything seems weird to you, no matter, it is all explained away towards the end. Oh, there are some unanswered questions, but if you choose to ignore those it's really quite straightforward. Pretty cheap, but at least they don't spell everything out for you, a la Vanilla Sky.The amount of peripheral plot lines that don't do jack annoy me. There are some cute biblical references in there, but it hardly adds anything substantial.Some people like to pretend that there are multiple explanations. They can go ahead and think what comforts them, but it's crystal clear to me.It's not funny, not particulary clever, not scary and silly.I do like the 80's music though ;)I thought it was a big dissappointment, such an uneventful story with a pretty standard (though still un-Hollywood) ending. Yuck.


                
I enjoy movies that make me think, but this one just left me going : "huh?". Clearly, the high vote scores mean there is something happenning here that I missed entirely. My impression was that this was dark, brooding, intellectualized rubbish with no point. Drew Barrymoore and Maggie G are always worth watching, but if I need to be reminded that "high school is hell", I'll watch Carrie or The Virgin Suicides.


                
Yeesh. The praise this high-school slop gets is ridiculous. This movie is okay, when you're 14 and still think that Marvel films are "it".Wanna watch Art Cinema?Try Antonioni or Resnais.You'll forget all about the "scary" rabbit and the half-assed "theorizing" on time travel. Try "Primer" for a truly head-twisting time travel film.Or maybe it is just a nostalgia trip for guys who saw this in their teens.


                
I watched this film with high hopes and all I got was a extremely confusing film with an extremely strange plot. This film had a good cast, for example Barrymore and Swayze, but I thought it was poor. I thought it would have some horror in it, but there wasn't, the scariest thing was man dressed as a rabbit. I don't understand how people can understand this film, it's extremely random. I mean what was the thing coming out of people's chests and why the hell did Darko shot the guy dressed as a rabbit, just pointless. I would recommend this film to insane people but to no one I know, I tell them not to watch it. A good film leaves you with different feelings, this film left with nothing but emptiness. Whoever created this film has some messed up mind. I wouldn't watch this Gil again, it's boring. If you want a completely random, messed up, weird film watch this but if your're a normal person don't watch it.
When I set down to watch this film I thought I was in for something thought provoking, like the Devil's Advocate. Instead I was bored for the first hour and a half, the last part of the movie kept me interested, especially with us finally seeing who Frank was. But I could not honestly figure what in the hell I was watching. The point totally passed me. I honestly could not see what in the hell this movie was about. How one person affects the lives of an entire community? How we are all crazy? Or how life is just an imagination to some people? All the time travel points were pointless. I really which this movie had lived up to my expectations but NOPE it didn't.
Ok, I know there are going to be a great amount that tell me "Man, you just didn't get it!  The film is over yoru head!"  Well they would be right.  I am sick of films being made for the sole purpose of trying to pull off a Keyser Soze!   I will give the film credit on atmosphere and the "Evil Dead" cameo. Other than that this film was a flop.  I undestand the basic plot, but I am not a fan of scientific BS.  I usually don't warm up to science fiction, but at least science fiction has the integrity to let the viewer understand the fiction part.  This film, however actually tries to make us believe that things that don't happen could happen.   I understand most of you are gonna defend it saying that it is meant to be taken fictionally, but I am sorry any film that chooses science as a tool for rebellion has simply lost touch with reality.  Here in Donnie Darko, that is what we have.  The plot is science versus whomever is content. Well, factually I think the world needs to be a little more apathetic to what we can do, because in the end everything we do is just everything we have done.  There is no honor in pointless scientific advances.  Especially when the science world is still divided on the idea of "Monkey Man Evolution".  Here's a little pointer you can't get from point A to point C without point B.  Point B is a missing link and so is the gap between Monkey and Man.   Science weirdos get a life and quick feeding us garbage like this trash can flick and others such as "The Matrix".  All these films are, is "Plan 9 From Outer Space" with a bigger budget.


                
I don't understand why this is such a cult flick. I usually like sci-fi, dark and weird movies. This one I found boring.


                
Too weird for me, I'm afraid. Very "Twin Peaks", by which I mean, beguiling to the eye, challenging in parts but ultimately just too confusing and abstract for my sensibilities. The acting's fine, Jake Gyllenhaal in his breakthrough role as the disturbed teenager from whose perspective everything goes crazy, Jena Malone as the even more sensitive new girl in school with whom Donnie finds a kindred spirit and some established actors in unexpected roles, like Patrick Swayze, Katharine Ross and co-producer Drew Barrymore. The early 1980's soundtrack featuring the dark and brooding Joy Division, Echo and the Bunnymen and Tears for Fears chimes in well with Donnie's gloomy psychosis, but I could sit here for hours and still not précis the plot so I won't even try. Perhaps it's all in the words of the Tears for Fears song "Mad World" played at the movie's end - "the dreams in which I'm dying are the best I've ever had". An arresting line and, maybe for a few minutes, an interesting thought but, for me, not enough to hang a movie on.


                
this movie isn't as bad as some people make it out to be, but then its not as good as others claim either.its just average cooperate fodder heaped upon the masses to make a few bucks.if i were to make a movie like this, i'd try to make it a bit less specific and a bit more general.i've seen bad reviews of films like Nadja, The Cell, or maybe Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (which i think this movie owes a lot to (i.e. 'borrowed from"), but certainly they are all better than this one.i guess i'm the first of the "middle of the road" crowd for this movie because its seems you either love it or hate it.  although I dont demand my money back, i dont think its worthy of the fanaticism shown in others' comments   4 out of 10


                
It doesn't get more average than this. Gyllenhaal's previous acting efforts aside, this movie leaves the viewer with a wafer-like taste in their mouths.Artists like Matchbox Twenty, Uncle Kracker and Crazy Town were all on the Billboard Year-End Hot 100 singles the same year that this movie was released. The teenage angst was palpable at the time. Everyone was misunderstood and no one appreciated it.But then there was this boy, this borderline intelligent boy ("hey"), that didn't really fit in at all with the rest of the established society ("HEY") and that longed for self-made discomfort ("THAT'S ME!").It worked. The young morons of those days longed to have a name as ridiculous as "Donnie Darko" and the movie grossed 7 million dollars.


                
