I tried getting through this. Twice. I failed both times, turning it off in boredom on attempt 1. As a big fan of sci-fi, with this movie ranking highly in that category in so many lists, I tried a second time and ended up falling asleep. There won't be a third try.I made it about an hour in, and all I saw was some annoying kid who's on pills, with a dysfunctional family, rebelling in school. He doesn't fit in well at home nor with his "friends" at school. He's seeing a shrink, because every once in a while he'll see a man in a giant rabbit suit.There's no sci-fi. There's no thriller. There's no likable character. There's no horror or fantasy. It's just a boring story of how this kid spends his days at home and at school.Who knows. After that hour it may turn into the best movie ever. I guess I'll never know. Hey directors: you may want to offer something, ANYTHING, to keep your audience engaged for the first 60 minutes.Avoid at all cost. Boring and stupid.
It seems I expected too much of this movie. I've read a couple of reviews and thought I really needed to see it. So I did.Disappointing... The story is very... Well, actually I couldn't find a clear one. It's more like a random collection of events. Some of them make sense, some of them don't. It's assumed this is Jake Gyllenhaal's break through. Hard to believe, I don't think his acting is _that_ good. His face keeps the same expression the whole movie. I know he can do better. The first time I saw him was in The Day After Tomorrow. Fairly good performance. So maybe he kind of evolved after Donnie Darko. There aren't any visual outstanding scenes in the movie. Combined with the lack of a decent story and the no-more-than-average acting it's a 6 at the most.


                
The film came highly recommended, but it simply did not hook me.  I love movies that give me something to think about, but the actual moments of the film, the characters and dialog, have to entertain me in some way, and DD was pretty mediocre in this regard.  I loved Mulholland Drive, so I clearly can enjoy movies that are puzzling, thought provoking, and fairly well outside of the mainstream.  I liked some of the subplots and ideas, but overall to me this was a lackluster film.  I'm surprised that it rated as highly as it did, but hey, it happens.


                
Not saying that it's the worst movie that's ever made, but it's nothing short of a teenage romance film disguised as a science fiction.One big flaw of Donnie Darko is that the protagnist Donald Darko has all the luck in the world as a somewhat unpopular guy in school is all of a sudden hooked up with the prettiest girl in school (mind you, the pretty girl is portrayed as a loner coming from a dysfunctional family who seeks help that's also a brainiac). If you are a science freak who wants to dissect into the world of physics and try to figure out how the time-traveling which appeared in the film works, it's all up to you, because in the end nothing will be earned. Also, the movie is really LONG.
This movie contains a lot of interesting stuff, without actually being interesting in itself. It's a confused collection of often-clever scenes, but no kind of masterpiece taken as a whole. True, the 'asides' are frequently entertaining... discussions of literature, weird confrontations that don't play out the way you expect, nice bits of characterization... (Bizarrely, I found Drew Barrymore's character the most interesting and likable.) And, in fairness, the acting is uniformly good.But overall, the movie just doesn't add up to anything. The ending is a kind of Twilight Zone cop-out - trite if you take it literally, offensively meaningless otherwise. Is Donnie nuts, or is he not? By the end, who cares? The schizoid behavior becomes almost random after a while. The giant rabbit starts out sinister, then becomes laughable through repetition, eventually ends up just plain uninteresting.This sort of material can work, but it's not enough to just be weird for weirdness' sake. If you want to be surreal on a story level, you really should have something to say on a philosophical level. This movie has nothing on either level. You get the strong suspicion its creators couldn't quite think of a brilliant statement to make, so they just muddied the waters in the hopes that the audience would read in some brilliance on its own.Sorry: 'murky' is NOT the same as 'deep' (except to those who really don't GET 'deep.') And 'artsy' is NOT the same as 'artistic.' By all means, see this film if you're curious and have time to waste - but otherwise, don't feel you've missed anything important.


                
It was recommended to me by a dozen people, so, going in I had high expectations. I'll admit the film was decent enough for 1 hour and 20 minutes. The plot was disjointed and meandering, with many 1-dimensional characters, but Donnie Darko himself was a likable character. Then, the last 20 or so minutes was an absolute shitstorm. It was as if the writers had thumbed through a book about time travel and decided to put it in the movie. There was nothing deep or provocative about the sci-fi plot twist; it was just dumb. It was at this point that I realized how pretentious this film was. The movie tried so hard to be deep that it ended up falling flat. The unfortunate thing about this is that, apparently, many people have mistaken the convoluted plot for something more. The film was so confusing to them that they just assumed it was deep. I originally watched the film because it was recommended to me by people in my 11th grade honors English class, people who I considered intellectuals by some definition of the word. But confusing isn't deep and something deep doesn't have to be hard to understand.
» The more I think about this movie, the less I like it.» I really enjoyed the first half of this movie. It moved quickly and had many funny and original moments. And it was a particular treat to see Jake and Maggie Gyllenhaal appear as brother and sister.» However, as the movie grew darker in the second half, it also got duller and less inventive (particularly in its reliance on the cliché of the misunderstood teenage genius). Until the final scene, the second half of the movie was strange without being beautiful, funny, or edifying. The final scene was somewhat unexpected, and even redemptive, but it was executed so perfunctorily that it could not rescue the movie.»» suggested double feature: Harvey (1950)


                
It was one of those movies that gets sent out and wastes hundreds of thousands of hours of people's time. The topic, of finishing what you have to do before you die, is much better treated in Jacob's Ladder. It is basically a soap with a theme running through it. Not much more, and the central questions are confused and diffuse - to my mind at least. Nothing that deserves 8.7/10, unless the votes are being given by children.Oh, for God's Sake. I have to add another two lines. This is the next one. Does no one believe in being concise.Christian


                
What does one observe while watching a film depends on how the viewer watches a particular film ? However, there are certain elementary things which all viewers can notice easily. These qualities are related to the way a film progresses, how its narrative structure is composed and what is the general feel about it. Donnie Darko is one film which provides ample chances to viewers to detect its essential qualities. Most viewers would not waste much time to conclude that it is rather slow, episodic in nature and popular only due to its status as a "cult film". What do these three primary qualities leave for those viewers who have not yet watched it ? This is a key question to be discussed by all intelligent viewers but there is hardly any secret when it is revealed by some viewers that "Donnie Darko" is a story about a high school student and his psychological frame of mind to deal with senseless acts of violence. The worst thing about "Donnie Darko" is that actors Patrick Swayze and Drew Barrymore have been given too small roles which do not do any justice to their acting talents. Having the name of a literary giant associated with a film is a blessing in disguise for a good film but "Donnie Darko" is so pointless as a film that even the mention of British author Graham Greene does not help much to elevate this film's chances of success. Lastly, Donnie Darko is to be watched only if a viewer intends to ascertain whether it truly deserves its cult film status or not.


                
It really is hard to comment on this film without giving the plot away but here goes, I will try.I watched this film by myself with a nice bottle of chardonnay, quite excited after seeing this is on a lot of peoples top list of a twist at the end movie. And yes, there is a twist but not the kind of twist I would explain. I kind of remember being at junior school and writing a story and at the end of it saying 'It was all a dream'. The ending of course was not a dream, but I now feel as disappointed as my teacher was when she read my story.Acting, OK - good. Action OK. They even stuck a bit of a teenage romance in there.Now I like clever films, and particularly clever films with a twist at the end. But the point of those films is that you are left shocked at the end, shocked that you did not see it coming, or shocked that you can't believe it. The problem with this film, for me, is that it was so disjointed there really was not that many options available to me at the end to guess at, apart from obscure ones. The film pointed me needlessly in a more stupid and unbelievable conclusion to what was going to happen so by the end of the film I was very disappointed with what actually happened.Now I am going to give the film the benefit of the doubt as I have read that you have to see the film more than once to understand the subtleties of the film. However, after watching it once, I really cannot be bothered to watch it again and it is with great disatisfaction I give this film a four as I did make it to the end.


                
I know I'm in the minority here. I know that this movie is a cult classic and has gotten rave reviews; that's the reason I watched to begin with--well that and the fact I thought it was a time travel movie."Donnie Darko" was not my cup of tea. This is where I'm told I don't get it, it's too deep for me and then I'm called all kinds of pejoratives. This isn't the first movie that I opposed the majority on and it won't be the last.I saw a dramatic unfolding of the life of a mentally disturbed teenager. And it seemed that every character was formed through the lenses of said character. Everyone was odd. Comically odd. From Donnie Darko down to Cherita Chen. And characters like Cherita Chen seemed purposeless. If that's appealing then color me unimpressed.I know, this was a movie I didn't get and I'm fine with that. It was dark, the humor was strange, and in my opinion it lacked a true message.


                
For years I kept hearing "You have to see Donnie Darko" and "I can't believe you haven't seen Donnie Darko". It kept coming up on my list of recommendations at Amazon.com and on Netflix. Well, I finally sat down to watch it last night and fell asleep. So this evening, I sat down to watch the rest of the film.Why? Because I bought into all of the hype surrounding Donnie Darko. That it was a movie that you cannot just watch the first hour of and walk away, that the payoff in the second hour makes the whole thing worth it.Don't buy into that. If you're watching this film and you just don't like it after the first 30 minutes, don't waste your time on the rest of the movie, it's just not for you. It certainly wasn't for me.However, I can see how some people might find this movie fascinating and riveting. It didn't do anything for me.The story is fairly straight forward, albeit from a slightly unnerving point of view. In many ways the way this film was shot was a sort of tribute to the way that Donnie experiences his world.The Soundtrack was a great amalgam of late 80's pop that anyone growing up at the time will identify with. However, the emotions that are experienced and the scenes just seemed overly contrived and at time farcical. There was little flow to this film. In it's attempts to be hip and cutting edge, it distracted the viewer just enough as to disengage him or her from the film.I couldn't identify with any of the characters in the film simply because they were all over characterizations. The brooding Teen, the bully, the preppy girl, none of them seemed at all believable, and in a story such as this, believability is what would drive the viewer to engage in the characters and their actions.This film is certainly not for anyone, and I think, really, the emotional investiture that's necessary to draw the viewer in was lost on me.


                
It took me 3 times to finally watch this film. It was not because I didn't have possibilities but because this film were not interesting at all. Main character weren't developed as personality. Mr Darko were 2 dimensional lunatic who didn't even had meaning. This film tried to talk about things they don't understand.Onely way how director got some sense out of this absurd film was making Mr Darko more and more crazy.But the main reason why I didn't like film was.Its waist of time watching it and waist of tape filming it. Only reason why this thing has such rating is that in it are used words as "time travel","port" if people who watched it had known anything about these things they hadn't made such stupid mistake.Actually one day I will make film about socks and watching it will be more judicious.


                
...bad acting (especially from the renowned actors like Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze), apparently low budget and poor execution turned it into a mere second rate sfi-fi-'horror' flick. It also tries just a little too hard to deliver its message and so tends to be somewhat over-obvious from time to time. Good concept though. Pity it wasn't managed properly. 4/10.If you want to see something in just about the same pace but with a better performance (and probably considerably larger budget:) I would suggest 'Solaris'.Herr Richelieu


                
A lot of people obviously got something out of this. To me, it was nonsensical. All style but no meaning or sense. Now it does have an incredible cast but from interviews it is clear many of them missed the meaning too. So, to me it is no masterpiece, but I don't like art for arts sake or surreal projects that are weird for weird's sake. If you do, maybe this is for you.


                
Any one who claims to understand this is suffering from metaphysics-envy. Of all the great and near-great metaphysical films these last 15 yrs, this is a wannabe. Actually, this is a student film at some film school. Technically and acting-wise it is adequate for commercial release—however this got done. Again, we have the newish problem of the director failing to put the subjective on the screen. What the f%##!? What's the problem here? It can't all be explained by 'being too close to the trees' thing. All directors have this problem; and painters, etc. These LA-spoiled twats just get stars in their eyes and go all manic-wow-wow on our asses. Won't ANYONE tell these dilettantes the truth? All tied up in the tech/glam of f'in H'wood, fer chrissakes! The actual time-travel plot is spottily described by RIchard Kelly on the DVD commentary, and besides being very vague, there is NO way anyone could see it from the film itself. So many films these days suffer from the same 'problem'. It actually is a form of apocalypse-insanity. EVERYONE has manic/depressive disorder. The 'lucky' ones with money/opportunity are ego- blown from where their maturity was arrested, and the rest of us are sitting on massive anger from our deprivation-torture in this Domination Reality (consensus reality). Anger we don't feel we have a right to have becomes guilt. Anger we feel we'll get in trouble for becomes depression.Teeny-boppers think they 'get it' about this film. BTW, Jake Gyllenhaal has got to go. The Mossad has to whack this sucker. How does an average looking guy with barely mediocre talent get cast all over the place? This is the only thing worthy of discussion about this film/video. The only thing worth discussion re Hollywood, period
tedious and unrewarding. by the time you realize this one isn't really going anywhere, it's already over. Somehow what starts off looking and sounding like a very ordinary off-beat teen movie never manages to become anything else. "Heathers" at least was entertaining.


                
for all the hype that all my friends had for this movie, it really wasn't all that great. yes, there's a bunny costumed man that talks to Donnie. yes, he's an insomniac that does bad stuff. yes, the world is going to end. so what? there was no congruent plot. and what was the point of the child-porn guy? NOTHING. a lot of this movie was pointless, and the rest of it, while somewhat intriguing, wasn't worth the watch.and the ending just angered me. i mean, no. if you like a congruent, laid out plot that people can understand, this movie is not for you. if you like cracked-out movies that make no sense and annoy you at the end, then by all means, see Donnie Darko.
The main problem with Donnie Darko, is that the basic plot structure has by now become trite.  I can list a number of movies, starting from the most recent, that use this particular `surprise ending.'  There's Shamalayan's `Sixth Sense' and Polanski's `A Pure Formality,' as well as the relatively unknown `Final Approach,' and no doubt a host of others where the whole movie takes place because its protagonist is really already dead.  (The grandaddy of this genre may well be the award-winning sixties short film, "Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge.")The use of this tired plot device is a fault in itself; but there is a big plot hole as well.  It seems the anomalous falling jet engine that misses/kills our hero was supposed to be from the future, from a plane his mother and sister are on. Yet in the wrap-up, the whole family turns out to be in the house, and not on the plane after all.There is an attempt to evade this plot hole but positing that, by some goofy, sci-fi, time-travel sleight-of-hand, we are dealing, not with a post-death experience, but with an alternate universe in which Donnie has: A) survived in order to prevent the alt.real. from occurring; or B) has caused it by not dying.  In any case, the fix is to go back in time and die and make it all better.  This may sound original, but it is really just `It's A Wonderful Life' stood on its head.  Other well-chewed bits include the reliance on the old horror motif of `the kids at a Halloween party', which becomes and excuse to create rather easy images and metaphors of confused-identity. Worst of all, the film has a miscellaneous sort of sound track which often obscures the dialogue. Having said all that negative stuff, let me add that the film (without the trick this-explains-it-all ending) is not a chore to watch, though the pacing is uneven.  Better still,  along the way there is some very nice film making: fine acting (I loved Donnie's mom); some good shooting (though nothing as wonderful as the Lynch-like opening shot); and quite a bit of witty political and social satire, as well as some relatively sensitive philosophical musing and characters you care about.  Plus, there is plenty of tongue-in-cheek references to other films--not the least of which, is of course, the nod to `Harvey,' the only other film I know of with a giant invisible rabbit driving the plot.
I hope Director Richard Kelly gets another shot at making a film, because he's got style.  But I fear that we can get a good idea of where Kelly might actually be going if we look at his contemporary, M. Shamalayan.  I'm not sure that a good eye, a bit of wit, a warm heart, and a surprise ending are enough to build a career on.  `Sixth Sense' was both moving and kind of cool.  But `Unbreakable' was a limper attempt at a similar sort of thing, and `Signs' was a flat-out embarrassing serving of less of more-of-the-same. I hope Shamalayan has discovered that long, tense, moody shots, full of spooky ambiguity can do a lot in the hands of someone like David Lynch.  But a director had better have the artistic and intellectual cojones to back it up, or he's going to look silly.
When I had heard great things about this movie from a few friends and some buzz on forums, I decided to dedicate a night in front of the TV with a good friend to watch this movie and expected a movie in the likes of Memento/Fight Club, to where you were kept on your heels until the end. What I ended up with, however, was a dull, drawn out movie that failed to spark my interest, and when the confusing plot twists started coming in, my disinterest kept me at bay.First off, I don't want to have to go online and read a website or watch a commentary to figure out what a movie is about. After watching Donnie Darko, I was not only left disappointed, but confused yet not very much interested in thinking it all out in my mind. With this suspense/thriller genre, the number one thing you need is an interesting plot to back up your "good" plot twists to keep the audience in the movie and thinking every step through. Memento achieved this easily, and kept me interested until the end, Donnie Darko did not.Secondly, the plot twist in this movie was so overwhelmingly confusing and introduced so late into the movie that immediately at the end of the film I felt a huge wave of disgust. "What just happened? Who cares I didn't have enough time to figure it out during the movie." Basically if you want to have a satisfying ending, introduce these factors a bit earlier so the viewer has some time to let it settle in. Memento and Fight Club had some sort of conclusion at the end, with a 5-10 minute ending that left you satisfied knowing what had gone on. Donnie Darko's 11th-hour plot twist, with its complex interpretations of time and space, did not really follow this format and did not leave me very satisfied.With these two major faults, however, I would still like to commend Donnie Darko for its very in-depth view of the world and the laws of nature. Trying to let the viewer grasp at this type of information is very tough, however possible.I would do this movie great injustice by comparing it to another movie that I had a similar, but much worse, experience watching. "Soul Survivors" was a movie in which the viewer is trying to piece together a puzzle of what was happening in the movie. The fatal flaw with this movie, however, was that the presentation was very subpar and also by the end of this movie the "shocking twist" didn't really register much in my mind. Anyways this movie's been getting very good reviews around here, so you be the judge. For me I give it a 5/10 just for the whole time and space integration and the complexity of it all, and it could have easily been a 9/10 if it had sparked any interest in my mind...


                
I'm really surprised by the positive commentary viewers have given this, and I think that's attributable to how open to personal interpretation it is. Viewers as of late enjoy films that ask something from the audience, giving the relationship between art and spectator a false two way relationship.
This is just poor filmmaking.  The number of loose plot lines in this movie had me wondering when it would finally decide on a route to take and go with it.  Instead, it meandered.  The acting was poor.  Characters that seemed to hold relevence really didn't.  They were functions to drive other main characters or instigate certain situations.  Grandma Death is one of the biggest examples of this.I have one word for this film.  Arbitrary.  Because that's what most of this felt like.  You had things happening for no reason.  You wait patiently for certain things to come together -- some do, some don't.  It's poor storytelling.  Dissapointing.  4/10. If you're serious about story, look elsewhere.  This is largely aesthetic.


                
This movie's aspect of being dark and deep is all pretense; the plot is a convoluted and non-sequitur growth, but without any compelling central matrix for the ideas to root. Noah, Barrymore and Swayze have thankfully minor roles, the first two give especially poor B movie performances.But it is Jake's performance who is at the center of this mess, and his jerky, schizophrenic performance may have been intentional, but simply doesn't work, though he does have a few moments standing up for life's complexity vice the love-fear model.Yet it is the plot which brings this movie down.  Unlike Memento, Sliding Doors, Groundhog's Day, or even the Prince of Darkness, which use the nuances of a time continuum slyly, Donnie Darko succeeds in knotting up the stream of time.  Hawking's ideas for spatial wormholes is weakly presented, but they have no direct connection to time travel.Altogether this movie is a sloppy mix of 12 Monkeys, It's A Wonderful Life, Magnolia, Harvey, the Abyss and a pinch of ET.  An eerie blend, for sure, and many may mistake the remix as originality.


                
People were not kidding when they said you have to watch this movie twice to enjoy it. But that means that the movie is no fun watching the first time, because you need to memorize stuff that does not make sense at first. To me, this is like doing homework. I do not enjoy doing homework. Also, if I have to sit through a movie without enjoying it, then what is the fun in that? To be able to brag when I finally get the movie? The parts that didn't need memorizing were packed with jokes and philosophies that I already heard and saw many times before. Which doesn't motivate me either to watch this movie for another time. Especially since the spoilers told me that I would have been wasting my time anyway because the moral of the movie is quite bland and overdone. If I want to spend the time of 2 movies watching movies, then I'd rather pick 2 separate movies that are actually fun watching the first time. If a movie can not get it's point across the first time being watched, then it's badly written and the emperor wears no clothes.


                
This movie belongs to a personal sub-genre of movies called, "everything but a story".Movies like this ultimately make me mad. Why? The cast is good. The acting is better than good, there's some great character work here. There are beautiful moments, dialog that is alternately interesting, funny, scary. The music is good and enhances the visuals.But, with a movie like this, one that depends for its dramatic tension on a countdown to a tragic event punctuated by increasingly strange psychic events, when the countdown gets to zero, the film story had better make sense. I'm not saying it can't be ambiguous. I'm saying that the plot at the end has to make sense in relation to what came earlier.This movie utterly fails to do this. There's an old "Far Side" cartoon where a scientist has filled up his blackboard with calculations. Then, just before the result, he has drawn a cloud surrounding the words, "...and then a miracle occurs". That's what this movie does. The writer has simply plotted himself into a corner, can't get out of it, and so depends on vague edits and moody music to finish the movie without bothering to really have a finished story.I ultimately come away from movies like this feeling that the writer and/or director has wasted my time, and the time of all the talented people who took part, because he/they just didn't work the story enough. So I end up disappointed and angry. It's a shame. This was nearly, very nearly, an excellent movie.


                
Me and my girlfriend decided to watch either other's favorite movies. Initially, I was gonna put on a short one so she wouldn't lose interest, American History X (a brilliant masterpiece, but not my fav.), but after this I made her sit through all 3 hours of Amadeus. Its not a bad movie, don't get me wrong. The acting discovers new levels of mediocre and the plot is pretty cool. It means something different to everyone who watches it. I guess I expected too much after hearing how "inspirational" it was. I didn't find what I was looking for, the idea of emotions was far too shallow for me. As if they were some kind of "either you have it or you don't" thing. My views seem to be further askew than all, parts some take of the up most sincerity I find to be satirical. The characters are simply average people w/ average lives. It is the human complexity of which interests us so much. Over all, I didn't care for it. If you know wit and seek revelation...stray away from this, if you're of dull mind and seek to facade your travesty, then have at it.


                
