Upon awakening, Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) finds that he's been asleep in the middle of a secluded mountain road. It seems that Donnie regularly wanders out at night and sleeps in strange places. The night that he ends up on the neighborhood golf course, a stray jet engine crashes through Donnie's bedroom. He's saved by his odd behavior. Shortly after, we witness him hearing voices and having visions of an odd, evil-looking, bipedal, man-sized bunny. The voice begins giving him unusual suggestions, and Donnie slowly finds himself as the key player in a grand scheme.Donnie Darko is an unusual film. It spans a number of genres and leaves itself wide open to interpretation. Quite a cult of hardcore fans has developed around it, and for those folks, the film is essentially immune to criticism and reinterpretation.The biggest surprise to me was that the bulk of Donnie Darko is a realist drama. I had long heard about how strange the film was, and heard it described as being partially sci-fi (which it is) and horror (which it isn't if you ask me). It was supposedly a "reality-bender". I'm much more of a "genre" fan, and I much prefer fantasy, surrealism and absurdism to realism. My preconceptions were throwing me off of the film initially. The realist drama stuff seemed to drag on, and it made much of the film a hard sell. I loved the touches of weirdness, but they were too little, too far between--at least until I reached my personal interpretation of the film around the halfway mark.The film is also odd in that it's so retro. At one point I double-checked the DVD box, thinking that Donnie Darko had to be a late 1980s film. Nope, 2001. Then I started thinking that writer/director Richard Kelly must have had the script in storage for 15 years. But that can't be the case, either, as his bio says he was born in 1975, and it's unlikely that he would have written Donnie Darko when he was 10 or 11. The film is mired in late 1980s pop-culture references, style and music. Realizing that Kelly was born in 1975 still makes this weird. He says on the new DVD commentary that he was following the clichéd advice to write what you know, and he knew school in the late 1980s. He wouldn't have even entered high school until 1989, so it seems odd that he would only know school in the late 1980s. The retro feel of the film was a bit artificial to me, although I enjoyed the way the pop music was integrated.There were also some questionable performances for my tastes, including Drew Barrymore's, and some bizarre (but not bizarre enough) scenarios that I never quite figured out, such as why a gym teacher was showing motivational videos to a class sitting in desks.But most fans of Donnie Darko tend to overlook the minutiae, even though it takes up most of the screen time. The hinge tends to be on the overall arc and the meaning of the film. If minutiae are dwelt on, it's usually concerning the "Philosophy of Time Travel" book, or some bit of dialogue that is thought to be clever, such as the Smurf discussion. The theme of the film is often said to be something like "possibilities", and the film is routinely interpreted as having a messianic subtext, as well as often being interpreted more literally, as a kind of sci-fi story. After I watched the film and it didn't quite pay off as I had been hoping, I was anxious to listen to the commentary and watch the documentaries. Kelly seemed to intend more of the literal, sci-fi interpretation of the film. That was disappointing, because interpreted that way, the most fascinating thing to me is that Kelly believes it even approaches coherency. The Philosophy of Time Travel material, which is a core of this interpretation, is arbitrary sounding gobbledy gook. It has nothing to do with time travel, and even less to do with philosophy. It's more a naïve attempt at something like a parallel universe, ala the multiverse interpretation of quantum mechanics (which tends to be nonsensical anyway).To make matters worse, there is little attempt to integrate most of this material into the actual meat of the film--the sci-fi interpretation seems very "grafted on". Many of the actual scenes we witness aren't there to service the eventual interpretation of the film as a sci-fi story, but are there because it's some snippet of actual life that Kelly remembers or has thought about or had conversations similar to in the past, and he thinks it's clever or character developing. For me, this material was neither.But my personal interpretation of the film made much more sense to me, and under it, I enjoyed it more. To me, Donnie Darko is just a depiction of a kid with schizophrenia (and this is even explicitly suggested, although Kelly seems to be overlooking or not mentioning the interpretation). Even the smallest details of the film make sense in this context. Schizophrenics hear voices. They can have visual, tactile and other sensory hallucinations. Some have delusions of grandeur, such as messiah/superhero complexes. They often feel alienated. Donnie mopes around, mumbling, fairly expressionless much of the time and has periodic emotional outbursts. He acts out in anti-social ways. He goes into semi-catatonic states. Even the end of the film makes more sense under this interpretation, as it can be seen as an intentional delusion that Donnie has created due to the relationship-oriented tragedy. He's fantasizing about things being different than they turned out. To me, the film has much more depth under this interpretation.If you haven't seen Donnie Darko yet, you owe it to yourself to check it out. No matter your final verdict, it's an interesting, quirky film, and one that's sure to be talked about for a long time.


                
Without a doubt there is an audience for Donnie Darko, which is perpetuated by the cult that it had gained following its release (and re-release as a director's cut, unseen by me). I also have no doubt that Richard Kelly, first-time writer/director of this film, is talented. But after seeing the film for the first time recently with its strengths I also found parts to become a little 'much' (pretentious may not be the right word to use, some would say it though), or at the least trying to be weirder (or surreal if you would put it that way) then it needed. The story is an unusual one, as is its central character played by Jake Ghyllenhaal, however Kelly tries to cover too much ground in one sitting of less than two hours, and also loses much of his conviction in the little coherence of the story by the last ten minutes (especially the last five, although it is not elusive or misunderstood by me, that's not what I had a problem with). There is also something off about how Kelly injects his dream-like projections in the film, which I'll get to in a moment.First off, I would like to point out what I did find commendable in the film. Kelly is a very good director of actors, and out of Ghyllenhaal he does get a truly tortured soul to emerge through. Although one might find a similarly troubled character in a film like The Good Girl, he does make Darko his own. There are also good performances from Jena Malone as a sort-of love interest of Donnie's, and even by Patrick Swayze in a surprising and funny role as a motivational speaker. Also, Kelly knows how to set up certain scenes and let them work well in his 1988 setting (the introduction to Donnie's school was one, where there was an interesting collage of images against a cool 80's new-wave song), and creates some dark comedy in Donnie's rebellious nature at times (especially against the forces of authority). And in the first third/quarter of the film, Kelly sets up a story that attempts to dig into a kind of adolescent mood that follows many outsiders in high school movies.Where I did find that the film went into territory that is questionable is how Donnie's strange phenomena is explained, or not explained. The elements of time travel, paranoid-schizophrenia, the controlling power of hallucinations, the end of the world, etc, are all jumbled up at times and Kelly doesn't seem to know where to go except to make things seem 'cool', perhaps, in a dark way (maybe like a high schooler Fight Club). A problem I had though is that, unlike a controlled and smart surrealist director like Bunuel or Lynch, Kelly doesn't take the visions and ideas anywhere except to a muddled point. There are so many ideas about topics and behavior that one almost loses sight of what the story is working to, which I won't reveal but is a little too obvious.In a way, the end result reminds me of seeing a student film at a university- you appreciate and get entertained by scenes and lines and such, but you see more talent that will later emerge than actually present. In short, like with 2004's Garden State (also directed by a first-timer Zack Braff), the hype doesn't entirely suffice, at least for me. Maybe it might serve more on a repeat viewing, or of the director's cut (which are really just the deleted scenes on the theatrical DVD incorporated in redux style). For now, I give it a B grade, however I would recommend it for most high school kids looking for a 'head-trip' who are still vulnerable to masterpieces like Eraserhead and Un Chien Andalou.


                
first of all, i agree that this film is in a way highly overrated, but still is a good movie. of course, many of you who scored a "perfect ten" for this movie will say that i didn't understand it... oh, but i did. and it isn't too much to understand. i hate those guys who try to find a story where there is not one and try to find out the "deep meaning" of each and every detail (of course after they saw the movie and saw the IMDb rating and comments). i accept the fact that many of those who watched this movie really loved it, but i disagree to the fact that some of them believe that we (the ones that found this film to be not a "genial" one) didn't understand it and that we are in a way frustrated that this movie has a great rating. like i said before i think this is a good movie, but is far to be a great one (in my opinion the movie is saved by its end, its cast and the "cute" bunny). 7/10


                
"Donnie Darko" is a movie that remains difficult to understand. Everybody has his own interpretation of the ending and the story in general. That is a good thing. Everyone looks at this movie differently in his own way, which makes "Donnie Darko" an unique movie.It's a good first long featured movie for director Richard Kelly. Still I didn't liked it as much as everyone else seems to do. The movie has some odd moments and almost nothing is explained. Everything is left to the viewer his own interpretation and imagination, which seems like a lazy but of course also original way of movie making. The story is good but there are several missed opportunities, such as the whole time traveling element of the movie that is hardly used at all.There are some good actors in the movie. Jake Gyllenhaal is a good leading man but even better are the supporting actors played by well known actors Patrick Swayze, Drew Barrymore and Noah Wyle.In my opinion the movie is still overrated. Just because it's original and 'odd', doesn't make a movie brilliant. It's professionally made all and well written but not everything is making sense and the movie makes little effort in making the movie its story understandable.I can give my own interpretation of the movie and its story and try to explain everything about that but in my opinion that would be useless. Just watch this movie and form your own ideas and interpretation of the movie, since everyone will have a different opinion and interpretation of it. It certainly is a thought provoking movie that is worth watching.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I really enjoyed watching Donnie Darko and loved the topics it touched on, but the explanation behind why everything happens left me with a sour taste in my mouth. I did find it genuinely funny and thought the acting was good, particularly Gyllenhaal doing a phenomenal job as always. The premise and broad array of themes touched on, from teen social life to religion to sci-fi, were fun and well explored. However, while you feel like you're being led through a wild, mind-bending journey and are always intrigued to see how the pieces fit together, the answer is dissatisfying.The given theory of the creation of a tangent universe in which there is some unnamed power that compels everyone in it to convince Donnie, who the TU is based around, to return the artifact seems ridiculous to me. There are also the manipulated dead in the TU, who also have all kinds of power, in addition to some powers Donnie supposedly has and can access when necessary. If there was some guiding force, that force could have just returned the artifact to where it came from and not manipulate the TU. Also, there is no explanation of how the artifact was created, or how Donnie accessed the wormhole in the end. Under the theory, the meaning of the world and everything that happened in the movie was just to return the artifact and get Donnie to be willing to kill himself, which seems meaningless and disappointing.My personal theory on how it all works is quite different. I think Donnie was just schizophrenic and Frank was inspired by his sister's boyfriend, Frank, who had a bunny costume and entered Jake's mind as part of his subconscious. His subconscious, already troubled and inspired by the readings he did for class, convinces him to do violent things. As he learns about the physics of time travel, the countdown clock is when the wormhole will be when he decides to take advantage of the wormhole and go back in time. At the end he decides, after much contemplation, that he is alone and will die alone, and decides to go back in time and kill himself by letting the jet engine fall on him.
Regardless, I did find it extremely thought provoking and enjoyable, but the very questionable execution and follow through to the set up was disappointing to me.
Certainly the plot is up to conjecture--and personal taste will have to determine how successful it ultimately is--but "Donnie Darko" is an intriguing mind-puzzle, oft-times disguised as a desensitized youth movie but one with constant layers of subtext. It is sad that a youth movie today hasn't much to reward us with except depression, destruction and death, yet it's refreshing to see something so challenging, weaving its story carefully and with a stylish spell. I haven't much cared for Jake Gyllenhaal's work in most movies, but here his heavy-lidded stare is used to good effect; he doesn't go full-throttle with the performance, but he does reach in and surprise us with a range of emotions. Drew Barrymore (also a producer) is just the opposite: as one of Donnie's teachers, a free spirit-type, she allows fear to suppress her natural instincts as an actress (how's that for irony?), and nearly every reaction shot of her rings false because she's playing to the camera. The supporting performances seem dead-on, and the picture manages a fine walk between darkly comic and deranged. *** from ****


                
Truly a good movie. This movie is interesting to watch throughout all of it. Interesting plot, very good pace and great actors. Specially Jake Gyllenhaal that makes a very convincing performance of his not so easy character. Plus the support of some more known actors like Mary Mcdonnell, that plays awesome, Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze in good performances.The main idea of the movie is maybe not an original one, but it's execution is definitely different from anything that is done before. The main disadvantage of this movie is that it comes in a period of lots of other movies like it: Sixth Sense, Memento, Frequency, Butterfly Effect, Mulholland Drive, Identity, Heaven(1998) and probably some more. All these have non-standard storytelling and most of them have twist in the end. Which makes all of them better than average ( maybe except Identity) but naturally not equal among themselves. Donnie Darko also has shortcomings in inconsistency of the plot. No major holes, and nothing noticeably disturbing but after the end twist some question arise, and some remain unanswered.My personal subjective opinion places Donnie Darko below Frequency, which is far more breathtaking and compelling, Sixth Sense, whose twist is far more shocking and the plot is much more consistent and Mulholland Drive, that has superb storytelling, wonderful soundtrack and a down to earth realistic story. Not impressive as those three but better than most like it and far better than any average movie.


                
Well...i watched this movie twice till now... the movie seems to communicate a lot of different deep meanings... although i still find the story time-line incorrect...it is a very hard movie to follow...well if any of u can explain the movie to me ... please do...because i think i don't quite get ithowever,,,the emotions that you feel while watching it will be the same weather u understood it or not... soundtracks are well chosen, and well timed with the shots.the sound track in the end "Mad World" almost made me cry, although i didn't know what the movie is actually about...


                
It seems that everyone has an extreme view of this film, its either the greatest movie they ever saw or the worst, the truth is somewhere in between. This is an intelligent movie that makes you think, is darkly funny and doesn't necessarily end happily, to some people these qualities make a movie great to others it makes it bad and to some they dosn't make a movie good or bad. Donnie Darko is a fun movie, it is at times confused and confusing. Donnie is "rescued" from death by someone dressed as a rabbit who tells him the world will end in just over 28 days. From this point on the world is apparently slightly out of kilter but we can't know for sure because we aren't shown enough before he is saved. Life goes on and the man rabbit tells Donnie to do "bad" things, arson, vandalism and the like. HE also sees "strands of time showing him what is about to happen. Everything comes to a head as people die, we learn where the rabbit came from and then Donnie watches as a time worm hole, he may or may not have created, sends him back in time where this time he is not rescued. While I enjoyed Donnie Darko I have two gripes, first we aren't given enough back story to know what is right or wrong in the universe that should be fixed and second it would appear that if Donnie had just died in the first place none of the story would have been necessary. The movie itself creates its own paradox. Definitely a movie worth seeing but not the greatest movie ever made either.
I would call Donnie Darko more of an "experience" than a movie. What I mean is, I don't think it was made for the casual movie watcher and I also think that if you just watch it once without any sort of effort put into mentally engaging with it afterward, I don't think it's much more than a confusing movie. After first watching it, I felt quite a bit confused and overloaded with information (and feelings), not really understanding much of what I had just seen.I let it sit for a day and then chewed on it and came up with my own theory and narrative of what i thought happened. Then I watched it a second time and my theory was not DISproven. Then I watched the Director's Cut and I'm grateful I did that because it had scenes that were cut out of the first version and also excerpts from the book referenced in the movie. The director's cut showed a different narrative to the one I theorized, but I actually liked both narratives. I'm glad I came up with my own and I'm also glad I watched the director's cut.All in all, it was a fun experience and I would recommend it for people who like to engage with movies and who like to both try and figure things out and who enjoy discovering new things along the way.


                
I hated this film the first time I saw it. It was not a fair judgment because I hated all the hype surrounding it. And I still do. I loathe it. I need to say this right off the bat: this film is not shining brilliance. It seemed that people who loved it for its ambiguity had never seen a film like this before with a vague ending, and then labeled it as revolutionary. Which it most definitely isn't. Citizen Kane was revolutionary, The Matrix was revolutionary. Donnie Darko is unique at best.It's not hard to figure out, however, even with all this vagueness that surrounding the ending initially, that he decided to go back in time and place himself in the path of the jet engine to save the world in a selfless act of martyrdom.However, I thought the movie was clever, and anything with the use of an evil bunny rabbit makes me quite happy, so that instantly gives it at least a 5. Jake Gylenhaal (SP?!) was quite good, especially at creating this feeling of being part of a surrealistic nightmare whenever he was around Frank, the rabbit, with his attitudes and so forth. I also like how this film is a very blatant homage (or rip off? you decide) of The Last Temptation of Christ. My theory is homage because Richard Kelly inserted that film (in a way) into the movie by labeling it at the theater where Donnie and his girlfriend go see Evil Dead. Think about it: he continues his life normally, meets a girl, falls in love, and realizes that if he wants everything to work out (to save the world), then he needs to sacrifice himself, like it was intended originally by a higher power. He needs to go back, and rethink his "selfish" choice. Anyway, I'm over-analyzing this film a little too much, almost as much as my friends who are in love with it. Granted, its a very well-done film. I respect Richard Kelly for making what he seems to think of as his baby, his pet project. My gripes with the film itself are that its script is a bit iffy with a lot of the secondary characters, and to tell the honest truth, it's just not terribly compelling. I guess I leave it at this: people should really lighten up about this decent film.
I was reading the message boards and i was surprised that no one took a religious view to it. I think there may be something in this interpretation of the film. I you set Donnie as being the savior and frank being the devil perhaps you can draw a few parallels. It really sunk home when i saw the other movie was the Last Temptation of Christ. It could be seen that Donnie was tempted by Frank three main times. First would of been to get out of bed, second to flood the school, and third to set fire to the house. Each affected peoples lives in a negative fashion. Each temptation further drew Donnie away from being a savior at all. The pops up the question of why would Frank want to Donnie to go back in time to save everyone. Well the therapist said that if the world ends that its will just be Donnie and frank alone. In the bible Satan is defeated. This would be the reason that Frank would not want the world to end for it would be the end of him too, hence Donnie kills Frank. I and a few guys thought then who else might symbolize people from the Bible. Well the kiddy porn guy could easily be seen as the false prophet, he of course had his following-the teacher obsessed with him. Gretchin could be seen as Donnie's follower, therefore Donnie sacrifices himself to save her life and to give every one a second chance. The therapist could be a messenger of God for she is always there to help Donnie with his troubles. At the end everyone seems to be affected by Donnies death which would explain the second chance for every one. Also a side we though that maybe that the Asian girl could perhaps be a symbol for Mary Magdalen as she is always following Donnie and has a crush on him and is rejected by all. He seems to be the only one to defend her. He also tells her things will be better for her.These are our thoughts and ideas on the movie, throw this idea around and have fun with it.


                
Very strange but interesting, but couldn't help but feeling bored, great twisted story but could of been better


                
Welcome to the mind of Donnie darko. This is a really interesting movie. One that keeps you thinking throughout


                
Have you ever been so confused by a movie you walk out of it still not really knowing what happened? For me, that is how I feel about the 2001 film Donnie Darko. At first I tried to solve the puzzles the filmmakers presented to us, but once the concept of time travel was introduced I knew I was never going to solve anything. Time travel is one of those things were if I think too hard about it I'll eventually go down the rabbit hole of no return. Now, I won't spoil the film as I feel you need to experience it in all of its mind-numbingly bizarre glory.The film has many different genres in play from science fiction to action to drama, but the most unique thing is that director Richard Kelly fits in a coming of age story along with everything else that is going on. The fact that this part of the movie works so well is in thanks to Jake Gyllenhaal's performance as Donnie. He is genuinely creepy with his twisted smile, but the most impressive aspect is that he grounds the film in reality through his performance. Donnie experiences common human emotions like the fear of being alone and Gyllenhaal is so vulnerable in those moments that the audience cannot help but relate to him. The scene where he completely breaks down in his therapist's arms when he is talking about his loneliness is genuinely heartbreaking.The lighting works to set the mood of the film. The narrative is really mysterious and the lighting (or lack of lighting) reflects that. In particular, the scenes with Donnie and Frank are always in darkness to reflect the dark nature of Frank and how Donnie is stepping into it through Frank. This also adds to the question if Frank is only a hallucination since the audience always sees him in shadow. The lack of answers is frustrating, but if the goal of Richard Kelly was to thoroughly blow his audience's minds then it was a success.


                
It is really hard for me to explain why I liked this film because I really don't know. It's such a strange story that I had to read an essay on the film after to fully understand some lingering questions I had, however I did like it. It was different and Jake Gyllenhaal plays an ominous young man that really displays how good of an actor he would become. I was surprised by the cast because I went into it having no idea Drew Barrymore and Patrick Swayze were in the film. It's an interesting different film that will make you feel just as disoriented as Donnie by then end.


                
I guess I am just to old to enjoy a movie with a plot line like this. I have to say the music was great! And the acting was wonderful. The plot line, seemed like to much was left on the cutting room floor. The plot has real potential and it was enjoyable, but I didn't feel it was fluid. My take on the plot is that Donnie is schizophrenic but then the end of the movie I thought it might be the entire story was a dream before death, the unconscious mind similar to anesthesia, when your mind is in a deep sleep. I guess we are suppose to guess the meaning of the movie. I prefer a movie that tells the entire story, so I don't have to think so hard. I may try and see the movie again and see if I understand it better, but I am afraid I won't.


                
I just saw the Donnie Darko prequel, released in 1981. It details the events that led to Donnie's mental breakdown seven years prior to the events in DD. Apparently, this is not the first time a time portal has opened in his bedroom, leading to threatening visitors and a confrontation with the nature of god and the corruption of time. In this movie we also learn that his real parents were killed as a result of the 1981 time portal, and the parents in DD are, in fact, adoptive. Also, his born name isn't Donnie, it is Kevin.Apparently, the universe was made in seven days, and was a "Rush job" according to one of god's mysterious servants. As a result, time is riddled with holes that threaten the very existence of space-time. God has assigned several agents to tracking down and repairing these corruptions to preserve the universe's integrity. Unfortunately for Donnie, and the universe, these agents occasionally become dissatisfied with Gods plan, as they are agents with free will, and stop their very important jobs of time repair and take up the indefensible practice of Time Banditry!! The choices made by Kevin/Donnie in both cases saved the universe from destruction. In DD we see how god's servants operate in secret when they are doing their assigned jobs.
'Donnie Darko' has a reputation for being a seriously strange film; but in some ways, it's undeserved. This is not just to say that it is fundamentally very conventional compared with the work of the likes of Bunel; it's actually far coherent than many mainstream science fiction thrillers (for example, 'Open My Eyes', or it's American remake, 'Vanilla Sky', which where simply praised for their "dazzling" plots); or horror films like the 'Ring' cycle. My guess is that audiences were thrown primarily because of the expectations of genre; supernatural, surreal happenings are simply not supposed to appear in what is partly a teen movie, and partly a suburban satire. As a straight film, 'Donnie Darko' isn't bad: all the sympathetic characters are unnaturally beautiful, of course, and there are the customary easy pops at educational behaviourists (to a Briton, this recurrent aspect of American teen movies is very strange, can they really be so prevalent to deserve this amount of attention?); but there's some nice dark comedy, and the acting and editing are generally of a high standard. It even manages to possess a good soundtrack using 1980s songs (in my opinion, quite an achievement in itself!). As science fiction, on the other hand, it bears some resemblance to Douglas Copeland's book, 'Girlfriend in a Coma' (and indeed, makes much more sense than that book did). What it doesn't give us is any indication of why the events we see should happen to its hero; the film may be sensible, but it's also essentially meaningless. Nonetheless, it's intelligently made, distinctive, and not really that confusing, providing you leave your preconceptions at the cinema door.


                
(This review is for the DVD version of the movie.)Possible Spoilers (references movies with similar plots)I just saw Donnie Darko on DVD after blockbuster.com recommended it. I guess it was because I rated 12 Monkeys and Rushmore pretty high. Unfortunately this move did not quite measure op to my expectations and I expected to be blown away as with 12 Monkeys, but I just said "Ahhh.. I think I get it. Let me think about this..." The DVD extras revealed a different interpretation than I had and more Richard Kelly's (the writer/director) personal vision. The commentary on the movie reveals that he wanted to leave the audience with a more open interpretation. The book of the character Roberta Sparrow is very hard to read (letters are blurry) on the DVD, but provides the most insight.This is not a bad movie, but it could have been a lot better, I can't put my finger on what is missing. The director creates a great atmosphere and makes you fear and love Donnie at the same time. The fear-love opposites theme is ridiculed in the movie by Donnie Darko.The good: Music. Effects. Atmosphere. Smart story and interesting story line.The bad: Language. Unnecessary and excessively bad language. This took down the movie a notch or two in my opinion.The ugly: The rabbit costume
A very strange, well-made piece of science fiction with our man Jake G giving a damn good performance. It's quite watchable by those who have a brain cell, but the "so-what" ramifications are abound. While it's interesting for the most part, the sheer inanity and bizarro world aspects it emphasizes shot this one down for me.  Had a hard time hanging on thru the whole thing.7/10


                
After watching Donnie Darko, and thinking back on all of the trippy details, I felt the overall vibe it left me with was excellent.   There are some terrific ideas here and it really makes you think about it long after viewing.  HOWEVER, if I'm honest, my experience while actually watching it was not quite as positive.   Most of the characters in the film are cartoony stereotypes which really kept me from getting fully caught up in it.  A few of the actors manage to infuse some subtleties that lift their characters above this (most notably the family) but most do not.  Most notably, I must say i had an easier time believing Drew Barrymore as a Charlies Angels superspy than an English teacher in this one.  Also, it seemed like there were way too many scenes where it was more about playing a song for the soundtrack (which are all very good by the way) than advancing the plot.This is a film that should be seen, and I hope to see more from Kelly. Right now, though, any comparisons to David Lynch and Mulholland Drive are extremely premature.


                
I give this movie high marks for creating a mood and capturing my imagination, but in the end I felt that there was not much there.  I think this is one of those efforts from the "If I make it impossible to understand, they will think I am a genius," school.I liked the fact that the parents were not presented as idiots, as so many parents of teen protagonists are. But where does Donnie get off calling his mother a bitch? Or is this meant to illustrate Donnie's tenuous grasp on reality?I am not averse to complex plots, but when you can put about any interpretation on what happens, then I suspect obscurity for obscurity's sake.  With a bit more focus this could have been a good film, since it has great style, acting, music, photography, and technique.


                
A great film. After seeing it for the first time I spent about 3 hours surfing the reviews and the fun sites. I had not visited the official site before seeing the movie, so that was where I first went. It answered most of my questions but created more. I suggest to anyone that might suffer from Darkitis to do the same.I particularly enjoyed the films reference to ancient Greek Drama, which is the mother of all spectacles. In the scene where Donnie is being held down at knife-point, he uttered the phrase "deux ex machina". I think such a twisting plot could only be resolved artificially.I hope there will be more work of that level from Richard Kelly once he goes into bigger budgets. He could even do a sequel on one of the so many subplots that are in this movie. Maybe he tried to include too many stuff in it though, thus, causing confusion rather than interest to the viewer.Regards


                
Read so much about this film that it was inevitable that I be let down by high expectations.  It's good but not great.  Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more had I watched it when I was younger.  Much like what Hal Hartley had over me when I was a teen but not now.Anyhow, the soundtrack was a great throw back to the mid `80s.  And there's this great version of Mad World (Tears for Fears) right at the end.  But then again, it isn't great like the Some Kind of Wonderful soundtrack.


                
