This show is like diving into a sea of 90s and taking out every pearl of that time. Summer holidays which was really a festival at that time as study pressure got zero. The show explained the bonding of a family in a quite unique way. I can assure you, you will not only watching the episodes but also reliving the memories.Comics and Shaktimaan forever.


                
Direction:TVF's the most lovable director Sameer Saxena gave great TV series e.g. Tripling and Permanent Roommates. His target audience was always Urban Youth. However this time he changed the track and go for family drama based on 90s. Execution was so touchy that you can feel the fragrance of 90s in these 7 episodes. If you are born in era of 80-90, you will definitely feel nostalgic after watch each and every episode.Performance:Every one is the performer in this TV series. Vishesh Bansal aka Harshu is the hero , villain and entertainer of this series. Now come to second most important character of this series. Undoubtedly Prasad Reddy aka Shanky stand on this position as his performance remind you pairing of Jai- Viru from Sholay (1975 hindi movie) or Kundan- Murari from Raanjhanaa (2013 movie). Shanky delivered dialogue as Preacher. Now come to Mona Singh (actor) the Ultimate Mummy for whole Gupta family. Akarsh Khurana has played super and cool dad. Ahan Nirban aka Dabbu has played his role according to nick name "Dabbu" , one ideal boy of family. Ruhi Khan aka Dhwani was cute and adorable. Revathi Pillai aka Vidhya can be crush of any 90s boy. Brij Bhushan Shukla showcase Sanskars in his acting.Script:Story-line of this show proved that Summer vacation is the festival of emotions, entertainment and family drama. Great research work to create the environment of 90s. It is really great inclusion of old things e.g. Comics, Cards, Milk shake with Rooh-Afza, Throwing milk into basin,Fashion TV and many other endless things which create connection with audience. All credit to goes to Saurabh Khanna for his writing skill.Dialogue:Any show or movie based on good writing and dialogue. Good thing about this TV series is that you will have witty dialogue which showcase witty writing.e.g. "Papa 500 rupey jab de tab 100 rupey return kar dena. Papa 100 rupey vapas lege nahi aur Responsible behavior bhi show ho jayega"Translate(" Return 100 rs to father when he offer 500 rs to you. First thing father will not take back 100 rs and it will show your Responsible behavior")Music:Title track was really impressive one and give boost to the TV series. Birthday song was cool one.Last words:After watching this season 1, you will ask me why i have given 4.75 stars, not 5 stars. My question to TVF why only 7 episodes? I need uninterrupted supply of this family show to my entire life.


                
TVF is back with a bang, it has a pool of amazing talent and creativity. "Yeh Meri Family" is an archetype how a TV series should be made.It depicts a middle-class family in 1998 from the perspective of a 13-year-old boy and it is nostalgic. We can re-live the life as writing of the show is impeccable, it captures every nuance of a teenager's life embroidered with such an amazing cast. It talks about happiness and distress, a coming-of-age tale with everything a common family goes through. A seven-episodes slice of life drama will make you feel every emotion, the indecisiveness, excitement, nervousness, and companionship of a family and a teenager have been explicated with such a finesse. The metaphors will give you an insight into life's intricacies, it will teach you something.The direction is simply phenomenal, the child actors have done the trailblazing job special mention to Vishesh Bansal, what an amazing talent, he breaks the fourth wall with a panache, Mona Singh as a mother is adorable, Akarsh Khurana as a "cool Papa" is effortless and delivers lessons through his punches. Prasad Reddy as Shanky is hilarious and unapologetic. Casting team you deserve an applause for finding such talents."Those were the best days of my life."It is one of the best out there. It should be watched by every human being.Kudos TVF team, keep coming such marvels.


                
What a Plot!!!
Retrieved Childhood memories, worth watching.


                
This show represents our real life incidents in the very simple manner. It shows how family members connection is strong and lovable.


                
#YehMeriFamily
 Binge watched all episodes. It has such innocence, niceness and realness to it. It made me cry in the last episode!
Harshu aka Vishesh Bansal is a super performer! The whole team was brilliant!
The concept is lovely and different. The small things which bind a family and the members. Our childhood innocence ,our happiness and how we grow can all be summoned and experienced here..
It became One of my fav Indian web series.
Do watch! It takes you to your roots!


                
Very good love it and create its second season . Amazing videos love it. It has all the thing emotion,love,


                
Nice.. ab social media pe bheek mang hi rahe hai to kardiya..


                
Best web series ever. Jhtsxvjo uffhog ravindr jyfhiy urfjitv iitv.


                
Really well directed and written and also shot program. It's a mix of perfect dialogues, background music and cinematography. Really good one. Probably the best after permanent roomates. Ma man Sameer Saxena, you're awesome. Liked it like no other web series. Rallyt eagerly waiting for the next season.


                
This is awesome.This drama remind us our childhood . Plot is based on 90s and everything look similar to 90s .


                
A fun journey of a child through his life shows what we witnessed in our life, it sets you on the caution that you time travel your own childhood. 
Must watch i think


                
It was a great a tv show with authentic scenes. The have put all the things which was needed to show what we have observed in our 90's


                
An notable series set in late 90's, surely take back to the childhood days of 90's kid.


                
This is the story of every harshu in their childhood. Although was missing my childhood very badly but still wanna thank TVF for this wonderful creation. The team has presented the childhood very very soberly. Nice treat to all of us...


                
I am a 90's kind so l can relate my childhood with this series and it's very relatable. I enjoyed each and every moments of Yeh Meri Family. Each and every characters are interesting. Thanks for making such a beautiful series. I wish it would never end.


                
Yeh Meri Family Takes You To Your Childhood Days Of First Crush , Magazine Scene , Birthdays , How it Was in Summer Vacation In School Not only 90's but Any One can Watch it whole Family And enjoy Series,
brings Family Closer And You Will Surely Have Tears In your Eyes And smile on Your Face When You Complete The Series 
Waiting For Season 2
Best show to remember your childhood.Quite interesting and new story evey episode and the characters playing the role too are very serious about their roles .


                
It will just take you back in time..everyone will be able to relate himself...keep it work


                
Lovely story with awesome characters. Acting line of all characters is amazing.I went back to my school days. Wonderfully balanced Drama, Love story,Family emotions and humor.
A must watch for any age group. After a long long time Indian TV has something sensible and simple to watch. Highly Recommend!!


                
Definitely this is one of the bets series TVF has come up with. Loved the character of Harshu and Shanty the most. Probably being the younger one, I could relate with them more. The plot too, is simple and one can easily connect to the lives of the characters in the show. The dialogues are great !! loved the conversation on The moon and a Meteorite.


                
After a long time i watched a show of 90s best show


                
