Charlie Chaplin was perhaps the most innovative auteur of the silent era and certainly the most famous. His character, the Tramp, is now a cultural icon and will forever be a symbol of poverty and travesty that was American society in the early 20th century, but something all of us can overcome.In one of his first roles with this character, he played opposite a very young Jackie Coogan, who would go on to play Uncle Fester in the cult TV series The Addams Family. Taking himself and this very talented young boy, Chaplin made a masterwork; one that he truly could call his own as he wrote, directed, starred in and composed the score for this film.Here, Chaplin feeds to one of the most basic of all human desires: to care for a child and be needed and loved by one another. The Tramp finds an abandoned baby in an alley and in order to not be caught by a policeman he takes the child in as his own. He hasn't got much but he does have love, which is more than can be said for the child's mother.Flash forward five years, and now the mother wants her son back. Circumstances arise and soon the Tramp is fighting for the right to keep his little companion. Even so, the story is thin but I believe Chaplin was going for something more deep and meaningful. This also gave him a chance to work on some different visual styles and comedic gimmicks, things not used much at the time in the movies. Using these little tricks and ideas, Chaplin creates a real persona not just for himself but also the supporting cast and involving us in the story.However, at the heart of the story are the emotions about fighting for the right to be a parent/guardian; someone the kid can look up to and sleep beside and confide in. It tugs at your heart all while making you laugh, sometimes in the same scene. This shows the work of a true genius; someone who knew what he wanted to create and the style in which he wanted to portray it.


                
Wonderful picture mixes sentiment , drama , slapstick and pursuits in a winning combination . While walking the slums the Tramp (Charles Chaplin) meets a baby left by an unfortunate woman (Edna Purviance who played several Chaplin films) , including a note : ¨Please love and care for this orphan child¨ . He then cares for an abandoned child , as Charlie struggling to nurture the castoff illegitimate kid (Jackie Coogan who launched as the first child superstar) . The Tramp has to face nasty cops , doctors and orphanage workers who want to carry the kid to County Orphan Asylum . As events put that relationship in jeopardy .This sassy picture packs slapstick , inter-weaving gags , melodrama , opulent Victorian sensibility and a lot of laughters are guaranteed too . ¨The Kid¨ is a culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant drama that originated a great influence of wide range . Ordinary sentimentality is made available both by the balancing presence of harsh reality and Chaplin's amusing grace of pantomimic skills . The sensitive drama is set amongst garbages , flophouses , a slum world described in Erich Von Stroheim style . Being accompanied by an adequate soundtrack , as the main theme from Charles Chaplin's score is based on a theme from Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's 6th Symphony . Duo starring is frankly magnificent . As Charlot's marvelous acting as a tramp who takes home an abandoned baby . Nice acting by Jackie Cooper as streetwise orphan that launched him as major child star , and it's easy to see why . Furthermore , agreeable Edna Purviance as unlucky mother , she acted in a lot of Chaplin shorts and in A Woman of Paris: A Drama of Fate .The motion picture was masterfully directed and played by Charles Chaplin . The production company tried to cheat Charles Chaplin by paying him for this six-reel film what they would ordinarily pay him for two-reel film, about half a million dollars. Chaplin took the unassembled film out of state until they agreed to the one-and-a-half million he deserved, plus half the surplus profits on rentals, plus reversion of the film to him after five years on the rental market. Deemed to be Chaplin's first real feature but he had made many shorts such as ¨The Vagabond¨, ¨Night at the show¨, ¨Burlesque on Carmen¨, ¨The immigrant¨ and ¨The circus¨ . Chaplin subsequently would make a string of successful films such as ¨The Gold Rush¨, ¨City lights¨, ¨Modern times¨, ¨The great dictator¨, ¨Monsieur Verdoux¨ , ¨A King of New York¨ and his last movie ¨Countess from Hong Kong¨.


                
When watching this, I wanted to give the film a 7 rather than an 8, simply because I do not think it is as good as "Modern Times" or one or two others. However, taking into account that this is 1921 and the film technology is not all there, I will give it a little extra bump because it is so clean and well done, it could have been made a decade later and looked the same.Chaplin has to, of course, be given a lot of credit for producing, writing, directing and starring. Being a great comic actor is one thing, but being able to run your whole production takes a special skill. And young Jackie Coogan sells the picture. The film succeeds or fails depending on your casting of the kid, and they nailed it -- he's adorable, emotional, and seems able to handle any situation.


                
A tramp finds an abandoned kid on the street. He tries to get rid of it in Charlie Chaplin way but ends up raising it with road side values. Child becomes an apple of his eyes in a few years but the mother comes back to claim her son. I had heard that this was the best movie Charlie Chaplin made but I disagree with that statement completely. No doubt it's a fantastic movie with a very strong story and message but it's definitely not his best. I found the last scene of the movie a little contrite and compromising. The story has been adapted and tried in very many forms. Extremely sensitive and though provoking cinema. A must see for all.
One of my all-time Chaplin favorite. Everybody have seen the picture of Charlie & litte Jackie Coogan. A lot of people have a poster of that, even if they never seen the film. Of course, the two make a very unforgettable pair. Chaplin presents laughs and emotions. The emotions are melodrama. I think that aspect was old-fashioned even in 1921. But I can't help it : I cry when I see Coogan crying in the truck, waving his arms to Chaplin. I think I saw that 500 times, but Chaplin's always got me! That's what I mean by a truc classic!


                
Charles Chaplin was born on April 16, 1889, in East Street, Walworth, London. Though his parents, both music hall entertainers, separated before his third birthday, they also raised him into the entertainment business. His first appearance on film was in 'Making a Living (1914),' a one-reel comedy released on February 2, 1914. It didn't take long for Chaplin to find his niche in the film-making industry, and his character of the Tramp <U+0096> who first appeared in 'Kid Auto Races at Venice (1914)' <U+0096> guaranteed his popularity and longevity in the industry. After a string of successful short films, among the most accomplished of which are 'Shoulder Arms (1918)' and 'A Dog's Life (1918),' Chaplin commenced production on his first feature-length outing with the Tramp. 'The Kid (1921)' proved an instant success, becoming the second highest-grossing film of 1921 {behind Rex Ingram's 'The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1921)'} and ensuring another fifteen years of comedies featuring Chaplin's most enduring character.'The Kid' opens in somewhat sombre circumstances, as a struggling entertainer (Chaplin regular Edna Purviance) emerges from the hospital clasping her unwanted child. Unable, or perhaps unwilling, to care for the infant, she regretfully abandons the baby in an automobile, which is promptly hijacked by unscrupulous criminals. The car thieves discard the orphan in a garbage-strewn alleyway, at which point our humble vagrant hero comes tramping down the street. Upon his discovery of the little bundle-of-joy, Chaplin demonstrates the most practical response, and glances inquiringly upwards, both at the apartment windows through which residents like to toss their leftovers, and at the Heavens, who conceivably might have dropped a newborn from the sky. After several awkward attempts to unload the baby on somebody else, Chaplin lovingly decides to raise the kid himself, crudely fashioning the necessities of child-raising (a milk bottle, a toilet seat) from his own modest possessions. Five years on, the Kid (Jackie Coogan) has blossomed into a devoted and energetic sidekick, a partner-in-crime if you will, and it is then that Chaplin's fatherhood is placed in jeopardy.The Tramp's young co-star was the son of an actor, and Chaplin first discovered him during a vaudeville performance, when the four-year-old entertained audiences with the "shimmy," a popular dance at the time. Chaplin was delighted with Coogan's natural talent for mimicry, and his ability to precisely impersonate the Tramp's unique expressions and mannerisms <U+0096> becoming, in effect, a childhood version of Chaplin <U+0096> was crucial to the film's success. The domestic bond exhibited by the pair is faultless in every regard, and, adding to the poignancy of their relationship, Chaplin began work on the production just days after the death of his own three-day-old newborn son, Norman Spencer Chaplin (during his short-lived marriage to child actor Mildred Harris). The mutual compassion and understanding underlying the central father-son relationship remains very touching nearly ninety years later, particularly when the pair employ their combined talents to promote the continued prolificacy of the Tramp's window-repair business. However, even during proceedings as ordinary as a pancake breakfast, that the two share a genuine affection for one another is beyond question.According to Chaplin's autobiography, actor Jack Coogan, Sr (who plays several minor roles throughout the film, including the troublesome Devil in the dream sequence) told his young son that, if he couldn't cry convincingly, he'd be sent to a workhouse for real. We can never know for certain if this was the case, but what we do know is that, during the separation sequence, young Coogan delivers one of the most heart-wrenching child performances ever committed to the screen, his hands stretched outwards in a grief-stricken plea for mercy. His performance is intercut with Chaplin grappling frantically with the authorities, his widened eyes staring directly at the camera, as though actively pleading for the audience's sympathy and assistance; it's one of the director's all-time most unforgettable moments, and first decisive instance that Chaplin was able to so seamlessly blend humour and pathos. In the 1970s, Chaplin <U+0096> ever the perfectionist <U+0096> re-released the film with a newly-composed score, and deleted three additional sequences involving Purviance as the orphan's mother, which might explain why the kid's father (Carl Miller) apparently serves no use to the story.


                
The Kid is a comedy film about a baby abandoned by his mother (because she's single) is founed by a Tramp, in this he seems way more lovable than in the 1910's shorts. 5 Years later the boy is now helping his guardian earn a living, The kid smashes windows and The Tramp replaces the glass.That was the movie without spoilers, anyway I think if anybody finds the comedy dated then you will find an element of drama in the film namely the part where The Kid is taken away from The Tramp.To keep this short: a very well done comedy with an element of Drama (if not, according to you then this is my interpretation and that is yours).
Chaplin's first feature length film hits all the right notes. An impeccable performance by future star Jackie Coogan, spot on choreography by Chaplin and a beautiful musical score are just a few of the multitude of features that make this film so very very brilliant! At times it made me laugh, like the hilarious scenes where The Kid breaks the windows only to have Chaplin repair them for a price and some scenes made me cry like the heartbreaking scene in which the Kid is taken away from Charlie by force. While this film is not up to the standard of some of Chaplin's other work, it is a great starting point to introduce you to him.


                
What a delightful, fun, family film, if you want to enjoy a film watch "The Kid." Chaplin made it humorous but not silly or stupid. He brought a scent of happiness and fun to a film. Which was silent and used very few subtitles, which many silent films do (they mostly put a lot but this had few.) But it was better silent, this film wouldn't have been as good with words personally. This is my first Chaplin film and this film made me just wanna see more. Its really about Charlie Chaplin and how he finds a boy, and how he raises him and their adventures and people want to take him away, you probably get the picture. I really suggest to try it, its pure delight and fun.


                
Story of a Tramp (Charlie Chaplin aka The Little Tramp), who accidentally stumbles across an abandoned baby who by a strange turn of circumstance has ended up in a alleyway. Although reluctant at first the Tramp raises the Kid (Jackie Coogan) as his son and teaches him the ways of the street. All seems well until the authorities try to step in.The film is incredibly evocative for its medium (silent film) in conveying both humor (always to be expected from Chaplin) and also very effectively portraying a human drama. The scenes between the Tramp and the Kid are very touching and expressive almost from the moment they appear on screen together. The comedic set pieces for which Chaplin is best known are of course wonderful as well.The film features great performances from both Chaplin and Coogan. In addition to his performance Chaplin wrote, directed, edited and produced the film. The post production score added to the film in 1971 was also composed by Chaplin.Jackie Coogan as a result of this picture would be become one of the first recognized child stars, he would also transition successfully to character roles as an adult. He is probably best known as Uncle Fester on the original Addams Family.It should be noted for those not familiar that this is a silent picture, while there has been musical soundtrack added, the actors do not speak. There is a minimal use of title cards to set the scene or provide limited dialogue.The film again owing to the era in which it was made is only 50 minutes in length. It was very well received by audiences and would be the second highest grossing film of 1921.For those who haven't tried a silent picture or a Chaplin film this is a great introduction.
It's a rugged, filthy, hard-knock life for Charlie Chaplin's Tramp, who barely has the means to keep himself fed and under a roof at night, much less to provide for the abandoned infant he's just stumbled across in an alleyway. Circumstance has put the two together, though, and after using his brain to get through the child's early years, the Tramp's put him to work as part of a slightly-shady window replacement scheme. They aren't exactly living above the board, and the policeman always seems to stumble by at precisely the wrong moment, but they're happy and the care they have for one another shines bright despite the absence of a voice track.Chaplin, of course, was already an expert of pantomime at this stage of his career, but Jackie Coogan, the titular kid, constantly steals scenes from the star with an expressive, densely emotional performance. No surprise that he was born to a family of actors and went on to a long career in the industry (including a role as Uncle Fester in the original Addams Family TV series).A touching, inventive, effective blend of tenderness and madcap comedy that shows Chaplin's versatility as a star and as a writer/director, while getting in and out in a mere 53 minutes.


                
Loved it, a real good comedy. This first success of Charles Chaplin is probably one of the best movies ever. Although short, you have enough time to be laughing and maybe cry.. Highly recommend.


                
Loved it, a realy good comedy. This first success of Charles Chaplin is probably one of the best movies ever. Although short, you have enough time to be laughing and maybe cry.. Highly recommend.


                
Well, this is the third Chaplin movie that I've seen, and man, the guy was really a genius. The Kid's history is beautiful and touching, alongside that classic Chaplin humor. But, I have to say, that this movie doesn't hold on that much as others, for example Shoulder Arms, that is in fact 3/4 years older than The Kid, but in my opinion is more entertaining than the former. But please, don't get me wrong, we are talking about an almost 100 years-old-movie that is still able to touch people's fellings, and this is HUGE. I love the movie, its importance, and the way it influenced cinema moving foward. The fact that isn't better than others Chaplin movies is not a demerit by any means.One thing I start to realize is that Chaplin was not only a comedy genius, but also a storyteller genius, he always try to pass some message within his movies. Talking about the ones I've seen, Shoulder Arms approaches the war, Modern Times the new "tecnologic era" (always with a society approach), and The Kid it's no different, it talks about family and love, but in a deep way. It's almost like what Pixar does nowadays, some can go see their movies and just have fun without think that much about it, but, others can pay more attention to the details and look deeptly at it.To wrap up, The Kid is a cute and beautiful movie, and even though isn't Chaplin greatest work, it's way above 99,9% of the movies that were release in the same time period. Obs: I can't help talking about the "dream" sequence. I really think that it took me out of the movie for some seconds, and, man, the ones who know Chaplin's story know that the girl he kisses ended up being his second wife, but, man... it's weird to see a 30 years something dude kissing a 12 years-old girl, even in 1921. I don't know, it's just weird.


                
I will begin this review by giving a brief plot summary so you, the reader, have an impression of the goings on in the film if you haven't yet seen it. The film begins with a mother and her infant child. Very early on in the film the mother decides that she simply cannot care for the child, so she abandons it in the rear seat of an unoccupied car. The unoccupied car then because the partially unoccupied car and is subsequently stolen by car thieves. The thieves eventually take notice of the small child in the back seat and, in turn, they abandon it themselves in an alleyway. In this alley is where the iconic figure of Charlie Chaplin's Tramp character is presented and he eventually finds that he will have to be the one to care for the infant. 
Time lapses five years into the future and we find Chaplin and the child, which can now more accurately be referred to as a "kid", living together in a raggedy one bedroomed apartment. Chaplin's tramp is clearly presented as a surrogate father figure for the kid, and the two of them appear to coexist in a relationship that is both playful and loving. The rest of the movie unfolds after the stage is set as I just did for you. It is mostly instances of how the two paupers have to swindle there way into sources of income, and the misadventures that come along with it.
The film was released in the year 1921. Releasing a film in this time period could be considered overly restricting by some individuals, considering that "talkies" had yet to be a staple of the medium. However, Chaplin absolutely encapsulates the melodrama of the story and expertly enables the story to be told through movement and design, rather than through dialogue. 
Chaplin's tramp character is the iconic image of Charlie Chaplin that everybody knows even if they have never seen one of his movies. Every aspect of the character from his attire (bowler hat, cane, small waist coat, large trousers and shoes) to his over exaggerated gestures make for an expressive performance that is both memorable and inevitably iconic. It is worth noting the charismatic performance of the kid as well. He is an excited young man that is clearly enjoying himself in the filmmaking process, and his relationship with Chaplin is quite endearing. 
 The Kid is an exciting display of creativity that translates into iconic film. A scene that stands out is one in which Chaplin's tramp character is being chased along rooftops by a police officer, and another would be a dream sequence where characters throughout the streets have angel wings that can be purchased at a corner store. It is worth noting the impression that this film must have made upon audiences when it was first released. Even in modern times it comes across and a piece of utterly unique cinema, which is a testament to the acting and filmmaking genius that Charlie Chaplin had. I cannot recommend this movie enough to anyone that is interested in the history and progression of filmmaking as an art, or anyone that wants to lose themselves in a charming story about a man and his kid.


                
As with every other Chaplin film, this has good story telling, a good start to it, great pacing, hilarious footage and above all, a great contagious ability to communicate emotion and sensitivity with a positive moral.Philosophically one of the best elements of such Chaplins is how he'll downplay what is usually considered pitiful or dramatic; he'll make any desolate condition into something very ordinary and really not so bad while attracting the attention on more important and essential things in life, love being at center and the common denominator of those things. He'll make material decrepitude and a very low social status look funny and a simple fact of daily existence, while developing a strong sentimental bond in the plot between himself and one of the other characters: basically you can be a bum, wear one shoe, and eat dirt all day while living in a can, but that takes nothing away from the subtle humanity you'll always carry with you anywhere or your full, profound ability to love. And wrap this up with hilarious content from start to finish, and you've got a unique winning formula.


                
Charlie Chaplin and little Jackie Coogan are delightful in this film, which has a tramp (ahem, The Tramp) finding a baby who has been abandoned by its mother. There are several funny and endearing scenes, including the two of them running a scam whereby Coogan breaks windows by throwing rocks at them, runs off as fast as his little legs can carry him, and then Chaplin is Johnny-on-the-spot to repair them. Another has Coogan getting into a fight with another boy, leading to Chaplin getting into a fight with his (very large, seemingly padded) older brother. Things get sad and pull the heartstrings when the city comes to take Coogan away to an orphan asylum, and it's interesting that the film touches on the rights of an adoptive parent ("are you his father?").The extended dream sequence towards the end is strange and creative, and I was quite surprised to read later that Lita Grey, who plays the 'flirtatious angel' in that sequence, was only 12 years old at the time. Three years later, when Chaplin (aged 35) had an affair with her (if you call having sex with a 15 year old 'having an affair'), she got pregnant, and the pair married in Mexico. The marriage would only last four years, and Chaplin would divorce her amidst scandal and an enormous alimony payment. I digress. 'The Kid' is a charming film, though a little thin in its plot, and quite brisk at 53 minutes.


                
Taking care of an abandoned baby changes the life of a tramp in this iconic silent comedy. The film has a place in cinema history as Charles Chaplin's first feature length film, but it is even more noteworthy as a rare comedy in which Chaplin does not dominate every scene with Jackie Coogan turning in a fine performance as the boy at age five. In addition to having great chemistry with Chaplin, Coogan has several authentic emotional moments that ring true as he cries and wails when well-meaning authorities try to separate him from his adoptive father. The film has quite a solid dramatic backbone too with Chaplin's tramp gradually coming to truly love the baby who he initially tried to pass on to someone else. That said, 'The Kid' is also an inventive and funny film with some great routines in which the two protagonists scurry about and confuse those chasing after them. In fact, were it not for a rushed, unrealistic ending and an overlong, out-of-place dream sequence, a good case could be made for this being Chaplin's finest film. Flawed as it may be though, it is easy to see why the film has won the hearts of many over the years and has become a sentimental favourite for lots of viewers.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."The Kid" (1921) was a truly good movie, a bit to short maybe (running time only 53 min), but it tells its story and does it very well. Music was superb, as well as acting by everyone involved, but the true star in here i think was directing by Chaplin himself. Movie doesn't drag for a second and to think that it was made back, way back in 1923 when it is so involving even after seeing it first time after 93 years makes one thing clear - Charles Chaplin was a true genius.Overall, "The Kid" is a must see for all who likes Chaplin and Tramp. It is not his best, but as first full length feature - you can't ask for more.


                
As someone who has missed out on multiples of "classic" movies, I decided for this next year to watch the movies on IMDb's top 250 movies. To work up to now (and also to avoid seeing sequels before originals) I started with "The Kid," the classic Charlie Chaplin movie. I knew who he was and could tell you what he looked like, but had never seen one of his films. This movie was really well done, for the time it was filmed and the plot they had. The facial expressions of everyone involved were descriptive enough to get the message across, despite it being a silent film. I was especially impressed with the kid, "John," and his acting, from the various moods conveyed through his face to his cooking and acting. Little things, such as when he was preparing food and gave a little nod, signaling the food was done to his tastes. The plot is easily understood, even with only a short amount of written dialogue, and should not be intimidating to audiences who are unfamiliar with silent films. A woman wants to drop her child off so he can be properly cared for, and after a huge mix up, ends up being looked after by The Tramp, himself. She goes on to become famous, and upon discovering her son is still alive five years later, tried to get him back. Despite it having a bit of slapstick comedy and being so old, there were parts where I honestly chuckled out loud, and parts where I felt a bit sad. The music adds to the scenes nicely, as well. It is a short movie, coming in under an hour, and is apparently a masterpiece of Chaplin's, so I am going to go ahead and recommend this movie to everyone. You give it 15 minutes, and you are already almost a third of the way through. And if you really do not like it, you never have to see it again, but you will have seen it. I do not regret seeing this film.


                
"A comedy with a smile--and perhaps a tear"Charlie Chaplin's first self-produced feature film, The Kid, is a tender and sweet tale that once again manages to balance those emotional moments with a great amount of slapstick comedy. The master of pantomime surprised me here by taking a step out of the spotlight and letting it shine on the young newcomer, Jackie Coogan, who steals every scene he is in. Coogan is extremely cute and he held his own next to Chaplin in the comedic department as well. As the title suggests, the main character in this film is the kid who has given the character of the tramp something to live and fight for. The scene that stands out for me is the one where the social workers show up and try to take away his adopted son from him. That scene is a real tearjerker, but at the same time there are some excellent moments of physical comedy that balance them out. The editing was also very well done giving the action scenes some believable effects as Chaplin runs through the roofs to rescue the kid. I actually watched Chaplin's re- edited 1971 version of The Kid that includes an original score and is 15 minutes shorter than the original, but I really enjoyed it and found it moving.This silent film written by Chaplin opens with a sobbing unwed mother (Edna Purviance) walking out of a charity hospital with a baby in arms. Along the way she spots a fancy car in front of a mansion and decides to leave the baby hidden in the back seat with a note asking for whoever finds the baby to take care of him. As she walks away a couple of thieves unexpectedly steal the car and once they discover the baby in the back seat they dump him off in an alley. After having second thoughts for what she did, the mother decides to return to the mansion but once she arrives the owners tell her that the car has been stolen. Meanwhile, the tramp (Charlie Chaplin) stumbles across the baby as he is passing by the alley. At first he tries to get rid of him, but eventually he decides to keep the baby and adopts him. Five years have passed and we are now introduced to the tramp and his kid (Jackie Coogan). He is working as a glazier, and business seems to be going well thanks to his kid who helps him out by smashing the neighbor's windows. The child's real mother has become a famous Opera singer and continues to feel haunted for abandoning her son. She does charity work in the same neighborhood where the tramp and the kid live. The tramp and his kid have overcome many obstacles together, but when the boy becomes ill new trouble arises and it could separate the two forever. The Kid might be almost a hundred years old, but it is still a fascinating watch. It has a great amount of heart and it feels fresh thanks to the tender and sweet story. Chaplin's films are a delight to watch and there is something powerful in the way he portrays his message without using dialogue. His films are told through action and his physical performance is always impressive. In the Kid, Chaplin has found a great sidekick in Coogan, who makes the film all that more tender. I wasn't a huge fan of the dream sequence which felt a bit out of place, but the rest of the film was really a delight. The Kid is a special film and one that cemented Chaplin's status as the best producer, director, writer, and actor during the silent film era. It also has a touching father and son narrative that despite being simple reaches for the heart. It's a beautiful film with a perfect running time for a silent film.


                
In no particular order(As on 25th September 2008): (Rule:More than one parts/(Most) Trilogies count together as single subject.)Kid,The(1931)-A beautiful relationship between a man and a child. Just one name: Sir Charles Spencer Chaplin.M*A*S*H*(1969)-The Best Black/Dark Comedy ever. Nothing is Darker than ...a War. This movie has shown us the best use of loudspeakers: to amplify and broadcast moans Serpico(1973)-A Screaming movie.A mind-blowing performance by Al Pacino as an 'honest cop'.'GodFather' Series(1972-74)-The Third Part was good too.Dressed To Kill(1980)-First of my favorite two Murder Mysteries. One step better than 'Psycho'.'Terminator' Series(1984-91)-Schwarzennegger plus Cameron. Stunning Action/Performances/Script/visual/sound effects. Can't Believe it was made so long ago. The Terminator is chilling cold and so are cool his damn good one-liners.Cry Freedom(1987)-Perhaps Denzel Washington should have won his first Academy award in 1987-1988 itself and not been made to wait till 1989-1990 for Glory (pun intended).Good Morning Vietnam(1987)-A pacifist radio commentator in the middle of the Vietnam War. A true classic.Hannibal Lecter-Trilogy(1991-03)-A serial killer who is-brilliant, ruthless,romantic, with sharp olfactory nerves, on the run, cannibal and an outstanding psychiatrist-all at the same time. Lecter is chilling cold and so are cool his damn one-liners.Schindler's List(1993)-Violence is an inevitable part of life. But it should be meaningful and justifiable. Oskar Schindler in the middle of a meaningless massacre. May sound stereotyped but-The Best Movie Villain EVER-Amon Goeth.Se7en(1995)-Second of my favorite two Murder Mysteries. The villain is a genuine nightmare. May sound clichéd but-The Second Best Movie Villain EVER - only after Amon Goeth in 'Schindler's List'. He is chilling cold and so is cool his damn good justification at the climax. He is just plain good old EVIL served chilled. Just like he says: "When this is finished, it will seem surreal, but it will be a whole, crystalline reality. And, no one will be able to deny it, no matter how hard they try." Crimson Tide(1995)-The friction between a Boss and his junior is universal but why during the time when your enemy is about to/has fired a torpedo on your submarine? The Best Submarine Movie ever made. Better than the supposedly best-'Das Boot' which is pessimistic, unlike this.Life Is Beautiful(1997)-A Poetry as optimistic as possible, on a subject as pessimistic as possible:Gas Chambers Matrix-Trilogy(1999-2003)-The SECOND Best meaningful Sci-movie/s ever made.Sixth Sense, The(1999)-A grand Psychodrama. The SECOND best child performance ever witnessed by me -Osment.Cast Away(2000)- This movie is an epitome of acting and should have won the Best Actor Academy award and not Gladiator that year. Instead, Crowe should have won for 'L. A. Confidential(1997)' or 'A Beautiful Mind(2001)'. And instead of 'Training Day(2001)', Washington should have won for 'Malcolm X(1992)'. He can perform like 'Training Day'-in his sleep. And instead of 'Scent of a Woman(1992)', Pacino should have won for any of the six roles that he was nominated for before 'Scent'. OK, enough of backward speculation.Erin Brockovich(2000)-After 'Silence Of The Lambs', perhaps the only other Leading Female Role (Legal Assistant) and its excellent execution in terms of POWERFULNESS. During a tense situation Erin say to her boss here :"F*ck you Back". That was the epitome of the guts of her character in the movie. A real story.Unbreakable(2000)-The only other better Superhero movie before Nolan brought Batman. Just One Name: Samuel L. Jackson.Artificial Intelligence(2001)-"The Most Realistic Non-Exaggerated Practical Sci-Fi movie ever made". Not everybody's cup of tea except those who have done post-graduation in Artificial Intelligence (like me) or in Robotics. The BEST (child) performance ever by any (child) actor, Osment, especially considering the demands of the complex role.Beautiful Mind, A(2001)-The perfect tribute ever given to any Scientist by Hollywood. Perhaps Howard's next-'Angels and Demons(2009)' will match that as a tribute to Scientists/Science.Lord Of the Rings-Trilogy(2001-03)-The Best Epics ever expressed as a movie.Minority Report(2002)-The SECOND best along with the Matrix series in Sci-fi. In terms of practicality, it is second only to 'Artificial Intelligence(2001)'.Batman Begins(2005)-The most adored Realistic Superhero (without any superpowers) in the world. A movie that justifies the spirit of The Batman who is a hero for a mature man as well as a child. Nolan's Batman is not for children to watch. Actually, if correctly depicted (as Nolan did), the Batman never was.Munich(2005)-Who would not like to see all terrorists in the world nailed in a way similar to their own Modus Operandi? Dark Knight, The(2008)-A movie is only as good as the villain in it. A Posthumous Oscar is lying in wait for Heath Ledger for his Joker. Anyway, Slaughter is the best medicine.Finally that's it. Maybe upcoming Howard's 'Angels And Demons(2009)' and Cameron's 'Avataar(2009)' will modify my List from my PERSONAL TOP 25 of All Time to PERSONAL TOP 27 of All Time.


                
Much has been said about the use of pathos in The Kid (1921): how Chaplin seamlessly blends humor and heart, how it was the first comedy feature to have a narrative with real stakes in the balance of all the gags and comedic set pieces.What always impresses me the most about this movie is the talent of young Jackie Coogan. I am not at all partial to child actors, especially during the 30s-60s, but Coogan is truly a natural. He's so genuine and unaffected in his technique, and he gives what may be the greatest child performance of all time.Chaplin is greats as always and Edna Purviance turns a brief but moving performance as the single mother who makes it big.A beautiful film, not to be skipped over.


                
Chaplin finds abandoned Jackie Coogan and brings him up as his own in this 1921 silent comedy. There's less slapstick on display than usual but the requisite sentimentality never becomes as cloying as it does in some of Chaplin's later work.This is not to say there's no fun to be had - the boxing scene is particularly amusing - but it's the chemistry between Chaplin and Coogan that helps "The Kid" live up to its introduction: "a picture with a smile - perhaps a tear."


                
"The kid" has brilliant scenes with Chaplin's stamp: all the footage of the relationship between the tramp and the kid (every scene! amazing! what a good child actor! how nice are the tramp's mannerisms!), the street-fights, the policeman's house, the dorm, the dream... Though, not everything is good alike: this is not because of Edna Purviance's acting, but the woman's story is much less interesting, and somewhat badly developed. The end is also poor: I am sure that Chaplin was able to create hundreds of more original, entertaining, and touching ways of showing the same than the abrupt last scene he shot. To resume, "The kid" is a quite good movie, there is no doubt about that. If this review may seem to be exaggerate in criticism, that is because we always expect a masterpiece from Charlie Chaplin. Though, we cannot tell that about this film, one of his most famous ones.


                
