It bugs me that this movie is rated so high- not because it's a "bad" movie, but because it's a mediocre one. Apparently, mediocre people reward mediocre cinema. This movie tanked big-time when it was initially released, and with good reason. It wasn't until pseudo-intellectuals across the country started hyping it as defacto "favorite movie" for Lowbrows world-wide that it started dominating the IMDb "best movie" list. In reality, "Shawshank" is like a sewage pump for every idiotic Prison Movie cliché ever made. Every guard is a monster. The warden is religious, therefore Evil. Not a single prisoner is actually guilty, or if they are, they're so obviously redeemed that we're supposed to feel sorry for their unfair imprisonment. Murderers and sex offenders sit around in beatific awe as Opera plays over the loudspeakers. Right. The whole movie is so fake, so smarmy, and so condescending that it's no wonder that so many Americans, (with their odd addiction to fake, smarmy, condescending things) consider it their "favorite movie". I guess thinking for yourself is a burden to great for some of us to bear.
Shawshank Redemption has been elevated in popular opinion to the status of masterpiece because of one irrefutable virtue. It is accessible. Regrettably, as is true in so many cases, popular opinion is an inaccurate gauge of this picture's actual quality. The reason this film has attained its current level of acclaim is that it is impossible to misinterpret its theme or message, impossible to be offended by it, impossible to be confused by. However, as this review should show, it is entirely possible to be unimpressed by "Shawshank."The story of Shawshank Redemption is something I might expect if I was being pitched a script by middle schoolers. The complex coincidental frameup, the daring escape, the clear cut definitions of good and evil. the timeless friendship finally and uneventfully consummated on a beautiful shoreline. Each step more unsurprising than the last, each beat more clichéd that the last. Every time the filmmakers feel like building tension or revealing something about the characters, they take the most obvious road. This might be excusable if the road didn't also lead to the most obvious destinations.People also praise the acting in the film. While it isn't at all bad, it's hard to be impressed when the actors are playing such simplistic roles. Stereotypes when acted well are still boring.I sincerely hope that over time, when the film has settled into history and once people are more able to set this pandering film along side its heavily plundered predecessors, it will become clear that it offers nothing new, and that what it does offer it doesn't even offer all that well.


                
There are some things in this life we will never understand... How did the universe begin? What happens to our souls when we die? How did a movie as bland as The Shawshank Redemption become so overrated?In the case of certain other movies, I can at least understand the reasons why they're overrated. But The Shawshank Redemption is so... average. And cliché-ridden. The film's moral is basically that hope is important, and there's nothing wrong with that in itself. Heck - I have no problem with simplicity. The problem is when you move past the simple and into the land of the simplistic. The movie treats its borrowed plot parts (Count of Monte Cristo, anyone?) and banal themes as though they were freshly minted nuggets of wisdom. (I wouldn't be complaining if it didn't pretend to be anything more than a pleasant diversion.) However, it is with its very last shot that the movie reveals its true condescending colours. If it had ended moments earlier instead, with that poetic shot of the sea, I would have had some respect for it (that's where the superior original story ends). But no, the director had to spell things out for his audience. Frank Darabont knows how to tell a story. He just doesn't know how to tell one with any originality or depth.The movie is partially redeemed by three things. The majestic cinematography, the powerful score, and most of all, Morgan Freeman, one of the very best actors working today.As for my rating, yes I'm one of those jerks who gives a movie a 1 just to lower it on the top 250. I think it's outrageous how highly it's ranked here. Even the folks who made it would think it's ridiculous to consider it one of the greatest films ever made.


                
Shawshank is on TNT approximately five million times a year. It is the second-highest rated film on IMDb, and it was nominated for seven Oscars. It is a movie that can make grown men cry. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver great performances. Thomas Newman's original score is beautiful. It's an engaging film about perseverance, friendship, will power, and hope.But then again, does it really belong in the same company as Godfather, Godfather II, Schindler's List, and other consensus top-ten films? Is it really one of the ten best films of all time? First off, the villain of the film, Warden Norton, is an incredibly cartoonish, two dimensional bad guy. He and Cal from Titanic could have a "pure-evil-for-the-sake-of-being-pure-evil" standoff. Aside from greed, we have no idea what made him who he was. The Warden is pure evil, and is willing to kill the prisoner who can help prove Andy's innocence in cold blood. And yet, even though Andy is the one man who could expose him and all his criminal dealings, he doesn't do the simplest thing and just kill Andy. Why not? Because Andy has to wind up hugging Red on the beach years later.Secondly, think about the scene where Andy locks himself in a room and plays classical music over the loudspeakers to the rest of the prisoners, who stop in the courtyard and stare up in awe and wonder. Are you kidding me? The scene tries to be a powerful, emotional peak in the film, but it comes off as laughably implausible, even in the 1950's.Finally, the movie makes it a little too easy on the audience by giving it all the answers. Is Andy guilty? Does he really escape? Will he and Red ever meet up again? Nothing is left for the audience to wonder about, no ambiguity — everything is spoon-fed to the audience in tasty, happy-ending bites, right up to the final "hug on the beach" scene. Wait<U+0085> this movie ends with happy people hugging on a beach? Yes it does.
This film is nothing but one cliche after another. Having seen many of the 100's of prison films made from the early 30's to the 50's, I was able to pull almost every minute of Shawcrap from one of those films.While it is visually well made and acted, the story has every plot point of the "standard" prison film. They have the evil warden, innocent main character, friendly guilty guy, thugs and one good old prisoner. Don't waste your time on this one. Rent or buy some of the classic's of the prison genre.


                
Saying this is the #2 movie of all-time is like saying McDonald's makes the best hamburgers. They're both palatable, predictable, inoffensive products that are easy to digest. Both have happy endings-- that is, if you find the stunning speed with which a McDonald's hamburger flushes out your digestive tract to be a "happy" occasion.All you need to know is that Shawshank has the exact same ending as "Trading Places." So why not make "Trading Places" the greatest comedy of all-time?? What the hell, why not make it #3 on IMDb? It too is competent and utterly middle-of-the road in terms of quality and originality within its genre.Instead of Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy laughing it up on a Caribbean beach after besting the forces of evil, we get Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. It's the exact same ending! Shawshank was OK when I saw it when it came out. But count me among the backlash group that would rather see it with the 6-7 rating that it deserves. Thusly, I hereby cast my symbolic 1-star vote.


                
Sorry folks but this movie is a C movie and not an A. I can't believe that people like this movie so much. Yes I am biased, I really don't like Tim Robbins but he has made a decent movie or two but this ain't one of them. This is your basic prison movie. What can I say- it has the host of usual characters.  The storyline is basic, the outcome I won't say but it is just stupid to say that this is a great movie. I didn't think it was realistic at all and anybody who falls for this crap is either delusional or needs some brains to differentiate between an Edsel and a Lamborghini. I wouldn't watch this movie again unless I was paid to do so. One viewing is enough for this predictable laugher.


                
I would humbly suggest that before praising or damning the "Shawshank Redemption", that one take a considered look at the New York Times "Best 1000 Films Ever Made" list. Unfortunately, the guidelines of this site preclude me,oh gentle reader, from giving you the URL. One should be able to Google it, so all is not lost.The NYT was good enough to excerpt the list from Peter Nichols' The "New York Times Guide to the 1,000 Best Films Ever Made".What ? The "Shawshank Redemption" is not on this list, you say ?Perhaps, humble viewer, you haven't seen enough films of the first rank. But, have no fear, this is a remediable condition. But, be a dear and do try to see some of the movies on the list,please, before voting on this site. I really hate to see so many people make the mistake of voting for the wrong sort of movies onto the top 10 of IMDb's very interesting site. It's ever so declasse.Remember, an educated public is an informed public. Now, do your part.


                
The basic story for this dreadful movie is Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner i think am missing something with this movie, having now seen it twice. Its 1 of the most predictable boring movies i have ever seen. The bit were all the prisoners stop and listen to the opera music is just laughable. This just would not happen with hardened prisoners. This is also one of the poorest performances i have seen from Morgan freeman, why he took this role on i will never know. Go watch the Green Mile, its much finer work from the duo of Stephen King and Frank Darabont
Another one of those overlong morally right-on movies that never rises above average - saved only by the acting.Its bleeding-heart politics 'dignity of individual maintained in adverse conditions' is played-out well enough but actually lacks any real dramatic tension.Dufrane is a two-dimensional character who seems to go through the drama by numbers - there's never any doubt that he will triumph in the end, it's only a matter of how.Tim Robbins has done many more interesting films than this one - try The Player or Bob Roberts if you're looking for drama/moral ambivalence and how they interact.Basically, there are a lot better prison films than this one - Jailhouse Rock for starters.Like most Stephen King stories - quite prosaic. There was a story in here somewhere but it got over-inflated and somewhat lost along the way.
One to watch on a rainy day when there's nothing better to do.


                
Obviously I missed the point of this movie.  After years of people telling me how fantastic it was and noting how high it regularly comes in opinion polls, I finally watched it recently.Somehow I seem to have come to completely the opposite conclusion to almost everyone else.  Maybe my expectations were too high but I was very, very disappointed.  The plot was predictable and dull, the directing pretty droll.  Not much else I can say about it, other than to ask people if I have missed something key that would alter my perception of this film?Who am I to go against the vast popularity of this picture?  I must be the exception that proves the rule. This (apparently) is a "must see" movie.


                
After reading all the rave reviews for this movie, it turned out to be a real disappointment.  Can anyone really believe that the prisoners are honourable men while the guards and warden are all "crooks"??  Haven't we overdone the hypocritical "Bible thumper"?? -- let's find a more enlightened characterization.  James Bond, himself, could not have followed the main character's escape plan.  The ending soliloquy and denouement were inferior plagiarisms from "Cool Hand Luke".  Enough!!!  Unfortunately, fine performances by both Robbins and Freeman were wasted in this "fantasy" story.


                
just read the title. Tough I think it's a pretty decent movie (but not as good as the Stephen King's novel) i just can't understand why it should deserve to be ahead of everyone else in the top 250 (with the exception of the godfather). To be honest i don't even really think it should be in the top 250. Yeah, I know you Americans love the happy-ending Vaseline-flavored subtly homosexual jail movies, but all this hype it's too much anyway. Come on, this can't be better than Welles, Kubrick, Kurosawa or Scorsese (or not even Carpenter and Fulci in my humble opinion) So I give it a 1/10. This is not a critical valuation of the movie. This is a political statement.


                
The notion that this movie belongs in the top 100 of anybody's list is simply retarded.  This B-movie with an A-movie list is standard, run of the mill, TV-movie-of-the-week fare.  How did it get this high?  What's wrong with the vast number of IMDB users that they would vote so highly in favor of such a piece of trite?  My theory: Tim Robbins is sending each of you a check.  That's the only explanation.  This movie offers nothing special: nothing different, nothing unique.  No great performances (a phoned-in Morgan Freeman performance akin to his "Deep Impact" presidential performance), no graphic portrayals or stark realism of life behind bars--nothing. This movie achieves what few in history have done: it both sucks AND blows.


                
This is certainly a good movie, with universal themes of freedom and adversity etc etc, but... I've seen plenty of movies which were more artfully made than this one. There is nothing revolutionary in the directing. The novella by Stephen King is practically tailor-made for a movie adaption, and it seems any capable director could have made a good movie from it. I think the only reason this movie is #2 on this list is the sheer amount of people who have seen it and voted. The other truly great movies near the top of the list don't pack the same mass audience appeal that Shawshank Redemption does, nor are they shown on TNT 6-10 times a year. Movies like 2001, The Seven Samurai, or Lawrence of Arabia, for example, would bore many of the people who love Shawshank Redemption, and I personally consider those three I named and many others to be far better creations than the Shawshank Redemption. Perhaps we should take a poll of TNT viewers on the best movie of all time - I'd bet Shawshank Redemption would place first, with The Blues Brothers coming in a close second.


                
Shawshank Redemption is overrated. It's a decent, above average film, but by no means a great film.The inmates are pretty much likeable, while the warden and his pet guard are monsters. Also as Freeman's character says: "You know that everybody in here's innocent?" As the story develops you feel like he is right, the only criminals are the ones guarding the prisoners.This is a sentimental piece made to stir the emotions, but not to stir them too much. Just enough to make the viewer feel there is injustice in the world but that in the end everything ends well and justice surely comes to he who waits 20 years or so for it.The Shawshank Redemption is, as I said, a decent film, possibly among the top five films of 1994. IMO the best films of 1994 are Pulp Fiction and Léon.


                
Shawshank is nothing more than a fairy tale.  It tells us as much about what prison is really like as Pretty Woman tells us about what prostitution is really like.  People like fairy tales, so both these movies were very popular.


                
The only thing that amazes me about this movie is that it is not only within 500 top movies in IMDB but actually #2 and soon perhaps #1...I only saw Shawshank Redemption once, and have not been able to force myself to watch it in full length ever since. It was ok to see it once even though I was almost bored then, but not quite. I found it very average in every respect, and quite predictable. I guess that this is one of those movies that is so average that it does not bother anybody by invoking powerful emotions, thoughts or memories, and does not have any obviously bad technical quality. Just sooo average. Hence the high score?


                
This drama has been widely vaunted as one of the best films ever made- personally I just can't see the appeal. Sure it contains very good performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman- but there have been other, much better screen performances by other actors. There is very little suspense or originality about the plot and nothing that hasn't been seen or done on screen a hundred times before. So why the popularity? It's a formulaic feel-good movie who's happy ending is never in doubt. Knowing that Stephen King wrote the novel on which the film was based would probably give that away anyway. As with any adaptation from book to film there are several differences between the two, though the film does, on this occasion, improve on the book.There have been better adaptations of King novels (The Shining) and better performances by better actors, yet for some reason this film continues to be rated as better than it actually is.


                
Three words: "Cool Hand Luke."  Same film, done better, done earlier.  For that matter, is this film any better than other Steven King "novelettes" such as "Stand By Me"? All in all, it probably ranks a 6 or a 7, but since people on this site have lost their minds as regards this film, I give it a 1 in one man's attempt at sanity.


                
Over-long, boring, tedious, over-acted and very very very very very OVER-RATED. Hell knows what goes through the minds of people to vote this the 2nd best film EVER!! I first saw the cut down version lasting 1 hour 25 minutes, and it was still too long.I wouldn't mind but it's so drawn-out, fanciful and pathetic. The things that happen in that prison would never happen, just because some nerdy bank manager has "hope..." Give me a break! Which soap opera did that sad line come from! No wonder it was initially ignored, and it should be continued to be ignored. Robbins, who is accused and wrongly convicted for the murders of his wife and her lover, never ages. At one point he HAS TO "remind" us he's been in jail for 12 years, because it only looks like a week.Yet did you see the way he really changed in 12 years from 1994 to 2006. He looks a much older man. And of course he does, he's 12 years older!! In the Shamshank Dedeption he never aged one day in 12 years, and his hair is even cut the same style.Even when we then go forward something like 20 years, he still looks the same, never aged at all, apart from a few bluey grey hairs at the sides. And after he escapes (after 20 years of tunnelling through thick concrete with a a small screwdriver), he meets up with his old buddy Freeman, who got out of jail legally. And get this, BOTH look younger than when they first went in.By my reckoning Tim Robbins should now be about 70, and Morgan Freeman in his early 80s, yet both after serving their time still look barely 40.And what a load of talkative rubbish. The most boring over-hyped-up film in history. Complete twaddle. God knows how on earth I watched all of it, but I did if for a bet, 'cause I cannot stand it. Wasn't worth a UK tenner anyway!! My vote, 2 out of 10 for a mediocre drama.Get a life, if this is the "best" film you've even seen. Better still, get a cinema ticket!!!! Or rent a DVD. And more than one!!
awful. a dreadful disgrace. the film is the most cliched in cinematic history and is worthy of no respect. even worse is how it is so flawless yet it still is of no quality. i do not know how this film can be revered over others such as psycho, apocalypse now, raging bull, easy rider, the godfather, the killing fields, some like it hot and casablanca amongst others. shockingly horrendous


                
i had to comment, i really did, all those eulogies on what is in reality a hackneyed complacent pretentious film. Nothing that this film says challenges any principle or thought- its purpose is to confirm every conservative, sentimental, instinct in us all. And yet it has a sense of its own putative profundities, and bulldozes these throughout the film. Really what the film is saying is neither profound nor original, and is not to my mind worth saying in the first place at least not at such length- ie life is hard, people suffer, but through struggle the human spirit will win through, learn to make friends and get their deserved reward - mmm. Nothing makes any of the characters real, and the actors are not helped by this terrible overloaded narration which applies a great weight on the story which cannot breath as every moment is made to seem sooo significant. It is not just that there is no lightness of touch in the direction, or that there is no humour, it is that there is a sense that what is being described is more important than humour, or than the real nature of friendship. Suffice to say i loathe this film and recommend people watch it only as a lesson in what is bad about big budget Hollywood movies.


                
For the life of me, I can't understand all the gushing about this cornball, sentimental and PHONY movie.  There are certainly some strong performances, but they're outweighed by some of the two-dimensional portrayals, weak writing (that opera sequence -- oh, please) and most of all a completely garbage ending (I won't give it away) that stomps on what little credibility the movie has.I guess you really can't go broke under-estimating people's intelligence.


                
I don't understand why this movie is so popular.  Yes, it was an interesting movie, and it was a good movie, but it was not spectacular enough to receive all the praise which it has.  The acting was good, and the plot original, but it was still a rather ordinary movie.  Apparently, I'm the only one with this opinion...


                
