I have a good friend that I can discuss movies with all day. Generally we have very similar tastes and critiques. Shawshank, is the only movie we completely disagree on. This movie insulted my intelligence from the first minute. All the prison clichés are painfully represented in this one film. The Innocent lead character, the benevolent inmate friend, the evil warden, the sadistic guard, etc.. Then of course you are mesmerized by the hackneyed subplots and obligatory scenes (i.e.) the attempted rape. About the only ingredient not thrown into this proverbial soup was a football game.This movie has some fine acting and direction, but considering its big name cast and production, the product is sophomoric at best.
This movie is a total piece of manipulation. It does have a few redeeming features though - Morgan Freeman's narration all through is pure art!!! This guy acts with his mouth!!! As a piece of fiction it has some merit and I can see why many people would enjoy it. But to be classed as one of the best movies of all time - really? C'mon!!! Certainly the portrayal of the brutality of the guards during those times I would say is fairly realistic.The one part of the story where an old timer gets released does ring true. There are many people like that who are totally institutionalized and do not have the skill to survive on the outside without a good support network in place.This is a movie for those people who like everything laid out perfectly for them and doesn't require any thinking. Personally I like a bit more depth and reality.I don't want to put people off seeing it - it should be watched once. But for me the flaws outweigh its redeeming features.


                
This movie is annoying in several ways.  The criminals are all goodhearted, thoughtful, sensitive guys while the guards and warden are the REAL bad guys.  gimme a break.  What is this?  Dukes of Hazard? (which was far better than this).  Further, the plot is so, so, so predicable.  Good guy outsmarts the bad guys and real justice is served. spare me.  I know, a lot of people love this flick, but in my humble opinion it is a big waste of time.


                
Why do you like this so much? It steals directly from every other GOOD prison movie I've ever seen: The Great Escape, Escape from Alcatraz, Midnight Express, you name it. Because it allows the hero to be raped it's somehow brave or profound or heaven forbid realistic. Far from it folks. The work of hacks, only the MAIN performances are redeemable. How 'bout that warden, quite a 3 dimensional character that one. As are all the peripherals. Its bad, but in an average hollywood way. Of course it's overblown but it entertains decent enough in that much. Nothing memorable, infact I'd have forgotten it totally if it weren't for the persistant and oh so undeserved praise heaped upon it. But hey if it does it for you more power to you. Just don't talk about it's "power" in front of me, I may puke.


                
!!Spoilers to this movie, as well as to Sixth Sense and Citizen Kane just for spite!!Shawshank Redemption is one of those movies that oozes with "give me an Oscar pleeeeeease" all over it. You know the type  - like "Dances with Wolves." Oversentimental and overlong. It's surprising that this movie has such a high imdb ranking considering it's such a very black and white (prisoners=good, prison-keepers=evil) movie rehashing what's been hashed and hashed many times.The story concerns an apparently-wrongly-convicted banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is sentenced to life at Shawshank Prison in that creepiest of states, Maine, for murdering his wife and her lover. His main 'friend' at Shawshank is wily old-time-prisoner named Red (Morgan Freeman). Nobody can deny that Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors ever, and I'm not going to. Tim Robbins also gives a performance that one wouldn't guess he had in him by watching, say, "Nothing to Lose" (which nevertheless is a better movie). And the supporting cast is all excellent in roles that are incredibly one-dimensional. Okay, that's it for the good. Here comes the bad, and the ugly.Early on in the film, Red, who doubles as the narrator, tells us that although he'd like to tell us Andy wasn't gang-raped by some of the fellow inmates (the only bad inmates in there, by the way, and then they get sent away, so that leaves only good ones) but he can't, cause "that'd be a fairytale.  And there are no fairytales here at Shawshank." How wrong he is! The whole movie is a fairytale (albeit without any of the excitement and fast-pace of one).We get characters who are so completely good as to be Saints for our two main prisoners (and most of the other ones) and the Prison guards and warden who all seem to be variations on the evil stepmother from Cinderella and the evil stepmother from Snow White (heck, they're so evil, their intramural baseball team's name is the Marauders. Gee, I wonder if you people get the hidden message?).The story itself is about two-and-a-half hours of sadism (very slow-paced sadism, mind you), an hour of philosophical jabbering that, frankly, is far inferior to a philosophy class at the college if you're into that sort of thing (Hope is Good? Oh my God! What a revelation! Tell me more! Honestly, I've heard songs which have more depth than this movie!) And half an hour of the ending.It's hard to talk about the faults of the movie without giving away the ending, because, the ending itself is one of the main ones. All good movies have an ending that makes you think (or at least are somewhat open to interpretation, and/or sequels). But not this one. Although I counted at least five or six points where the movie could have ended with leaving some room for thought, it follows through to the bitter predictable end. It's as if it's saying "you know what, you viewers are all idiots, we better not let you think about anything at all." Even if that was true, it's quite insulting.  What's more is the ending is incredibly predictable. How could it not be, if it's told to you in the title of the movie? I mean, imagine if the Sixth Sense was called "The Dead Psychologist" or Citizen Kane was called "The Sled" (sorry, imdb censorship guys, I know this makes your job harder, but I just can't think of a way to explain it otherwise).And I haven't even mentioned the worst part. This movie is incredibly long and boring. It's not a movie that is "slow" or "moves at its own pace" - those are alright by me. No, this movie, something is always happening, but not a single thing of interest. And like that for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. Okay, that's a bit of an exaggeration. But still.Another thing is this movie's already-mentioned assumed self-importance. It's irritating at the least. It's a long, boring, unoriginal version of what Cinderella would be if somebody traded in all the women characters for swearing, rape and police brutality. I mean, frankly, Charles Perrot beat you to it by four centuries, that's close to an all time record for unoriginality!
This movie is absurdly overrated by people who think soppy affirmative moviemaking accompanied by a lush score is synonymous with aesthetic brilliance.    The direction is nothing to write home about, the cinematography is, frankly, standard.  The script has Steven King written all over it - a melodramatic plot involving the woes of an educated bloke told in overwrought dialogue full of clumsy metaphors.  (A good example: the moment when the scriptwriter decided that the prisoner's interest in geology had to be spelled out for the dumber members of the audience "It's all about TIME and PRESSURE..." just in case anyone managed to miss the connection). Morgan Freeman is, as usual, superb but Tim Robbins is inconsistent as a man who goes from being the gaol newcomer to an old hand.  While the film's sympathetic liberal political stance can be commended, it's certainly not a great work of art.


                
WEll I had high hopes for this movie.  But it fell way short.  I was hoping it would keep me guessing, but this movie was easy to predict what was going to happen.  Though I did think the acting was good by both main stars.Jason


                
The acting is adequate, the story is adequate, but why all the fuss?It sometimes baffles me why some movies get such high ratings when they are really only run of the mill.This is not that bad a film, just seen it all before.


                
Last week, I had seen "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" and I feel it is one of the best movies ever made, especially in these hard to entertain folks at the movies for $10 a seat times. I couldn't understand how some, as minority as their voices were, could not like that film.That was until I decided to sit down and write how I feel about this film.
In the 9 years since it has come out, I have attempted to watch it 12 times. Three of those times, I slept through it. I finally took some extra caffine Coke and gave it a twirl -- twice. Sorry, I just didn't warm up to this film. Robbins and Freeman's acting was good, but I guess the story wasn't original -- or surprising to me. I just didn't care about these guys, nor anyone else. It's prison. The guilty as well as the innocent are there -- I get that concept. Sometimes you're released after serving time, sometimes you're not. You make friends...fine. I dunno, kinda reminds me of 4 years of High School or college I guess. I just don't care about those folks no matter what we all did together once I got out, which is why I just didn't care about these and wondered why they should. Move on. Thanks for sharing. Snooze.First I thought, I might not be a big "prison" entertainment fan, but then I remembered one of my favorite films is "Birdman of Alcatraz" (which I thought much from this film owes homage to), I really fell in love with "The Green Mile" (which was more on King's level than this) and I actually sat through a few seasons of HBO's "Oz" which was gritty and scary, to say the least. I give everything a chance, in fact -- several chances. But sometimes not all things appeal to all people. For me, this was one of them. (If you're wondering, "Reservoir Dogs" is another.)The point is...as I was going to write awful things to those few folks who didn't like "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King", I find myself here at "The Shawshank Redemption", and now I am able to stand where they were -- for a moment -- in the minority.All things are not wonderful to all people.And that's....a good thing.


                
Watching this film made me think about the genre of "prison"-movies and what the theme really is in these stories. All of them seem to have some common elements; the warden is a psychopath, there is almost always some inmate that is out to get the protagonist in some way, there is the companionship and last but not least the portrayal of the human spirit that will not be broken in the direst of circumstances. And maybe that is what "shawshank" wants to tell us; that the strong individual can beat an unfair and cruel system by different means. In this story we have Andy Dufresne who is clever but also able to endure visits in "the hole" many times without developing psychiatric phenomena. In this sense I will claim that this movie is just as much a piece of fiction as lets say "starwars" is. It is simply not possible to stay sane if you are repeatably treated in a degrading manner and if you live in constant fear. The movie is highly entertaining but should not be seen as a serious attempt to explore human reactions in a prison environment where inmates are treated as garbage. Don't fool yourself on this account. Luke Skywalker is just as real as the character of Andy Dufresne is.Regards SimonPs. When you read reviews that gives max score check to see if the user has made more than one review. If not consider the possibility of a lobbyist. If you agree consider putting this post scriptum at the bottom at your own reviews.


                
I thought I had never seen this movie before and then I happened upon it on TV. Then I realized I was required to see this movie in public school(in which I zoned out with boredom).Basically it's a campy Forest Gump-like story of prison with the common tropes of rape and racism--but nothing like a real prison for most people--I mean who goes to prison and gets a cushy office job? It's okay for a generic movie but as a prison story you will be left wanting.In fact, here are a few reasons to see a different movie: 1 - The escape plan: It's silly and simple. Makes you think the prison was run by complete idiots. Escape from Alcatraz with Clint Eastwood is much better.2 - The final escape: pretty anti-climatic. Just finally happens and then movie is basically over. Once again, go see Escape from Alcatraz if you're expecting extensive tunneling/swimming or something that makes you feel like the prisoner earned their freedom.3 - If you want a prison story about that best captures the essence of the desire to be free watch Papillon. It's roughly based on the French penal colony system during WW2 and numerous escape attempts.


                
After watching this i realialize that its a normal movie for me not a very good or not a bad different people experience different mine is this what is yours


                
Satisfying, good movie, but the only great part of this movie is the magnificent performance by Morgan Freeman. An apparently inspired Tim Robbins rises above his very mediocre talent and delivers an adequate performance. Ham-handed attempts at profundity in every scene get tiring as is the use of every prison movie device, character, and cliche in the history of hollywood.


                
I know it's trying to metaphor some stuff in the movie. But prisoners w/ life sentence? Excuse me? Anyone remember what they had done? THE OUGHT TO SUFFER FOR THEIR CRIME!!!!!!! (Except for Andy cuz he's innocent)
This movie offers less in terms of plot twists, character development and acting than what I think people realise. Morgan Freeman delivers a characteristically mundane performance and the other characters dance forgettably around him.There are few to no memorable quotes and even less action, and the only real twist, at the end, could be the most overrated twist of all time.I only watched this after it was deemed a must by most of my close peers and fellow movie critics, only to be gravely disappointed with their judgments. If this movie has taught me anything, it is that IMDb ratings mean jack and that people are, in general, conformist in nature ; they rate movies highly if their fellow humans talk it up. Who could forget the terrible acting and the sexual innuendos in this movie? The only reason that the director put that in there was to make it feel more prison like, but for me it felt as if he was trying to plug a bathtub with a million holes. A tub full of vomit to begin with.Frankly, I do not care if this is an unpopular view. And neither should you. Popularity is a reflection of the current state of society's desires, nothing more.


                
A fair number of the movies that rank high on this site's top 250 all time list also share a parallel 'life' as literature, so let's start there.The book "Rita Hayworth, etc..." is the best of the 'Different Seasons' tetralogy. King adhered to the first person perspective, which is a challenge: the narrator can only know what comes into his range of perception. You as the reader have to decide if you trust him, and so on. King wrote this in the early hand-to-mouth period of his existence -- and what do we have? A prisoner who persistently writes to his benefactors for 'more funding'.Darabont didn't have the skill necessary to really offer anything of artistic value here. We're stuck with borrowings: parts of "Convict 99", "Gilda", "Brubaker", "Birdman of Alcatraz"; musically, the "Marriage of Figaro" aria -- it's actually not a bad bit of self-reference. It's the only good visual part here, and even that is smothered by the narration; literarily, Dumas' "...Monte Cristo"...The book does a good job of playing with the readers' expectations and using irony. There's no preaching. And it ends far more intelligently than this does; the denouement here seems to belong in a different movie altogether.This isn't a bad movie; considering the obscene amount of money invested in these things, it's hard to find a truly bad movie any more -- one with no cinematic value at all -- that wasn't the case 20 - 30 years ago. But there's no way I can love it. It just isn't the sort of movie that resonates with *me*, because the story is just 'there' with no life of its own.


                
Let me start by stating that this is one of the most sad, poignant and beautiful films I've seen since Paranormal Entity. I feet that Tom Hanks' portrayal of a bored police officer was cutting edge at the time and has yet to be surpassed by any actor in any film since, excluding Shane Van Dyke's potentially career defining performance in Shane Van Dyke's Paranormal Entity (written by Shane Van Dyke). Michael Clarke Duncan's interpretation of the character John Cofey was banal to say the least, but I was more than compensated for this error in judgement with two deliciously witty comedy set pieces. One was where a rat got knocked out and one was where he forgot to put a sponge on his head. As an aside, I enjoyed the skit in which Michael Clarke Duncan refused to give Moon's Sam Rockwell a slice of bread and the bit where Tom Hanks couldn't take a wazz.In conclusion, I award this film 2 golden skulls. Half a star for the scene where the rat dies, and one star for Tim Robins crawling through a crapper. I am also awarding the film two golden skulls for the scene in which Tom Hanks bangs his wife after John Cofey heals him.Overall - 3 golden skulls (Paranormal Entity earned 9 golden skulls) cheers
Stephen King is of course, a gifted storyteller. Maybe this might not be his most personal writing, if you want to read a very insightful book on prison detention and the atrocities and misconducts that exist, read the Star Rover, it is fantastic.To me, this is filled with far too many shortcuts, basically everything is in hand for Dusfrene to escape. The perfect location, the cell on the extremity of the facility floor, yet we can't really see where the foundation leads to, apparently it leads into the pipelines. Also the great timing, the fact that he manages to work out taxes, bills, finances for a 100 person, and in charge of the library, and with a rock hammer that he trades from Red, he breaches a cement wall. I don't get how any of this is realistic - since it's a King's series, might as well turn into a fantasy. But it's incoherent, lacks coherent flow, it intends to empathy with cons who really seem to be very friendly people (sort of), and might be innocent. I'm not sure these people are all quite recommendable and the camaraderie between detainees necessary - it is certainly not the same nature between workers that are part of a union. I fail to understand how a movie can go two hours and then in a span of ten minutes, retrace ten years of escape planning without giving us any hints on where Dusfrene will strike. The scenes where he is revealed that a mobster murdered his wife and her lover makes no sense, it doesn't work, I don't understand it - the scene when he plays opera is tacky - again, this movie reaches. And then of course, a post-modern ending to a movie that is set in the 60s, where two guys meet on the beach, Dusfrene treating a beat up boat. Again, the development reaches, it is just a series of shortcuts that arrange the directors in order to get through it by just being lazy. The performances are dull, there is hardly any real focus, any real acting, it doesn't focus enough on the characters, it moves too fast.This movie just doesn't work.
Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.wow Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.wow Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.wow
Sorry, but I don't get it. Below average movie. 
Why it gets all this praise is beyond me. Shouldn't even be in the top 100, let alone No. 1. Its not even the best Stephen King movie, I mean when you look at the likes of The Shining, Misery etc. There is no comparison. 
Don't believe the hype (you'll be disappointed)


                
Nice movie...............................................................................................
Very fantastic movie i liked it sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo much.......... ........ .................. ............. ................ ................... ................. ................ ...................


                
Not the best but it was an ok movie definetly seen better


                
This is one of the most overrated movies of all time. There are many films that are better than this film that are way further down the list


                
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.


                
