I still can't quite get the enormous reputation of this film. I saw it again last night and instead of clearing up the mystery, the mystery got thicker. It is enjoyable film with very good performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore etc, but...the most highly rated film ever? I don't get it. The voice over alone seems to belong to a so so film. I love Morgan Freeman's voice but he's telling us what we're seeing. So, the sterling reputation damages the enjoyment of the film because one is expecting something that never, really, arrives. The most interesting aspect is Tim Robbins's psychological journey. Credible or incredible doesn't quite matter, I did go with him without asking too many questions. Morgan Freeman's humanity is contagious and inspiring, whether credible or not because I bought it. So, a masterpiece? No. Good, even very good? Yes.


                
I was a little surprised at first to see this film ranked #1 out of all possible candidates in the IMDB user ratings. When I thought about it, though, it made more sense--this is a "Rocky"-type feel-good movie that doesn't really make you think and reinforces what we would all like to believe about human nature. Don't get me wrong--it's a fine film (I gave it a solid 7 out of 10), it's just not, in my view, up there with _Casablanca_ and _The Graduate_.I guess the main problem I have with _Shawshank_ is the nature of the script and characters. Think about it: is there a single person in the film who isn't a one-dimensional cardboard cut-out with very simple motivations, or a Hollywood cliche or stereotype? We have (in no particular order), a corrupt, bigoted prison warden (who is a religious hypocrite for good measure), a brutal prison guard, a man who is wrongly accused of murder, an old convict who knows all the ropes and can't live on the outside, and a convict who is murdered by the brutal guards. Now where have we seen this stuff before? Only in a few dozen movies made from the 20s to the 90s. There's really nothing new here. Probably this comes from the fact that the story is from Stephen King, who doesn't really do well with complex characters (a problem I noted as far back as _Carrie_).If you want to see a good prison picture, try _Cool Hand Luke_ (from which this movie borrows considerably). If you want an escape picture, see either _The Great Escape_ or _Papillon_, both with Steve McQueen. Or if, by some chance, you want a crime and punishment movie that really makes you think, go with the late great Stanley Kubrick's _A Clockwork Orange_.I couldn't stop thinking about the warden: doesn't he have a family? How did they feel? What are they going to do now? I realize the story is inside the prison, but I wish the movie had made better use of its characters than simply as simple-minded symbols of EVIL or VIRTUE.I'm not Mr. Cranky, I did enjoy the movie, but I enjoyed it the same way I do an Italian dinner at the Olive Garden--a well-constructed genre product with nothing special to commend it.


                
I reviewed this film recently with a specific question in mind. At this writing, this film is ranked by IMDB viewers as the second best film ever made. The SECOND BEST EVER MADE!Why? This was my question.The acting is good. Robbins and Freeman are quality craftsmen in the Caine and Hackman tradition. But these are not truly great actors and in any case, they are only asked to play appealing persons, deliberately less-dimensional than real (as opposed to believably hyper-real which is much harder).The director is a first-timer, and it shows. There is simple framing and staging here. In fact, there seems to be a deliberate strategy to be as plain as possible. And that is the core of where I think people find the appeal of this film.The story is very tight in the sense of narrative flow. All the chunks are the same size, with no fancy rhythm. There is no distracting backstory. No element has irony, not writing, acting, shooting, even the score.Now for me, I expect and demand art in my films -- that's why I register this as plain. But I think it is well liked because it is totally without pretense. It is straight and honest; people seem hungry for honesty, and this has the appearance of what they need at just the right time.Is a film great because it merely fulfills? I hope many people think not, and dream that this film moves down the list to be replaced with more intelligent efforts.


                
A good prison movie whose cult of fans has made it into something so much more than it is. Greatest movie ever made? Get real. It's not even the greatest prison movie ever made. Hell, it's not even the best movie released in 1994! It's predictable and borrows heavily from decades of prison movie clichés. It's also nowhere near as deep as its staunchest admirers would have you believe. Still, it's an entertaining movie. Nice direction from Frank Darabont. Morgan Freeman is the highlight with a solid supporting cast. Tim Robbins, however, is borderline ridiculous at times with his cartoonish facial expressions and silly "stares-off-into-the-distance" moments. He's so far beneath Freeman as an actor it's sad. With a normal movie like this, I would focus more on the positives. I did give it a 7, after all. Unfortunately, it is easily the most overrated movie of all time (on IMDb, for sure) and as such the balance of positive to negative is out of whack.


                
There is no denying that this is a very good movie. The acting is great and it tells a good story. Personally, I find it a bit too long and a little too sweet for my taste, but its far from a bad film. On the other end of the spectrum I have yet to understand why this film was nominated for as many Oscars as it was and why so many people have fallen in love with it. To place it on the same level as The Godfather and several hundred other films has to be the result of different tastes.
This is a film that should be seen because its a good movie, not because its a great one.


                
This is a good movie, and surely is right up there among the finest prison/concentration camp depictions which almost ALWAYS have at least competent quality. In my mind I compare this genre to "submarine"-films: confined space, lots of guys under constant threat, therefore drama and tension easily created without much sweat (ha ha). But also with obvious problems in providing something new. The same situations and characters are presented just from here to eternity, and I rest my case with this movie in question as follows: despotic warden, sadistic guard/s, evil fellow inmates who want to kill/rape you but also few trusted friends (along with that one old timer and his inevitable sad ending) and finally escape by the main protagonist who of course has been convicted in the first place based on false accusations or at least something not-so-bad crime.So what's so special here? 9.1/10, come on... Maybe the same tricks worked here as in that other Stephen King's hit-penitentiary-drama "The Green Mile", i.e. manipulative scenes and quickly identified cardboard characters. Or maybe the majority of movie-goers consider what they're watching at face value and never mind that "I've seen this all before"-feel. Or maybe they haven't or just have a lousy memory? Yes I admit, I'm something of a cynic. But I also believe I'm able to spot an truly honest effort when I see one. Probably that's the reason why I consider the grandpa of them all, Mervyn LeRoy's 1932 "I'm A Fugitive From A Chain Gang" as the all-time best prison-flick. No film-snobbery here, as I hope you'll agree when you see this true classic.
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a kind of morality tale that is definitely one of Stephen King's more restrained kind of stories, dealing mostly with a character study of two individuals sharing imprisonment and the consequences that await them when the tale ends.TIM ROBBINS is a man wrongly convicted of murder and serving a long prison term while MORGAN FREEMAN (who plays the narrator with great dignity) describes himself as "the only guilty man in Shawshank." The hardships of prison life are captured in brief scenes that make the viewer wish that Robbins will find a way of escape. Along the way, he is gang raped by prisoners and treated harshly by a brutal warden and some of his spirit seems to vanish. But Robbins is quietly effective as a prisoner who makes a good adjustment when he takes charge of the prison library and sees to it that there's a wider selection of books than the kind of potboilers that King is noted for writing. A touch of irony here, no? The closing scenes are a bit of a stretch and a reminder of just who wrote this prison tale--but still, they make an impact because of all that happens before.It's a bittersweet story, a sort of horrific fairy-tale of what might have happened, but the viewer will be caught up in the story because of the tremendously skillful story-telling magic of Stephen King and director Frank Darabont who also wrote the screenplay.


                
This movie is good, there's no question about that, but he 2nd best ever? That's a bit of a stretch. I can't really imagine that all of those people who gave this movie the 9 and 10 votes have seen very many other good movies.  Sure, the story is meaningful and it's harsh etc, but there are so many movies that are moving and powerful.  The fact that Shawshank is #2 on this list is a reflection of those voting.


                
Deliberately (some might even say slowly in places) paced, "The Shawshank Redemption" alternates between offering a grittily realistic portrayal of life in prison and flights of fancy that make the story too unbelievable to really be accepted. There is an interesting subplot (which doesn't take up much of the movie but which does make the viewer ponder) about the difficulties of adjusting to life in the real world after extended periods of incarceration. The performances from the two leads are excellent. Morgan Freeman puts on his usual outstanding performance as "Red" - the wise old con through whose eyes the story is told, and Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresnce, a young banker wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover who has to adjust to the nightmare of prison life. Among the supporting cast I was impressed with Bob Gunton as the Bible-spouting but corrupt Warden Norton, who uses Andy's financial expertise to enrich himself, and James Whitmore as Brooks, imprisoned for fifty years and terrified when he is finally granted parole and who, unable to adjust to life on the outside, yearns only to be back in the only home he ever knew - prison. It's an interesting twist - experience also by Red later on in the movie - that freedom can seem to be like a prison for those so accustomed to the regimentation of life in an institution.While the movie is impressive and engrossing all the way through, though, there are some weaknesses to the story that bothered me a bit. (There are some spoilers ahead.)I found it difficult to imagine prison guards from all over the State of Maine bringing their tax returns to Andy. It just didn't seem to me like something that would have happened. It also struck me as unlikely that a letter-writing campaign from one solitary prisoner (even one that lasted six years, one letter a week) would have convinced the State to fund the improvements Andy got for the prison library. I would rather expect that after a while the letters would simply start to be discarded. Andy's escape also bothered me. It was too "easy" - even though it took twenty years. And how did he keep that suit so spotless and unwrinkled while crawling through that dirty sewer? Mind you, the moments leading up to the discovery of his escape were among the most dramatic in the movie. The very end of the story was also clearly telegraphed some time before.Frankly speaking, I think "The Shawshank Redemption" is a bit over-rated here at IMDb, being ranked the second best movie of all time, but this is still a very, very good movie, and an excellent portrayal (through Andy) of the survival of the human spirit in even the toughest times. Personally, I give it a 7/10.
I really liked this movie, which I just recently saw for the first time, strange indeed since it is more than 10 years old. It reminded me, naturally I would say, to Papillon, the 70's McQueen/Hoffman classic.I like the story, the acting, basically everything, and I definitely recommend it to everybody. But compared to Papillon? There are so many similarities that one has to think that idea of the movie did not came out of the blue. Because of that the movie has to accept to be compared with Papillon. And Papillon is simply even better. It is emotionally much more touching, and when even Freeman's great performance doesn't match Hoffman's, there is no doubt that Robbins is not close to McQueen - in that role I mean! Tim gave a great performance but his role didn't give him the chance that Steve had.Anyway, a joy to watch. But please watch the "original" too, it's not old-fashioned at all! I can only guess, but I think the huge differential of 9.1 for SR and 7.9 for Papillon is because most young people have never seen Papillon.


                
Shawshank Redemption (1994)The short of it: I asked some students what their favorite movie was, and some of them (many of them) said, "Shawshank Redemption," and I said, "I haven't even seen it." And they assigned it to me as homework. I started watching, and after about twenty minutes I realized I had, in fact, seen it before.That's how memorable it was for me.I also see that Shawshank has the highest user rating of any film on IMDb. What do these other intelligent, movieloving people see that I don't? I wish I could know, but I can't except by reading their comments. And here, then, finally, is mine.First of all, I don't think it's a terrible film, despite all the picking I do. I'm trying to be analytical. But when I take one aspect and think about it independently, and compare it to other movies I like, it starts to look weak for specific reasons, which is good to know. Please don't read further if you just want a confirmation of why this is a great film. In brief, I don't think Shawshank probes, invents, or seduces aesthetically. It's just a nice story well told.First, that story. Stephen King is a successful writer, to say the least, and a really good "wordsmith." His stories work with simple conflicts, and they are plot driven--one thing happens, another thing happens, a third thing is almost necessary to have happen, a twist, a turn, and always, from what I can tell, a nice wrap up. That's pretty much the plot in Shawshank. There is almost no depth to the characters--they are stereotypes, not made of foamcore maybe, but flimsy. There is the evil warden, of course. There is the thoughtful black man who everyone likes, played by Morgan Freeman (who narrates), and the thoughtful white man who doesn't like anyone (at first), played by Tim Robbins.Of course, it goes from there, but really, the "twists" are old ones. The plot is the framework for something I found more irritating, and that was a slightly glib tone. The story was not really "realistic" in any sense, though the trappings of actual prison life are all there, from rape in the back room to corruption in the front office. Maybe as a "fable" it can get away with its airiness, right up to the final happy ending. It might not need any grounding in reality. As a fable it would naturally avoid complexity, or even anything independently interesting. What I mean is, maybe the journey through these familiar clichés, done with a fuzzy, congenial ease, is self-satisfying on purpose. And therefore Shawshank Redemption is heartwarming and enjoyable, to use two words that are as exciting together as milk and warm.But it was this breezy tone that made it unwatchable for me. I had to fastforward through a few parts in the second half (it was my second time seeing it). It seemed that nothing happening! Nothing I hadn't seen before in other movies. It struck me not as mythic or spiritual (those are words people use) but as false, as anti-meaningful because it's obvious, familiar, comforting.The film-making? Let's tick off some basics. Editing: conventional, and downright slow. You can argue the pace was leisurely and luxurious to draw the viewer in. Or you can say it's drawn out and sluggish.Music: functional and familiar, "movie music" pure and simple, in its lush seduction, which is offputting once you pay attention to it directly.Script: hmmmm. The writing is not distracting or "bad" especially, but that's hardly a recommendation. It gets the information across. But really, read some lines, repeat a few scenes out loud. There are those now famous lines, about everyone being innocent and so on, but most of the movie doesn't crackle--even other Hollywood heartwarmers like Die Hard have more inventiveness. Isn't Shawshank presenting Hallmark sentiments?Acting: exactly what the film needed for its pace and intentions. No faulting Freeman or Robbins there.Photography: professional. If there was a movie crying out for some great filming, this is one, with a great interior to exploit and some good night scenes. But the camera work is functional, with a few moments of higher drama (the prisoner getting shot from above, the escape sequence). But look how often the scenes are just filmed "nicely" so that we enjoy being there. Maybe this is the idea, to be caressed and not assaulted--it's not an action adventure film, so I don't expect to be shocked. Direction: finally, the lynchpin person here needs to be accountable. Oh, I'm sure Frank Darabont doesn't mind the cult status of his movie, but he probably knows he is no auteur, but rather rode the coattails of a lot of talented craftspeople around him. But those other people all had to count on him to ask for (and deliver) something with more originality, beauty, surprise, depth, and compactness than the Shawshank we have. It's not a shame, obviously, that we have what we have, because so many people love it, really really love it. I didn't care for his other well known film either, The Green Mile, and so again, it's just what you want from your two hours of absorption.But it brings me back to where I started, which is to realize that there are all kinds of viewers, and movies to match. This one didn't go the places I need a great movie to go. It's not a bad movie, not at all. In fact, this might be a classic example of a movie being much more than the sum of its parts. But, still, even the whole strikes me as flip and easy-breezy, obvious as child's lie. It is content to be superficial, and I, personally, am not.
Sure it was a good prison movie, and much better than many other movies I've seen.  But this does NOT beat Godfather, Star Wars, or Casablanca in any way.  Watch this if you enjoy good performances and good plot, but don't expect a present-day classic ala Forrest Gump.


                
Do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
The amazing thing about this film is how many people fail to realise that the film is about Red, not Andy. It's Reds perspective of Andy. I only mention it because many people strangely think its told from the perspective of Andy.That common misunderstanding behind, a well made film. The photography is magical, the story is strong, the performances are exceptional and the depths of despair and humanity of canvassed well without losing mainstream appeal.But that aside, there is a strong willingness to overstate this film. In the end, it is a slightly overdone and there is a bit too much 'triumph of the human spirit' dribble on the side. But I don't let that get in the way of what is otherwise a very good film with re-watch-ability.Hadley's release from prison and letter deserves a spot in cinema history. That part was absolutely exceptional.


                
I just don't get it. It's not that I think this is an awful movie or anything, but no.2? Look at the rest of the movies in the top 10. Does it REALLY stand comparison with the Godfather or Seven Samurai? I think not. It's a manipulative, sentimental Sunday afternoon movie, raised above B-standard by some quality turns by talented actors. Nothing more. And who cares whether Andy could put the poster back in place or not. It's a patently ridiculous 'escape' to begin with. I understand that most of the people on this site will have a pop at me for being a snob, but the fact is I love Star Wars and Lord of the Rings and other 'blockbuster' movies. But if you're looking for a genuinely affecting drama, this doesn't cut the mustard. Sorry, guys, but you're all wrong.


                
Some consider it a masterpiece, some just an example of experienced film-making. I'm sticking with the second opinion. I really do like The Shawshank Redemption, mainly because of its actors, but it remains a movie which pretends to tell a shocking story while using black-and-white schemes, unlikely characters (Andy Dufresne makes some saints look like amateurs) and incomplete character backgrounds. It is utterly unauthentic wherever you bother to question its settings or characters.A better prison movie should at least give the audience an idea of what rape, the loss of freedom, the loss of contact to your family and friends, bad conditions and dullness can really do to a person.I like the movie when it manages to show me how Brooks isn't able to adapt the outside world anymore. I find it mediocre when it tries to tell me the story of true friendship, strength and hope itself lying within a prison. I do not like it when it sells me men who manage to get through such hard times without developing any kind of trauma or negative characteristics.
Good acting from all concerned carries the rather simplistic and obvious storyline beyond the saccharine, but the villains are really predictable in their villany and the storyline, while initially moving and affecting, seems forced and unreal once you step back from Robbins and Freeman's performances.In other words, a high impact movie that rapidly loses credibility with considered thought after viewing. Far more worthwhile, though, than many other similarly stretched dramas and by no means a failure. But by no means in the top rank of movie making.


                
Quite frankly, this is a movie of clichés. You want examples, I got examples! "Some birds are not meant to be caged, their feathers are too bright" or "Get busy living, or get busy dying" or "Terrible thing, to live in fear" or "It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage and made those walls dissolve away" or "need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of stone" or "Hope is a good thing, and good things can never die" - if you say so, sensei!Problem is Stephen King never leaves anything to the imagination. He tells us everything - if Tim Robbins organises some special event for the inmates, like playing music over the loudspeaker, Morgan Freeman's voice will come right out and suggest a few reasons why this episode is so wonderful/significant, the nature of which are very similar through each episode of the movie. And Darabont obviously likes the idea of assuming the audience are very thick, and will not see or experience anything unless you dictate to them what to experience, and has made his movie by it.Also, i'm starting to be wary of Thomas Newman as a composer doing exactly what Darabont has done as a director: employ a formula that has worked in the past. His score for Shawshank is calculated on the same formula of highs, lows, and general atmosphere as in his score for Road to Perdition, American Beauty, Meet Joe Black, Horse Whisperer, Scent of a Woman, and The Green Mile, not surprisingly. If you think about all these movies, they all have a similar feel, they all go for a similar nostalgia, haunting sadness - which admittedly i find very appealing, but i'm starting to worry at how similar they all are.I think encouraging this movie too much is like rewarding someone for employing a formula very successfully - instead of taking risks and doing something edgy that still turns out to be enjoyable and brilliant. Most people do not evaluate movies based on their IMDb ranking, but i certainly would be surprised if any major lists ranked this in their top ten.That said, this is still a good movie, with good performances, a good unity, despite its necessarily episodic nature, and it looks great. Its only for movies people insist on putting on best-ever lists that i require a certain originality, the feeling that what this movie gives you you could not get anywhere else (I believe this is why movies like Citizen Kane, Vertigo, 2001, Raging Bull, Third Man, Grand Illusion, Persona and, for me, Exterminating Angel, are constantly mentioned on such lists, and deservedly). What this movie gave me, I could get from reading any other Stephen King story, or seeing any other movie adaptation of a King story.


                
I found this movie to be rather trivial and predictable.  It was, in many ways, a Forrest Gump version of a prison movie.  It had a manipulative and superficial plotline, and the leading character was too good to be true. It never dealt deeply with any issue at all.  Basically, you liked the leading character because he was perfect, and cheered him on and hoped for his success, just like Forrest Gump.  However, unlike Forrest Gump, I could never see the true emotion of the Tim Robbins character.  He didn't like being sexually assaulted, but we never saw how that affected him; he didn't drink but got beers for his friends.  He finds pleasure out of the simple things and doesn't like unpleasurable things.  He turned out to be a perfect character with no negative qualities at all.  Maybe he's this way for a reason; people can relate to him because they like to think of themselves being completely perfect and think they would make every right decision if they were in a situation like this.In many senses, this was just a morality play, with Andy Dufresne being entirely good and all the prison officials being completely bad.  I think the only reason why people enjoy this movie so much is that it has the message "Good things come to those that try and do good with their lives." However, I didn't think the movie had enough substance to offer any deeper meaning or insight.  The best thing about this movie was it made me realize how great of a movie Forrest Gump is and how great of an actor Tom Hanks is. He made the Forrest Gump character seem to have a fully round personality and allowed us to understand who he was.  He seemed possible.  Andy seems unlikely and not relatable because we never see any reasoning behind his personality.This movie moves people because it is a heroic fable.  It's not a worthless movie experience, but it should have done more with what it already had. To the people that think this is the greatest movie ever made...spare me. My rating 4/10.


                
I cant understand why this movie got such a high rating. its a good movie but there are lots of others that deserve to be number 2 in the "best of all time list" (american beauty, pulp fiction, Chaplin's, Buñuel's or Kubrick's movies, just to name a few). Well..I'm an old Stephen King fan and the story of "Redemtion" is good and thrilling and the acting and photography is good as well but its nothing that has'nt been made before. don't get me wrong i liked it but i think its just a well made entertaining picture and nothing more.So watch it and have a good time but don't expect an artistically great work or something all too original.


                
** Some spoilers about the general storyline **I had some expectations regarding this movie, because of the excellent rating it got here. To start with the positive: the acting (especially by the two protagonists) is indeed of the highest level, and some scenes really grip you. The camera-work is also excellent (beautiful prison-building!)The story of this movie is a 13-in-a-dozen story about someone who (of course) is wrongly sentenced to a long story; who meets his new friend (mostly an elderly person), who makes enemies and defeats them, who turns his long-stay into something good, then is betrayed by his corrupt warden, etc. etc. Sometimes it even got a bit cheesy, the way in which all the prison cliché's were displayed.I could recommend this movie to you, if you are looking for a nice drama with good acting and good camera. Don't expect an Oscar-worthy movie, though.
The popularity of this film seems to stem with the current emotional appeals and issues of today, just as Citizen Kane seemed to do when it was revived. What makes Citizen Kane more appealing to me though is the abundance of creativity in telling the story.If you want a highly emotional experience, I would watch this movie. Since I am for more intelligent and unpredictable type films, I am not one for movies like this.And if I would explain the movie in one sentence, I would say it is a classic cinema soap opera, perfectly crafted to emotionally stimulate movie viewers, in order for them to hold certain perspectives on societal issues.


                
Let me review this film on two aspects: it's merit and it's high placement.
First of all, ask yourself this question: Is a film great simply because it achieves? I hope many think this is not the case. Shawshank has a slow and methodical pace. Along with good performances around the board. The simple staging and lighting of the film is over-done in it's simplicity and I personally see no art in it at all. But, I'm not saying it's a bad film. It's not, and it's far from it. But to be ranked over vastly more intelligent efforts is a sad reflection on our society.
The writing is top-notch. The best thing about the film is the flow of the story, and I could have simply read a book. I am no huge fan of visual effects or quick paced story-telling ... but I am a fan of art. Reading a book would be as enthralling as watching this film. Seeing the acting is like watching lines being delivered, but being delivered well.As for it's rating on the site ... the film pushes no boundaries in which film often offends people to the point of disliking it. It has a nice uplifting story at the end and presses a lot of hot buttons. Including murder, infidelity, and scandal. Searching for the soundtrack for this film is what brought me to IMDb for the first time, actually. So I dare not say this is a bad film; I only say it's ranked higher than vastly superior films.Rating: C+


                
I love this film but it has simply been blown out of proportions.


                
Submit movie sorry your reciew is too shortI know but i am long the wthite


                
