I was lent this series by a friend of mine. The characters as I said, were more or less indistinguishable one from another. The battle scenes were repetitive and unrealistic (and endless) - you want to try running around in a "hail of lead"? Have you seen the embedded footage from Iraq and Afghanistan? Just doesn't happen. It's just another shoot-em-up for the computer game generation.And it's not that I'm anti war-films. Saving Private Ryan was excellent. One of the best war films I've seen is "Das Boot" - don't know if you can still get the TV series with sub-titles, but it's absolutely outstanding.I gave up at ep 3.


                
What is this supposed TO BE, anyway? Some kind of bad sequel from Steven Spielberg? Saving Private Ryan pulled us enough (but that doesn't mean it was not a GREAT movie-it was a GREAT movie) but this? Okay, more and more people are probably going to hate me for hating this crap. It's basically the same kind as Spielberg calls it, "his war series" which makes no sense because this really isn't much of a series, just a movie that goes on FOREVER AND EVER. Steven, really? You can torture us by doing many things such as: 1) Adding computer graphics to all your old films 2) Not being a good editor for the crappy writers of your new films 3) producing 'Jurassic Park III' and 4) making (or helping) this load of crap. It's too overrated and violence doesn't bother me (In fact, it's the opposite) but this...war? I hate war enough. Many people have a reason to go crazy about this mini but really don't waste your time and money because it's almost as unnecessary as adding computer graphics to good films that you made in the past, Steven


                
Although many reviewers have said that "Band of Brothers" is very realistic, and I would grant that that is something it certainly is, ultimately I found it unsatisfying to watch because of very bad cinematography. Because of the dull, drab, lifeless colour I could hardly distinguish the difference between German or Allied soldiers in most of the battle scenes. I don't understand what it is about today's filmmakers that makes them think they have to use flat, boring low saturation colour. Give me the rich, vivid, dripping Color by De Luxe of movies like Patton, Von Ryan's Express, Tora! Tora! Tora! any day over the pastel hues of BOB. If you watch any of these three movies you'll be able to clearly pick out who's the enemy and who's on our side.On a related note, this might be why the newer Star Trek series never did catch the imagination of the public. Again, dull, drab, lifeless colour with low-contrast lighting. Compare it against the original Star Trek series and you'll see the difference that good colour and high contrast lighting makes.


                
Overhyped and overrated, extremely disappointed in this miniseries. I was told this was comparable to Saving Private Ryan, which its not.I recommend Sword of Honour instead.


                
I felt the Band of Brothers mini series was terrible. I didn't feel it was even the least bit like realistic war. Tom Hanks does a very pathetic job of directing and I think he is a better actor than a director. Saving Private Ryan is a good movie because it has good acting (Tom Hanks) and good directing ( Steven Speilberg). So overall, pretty bad.


                
I watched the three first episodes and couldn't find any merits to this show other than hyperexpensive, top class production. Limitless means at the service of the most mind numbing narrative vacumm. There's nothing here in the way of character development, thought-provoking situations, mental processes... There's nothing but shootings, shootings and more shootings. Maybe things take another direction from chapter four onwards, but I couldn't stand the shoot-shoot-shoot any longer, and, honestly, I had absolutely no faith that the people responsible for four hours of shootings was even remotely likely to deliver something worth my time in the next 7 chapters to come. The 9,5 rating is the most unbelivable I've seen in film reviews ever.


                
