Just saw episode 4. I thought the whole problem with dropping 10.000 men behind enemy lines was the lack of heavy equipment. This is well pointed out in movies like A Bridge Too Far. Yet, the guys are driving around in trucks and even have tank support. How, did those tanks get across the Rhine? For the rest, the style of conversation/shouting is like in any other WW2 movie, - I'm bored, and think I'll call it quits here. Just another reflection, could it be that this American infatuation with WW2 movies, comes from the fact that WW2 was clear from a good vs evil point of view and there was a resounding victory. The same can't be said about any other American military operation...


                
It finally dawned on me why "Band Of Brothers" has a 9.5 rating while "Saving Private Ryan" has a rating of only 8.3.  "Band Of Brothers" was watched by a bunch of couch potatoes like myself who may have never seen "Saving Private Ryan."  Tom Hanks and Tom Sizemore are a hard combination to beat, not to mention putting the Normandy (beach) invasion and the push inland against the longer and less detailed and less intimate story of Easy company which only touches on such operations as Market/Garden, a very important loss for the Allies and an operation that was explained in a somewhat confusing manner in "Band Of Brothers."  Add to this the fact that some 8000 people who use IMDb voted on "Band of Brothers" while well over 77,000 voted on "Saving Private Ryan," placing "Saving Private Ryan" at position number 56 on the top 250 rated movies of IMDb's list.  The ratio of total votes comparing the two productions is almost 10 to 1 for "Saving Private Ryan."  But then IMDb is a marketing tool for Amazon.com, an observation that will no doubt place my comment way down the line on the "Band Of Brothers" page(s), if it's approved at all.The accuracy of "Band Of Brothers" is very good as the principal players are still alive to tell about it, and I believe as truthfully as human memory and documentation can allow.  Nevertheless, "Band Of Brothers" has way too much <U+0091>Italian Western introspection' in it, and is, sadly, stretched out for TV.  After buying both and finding Steven Spielberg's exceptional rendering of his extraordinary glimpse into the reality of WW-2 in "Saving Private Ryan," I was very disappointed in "Band Of Brothers."


                
