Band of Brothers is a brilliant mini series about W.W. II.It tells the story of Easy company,a group of soldiers who fought in this terrible war.The first couple of episodes are about the drill of the men,the drill-sergeant is played by David"Ross from Friends"Schwimmer(not quite Full Metal Jacket).Then the company gets dropped on D-Day in Normandy where we follow their moves.The serie ends with an episode after the war when we see the company,or what is left of it,"relaxing" at a lake and thinking over this dreadful period. BoB is very realisticly filmed with great acting,although there are no big names in it.Maybe that is why it is so realistic. The series is produced by Tom Hanks(directed 1 episode) & Steven Spielberg,so it couldn't miss. And it doesn't,all 10 episodes are of very high quality,from the training in peaceful areas to a big shootout in the woods of Belgium and from fights in my own country Holland(with actual Dutch actors!) to a grueling episode about a concentration camp.After Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan this is another realistic and good project from Spielberg and co. 10/10
As a former Marine who deployed to Iraq, this ten-episode mini-series is a must for my personal collection. In fact, I think it's safe to say all military personnel should have it in their collections. Even if you have little to no interest in military affairs, however, you should take the time at some point in your life to watch this series all the way through.Beautifully scripted, masterfully acted, and filmed amongst breathtaking (in many different ways) cinematography, this production, which significantly contributed to HBO's fast rise as the gold standard in series quality, is an amazing portrayal of the sacrifices made by troops and of the horrors of war. A healthy dose of clips from this series was played by my instructors during training ops to drive home points about all kinds of important subjects germane to war.A few random thoughts I had while watching the project: - Everyone did such a great job acting, and the character development was top-notch. Even amongst this wonderful cast, Damian Lewis stood out, followed closely by Neal McDonough.It was pretty awesome to see David Schwimmer play such a different role.There are countless useful lessons to be learned from this series, especially by those who hope to lead troops someday.Why is there so much hip firing throughout the series? Isn't it a bit unrealistic to make some of these shots without looking down your sights? - I watched one of the most squared-away officers in the 101st return a salute sitting on his ass. This would not happen in the Marines. Is it different in the Army? - I understand very well the transition that one may go through in terms of how he/she thinks of the enemy during war. When you first get out there, you dehumanize them in your head in order to justify some of the things that you may have to do. After a while, however, there comes a point when you realize that your enemies are human beings, much like you, fighting out of a sense of duty, and just trying to make it out of this thing alive like you are. At least, I went through a transition like that, and this series did a good job of illustrating such a transition. Still, despite the respect that our soldiers may have gained for the Germans as a formidable fighting force made up of dedicated human soldiers, they were still Nazis. They were supporting some pretty foul principles. I'm not saying that our troops were wrong for regarding Nazi troops with the respect that they did during the conflict, but I wonder if my attitude toward Nazi soldiers would have softened even after we defeated them.It would be great to have a beer with one of the living members of the 101st who fought in WWII.After you finish watching this production, watch The Pacific. It's even better! Then again, I'm biased. :)For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out: www.livemancave.com


                
Incredible series, the acting, the special effects, the direction and the stories from the veterans prefacing each episode touched me. I can't imagine being a young man of eighteen or nineteen and subjected to those kinds of situations. I found myself horrified in parts, wondering 'how did they cope?'  Damian Lewis did an outstanding job portraying Captain Winters. David Schwimmer pleasantly surprised me. Normally it's hard to see a typecast actor anything else than the character he played for years. But much to my surprise, he played a great 'prick', an instructor you learned to hate.  Excellent performances by Matthew Settle, Ron Livingston and Donnie Wahlberg....the whole cast.


                
I didn't get to watch Band of Brothers when it first aired on television due to missing it, and not really getting into it due to commitments. Finally only recently did I get the chance through buying the complete HBO drama on DVD, and I was pleased that the price I paid was well worth it. Personally I only like some World War 2 films, and haven't really found an engrossing TV series that pulls me in. I wanted factual drama, that was real and obviously a true story. I got this with Band of Brothers.Through the first two episodes we get to know the characters as they develop through training before being sent to fight in Europe, and begin to Norway campaign of the war. Soon afterwards, we are thrown into the dark, chaotic action of the show. I can say it is some of the most realistic war scenes and battles i've ever seen, especially since this is by Steven Spielberg who also did Saving Private Ryan. Its gritty, its dirty, its muddy, its horrible and its true to life.From the beginning of episode 3 onto episodes 6 and 7 we see some of the more smaller skirmishes US forces faced as they pushed their way across France towards Nazi held Germany. Along the way, the characters of the show and soldiers of the 101st Airbourne Division fight in Holland, Belgium and finally the Rhine. These smaller more unknown campaigns and skirmishes along the way through the European theatre of war, really give us insight into the characters. From D-Day landings to the Battle of the Bulge, from the smaller campaigns of the war in Holland and Belgium to finally capturing Hitler's Eagle's Nest. How they've progressed and really changed through their traumatic experiences and Spielberg shows them very well as he did in Saving Private Ryan.Finally the last three episodes bring together the final moments of the war in Europe, for the 101st Airbourne. As many prepare to return home to the US, to their sweethearts and to leave the service, while others are not so fortunate as they prepare to leave to fight the remainder of the war in the Pacific. Along this journey, the show we watch many favourite characters die, become injured and leave, and others we wish would just be able to go home.Band of Brothers does not feel like a mini-series, even the episodes I do not regard as simple episodes. They feel like chapters in a flowing story, each part has a different story to tell in a different scenario and situation of the war. All sets, battles, equipment and weapons are all realistically portrayed and do not feel cheap. I could recommend Band of Brothers to fans of World War 2 dramas, or even fans of Saving Private Ryan but Band of Brothers is far more than just a war drama. Its a solid piece of historical history relived in television, of an uncertain and dangerous period of our history.If Band of Brothers is anything to go by, I can only imagine the Pacific is just as good and will be buying it on DVD to watch also and add to Band of Brothers.
This review contains spoilers.Band of Brothers is a HBO miniseries following Easy Company of the 101st paratrooper division from boot-camp to the surrender of Germany. The miniseries takes a grounded look at the paratroopers in Easy Company across boot-camp, D-Day, Operation Market Garden, The Battle of the Bulge, and the occupation of Germany. Each episode follows a small group of soldiers with recurring characters from earlier episodes.Band of Brothers is a high budget miniseries. Each scene and episode has the high production values and sets that a movie does. This is one of the great pros of the series as the high budget improves the enjoyment of the series and allows most of what was described in the book and memoirs to happen on the screen. There are pitched battles, tank battles, and patrols all at a high budget here. With another company that may not have been willing to spend the budget, the show would have absolutely suffered in quality of execution.Each episode explores select soldiers in Easy Company. This became an interesting draw for each episode as they all felt distinct. I found myself caring about each focus character with me continuing to care when they would become a recurring character in other episodes.Band of Brothers is highly recommended. The miniseries is a great examination of a paratrooper company in World War 2.Four stars out of four stars.
As a young fellow from Eastern Europe, with no particular interest in American view on the world, but forcibly supporting the American values, you would have to admit this movie smells like a clean war.It may be the reality of those men, and it may be the discipline those had, and on top of that it may be what the current generation knows about the WWII, but it certainly does not resemble the war. The war was much worse in those days, not a battle between cavaliers, rather more of fight of rats over warm cow muck.It also may reflect civilization on the Western Front, but nevertheless it still feel, that if an normal fellow, within a normal family, without a particular political view, without an ethnic angle, could have escaped the atrocities of the war more than often. Cannot comment on the Western Front really, but the Eastern Front was different. I repeat Different.Far better view over the war can have Idi i smotri, and BoB type of movies cannot claim to view the war as dirty as it is, rather as dirty as it is, but still able to be viewable by the public before hitting your stomach.When people commented on Schindler's list, one cannot forget mentioning, how clean it comes for the subject it stands for.All this read, one should not miss this movie in the step of understanding human hatred.


                
I finally just finished watching Band of Brothers from beginning to end and what an incredible mini-series. From the battle sequences of the earlier and middle episodes to the emotional episodes in the end (especially the impact of the 9th episode), this is a true must watch for Americans in order to better appreciate the sacrifice so many young men made for our freedom. God bless America!


                
This shows cast is spot on.very accurate in the history.very entertaining.uplifting definitely recommend it


                
Michael Fassbender, James McAvoy and Tom Hardy didn't become stars overnight. They started out in small roles like these and worked their way up.


                
First of all: I'm a girl and not the typical "audience" here I guess. My 5 cents: Even the series is almost 20 years old now it is still awesome and not outdated. Every time I watch Band of Brothers I have wet eyes. 
The series is the best war presentation I've seen so far. It is realistic, hard, emotional, brutal and honest. I really like Damian Lewis as Winters, the other cast is great as well. The music is exceptional. 
Sure it is still a TV Show, therefore it is not completely accurate.
But all in all: Band of Brothers is a high quality experience.Highly recommended!


                
Obviously everybody (or almost everybody) is aware how the second world war ended. But it's one thing to read about it and an entirely different thing to watch it unfold on European soil. And while it is from an American perspective (mostly, with some footage also sneaking in showing what other Allies did), it is not as glorifying as one might have thought it would be.The show, which aired on HBO and therefor had no issues with showing violence (or nudity, though that is hardly the case here) and language, is all about "keeping it real". Until Virtual Reality becomes a ... reality, this is the closest one will be to be in a war situation, without actually being there.Before every episode we get survivors from back then talking to us, the great thing being, that we never get their names until the very last episode at the end. Therefor we have to watch and wait to see who actually makes it. It's great drama with great acting. Acting that gets delivered by some of the finest actors even in the smallest roles. Fassbender, Pegg, McAvoy and many more. One of the few that I had issues to see in his role was David Schwimmer. It's not really his fault, but I always think of Ross Gellar (Friends) when I hear him. Suffice to say that this role is very far removed from that.A great show, which is as realistic as it gets with some superb extras on the Blu Ray Disc version.


                
I had not heard much about "Band of Brothers" before I began watching it. I somewhat expected to be disappointed.  However, despite the erratic viewing because I was renting the tapes, I found myself being drawn in from episode to episode.  I think bought the DVD set and have watched it all the way through at least twice.  It's quite impressive, much better than I expected. It's also a series that benefits from more than one viewing.  After you've seen it once and gotten an idea of the cast of characters, it's quite moving to go back and view the episodes knowing the destiny of many. In addition, you can relax and enjoy the portrayals a bit more without working to keep track of everyone.(Spoilers) I found memorable moments in every episode: Sobel's face when Winters chooses court martial and when removed from command; Winters staring out the doorway of the aircraft at the end of episode 1; the D-Day drop (a very strong episode); the company walking into Bastogne; Winters shooting the SS trooper; most of the episode about the medic; Dike cracking up in the attack; Eindhoven in flames; Gottlieb translating to the concentration camp survivors; Nixon after the drop with the 17th; etc.I've gotten a lot pickier with my military movies as I've gotten older.  I found "Behind Enemy Lines" to be simply silly because it moved so far from anything realistic. Band of Brothers has a real sincerity about it's attempt at recreating the past.  The best review I've read is in this collection of reviews in IMDB. A veteran from the Italian campaign stated that he found Band of Brothers very moving, but he couldn't watch it again.  It hit just too close to home for him.
The most realistic war-movie ever done. Sure, "Saving Private Ryan" is very good, but this is even better. All the characters, places, events...DAMN GOOD!!! And also, every episode "is" someones. Like, EPISODE 6 is the Medics episod, EPISODE 2 is D-Days episode, and so on...*****/5


                
You know how you know when a show/movie is really good?  When it gets better the more you watch it.  I have watched BoB 4 times through.  It is simply outstanding.  In fact I would say you need to watch it more than once to really appreciate it, it also helps a great deal with keeping track of the different characters.  Personally, I don't think SPR holds a candle to BoB. I believe this show is so good because everyone involved wanted to tell the true story, and they did.  There was no reason to Hollywood it.  The story all by itself is enough.


                
I was broken-up for 10 full minutes after the last episode aired. Stunning.I have read much of Ambrose's work, and though he can be overdramatic at times, this story deserves every accolade it receives.To Richards Winters, Carwood Lipton and the other members of the 101, I hope to meet them one day and say 'thank you'


                
Currahee and The Day of Days Needless to say, I easily found myself in Saving Private Ryan Deja Vu, but I was expecting that.  It's simple, commanding presenses were entertaining to watch.  Intense, driving combat was backed by strong acting and a complex script.The sheer complexity of it is also a downfall.  Steven Spielberg gave a very strong sense of place in SPR, which I don't find transposed here.  I continually became confused in even relatively calm scenes because I had no idea where characters were.  I only identified with actors I've seen in previous rolls, as most of the other actors all shared various facial similarities and all speak with the same 1940's sarcastic jib.  David Schwimmer was especially fun to watch as the Drill Sargent.  His typical type-casting as the whiner has not done this actor justice.I noticed that I also had trouble following who was the main character. The scenes continually cut and the cast is so massive that all I could do was sit back and enjoy the carnage.The cast is fantastic. The battles are furious and commanding.  The scenery is disturbing and peaceful.  Simply put, with some careful attention this film could be a classic.


                
As a TV Series, Band of Brothers is formidable. Every episode is like a short movie. Acting is great although I didn't know any of those actors. Filming is much more beautiful than in any other American war movie.Saving Private Ryan was only made for American audience. This one is made for Americans, Europeans and Asians because, like most of European war movies, it shows realistic sides of war. Like in the second episode (was it?) one of the soldiers try to tease German prisoners and discover one of them is actually American. And MANY TIMES they mention that most of the German soldiers in the western front are kids and grandpas because Russia is doing the major work. Also they mention how much Britain does for Europe (They tell how many men Britain lost in a battles etc)Americans are not shown as heroes, they steal stuff etc. after capturing villages.Who should watch this series? Everybody. Nobody should get any patriotic feelings from it. If you like it, I would recommend these movies: All quiet in the western front, Stalingrad, Winter War. As realistic stuff but years before BOB.
If you decided not to watch "Band of Brothers" just because it's produced by Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg, think again. This series, unlike "Saving Private Ryan", is non-fiction and is not hurt by a cast of well-known actors and a half bad story."Band of Brothers" is the story about E(asy) Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne Division during World War 2. The story is very well told, and varies between different peoples points of view. The actors are all leaser known actors but are perfectly suited for the roles they play, which they all play very well.The fact that the story is real makes this production even better, because most other war movies have somewhat of a weak story. But by choosing to portray the story of a Company whose history is well documented and was made up by a wide, colorful variety of characters, this mini-series becomes something that can't really be remade in another series.The only thing which I would criticize is the way they shoot this series. Like "Saving Private Ryan", "Band of Brothers" utilize much of the same "shaky cam" that they used on "Ryan". This can get rather annoying after a while. But apart from that, the series is beautifully shot, with excellent special effects.This is a series everyone should watch, war buffs and non-war buffs alike. It has plenty of action, a good story, excellent acting and a very humane side to it, not just "kill the bastard!". A very deserving 10/10.


                
A very well done WW2 series based on a Stephen Ambrose book. The reasons these men volunteered are various. I dont think the average soldier had a choice. For some reason the U S is stuck on D Day. My father who was drafted early had already fought thru N Africa, Sicily, Salerno, and he was at Monte Cassino. D Day was not the first invasion of Europe. It as not the first opening of a second front. These paratroopers were late to the game.
I think the WW2 generation was the last to fight the goodfight. Nobody was as evil as the Nazi regime. The Soviet state was pretty bad but they did do most of the fighting in WW2 and suffered most of the casualties. 
The detail and sets of BB are really excellent. I wonder why most of the actors are British? Damian Lewis has made a career of playing Americans and he does it well. The actors in this do a fine job of being American.??!! I only recently stadted watching this and realistic non fiction is better than fiction like Saving Private Ryan. We should honor these vets and recreating their deeds does that.


                
World War 2, told from the perspective of a company of American paratroopers that were involved in a long campaign after the Normandy landings. High production values and a good story to tell make this a very enjoyable mini-series. Fortunately I have never been in a real war, but this seemed realistic and down-to-earth, based as it is on a real story. At the beginning of each chapter, you get the comments of the real soldiers who fought in that company, now old men, and that adds a lot of moral authority to the story. That realism means that we do not get a continuous action fest, but for me it was very interesting to watch.There is not an extremely spectacular sequence like the disembark in Saving Private Ryan. The budget here is not quite that high, but it's high enough to offer a quality production.


                
*** This review may contain spoilers ***The War As It Is I don't like to comment a show as others do, but this film make me feel I should say something about the action...I newer has been in real combat (not to say about occasional shooting), and I hope I newer will. But this film makes you feel as you are in there, the WWII. The show itself is quite honest (it itself very unusual for the films "made in US") - action, characters, behavior, history, etc... - all is real... There is no Rambo, or other "Heroes" - there are just a people who should fight the enemy, and they are trying to do all the best they can...This film is one of the best films about war I ever saw.


                
Typically praised as one of the best mini-series of all time, how good is actually Band of Brothers?Band of Brother centers around the war efforts by Easy Company, 506 regiment of the 101's Airborne Division. It seems like it got it all. Great characters, great action scenes, historical accuracy, accurate military conduct and a great plot to go with it.After first seeing this, my mind was made up, greatest ever. Just pure magic. Although the series was loved both by the critics and the audience, some criticism was levelled at the series. Mainly that there was no cohesive story throughout the series, no red thread.Focusing more on the company has both some advantageous and some disadvantageous, the main advantageous is that it can focus on the action, and easily show character development in multiple characters in short time, without slowing down the story, or damaging the story. This also gives some amount of realism to the story.The main disadvantageous without having building up characters throughout the series is that you don't get so attached to many of the battle scenes. You are more impressed with the action, then focusing on the drama.But they did have some fairly good dramatic scenes where you felt attachment to the characters, in many ways they didn't take a dive into the dramatic situations, but showed it with restrained and a few seconds filled with emotions.I think the interviews with the veterans set the dramatic tone of the story. We are explained what the story is going to be like, and their calm, collected and subtle but powerful emotional demeanour gives enough of the personal bond we can form with the characters, or feel like what they went through.To my (inferior) knowledge, they get military jargon and language correct, and the orders barked during fight scenes is something that could be very close to how it is in real life. This add something to the mix, rather then slowing it down with unimportant detail.My main problem with the series is that the soldiers are way too brave, honorable, and righteous that it seems like they are the best human beings ever lived. You also have some derailing stories that never go anywhere that doesn't add to the story. But this is mostly nitpicking.It is just a masterpiece, great directing, writing, acting, visuals, and cinematography, in my mind it holds the unofficial title of being the best mini-series of all time. Maybe even the best depicting of war as well.
First of all i would like to say i think a big thank you needs to go out to the makers of this movie, my grand father was out fighting in the war and i never really quite appriciated how brave he was until i watched this film. Everyone out there fighting for us, in my eyes is one of the most heroic people that live today/ have lived. Thank you to all those brave soldiers, many whom lost their lives in doing so.This is a great film, i highly recommend it to other. The graphic are superb. Fantastic story line, they have resembled it really well to how it must really have been. The actors fitted their characters well and done a great job.Once again thank you.
Fantastic, emotional ride. Here we follow the lives of some of the men that defended not only our country, but the world from evil. WWII is slowly being forgotten, hence the number of movies recently showing us this time. I usually prefer the 50's and 60's movies about the war. This one however holds it's own.If you have any interest in WWII this is definitely a must see. Great performances by the entire, huge, cast. Infront of and behind the camera. Just make sure you have the time, this mini-series is long. But more then worth while.Absolutely a 9 out of 10.Eyan Chenier


                
The Band of Brothers mini series is without a doubt one of if not the best mini-series I have ever seen for the following reasons. The mini-series is foremost faithful to the journey of Easy company and is one of the most historically correct recollections of WW2 experiences i have seen. The shooting, special effects and finish of the series gives the audience the feel of being right in the mist of the action. (A similarity to Saving Private Ryan). The writing is excellent with satisfactory weight given both to the plot (over story) and character development. The audience gets to know and care about many of the main characters, and others that wander in and out of the story. We emphasise with the struggles of the men, war-torn and traumatised and come to realise without a doubt that even those men who returned home alive did not return unscathed. Most importantly the Band of Brothers although a story of war is ultimately about the men of Easy company. This is the driving force behind the series, how a company of soldiers became a company of friends/brothers. It truly echoes sentiments retold by veterans of WW2 that they fought not for themselves but for each other.


                
