This show is about a boy that lives in a small island with his aunt.He goes on a journey to becoming a Hunter in order to find his father. On his way he teams up with other hunters like Leorio(In search for riches), Kurapika(in search for vengeance), and Killua(in search for Fun) in order to survive the strictest, and dangerous Hunter Exam. He also encounters a lot of interesting people that are either helpful, or looking for trouble.This show is clever and really insane. The animation is really well done and the characters are so lovable and it really feels like they are your friends.This shows is really shy and it feels as if it deserves more recognition.A great show!


                
I have only seen the first 50 episodes but I'm pretty sure it's one of the best animes ever. OK, maybe the first arc is not that good... keep watching and you won't be disappointed. It has adventure, fantasy, action, fights, revenge, friendship, awesome characters and a fantastic soundtrack. I will update the review once I watched all episodes.


                
It starts slowly, at first it looked similar to One Piece for me. We meet our 4 main characters, and they are all very likable, especially Gon and Killua with their contrary personalities. It gets interesting by the middle of Hunter Exam arc and ends with an unexpected plot twist. It continues with the short Zoldyck Family arc. Then the Heavens Arena arc, this is where things get really interesting. They introduce Nen, the "magic" of the series. The next part is the Yorknew City arc, which is absolutely my favorite. Loved every aspect of the battle with the Phantom Troupe. The Greed Island arc was pretty interesting too, they introduced another type of magic with the cards and combined with Nen it became a complex battle. The Chimera Ant arc is very long and just like the beginning of the show at first its boring and gets better by every episode. The last arc is a bit different(it contains politics) but still very well made. The ending was perfect for this show.
A brilliant unpredictable series made to slowly build up the audience with spectacular action and twists which shows that anime is underrated totally. This series really brings out the essence of two sides of a coin where the protagonists your rooting for have their intentions to be taught to have be good and the antagonists also have intentions of own to be thought provoking which shows the both side of the stories are interesting and edge of the seat story to make u wonder how this series is really underrated.


                
I have watched/read a lot of anime/mangas that comes out of Japan. The most common conclusions is how the story in the anime adapts to the original material, in this case being the manga. While a lot of anime series do a great job; One Piece, Naruto etc as examples, the manga always stands outs better. Hunter x Hunter 2011 is an exception to this trend.Hunter X Hunter follows the story of Gon Freecs, a kid in a path of adventure laid down by his father with being able to meet him at the end. Along these lines, Gon goes ahead and makes great friends and goes on multiple adventures starting with becoming a hunter by passing the hunter exam. The Hunter exam is basically a tournament quite common in Shounen (mangas aimed at teen boys) with the aim of winning the hunter license. The hunter license itself gives a lot of privileges and creating various types of Hunters based on their ambitions and paths they choose. The story progresses at a decent pace but gets darker with the passage of every arc.The difference between HxH and other Shounen series is the interpretation from the manga. While the author is a genius in his own way, his overall artwork is lackluster and his creativity shines in distinction of characters and plots. Reading the manga can get annoying and make you lose track of things due to complex references around. The anime covers these flaws and exploits the strength of the author, distinct character design which is very well portrayed in the anime. While some of the art is toned down to make it compatible for a teen rating, it does not hamper the story pace or the character's personality. To add to it, the unique music for all characters blends in resulting in a great experience.The series will make you laugh, feel amazed, disgusted, emotional and sometimes all at the same time. The story never seems to drag and stays close to the original material as far as possible. I pullout one star because a few segments could have been better, but thats only because i followed the episode and compared the anime frame to frame with the manga. Overall it deserves 9/10.


                
One of the best . loved this art style . chimera ant arc (STORY) is awesome


                
The anime is the story of a boy named Gone Freecs who join the hunters association to find out more about his long lost dad who was supposedly dead. He takes the hunters exam and starts an amazing friendship with Killua . The story goes on with their adventures and friendship. Gon finally meets his dad and he sets him on a new adventure where the anime ends.
It's fun packed and thrilling with lots of action comedy and drama. I will always recommend watching this to Anubisa who enjoys anime.
Ppl who are confused wether watch 1999 or 2011 version i have only watched 2011 version but some of my friends watched both and I asked which one is better they said 2011 is better and in fact it was recommende to me by one if my friend and the biggest reason why 2011 is better is bcoz "madhouse" in both version nothing is changed both are same but 2011 is having a better quality in both sub dub voice acting and also quality of picture the reason is madhouse(one if fav8 production house)


                
Believe me after watching over 600+ anime (tv series+movie+ova)all included
After watching whole DB franchises and naruto 720 complete episode(filler included)
And after watching almost every mainstream "shounen anime" according to my opinion hunter x hunter is the best shounen i ever seen.
There are so many reason you would not want to watch this anime..
1.the main character of series is wearing shorts
2.almost 60% characters are kids
3.colours are really very vibrant
Which makes you think at first that it's a kids anime and it is for minor but let me tell you what you are thinking is absolutely wrong..
And the reason is actually I am not going to tell you bcoz if I start saying something about this show i would spoil something for you ppl so it is better to watch....so plz watch highly recommend
And if you are new beginner in world of anime plz don't watch this first watch some other shounen like noragami....


                
Ótima série, possui uma história bem contada e ótimo roteiro.


                
I really love this show, and I highly recommend it to anybody. It is the second best anime I have seen so far (One Punch Man is first), and the plot and characters are really amazing with a lot of great development, clever twists, and moral depth that really makes you question things. Now for the "but".The creator of the manga seems to have gone on hiatus and so the manga is unfinished, which means that the show ended only part of the way through the full story. The final episode was great and they did the best they could to bring a sense of closure to things, so I don't blame this on the show runners at all, but there are still tons and tons of unanswered questions. A lot of the things in the show that I wanted to know about the most and drove me to keep watching went completely unaddressed, so I couldn't help but walk away feeling unsatisfied. Of course, it is probably quite unfair of me to give this show a lower rating because of this, I was going to give an 8 instead of a 9, but it is really frustrating and led to me walking away from the show unsatisfied and a bit miffed. Again, that doesn't mean you shouldn't watch it, it is amazing in so many ways and it will blow your mind over and over, but the ending just needed more.


                
