Especially that Joe guy below. There is a big difference between an ordinary German soldier and a Nazi. Ordinary soldiers fought for their country, just like the Americans. They thought it and their lives were in danger, just like the Americans. Many Americans found out their enemy was just like them.Now, people the belonged to the Nazi party, and their own personal military, the SS, were the ones who killed the countless number of Jews.Anyway, this movie was much overrated. It really does demonize the Germans. I mean, my father was one of those men and they suffered as well. All he wanted was for Hitler to die and for the war to end.


                
The opening of the film is visually stunning and really hits you in the face. But when Tom Hanks and his buddies have made it through the first enemy line this film turns in to a Hollywood war movie in which good and bad are clearly divided between the  Americans (according to Spielberg, there were only white American teenagers and Tom Hanks participating in D-Day) and the Germans. The way in which he portays the reallity of battle also is not very objective(as history should be portrayed) whenever an American soldier gets shot, the audience is manipulated in feeling his pain and when a German soldier gets shot the audience is made to feel the excitement of victory. We are also made to belief that the German soldiers really liked it there killing Americans, while on the other hand the Americans are righteous believers in God and really have a lot of problems when they have to kill some one. Well Spielberg marketed this all as an important history lesson he had to tell, well he really must hate Germans depicting them in a way as he does in Saving Private Ryan


                
Visually, the best WW2 movie. In other ways, far from the best. The movie is loaded with errors and falls into demonizing the German soldier and praising the American. A few examples, far from the reality the combat scenes show the Germans acting like cattle without ANY strategy at all they just run and shout, one funny part is the behavior of the German tankers, they drive in a ruined village in a VERY narrow street, like they have never heard of ambush! -One starts to think if the script writer has ever heard ofthe capabilities of the German panzer crews, SS-Captain Michael Wittmann attacked and destroyed 48 armored fighting vehicles alone in a single action! The most absurd part is the -"Macgyver/Rambo scene"-when Capt. Miller and friends start to throw the mortar grenades slaughtering a few dozen Germans. The most unforgivable error is that there were NO SS-units with Tiger tanks operational in Normandy at this point of time. This movie is way overestimated.


                
In a historic and artistic context, here's a question that would bother Spielberg if he thought about it for a second: what if there was no such thing as special effects? If we take the special effects from his movies, would they still be great? What, you're waiting for an answer? Just like every Spielberg movie, we find Steve desperately clinging to special effects like a fish to water. Like Bush to oil. Like Uwe Boll to a video game-to-movie conversion (last one is not necessarily bad, by the way).Just like everybody else, I was amazed by the "realism" of the first 5 minutes. Once you get past the battle scenes, there's not much to work with. I'm glad people (as manifest in the growing number of low reviews here) are starting to realize this.Let's set aside the absurdity of the "plot" (I use 'plot' very loosely). That's just a vehicle; a pretext; an excuse to use special effects (Spielberg's one and only leverage). The main plot is that a mother lost a number of her sons, so the general (or whatever his rank was) thinks she shouldn't lose her last remaining son, Ryan. He reads a letter Abraham Lincoln sent to a mother who went through a similar experience during the civil war. Using musical cues and closeups, Spielberg is not trying to tell us how to feel; he's practically *begging* us to do so. After all, he knows better than anybody that people will - during the course of the movie - realize that the battle scenes aren't that numerous or long, so there better be some story to back the movie up.Since he knows that he's addressing a crowd that made movies like Armageddon and Independence Day box office hits, he (correctly) realized that the script needs to be comprised of one element only: text. So long as the script contained text, it was good enough. And he was right. With enough flash and special effects, he was able to appeal to the idiocy of the average American, a tactic mastered by Jerry Bruckheimer, Michael Bay and their likes.Now, back to the 'plot': once you set it aside, you'll realize that this movie is trying to instill many ideas into the minds of the movie goers. When he shows German soldiers, he shows them from a distance, so by not giving them a face, a human side, he teaches us that it's totally OK to thrill at killing them. Bad German bad! After our heroes free a German, Spielberg makes is very clear that he came back later to kill Tom Hanks. Spielberg is saying: they should've killed him the first time. The only good German is a dead one, apparently. Astonishing dishonesty and malice on the part of Spielberg. Not a trick was a spared to demonize every single one of them.Unlike masters of movie making (a title Spielberg will never come close to) like Scorsese and Coppola, he desperately needs musical cues to tell when to feel sad, fearful, excited, etc. His approach to emotion is so utterly sappy, shallow and downright laughable that it's virtually impossible for him to let the scenes and the story speak for themselves. He must have very clear cues to give the viewers signals. The music is like a slap in the face. Spielberg manifests in moments like "tell me I lived a good life", grabs you by the throat and ORDERS you to shed a few tears. Insulting. Pathetic.The only good part in the movie is the whole scene of the mistaken identity, where they realize this whining little weakling crying his eyes out is not the Ryan they wanted. Other than that, and looking at the chutzpah of the musical cues, the absurdity of the plot, the dehumanization of the Germans and the hilarious warfare errors, the movie is only good for another laugh, albeit not one Spielberg was aiming for.
Saving Private Ryan, Spielberg's continued descent into narrow, arrogant, low-brow revisionism, is at best a languid patriotic trump-calling movie with nothing better to do than applaud the "glorious, morally superior American armed forces", who were in actuality nothing but teenage thugs who beat German prisoners and raped French women and looted European cities. He starts off with Kleenex totting bravery and then leads us into brutal images that have no other point than to entertain the violent video game minded geeks of American malls, he then regresses into heavy handed sentimentality that leads the viewer to conclude that Americans were all "good guys". This is not the case, history has shown us so. Americans, for all their good intentions in World War 2, were just as loathsome as the Nazis, they had a deep segregationist attitude in the States which killed people because of skin color, arrested and imprisoned innocent, hard working Japanese people and locked them in concentration camps, kept black soldiers in separate units which often were the lowliest positions, fire bombed non-tactical European cities, most notably Dresden, hired former Nazis to combat the "communist threat" and finally, dropped two atomic bombs upon an innocent Japanese civilian population. And after the war, things got even worse, the "Red Hunt", which resembled the trials in Nazi Germany in the 1930's occurred under a madman named McCarthy. So if you want to be blindly led by Spielberg's glorious war message that is simply propaganda, then by all means do and watch this film which has no redeeming qualities.It is truly amazing that people unaccustomed to great films should reveal this one to be the "best wars film ever" as if no capable director had ever attempted to bring the horror and stupidity of war to the screen. Perhaps, instead of giving Spielberg the automatic credit of creating the war genre, they should go out and rent "Come and See" (Russian), The Burmese Harp (1967), Fires on the Plain (1959) or Paths of Glory (1957), truly far superior films to this Hollywood-bastardization and candy treatment of war. There is absolutely no plot in this uneven film and the whole landing at D-Day, according to Spielberg, was in some way just a side show to saving "Private Ryan". With such a simplistic statement, it is easy to see why most reviewers revel in the sense that 'action, action, action' is equated with 'greatness'. I only guess that because they must be entertained that directors continue to keep punching out such opportunistic filth. While most viewers, who are safely tucked away in their houses, waving American flags and discharging a few tears, saying, "You German scum! You German scum!" can truly appreciate blood and guts as "cinema" then there is a market for it. After you get through the puerile premise, then you can sit back, have a few beers and watch heads explode in the carnage that has no intellectual meaning and is the most cliché-driven rubbish that has ever been produced. The scenes themselves are overdrawn, stolen from previous war films from the 1950's, namely the Longest Day (1962) which was a great film in itself. The beach landing is too long, and it shows only the Americans as "heroic" while the Germans are seen as "evil Hun scum". Tom Hanks, in his most idiotic and candid self, seems out of place as a leader of a bunch of rejects that are entrusted to save Private Ryan and in one completely absurd scene, the remaining 15 Americans defeat a battle hardened, superiorly trained SS special unit group with just a few guns. Now, if you know anything about history, then you would know that the SS were not an "easy group" to defeat, they were some of the most fanatical and well-trained soldiers of the German Reich but since Spielberg thinks we all are just a bunch of idiots, he'll continue to manufacture such inconsistent story lines. This is only a tear jerker movie and it does nothing else, I would suggest watching "Hell Is for Heroes" (1962) with Steve McQueen, because it is a lot better and we don't have to be forced to carry an American flag at the end.
(1/1/2017 Update edited for corrections; written as is.)Of course the first combat sequence was great. But unfortunately, I was considered a sociopath for snickering at a man wandering around to pick up his dismembered arm, while the camera is still shaking on the ground -- it became obvious that Spielberg tries too hard to elicit the emotions from a cynical person like me. I eventually became sick and nauseated at having been forced to watch the ultimately annoying and repetitive guerrilla cinematography, while the violence and mayhem prevails. Is it supposed to depict the reality of war? Maybe yes, but all it does is always impact, impact, impact, and I felt little or no emotion. After the first sequence, SPR stooped for the lowest level -- and I tried to keep awake during some tedious parts, but I ended up snickering and laughing at a few utterly lame and manipulative scenes (Remember Edward Burns' arrogantly stoic character and Tom Hanks' Capt. Miller's speech?). One of the biggest problems with the film is that the audience at first showed disdain for the translator because he's a "coward" (why the critics say this in their reviews is beyond me), and then cheered when he shot one of the German soldiers to death just to show his courage -- I found this disturbing. After the final battle, the music began to cue and there comes the greatest manipulative climax I've ever seen -- from the slowly progressing (and clichéd) morph scene to the banality of a final nationalistic scene with the U.S. flag waving for another 25 seconds. After I left the theater quietly, I let out intense rib-aching laughter all the way driving home. This is what Mr. Goldman observes as "phony and manipulative, to serve our Country." I'm sorry if I sound crude, but I debunk SPR for being blatantly manipulative and hypersentimental on par with Patch Adams, another worse movie that year.This is my honest opinion -- to observe, dissect and criticize -- and I don't trust the critics anymore, because they went overboard just for the realistic depiction of war violence, calling the movie "the greatest war movie ever made!" In truth, older war movies are much better in terms of writing and acting (Paths of Glory and The Longest Day) -- despite the fact that they're tame for not being profane and gory.And most importantly, SPR shouldn't be shown in English classes in high schools just as another critically overrated The Clockwork Orange shouldn't. It only serves to desensitize the kids because of the "war is bad" propaganda coupled with the U.S.-saluting totalitarianism. The epitome of a double-wham hypocrisy just like the propagandizing Nazi films.
This movie serves two purposes: a) glorify the American soldier from World War II and the American nation in general and b) help Mr. Spielberg overcome his own neurosis about being Jewish, a task he started with "Schindler's List." That probably makes him the envy of anyone who ever saw a psychologist: to get paid for spreading out your psyche instead of having to pay for it.The first 20 minutes of this movie are amazing, indeed. Very well captured is the sheer horror of landing on a fortified beach; the disorientation, the killing etc. But after that, this movie drops on the level of "Armageddon": a mother has a number of sons, all of them died during the war, except one and the US military surely puts the life of half a dozen soldiers into peril to save that last one. Of course, that is completely logical.
The German soldiers, in the contrary, don't seem to have mothers or anyone who cares about them, they are ugly, lean-mean-killing machines, shouting incomprehensible things and should be killed wherever possible. They are also not just as scared as any other simple soldier on a battle field, they don't have any feelings at all. So, what could have been a great movie, with all the money spent for and stars on it, playing in the same league as "All quiet on the Western Front" gets to be completely pathetic, unrealistic, super-patriotic and one-sided. Steven Spielberg once said that he often didn't feel he was a "real" American and was left-out because of him being Jewish and that the past of his family haunts him. It is ok to feel that way and I wish him he will finally get rid of both feelings. But on the other hand he also was left out of getting an "Oscar" until "Schindler's List." That was a well done movie, but on the long run it seems it didn't do Spielberg too good. Somewhere he must have come to the conclusion that doing movies about WWII helps him overcome his problems and making them patriotic will help him getting an Oscar.If you are interested in a realistic look on war, watch "All quiet on the Western Front" or "Das Boot."


                
I was hoping for an accurate war film for a change (take a look at the Battle of the Bulge for a really bad example). What Spielberg shows us in his Omaha Beach scenes makes me wonderwhich Omaha Beach assault he is trying to portray. Those who know little about the battle (that's almost everyone who's in the theater) probably now have the idea that every other soldier who landed on the beach before noon was either blown to smithereens or badly wounded.Believe me, the 1st and 29th Divisions would have been annihilated if itwere as bad as it's portrayed and would never have been able to scale the cliffs and rout the enemy by early afternoon, which they did. I wonder, for example, how wide most viewers think Omaha beach actually was. In the film it looks about a couple hundred yards. It was, in actuality, almost ten miles wide. The timing was also inaccurate - Hanks goes up the cliffs at what appears to be 8AM. Nobody made it before 11AM. Another historical error is the implication that the events at Omaha were similar to those on the other four assualt beaches (Juno, Sword, Gold and Utah). That's totally incorrect. Utah Beach, for example, the other US assault beach, took about a dozen casualties - many of those due to accidents during the landing rather than from enemy action. But the worst part of the movie was the completely idiotic script. Here we have the US Army sending a squad(a squad!!!) to march straight thru the entire German 7th Army (something two Divisions, with total air superiority couldn't do for weeks), waltz around an area of 300 square miles, and expect to find a guy named Ryan. If they wanted to do any of this nonsense, the Army would have sent them in on the gliders that flew into the area the very next morning. "Gliders, what gliders"?  said Spielberg. That's what happens when you have a scriptwriter who doesn't know very much about his subject.  A stupid, stupid film. What a waste of $100M or so.
This is one of the single worst films I have ever seen.  Spielberg was, once again, intoxicated by his own sense of patriotic splendour. The first major flaw in this film struck me the first time I saw it.  I was in the theater and began to ask myself, "How could Ryan remember the D-Day invasion when in fact he was never there?"Now, honestly, how did Spielberg expect to get away with that one? It was never explained or followed up in any way. Secondly, how did he expect to get away with portraying the Germans as mindless, blood-thirsty grunts?  "Well they were, weren't they?" says the blindly patriotic american.  This aspect of the film is a disgrace to Germans and more importantly to the brain-washed americans. Finally, I would just like to point out the fact that this was not a war to rescue individual men in order to preserve their family line. This film makes a mockery of WWII by completely misrepresenting it.  The only aspect that was accurately portrayed was the violence, which sadly enough drew many people to the film. Two thumbs down!


                
When I saw this movie in 1998 (in England), it was a big disappointment for me in many ways. As not mentioned here for the first time, the first 20 min of the film are technically impressive. What follows then, is just stupid, one-sided and is - at least from the viewpoint of a German - invidious. I cannot understand that a man with over 50 years of life experience (Steven Spielberg) can make such a stupid film about second world war in 1998, or my explanation is that this man has no character. The second disappointment, perhaps the bigger one, were the reports that in the United States this movie was received with overwhelming applause and ecstatic feelings of patriotism. This is only a film, but it also tells you something about what people really think. Before that, I had thought the Americans were (at least since 50 years) our friends. After this film and especially the reception of the film by the broader audience in the USA (as I had read about it in newspapers and magazines), I thought: they may be our collaborators in many ways, but they are not our friends.


                
The problem with Saving Pvt Ryan is that is is basically afraudulent portrayal of the Omaha Beach landings. Every single detail may, for all I know, be authentic for the group portrayed, which I assume was Goranson's Company C, 2nd Rangers. But that company, with one notable exception, experienced the worst that Omaha Beachdealt to the assault troops during the hours 0630-0800. Thus you get an extremely biased view of the typical experience of those landing at Omaha. For example, the entire 5th Ranger Battalion (Col Schneider) (6 companies) landed at 0740 with a cost of only 4 wounded.  It all depended on where your landing craft touched down (or allowed it to touch down - Col Schneider was supposed to land right where Hanks was , Dog Green, but had the sense to order the craft eastward), and Capt Hanks landedat the very worst spot on the entire 4 mile long landing area. And troops walked up the slopes, they didn't crawl up, inch by inch, etc. Nor where they under murderous fire ascending the slopes - very few casualties were taken during those actions. Total casualty rate for the first 14,000 or so troops that landed in the first assault waves (0630-0800)was not much over 10%, far different from what you see portrayed in Ryan. If you want to learn the history of Omaha Beach read the US Army after action reports or go the US Army Historical site. Don't bother with this movie or Ambrose's nonsensical book or The Longest Day. They are for made for entertainment purposes and only mention the disasters,etc. Beside, Ambose has been known as a plagiarist and creater of non-existent eyewitnesses.( It's worth noting that he was hired by Spielberg to "authenticate" the scenes. He's a very poor historian and not very knowledgeable about WWII. I found tons of errors in his books about D Day and Citizen Soldiers). Anyone who sees Pvt  Ryan comes away with zero knowledge of Operation Neptune at Omaha Beach. After the beach scenes,the rest of the story can be summed up in a single phrase : "Call the 101st on the radio, and tell them to pull Ryan from the line." That's all that the Army would have had to do to save Ryan.Sending a squad thru enemy lines to search a 100 square mile area for a guy named Ryan, while fighting is occurring every 100 yards is about the most preposterous idea for a story I ever heard of. But then, that's Spielberg. Anything to get the customer excited. No matter how realistic the scenes may be (I wonder about why those Rangers are moving against a prepared position all bunched together - they would never have done that ) the total picture provided the viewer is totally unrealistic. One comes away from the movies knowing practically zilch about Omaha Beach. That's a damn shame. It was an interesting story, although nowhere near as gory as Spielberg's fantasy portrait, as is obvious from the casualties taken (approximately 2000 for the 24 hours of D Day by Forces "O" and "B" (60,000 troops)).
"  SAVING PRIVATE RYAN   "I thought that this Movie was going to be a masterpiece. Topping those great Anti-War films of "Apocalypse Now" "The Boat" and "All quiet on the Western Front"But alas!  What am I to expect from America?  The Truth? NEVER!Yet another great, expensive war film, where the Germans fight like Italians,  TOTALLY arrogant to anyone else.  I mean HONESTLY an American flag at the start and at the end.  Showing the American and French flags.  The ENGLISH and CANADIANS DID land on Normandy too.  The only reference to anyone else is an insulting comment about Monty.The Germans may have suffered a bit more on the eastern front than the Americans in France, but that doesn't matter because they were on the wicked side.This is the kind of film simply made to win another Oscar for Speilbergs already crowded shelf.  Not a ground breacker, not a truthful film. NOT even historically correct!!1.  Radar was a TOTAL secret.  No American privates or captains would have ANY idea of what Radar was.2.  Germans, especially those of the SS, would NEVER be stupid enough to attack a ruined village with Tanks first. It was common military knowledge for both sides.3. The P-51 D mustang, which blows up the Tiger Tanks on the bridge,  were NEVER tank destroyers, they were only used as long range bomber escorts during the invasion.  The only Tank destroyers being employed at that time were BRITISH.  NOT AMERICAN. So of course the Americans would take out this imperfect feature.Frankly, if you're American, you can go get your gun an' feel patriotic once again, as you have done with "The dirty Dozen" "Where Eagles Dare". If you're not American, avoid this, and stick to "The Boat" for your WWII viewing.


                
I was looking forward to seeing Saving Private Ryan.  I had heard many reviews that called it one of the greatest war movies ever made.  I was not expecting to see something as poorly put together as this movie was.  From the begining I found myself wanting to scream at the screen.  I must admit the acting was good, but they had little to work with.
Just about every other aspect of the film fails.  It manages to portray D-Day as the smallest battle I've ever seen.  Basically, the goal was two machine gun posts.  Sorry, but that battle was not realistic at all and was intentionally bloodwashed worst than the Friday the 13th movies.  The film is loaded with mistakes including the rediculous helmet rank insignia. They knew better because they told someone not to salute Hanks because it might give away his rank.  Then they put bars on his helmet!  Structurally, the movie was a disaster.  It was supposed to be about the irony of many men dying for one man.  In the end, though it turns into the defense of a bridge and the main plot is almost totally forgotten.  The soldiers are stupid. They have to defend or destroy a bridge, but don't leave the detonator wired up and someone (who should have been Ryan) to blow it as a last resort? Every war cliche in the book gets dropped into this film.  "Save my child", the wounded soldier just out of reach, the sharpshooter who never misses, "I'm not leaving my buddies", etc.  They are all there.  Did they have to end the the waiving of the flag?The movie does not feel like WWII, but rather feels like Vietnam.  Lots of mud and rain, "what are we doing here", a bungling military command.  One of the most successful engagements in military history is portrayed as a confused, poorly planned mess.The movie is absolutely loaded with red herrings.  Hank's hand problem has no bearing on the plot and is not present when it might cause a problem. They fight a machine-gun nest for no real reason other than it provided a fight scene.  Was I the only one to notice that all of the towns were destroyed before we even got to them?  Didn't France surrender?  The climactic battle is sure to be lost, but is won when air support arrives. Of course, they did not call for the air support.  Can you say "Deus ex machina"?  Did we have precision guided tank bombs in WWII?  Did our protagonists really have anything to do with the outcome?I was shocked that this movie was not ripped apart in reviews.  It has everything possible wrong with it.  Is it now unpatriotic to indicate divel when you see it wrapped with an American flag?
So many people loved this film, that I actually rented the DVD to re-watch it. I had originally seen it in a movie theater, during its initial release, and I hated it. The second time was certainly not a charm. Possessing the knowledge of what was to come, made for an even more boring movie experience. This film's much talked about opening, lends nothing to the paltry narrative that is the rest of the film. The movie meanders about, aimlessly, for what seems an eternity, and almost nothing happens. When something does happen, it isn't anything that you haven't seen, done by the same old characters that you've seen before, in countless other (and better) WWII films. Even the dialog is old Hollywood corny. Then, after being about virtually nothing for hours, it ends with a hokey gimmick of the realization of who the old Vet is. Meant to tug at our heartstrings (nothing wrong with that); but only elicited a groan and a roll of the eyes from me. Tedious, with virtually no character development. Not Recommended.


                
The more I think about this film and read differing reviews about it the more I feel it wasn't meant for me. I'm a Finn, not American. I don't know if Spielberg meant this film as a last hoorah for the G.I.:s, but to me that is what he made. All right the film does have something to tell for everyone: in the insane theatre of war one should try to do the right thing, have courage to do it, that your actions have consequences, war as a whole creates nothing but bad feelings and probably something else too but nothing that has not been told earlier.And I suppose that isn't so bad, I mean there have certainly been worse films. But what does bother me is that Spielberg set out to do a film about what war is really like and to me, he failed. Yes I have seen the opening scene and to me it was more about exploitation and action film then about anything else and not even very memorable action. Even if one would skip all the omissions and strange things about the film (in the landing scene no naval artillery support, no air force support and the illogical German tactics in the final battlescenes) to me the main plot is a strange curiosity that only serves to illustrate that the average soldier wasn't that interesting or important. Apparently with some links to reality the main plot remains distant and odd to me.With Oscar, block-buster, critically acclaimed material as ww2 with all the gore how could Spielberg go wrong? First of all the acting. Well I could not stop wishing there would have been some lesser known actors used, maybe even amateurs. A lot has been made out of the cinematography and yes, it is good. Although to me it is not so effective when there is apparently too much money to make a film and then the camera work tries to make it look more realistic. As ww2 films go this film is a far cry from "Come and See". Yes I do admit that flag waving is a common problem among ww2 movies, I just wished that Spielberg could have avoided it.


                
You have to love a war movie, which just like 'Goonies' is based around a serious of characters, all of which have one defining characteristic, and go on a quest, finding out who they are along the way.As 'Goonies' had the fat kid, the Asian genius, the smart-arse; 'Ryan' has the religious guy, the cowardly guy, and smart-arse, among others. As the 'Goonies' fought impossible odds, so too do the American soldiers of the 'Ryan' cast.And WWII is seen as it really happened, with the Heroic American's fighting for the cause of good single-handedly, against those crazy Germans! Canadian's, British, French, and even Commonwealth soldiers don't feature on this Western front. And nor would they, with this being an American film starring Tom Hanks, they should be neglected from such "history". There's only room for the central character's and there quest for flag waving glory!When this film was first released it was sold as being so accurate it was a history lesson within a piece of entertainment. But blood and guts don't make for accuracy. And American's, for whom this was meant only saw war as a glorious celebration of the stars-n-stripes. To this day, America has used WWII not as a warning, but as a starting point. Lost in this film was the supposed anti-war message, with nationalism the resounding lesson that this filth passed onto it's American viewers. George W. Bush must surely love this piece of violent film making at it's worst.Forget about this Goonies rip, and just check out the original, it's far less offensive, and a lot more entertaining.
I finally made time to see this film, expecting a visceral, emotional experience.  Instead I was (in order) bored, angry, sleepy, and bewildered. Is this the groundbreaking film that everyone was gushing over last year? From all the talk I expected a head-on assault at the beginning of the movie.  What I did see was a heavy-handed and frankly uninteresting battle scene.  From there the movie only got worse.  I didn't care a bit for any of the characters, least of all the Tom Hanks lead and the obnoxious Matt Damon.  While the film looked spectacular, that's all it was: surface. There was no depth whatsoever to any of the characters or situations.  I feel like maybe there is something wrong with me that I don't see what all the orgasmic gushing over this film is about.  Plain old boring.


                
Lame, revisionist crap. What the hell kind of squad does no recon, talks out loud, and stays bunched together? Also, many of the weapons (esp. the German M 60)are improperly, and fantastically used. How can you use a sniper scope out of the box, with no sighting in? Idiotic. Spielbergs enthusiastic portrayal of the murder of German prisoners is disturbing in the extreme.


                
Saving Private Ryan is an example of a genre of film making that should have died out long ago. Far from being anti war, it is a glorification of war. While the Americans are righteous, the Germans are evil, and Spielberg invites us to enjoy the spectacle of their death. German prisoners should be murdered, (or else they will come back and kill you, so do it to them first).


                
It may not be the MOST overrated, but it's certainly up there along with Scream and Fargo and There's Something About Mary.Oh what a battle scene - the fantastic motion sickness inducing cinematography, the masterfully overhyper editing, the gore, oh the wonderful gore.  And so forth.The Omaha beach landing was quite intense.  It was brutal and affecting. But people just can't seem to get it into their heads that one extended battle scene does not a great film make.After *that*, we get yet another version of a tired, clichéd mission movie, filled with your usual stereotypes: reminiscing about the good ol' days before this all ever happened, doing whatever it takes just to get home, blah, blah, blah. Also painfully stereotypical are the characters: we have the saddened captain who misses his normal job and life, we've got the hardnut sergeant, the Italian guy, the Jewish guy, the New Yorker, and so forth.  And all the Germans are skinheaded bastards - and by the way, where the hell were the other allied troops?  Oh, I forgot, it was the Americans that won the war (flag shots at the beginning and end are just painfully sad).The middle of the MOVIE is incredibly boring.  Pointless, predictable set-pieces are tiresome.  The scenes in which the rattled soldiers tell little stories of life at home (the medic talking about his mother, Ryan talking about his brothers, etc.) are awful attempts at evoking sympathy and sentimentality.Then there's the final battle.  Outnumbered, the men revert to primitive tactics (a bit like Predator).  Quite unbelievably, this lengthy fight is incredibly boring, and the one at the end of Young Guns is far better.5 Oscars?  Obviously due to the beach landing bit, they are mostly undeserved.  Best Director - should have been Peter Weir, or Terence Malick. Best Cinematography - John Toll for The Thin Red Line, without any doubt in the world.  Editing - Out Of Sight deserved this even more than The Thin Red Line.  I suppose the two sound awards are justified.For people to call this the Greatest War Film Of All Time is just wrong. The best is Apocalypse Now.  This is not the best World War Two film either - Das Boot is.  This can't even be described as the best D-Day/Normandy beach landings movie either - The Longest Day kicks its a**.   To go even further - this is not even Spielberg's best war film.  Schindler's List is superior.To summarise - great beginning, but the rest sucked.  If you haven't seen it, don't bother.  Or, if you insist, watch the beginning, then leave/press stop.  You'll be doing yourself a big favour.


                
Spielberg set out to make a realistic depiction of the Omaha Beach landings to kick off  his film, which is about a fictional mission of a squad to rescue one Pvt Ryan, of the airborne, dropped inland behind the beaches. One glaring idiocy of the film is why they would dispatch soldiers from the Omaha sector to rescue someone droppedbehind the Utah sector, especially when 4th Infantry Div soldiers arealready in contact with a large portion of the airborne troops. The answer is, of course, because that gives Spielberg his opportunity to display the Omaha landings rather than the Utah beach landings next door, which were too easy and lacked any bloody combat. If the only thing anyone knows about the V Corps landings at Omaha came from this film, then they would have been better off skipping the film, or at least the opening scenes of battle. Read a book and learn what happened at Omaha. You'll find that it wasn't anywhere near as bloody as Spielberg's film leads one to believe. Omaha Beach was considered bloody only because of comparison with landings at the other 4 beaches, which were virtually walkovers. The rest of the movie is not much to see, with many errors in the combat sequences, especially with respect to tactics that would have been used. Spielberg's film is badly flawed as history, and the story is downright unbelievable - why not radio the 101st  and order Ryan off the line? Why send a few guys to walk thru the entire German 7th Army and search in a 400 square mile area for some guy named Ryan? The US Army wasn't always the most efficient, but they would never have sent off a squad on such a cockamamie mision.


                
It's the World War II era ... and nobody smokes.There's only one person in this movie who opposes war .... his "cowardice" winds up costing lives.For a moment, it seems there's ONE nice person in the nation of Germany. The merciful American soldiers let him go.  This turns out to be a huge mistake, as he returns, days later, with a group of his friends to kill them all.  Lesson learned - there is not even ONE reasonably nice German.The movie ends with a salute to the American flag and blasting, inspiring music.Was this movie made for two-year-olds?When it comes to subject matter as complex as war, I think simple-minded movies like this do more harm than good.  I'd recommend a movie written at a more grown-up level.


                
OOOOH! Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks!  It has to be good! And that is why so many fools actually think this movie is worth something; they were told it was before they ever saw it.  Tom Hanks playing the same character he has in every movie since "Philidelphia" sans "Forrest Gump." Spielberg trying to make us think this movie is as realistic as they get. Lots of bullets, blood, and heads blowing apart does not mean it qualifies as real.  It can't be real.  We've seen all of these characters in a hundred other movies.  Tough, tobacco chewing sergeant.  Cynical, mouthy private. Even the sniper getting shot through the scope.  Spielberg is ripping of a schlock tom berringer joint.  But look at all the people dying and the young man calling for his mother, this is a good movie.  Yeah right.  Do yourself a favor and rent "Hell is for Heroes."  A good movie, although it might be tough for some of you because it is in B&W.


                
Before I start let me say that this movie was extremely well crafted, pushing the envelope in the technical aspect of filmmaking.This movie was really good if looked at in parts. The opening D-DAY sequence was beautiful. The final battle was also great. There were moments that really grabbed you (the Giovanni Ribisi monologue especially) but the film as a whole makes no sense.It said nothing. It simply contradicted itself over and over agian. The great D-DAY sequence tells us about the insanity of war, and how awful and seemingly pointless it all is. But after two hours of walking around to further build on the whole insanity of war thing, the movie goes full circle right into hollywood. The ending attempts to justify all the madness, by saying that it's all worth it because you are fighting for matt damon and of course your country (as we fade out on the american flag). Mr. Speilberg and company, What exactly are you trying to tell us?NOTE: This movie pales in comparison to Terrance Malick's THE THIN RED LINE.Although I must say, if it came down to this movie and Shakespeare in love (perhaps the worst movie to ever win an oscar... oh wait thats titanic), I would have to go with this one.


                
I think this film is terrible.  The war scenes are gimmicky, especially the flanging, shakey camera work.  Some scenes are outrageously unrealistic, such as when those American soldiers shot the Germans using the mirror. Also, studies have been done showing that only about 1/3 of American troops landing during D-Day fired their rifles.  Not all of these soldiers were hardcore killers like the movie makes them out to be.  It's laughable that people call this film "realistic."The audience is given very little credit.  The dialogue sounds like it is cut out of newspaper articles which editorialize the mission.  It's as though Spielberg thought his audience was so stupid that the moral dilemma of the film had to be spelled out for them in detail.It also overused action sequences.  Those in creative control of the film tried to make up for the lack of depth with gritty, excessive scenes of violence.  All in all, this is one of the worst films that I have ever seen.


                
