Whether you like this version of Batman or not ultimately depends on how faithful you are to the classics. I am a huge fan of Batman the Animated series created by Bruce Timm and Paul Dini, as well as Tim Burton's Gothic interpretations, not to mention the Dark Knight Returns by Frank Miller.Batman to me has always been a tale of how good people fall into sin and how everyone has a dark side. The star of the show isn't Batman himself, but the supporting cast of villains, each committing acts of crime out of revenge or redemption. All of them had a heart and were once human, now trapped in a shell of a monster. The profound thing about it all, was that Batman himself was just as insane as the people he brought in, only he believed he was fighting on the right side of the law. You get none that here. All villains commit random acts of terror, determined to destroy Gotham because they think its a cesspool.But I think the thing that bugged me the most was how they fundamentally changed Bruce Wayne's character in this movie. In the animated series, he is indeed portrayed as tortured soul but he also comes across as being a highly intelligent and sophisticated man. He was able to take down guys like Superman in Dark Night Returns, simply because he was able to outsmart him and was very resourceful. A key point that they missed in this movie was the inner struggle Bruce Wayne has to want to give it all up and settle down with someone he loves. One of my favorite moments for example, is in Mask of the Phantasam where Bruce Wayne is at his parents grave in a thunder storm, begging them to release him of his vow. He is in love with Andrea and wants to spend the rest of his life with her. He cries and begs for a sign, in which Andrea then shows up and two begin crying in each others arms. Bruce was actually happy. It wasn't until Andrea left him that he accepted his fate as Batman. This Batman has none of the human qualities from above. He can't laugh at himself and is full of pure anger and rage. He's almost like Spawn. In fact, the parallels are dead similar with him scaring the crap out of his villains before taking them down. Spawn of course is cooler given that he actually gives the bad guys what they deserve by decapitating them limb by limb.Okay, so let's not compare animation and comics, let's just focus on the film instead. Does it surpass in Tim Burton's movies? Hell no. Sure, Tim Burton didn't have all of the special effects technology that we have today but his twisted imagination allowed him to create a world that was totally Gothic and true to me. I liked the idea of smiling clowns blowing fire from their mouths and monkeys armed with machine guns. The Batman of the past was actually fun to watch as he'd stuff the fiery baton down the jesters throat and pick up two mimes and knock them out by bashing their heads together. It was always the cutest of things doing the evilest of deeds, like the marching penguins in Batman Returns.Burton was also faithful to the love interests of Bruce Wayne as well. It was always set up like a Greek tragedy with the love of his life being the villain he tried to stop. I also like the old Batman costume, the old batmobile and the old batwing. Michael Keaton also played a much better Batman than Christian Bale in that he always looked cool and in control. In this movie, Bale sounds like he has a frog stuck in his throat whenever he tries to speak and the mask he wears makes his head look a bit too big.But I think the crushing blow came at the end, when they tried to reintroduce the Joker. I loved Tim Burton's version because the Joker's whole purpose in that movie was to harass Batman, being that he killed his parents and was the one villain who could outsmart him. I hated how they changed that because Batman in reality is just as responsible for putting villains in his own life as they are for fueling his drive for vengeance.Overall, I have to say that this movie was bad. The fights scenes made no sense whatsoever and were put together by a bunch of stunt men, made up of 60 different takes. It totally blew up everything I came to love and respect about the dark knight and lacked the emotion and humanity of the original series. We didn't need another movie explaining his past, Mask of the Phantasam did a much better job with a lower budget too.I understand that they want to remake Batman for the new generation of fans but if this is the best they can do, then I'm hopping of this train right now. In the meantime, I'll just stick to the classics to remember Batman in his glory days.
quote. When I heard they were making another Batman movie that explored the origins of Batman with promises of a much better conceived portrayal of the dark knight, I was very excited. Then, when I heard that Christian Bale who's famous for his dark and sinister characters in "American Psycho" and "The Machinist", was going to play Batman, I got even more excited. Then, the announcement that Christopher Nolan of "Memento" fame was picked to direct it, and I was almost certain this film was to not only be the best Batman movie in the franchise, but the best film of the year! Then I saw it.Needless to say, I was a little disappointed. The movies seemed to fall flat in a number of places. For starters, let's begin with direction. With Christopher Nolan in the drivers seat, I kind of expected a tight, clever plot with a less formulaic film style then what was presented. Sure, I mean Nolan had to stick with the script that was given to him and not tamper with the story of Batman. But I felt that the story could have been better displayed. The action scenes in the movie were too quick and flashy, leaving the characters on the screen virtually indistinguishable from one another. What I took away from the film was that it was loud and there were a lot of flashy action sequences where apparently something happened. The film seems to move too quick in some areas and too slow in others. I mean, was the entire process of becoming Batman completely necessary. At least the previous films left some sense of mystery of who Bruce Wayne was and where he got his bat gadgets. I mean, who really cares when it comes down to it? It took away from the plot of Batman Begins.Let's talk about the acting - subpar at best. Hollywood actors should have to have licences to act then Katie Holmes should have hers revoked for her role as a Assistant DA. She was about as convincing as an attorney as Denise Richards was as a nuclear scientist in that stupid James Bond movie. She was supposed to play Bruce Wayne's (Bale) love interest but the on screen chemistry between the two is laughable. Bale's acting was OK, but not like anything we've seen him do in the past. I think if he portrayed Bruce Wayne more like his psychologically tormented character Trevor Reznik in "The Machinist", we would have had a better movie on our hands.All in all, this movie wasn't anything special. It was your typical Hollywood formula, good guy versus bad guy, special effects extravaganza with no real value at all.A very forgettable film with bad acting, unnecessary scenes, poor direction and a penchant for overkilling the point. Yes, we understand Bruce Wayne doesn't like bats, and he has to overcome his fear and bring justice to the city of Gotham and yadayada.....blahhhhhhhhh! This oversimplified account of the story of Batman should have been given a different title - "Batman for dummies and for people that like things that go vrooom and boooooom!" In its defense, however, it was better than that god awful "Batman and Robin". If you really want to watch a good Batman movie, watch the first one. end of quote. the best it can get is 5. I voted 1 just to try to make the result balanced a bit.


                
This new take on Batman just doesn't seem to work quite right. Nolan tries to basically get Shakespearean with the character and completely ignore the first four films. In some ways that works but in other ways it veers off into a Batman universe that makes no sense and becomes basically a movie that seems like he's attempting to have Batman seem more realistic to being like a person in our real universe. This is where Nolan fails. The magic and fun of Batman evaporates quickly. A man dressing up as a bat and fighting crime has a humorous element to it that Nolan completely ignores with this incarnation and everyone in this universe acts really dumb about it and their reactions to it make little sense especially Gordon's character. A lot of what Gordon does lacks logical sense and he never seems to really question the mental state of the person he first sees dressed as a bat. He's portrayed like some idiot willing to eventually put complete trust in someone he knows practically nothing about running around in a bat suit. His reasons for being so trusting are never clear. Does he know something everyone else doesn't? Bale's performance was pretty average but not as compelling as Keaton or Kilmer. He also tries to have a Batman voice that sounds ridiculous. The only reason for this film's critical success is that it struck a cord with the comic book fan die hards. It certainly didn't do that impressive box office numbers. Now with news that Nolan is going to present The Joker in a sequel, I see a potential disaster waiting to happen.


                
Wow, can you say "boring" any louder? I am a Batman fan, but this movie was just ridiculously boring. i mean seriously, it actually starts out with a little boy stealing a small rock from a little girl, and then he falls down a hole. talk about your exciting film openings. ah well, anyways, years later, he is Bruce Wayne, the only white man in an English-language Chinese prison. Bruce is pretty rich back in America, but he had himself sent to a Chinese prison so that he could train himself to beat people up, because he's peaved about his parents getting shot by a lame mugger. Okay. Then, he meets a guy with some sort of unpronounceable name, and this guy wants Bruce to join his group of evil ninjas. So, Bruce is like, "Evil ninjas? Where do I sign up?" Of course, when the evil ninja training is finished (wich totally sucked) and they want him to kill somebody, Bruce freaks out and burns down the whole place, probably killing quite a few people, very not Batman like since he vowed not to "kill" anyone(though Michael Keaton's wasn't a complete wimp like bale is here). Okay. Then, he goes home to rejoin the business world and fight crime. Luckily, he meets a guy at his father's company, and this guy makes superhero equipment for a living. Talk about your happy coincidences.David Goyer must be stopped. Seriously. I have no idea how anybody could have looked at the script for this ****ing abomination and said, "Hey, I want to make that!" How many lame-brained action movie clichés can you fit into one film? How much cringe-worthy cheesy dialog can you make your overqualified cast choke out? How much cheesy sentimental bullshit can you squeeze into a movie about a guy fighting crime in a modified s&m outfit? If you're David Goyer, the possibilities are endless.I cannot believe the ratings this film has received. It is a good example of what happened in "The Emperor's New Clothes". Long story short, two con men convince everyone that they've made luxury clothes for a king when in reality, they have made nothing. According to them, only those worthy enough can see the clothes. Everyone fakes that they can see them, including a very naked king, so that they can feel worthy.My God, this fable fits "Batman Begins" perfectly. It is an overblown, poorly written, stiffly acted, and badly photographed film. The action is completely "been there done that" and is photographed WAY too up close, like many bad action movies of late. Christian Bale has a monotone voice and has NO EXPRESSION! Not ever. He frankly looks bored most of the time. That really bugged me. And yes, his voice as Batman was just plain embarrassing. It felt like an SNL skit of Batman.I truly think that the marketing of this film was solely based on the idea that "Batman Forever" and "Batman and Robin" sucked. They weren't good, but lets remember, they each made a good amount of money for so films so critically drubbed. But they made money because people were entertained, even if they are too chicken to admit it. But Nolan gets to show us that they were stupid and frivolous movies and that he's going to blow them out of the water by being adult and intelligent. Audiences don't want to feel stupid, they LIKE feeling smart, thus with open arms people have accepted "Batman Begins" because they are told it is dark and unlike any other. But people truly are making more of "Batman Begins" than it is.It strives so hard to be realistic and profound that it strips the energy and excitement form Batman. People talk in heavy handed riddles and the dialog is leaden and pretentious. And the plot is at times damn confusing. Characters appear and disappear, only to change motivations or create new motivations altogether. Blue flowers and weird organizations come about hoping the audience can fill in an explanation, and some Asian guy...has seemingly no purpose whatsoever, but appears in the film long enough so that one thinks hes there for a reason. Also, the montage of Batman training was very scatter shot. What did they show? Really...I think they just quickly edited a few hundred frames of nothing. The Pre-batman stuff, you know, the "Begins" part of the film, wasn't very strong at all.In the end, I didn't care for anyone, because no one was developed! You can talk about fear all you want, but fear is not a character trait, nor is revenge, and Bruce had seemingly no character beyond this. Maybe its Bale's fault, as he was stiff as a corpse, but Bruce never felt real.This is so far a very harsh review, so why would I even give the film a 4/10, when thus far it seems closer to a 2/10 from my perspective? Out of respect to Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman and Tom Wilkonson. By casting respected, award-winning actors in small parts, some which are truly perfunctory, each man is only given a few moments to strut their stuff. I cherished those moments because even in a bad movie, these guys can act. But really, Gary Oldman in a small role as a humble cop who - basically does nothing?? Come on! Overall though, this is a huge letdown. People cite the darkness, and the depth of the characters, but the film is as deep as cardboard. You need not look farther than Bruce's relationship to Katie Holmes' character to see that this film is truly just a shallow hackneyed popcorn movie with a serious identity crisis, and really good marketing. If you want to see a REAL Batman movie that is not boring and actually takes risks and is original, see the aforementioned first 2 batman films BATMAN and Batman Returns. Thank you for reading.
This movie was absolutely dreadful. Christian Bale as Batman was just absolutely ridiculous not to mention Michael Caine with his accent. There were several points in the movie I burst out laughing at Bale's delivery of lines. It was like he practically growled as if to sound menacing. I think the public at large just has no idea what is an accurate portrayal of Bob Kane's comic character. To me the closest I think was the original 1989 Batman movie. The absurdity of Batman Begins was how serious it was trying to be which made you laugh at it rather than with it. The Scarecrow was the most disappointing villain of any of the previous Batman films. He was completely boring and just downright stupid. This film was such a complete insult to the fans who have stuck with the movie series through the good sequels and the bad. Unfortunately a new generation of children think this is cooler than a Batman that makes much more sense and has an element of fun to it. Tedious and bland is the only way to describe this new reinvention of the Dark Knight. Next!


                
Where to begin? Unbelievably ill-conceived. That's it. A film that tries to be everything to all people, and ends up being nothing as a consequence.An important point to establish up front is that, hysterical claims to the contrary aside, the film is *not* an adaptation of the comic character in any more than the most superficial of ways. The filmmakers simply altered the fundamental elements of the character to far too great a degree. The film, then, must be judged on its merits as a film, not as an adaptation.So how is it as a movie? This one had a lot of potential, and it was hard to watch it fall apart as it went along. Some grumble-inducing moments notwithstanding, it's actually quite good in the early going. It's engaging, well-constructed, and, despite a lot of high-fallutin' monologues about the psychology of fear, never comes across as overly pretentious. The first indication of trouble, however, occurs in this early part of the movie. Bruce Wayne, our future Batman, has been in training with the League of Shadows, a ninja-style group led by Ras al Ghul (Ken Watanabe). Upon his "graduation," Ras explains his master plan. His "explanation" is an utterly incoherent rant about "destroying Gotham," Bruce's home city, for no apparent reason other than that it is "corrupt." As Watanabe rambled, I started giggling. That the film, in standard Hollywood tell-you-what-you're-supposed-to-think-about-what-you're-seeing fashion, presents this as a very somber, serious moment only added to the joke. Bruce, having listened to this, then turns to Ducard (Liam Neeson), the man who'd recruited him into the League, and asks, totally deadpan, if he really believes in all of this, and my giggles turned into outright laughter, shared by others in the theater. It's an embarrassingly idiotic moment that immediately took me out of the mood that had been established.The film bounces back fairly quickly from this early misstep, though. Back in Gotham, uber-boss Carmine "The Roman" Falcone is very well established; he's a guy who runs everything in a corrupt sewer of a city. A scene wherein he threatens to shoot Bruce in a restaurant full of city officials, convincingly explaining that he could do so and get away with it, is certainly a keeper, and promises much more to come. Why the filmmakers bothered spending so much time and energy setting him up is anyone's guess, though, because nothing much ever does. They could have built a movie, or an entire series of movies upon Bruce's efforts to clean up the town, as they'd established it, but, instead, the mighty Falcone is decimated by the Batman in mere minutes, in ludicrously implausible fashion, none of his power helping him a bit. This is to get him quickly out of the way so the movie can radically switch gears, and the new gear it falls into is near-complete idiocy.This gear-switching is so jarring because of the two diametrically opposed--and irreconcilible--directions in which the filmmakers tried to take "Begins." The end-product is a cut-and-pasted mess, drawing, almost equally, from great and solidly grounded Batman material, like Frank Miller's "Batman: Year One" (which should have been this movie), and very bad, very dated, and embarrassing comic book stuff from yesteryear featuring motiveless, pretentious, overblown, super-villains with some incredibly idiotic (and laughably inefficient) plot to "destroy" something. When it kicks into this second phase, every minute of the movie seems to be worse than the one before.The movie essentially disintegrates from the moment Bruce dons the Batman mask. Sitting in the theater, you can almost physically feel the film's IQ drop. Christian Bale, who had done an admirable (if largely unexceptional) Bruce Wayne, never comes close to getting a handle on his characters' alter ego. Indeed, his Batman voice and persona suggest the actor had picked up his direction on how to play the part at the Keanu Reeves School of Acting. When Bruce becomes Batman, all he has to do to rid Gotham of the mighty Falcone is rough up a dozen of his men who are, at that time, in the middle of completing an illegal drug shipment, then attack Falcone and leave him chained and beaten senseless at the scene of the crime. This, we're told, will send Falcone away forever. Uh huh. Then, the filmmakers get to the story they really wanted to tell: Ras al Ghul returns, still looking to "destroy Gotham" for no real reason. His means of doing so is the most ludicrous item in a film filled with ludicrous items, and the final hour of the movie is dedicated to a lot of empty standard-issue Hollywood sound and fury, as the plot plays itself out. Unforgivably, the film's last scene is a straight steal of the great ending of Frank Miller's "Batman: Year One," which only serves to rub salt in the wound the film has created by spoiling the scene for some future filmmaker who may one day want to make a real Batman movie.I have no tolerance for this sort of thing anymore. If I hadn't been with a friend, I would probably have left long before it was over In the final analysis, "Batman Begins" is inferior, in pretty much every way, to the original Burton flick, and is even less of a Batman movie. For my part, I hope it's going to be ending, rather than beginning, a Batman franchise. I'm rather fond of the character, and have had quite enough of Hollywood dragging him through the mud.
I can see that I am in a distinct minority here, but I really found this movie quite hard to sit through. I can also understand why people loved it...it looks great, the cast is top rate, and the direction is stylish and serious. It is also such a huge improvement on the cheesy nonsense of some of the previous movies. So where did it all go wrong for me? I was right there at the start, I loved the scenes of Bruce's fall and recovery, and I was really engaged when Morgan Freeman was getting out the Bat-based goodies. It really fell apart for me when the plot veered off into stuff about an unidentified bad guy (obviously Liam Neeson's 'sensei' character) plotting to stick some hallucinogenic gas into the air with the aim of destroying the city because the city is bad. Somehow it just became convoluted, but without the necessary tension to keep me interested. By the end it was a matter of supreme indifference to me if Batman lived or died.Such a shame, and hence the harsh rating, but I am very hopeful that the next movie will sharpen up the plot a long way, but retain the excellent style of this movie.
Sorry to upset die-hard Batman comic book fans, but I really hate and detest this movie. It is an insult to the 'Batman' I love and remember from my childhood. The Burton/Schumacher pictures were marvellous fun because they did not take themselves seriously. All I got from this one was a king-size headache and a sore bottom where I was bored senseless for the best part of two hours. Chris Nolan thinks 'Batman' should be taken dead seriously. A rich man who goes out at night in a rubber suit designed to resemble a bat? Oh, come on! Putting the Caped Crusader in a film like this is like making 'Austin Powers' the star of a Daniel Craig-type Bond film. Worse, the chief villain - The Scarecrow ( Cillian Murphy ) - is another nut, only this one runs round with a sack on his head! Michael Caine's 'Alfred' cannot hold a Bat-candle either to Alan Napier or Michael Gough. The story of this film...well, was there one? All I saw was a lot of fighting with nothing in-between. It has been announced that Warner Bros. are rebooting the franchise once more. Good idea. They need to use the Burton/Schumacher movies as a template for any further entries. This one hit the big screen with all the force of a wet lettuce. Ker-flop!
Am I missing something? What is it people saw in this movie to give it such a high rating? It must be Nolan fans and studio plants. This movie was a train wreck from beginning to end from the casting mistakes to the nonsensical plot. As for being more true to the comic books, are the people who believe that on crack? This was a complete departure from not only the previous Batman films but certainly Bob Kane's original intention. There has to be at least a sprinkling of humor for Batman to work and make sense because a man dressing up as a bat does come across as humorous no matter how you cut it. The idea is Bruce Wayne has gone so far into a dark place in his mind that he does go crazy and a man running around as a bat is crazy and a little funny. This film tried to make the notion so serious that it was too serious to be taken literally. And as far as everybody complaining about how in the first Batman Bruce Wayne's parents were killed by The Joker, stop your whining. I laughed at the court room scene where the criminal who killed Bruce Wayne's parents is shot walking out of the court room by a...woman! Then Katie Holmes reaction saying, "Bruce you don't need to see this." to Christian Bale muttering, "I have to see this". It was beyond ridiculous. All in all forget this film and stick with the first three. It is a complete over-hyped waste of time.
This was the leading film in the summer of unnecessary and instantly forgettable remakes - Herbie, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Bewitched, and I'll stop here before I even get to the wretched horror of The Dukes of Hazzard. And Hollywood wonders why ticket sales are low and they can't make as much money? I realize the fans and critics felt this installment took the legend seriously but sorry comic geeks. A man dressed up as a bat is something that could never be taken completely seriously without a touch of camp. That's why Burton nailed the task of dark with just the right amount of campiness. As for this film, it's neither a sequel or a prequel. Good actors with the exemption of casting mistake, Katie Holmes, good director but other than utterly unnecessary retread of the origin story. Batman has already been reinvented twice and now a third. I will give props to Christian Bale but still not up to par with the likes of Michael Keaton. And Jack Nicholson's performance that was fascinating and brilliant at the same time? That's an impossible act to follow. The villain in this film was neither scary or interesting. Boring and instantly forgettable is more like it. It's no wonder moviegoers are left in such a catatonic state from Hollywood's desperate attempts at creativity. How many times can you reinvent the same franchise? A far more interesting installment should've been BATMAN ENDS.


                
I've come to realize that I've attempted to watch this movie five times, and I've never made it past the first hour and fifteen minutes. I either fall asleep from sheer boredom, or I lose interest and get up. But, as a huge, massive comic book fan boy (Batman tattoos and all), I keep trying to give this movie the benefit of the doubt. But it has yet to win me over even in the slightest... Plus, who can watch Katie Homes in anything?I saw about 20 minutes of the sequel, and wasn't blown away at all. In fact, as soon as Bale put on his 'Batman' voice, my two even bigger comic fan friends, started to laugh so hard in the theater that we were asked to leave. Does anybody really find that voice cool?


                
A lot of little fanboys rigged the rating for this lackluster sequel. This is no way as good as they want you to think it is. It's a complete joke. There are so many elements of this film that are just all wrong. Christian Bale was basically playing his "American Psycho" character in a bat suit. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman were brought in as window dressing. Freeman looked like he was slumming it and all in all out of place. All I kept thinking the whole time he was on screen is why is he in a Batman film? Is this really a Batman film? The reality is it's another completely different movie made to appear like Batman. Not much of the plot made a whole lot of sense. And as for Katie Holmes? I was wondering even more aloud why she was in a Batman film. Oh the agony of all. This movie sucked and the fanboys just can't admit to themselves. Overall it was a rethink that was a complete waste of time.


                
Teenagers have a tendency to be terribly self absorbed, boring people, and this is ably demonstrated not only by the teenage Bruce Wayne, but rather the whole movie too. The film centres around Bruce's boring attempt to overcome the pain of seeing his parents killed, his anger and so forth. Being a terribly wealthy kid he can indulge himself in becoming a criminal, and training to become a ninja of some sort so that he can fight crime. Very much like a teenager, he thinks his problems are worse than everyone else's, and his overly emotional response is the only way to deal with it. It's unutterable tosh of course, but to compound the sin, this pathetic self-absorbed garbage is hooked up to a pathetic, self-absorbed storyline. The ninja teacher guy (obviously) wants to destroy Gotham (obviously), and Batman has to save the day (obviously). There some monkeying about with a scientist, and then Batman is having a fight with the bad guy, who dies. Unfortunately, the whining little bat doesn't kop it too. Oh, and Tom Cruise's girl is in it too, but I guess you noticed that already. Anyway, teenagers should get out more and talk to girls, stop thinking that everyone else's life is better than theirs, and carefully avoid role models like this guy!
Number one, when did Alfred become a cockney butler, Michael Cain was terrible his acting made me laugh and want to vomit out my face and I like Michael Cain, he was amazing in Austin Powers gold member and Jaws 4. What else was rubbish, where were the bad guys, some stupid Irish man in a silly mask called the scarecrow, which just made me laugh, how can you compare this to batman and batman returns in beyond my belief.The most important thing wrong with this film was that there was no fantasy, which made batman stand out from the rest of the Hollywood action films.Batman begins is just another Hollywood film cashing in on the popularity of the new craze of comic book films.I think Chris Nolan is a good director, but this was not his genre to touch. He makes realistic films and Batman Begins should have been made more fantasy.Tim Burton where are you?


                
A lot would argue that "Batman and Robin" was the worst Batman movie of the whole series, and that is something I have to agree on. However I feel "Batman Begins" is the worst interpretation of Batman ever. I admit I was not too happy with the reinterpretation that occurred with "Batman Forever" but that I could live with because there was still a lot of amusing and visual elements to it that made it watchable. "Batman Begins" on the other hand is heavy handed and a little too much so to the point that it becomes abysmal and practically unwatchable early on in the first act. I found it becoming tedious with Bale delivering lines like an automaton and even though I think he's a good actor and liked him in other roles, he just wasn't Batman and did not fit the role well enough. As for seasoned actors Freeman, Oldman, and Caine popping in this mish mesh I have no idea what on earth they were thinking. They just made it more grating to bear. Caine has a lot of cred and has been in many superior films but it was actually depressing watching him tread through this sloppy disjointed sludge. He needs to retire. And the less mentioned about the dreadful and miscast Katie Holmes aka Mrs. Cruise the better. I think this was very much catered to the current MTV generation with extremely short attention spans and little imagination. This movie did not amuse or fancy me the way previous Batman films did. In fact it did not entertain me in that way at all, and for that reason I found it to be without value whatsoever. I say why even bother making a Batman film that is so abysmally dull and dim.


                
This movie was sooo BAD for many reasons. I just got back. My friend Jake said it was the best superhero movie of all time. I beg to DIFFER? 1: The fight scenes SUCK. They all cut way too fast, and too much to know what's going on.2: Hypocrisy. Bruce Wayne doesn't want to KILL a murderer...but has nothing against KILLING about 50 guys two seconds later who fight injustice.3: While it was DARKER, it still wasn't a "Dark Knight". They should have made Batman a killer, much like he was when he first came around (in the first appearance of Batman he threw a baddie into a vat of toxic waste) 4: The new BATCAR is completely stupid. It's kinda cool...but logically WAY too much for any man (even a bat man) to need. The pivotal Batmobile is from Tim Burton's BATMAN.5: Still no explanation how the Wayne family is SO rich. A business, yeah...but still no reasoning why they're so rich.6: Scarecrow was HEAVILY under-developed. Barely in the movie enough. Not to mention Scarecrow's "defeat" at the end of the movie is the FUNNIEST thing I've ever seen in a Batman movie.7: I didn't feel any connection between Bruce and Rachel. They were childhood friends...and that's where the connection stops for me. Did I mention the fight scenes were bad? 8: When I first heard Christian's voice as Batman, I laughed. Not a good sign. He seemed to be trying too hard to try to become a different person when in the suit. He also did not look like a Bruce Wayne to me. I know there's much more than looking the part (George Clooney comes to mind), but it's a factor. He seemed too emotionless, detached. Christian is a good actor and I saw it...but it seems he fell short. Michael Keaton still holds the reigned for the most intense and perfect Bruce Wayne AND Batman.BONUS: The ending seemed a bit pushy. But it was confusing for my friend. He was questioning if it was to show that it was a prequel to the Batman '89 movie. I explained that they were starting over. But still, I can see how people could be confused. Personally I'd leave the first two Batman movies in the timeline and redo Forever and Batman and Robin.Even looking back, I don't' know what to say. One thing, IT SUCKS!!
ChristopherNolan made a lot of serious mistakes in this film. First, casting Christian Bale who has all the charisma and gravitas of a pumped-up Pauly Shore. But so what? This film is an obvious feeble stab at resurrecting a moribund Batman series that should have gone to a peaceful demise 8 years ago. Katie Holmes? Please. Probably a nice kid, but she'd barely survive a casting call for summer theater in Akron, Ohio. The pretentious, plodding script is lugubrious, morose and utterly incredible--even for a comic book. What is this nonsense about Shangri-La and Ninja gibberish and psychobabble about fear and revenge? Don't even ask about the ludicrously lame scenes of battle and urban catastrophe--pathetic. The editors should be taken out and shot. But wait! No! They had nothing to work with! If you need one simple proof of how rotten this is, just consider the great character actor Gary Oldman embarrassingly mired in this bat dung. I did however love Rutger Hauer as Donald Rumsfeld. Michael Caine should have paid to have his scenes deleted. Morgan Freeman, the default Black eminence in many recent films, phones in his routine performance. Liam Neeson, a superb actor, is again relegated to a murky back-story clichéd role as in Gangs of New York and a couple of later Star Wars pics. One standout in this mess is Cillian Murphy as a preening, smarmy uber-yuppie. Now if HE had played Bruce Wayne and Tim Burton had written and directed and Blanchett or Kidman had been Rachel Dawes and Gary Oldman were Scarecrow, who knows?


                
Oh my! I am a great fan of action movies. Everyone had told me so many good things about 'Batman begins' that I grabbed the (zone 1) DVD as soon as I could get my hands on it and counted the hours which had still to go before the night. I finally sit in front of my screen, ready to immerse myself into a good movie and...find myself yawning after ten minutes. And things go so bad that it's even difficult to just list the problems. Let me try and give you some ideas:1. Extremely poor plot. 2. Extremely poor script. 3. Bad directing/lighting/editing for ALL action sequences (and some other sequences too). 4. A musical score which is, well, not really a score. 5. Bad acting by everyone but the five actors with a 'name'.The overall feeling is that you are watching a completely exploitative movie, conceived from the beginning (no pun intended) as a particularly stupid crowd pleaser. The idea seems to have been: put into the movie all the material which has now become standard after a few decades of action movies, do not do anything even remotely original, be as simplistic and formulaic as you can, spend a lot of money in hiring well-known actors, and you'll do fine. The worst part of it all is: apparently, the filmmakers are right, most people did enjoy the movie! Makes me feel desperate. Honest, this movie is BAD, BAD, BAD without even being funny. It's boring, verging on the insulting.I will not insult Tim Burton or Joel Schumacher by comparing any of their movies to 'Batman begins'.


                
After reading the numerous good reviews of this film, I was expecting a seriously made, deep movie that explored the batman character in a meaningful way. There are so many things wrong with this film, but basically it just quickly degenerates into the typical brain dead Hollywood teen-pleasing crapola. I think all the A list actors were just collecting fat pay checks. I know Bale was probably looking for a blockbuster movie to propel his face a bit more into the mainstream, but he picked a turkey here. I really think Bale is a brilliant actor (as he showed in American Psycho) but he is wasted in this movie.The action sequences suffer from the modern Hollywood 'X-box' editing desease, where no shot stays on screen for more than a split second. This simply confuses the viewer as to exactly what he's supposed to be seeing. The score is good, but pervades far too much throughout the film. The plot is pretty ridiculous.I won't carry on criticising it, but this movie DOES NOT deserve to be anything like #80 in the IMDb list (as it presently is). Is this really a better movie than Midnight Cowboy??!!??!! I think not.Does absolutely NOTHING to restore my nearly extinguished hope that Hollywood is ever going to make brilliant mainstream movies again, like it used to do in the 70s (Godfather, Deer Hunter, Deliverance, etc. etc. etc.)
This is ridiculous Batman is not suppose to sound like he has a frog in his throat someone get that man a Ricola. People like this movie series with Bale but dislike the actual corny Batman movies that really show the true nature of comics? Good job guys lets keep ruining the DC franchise and turning into something more dark and stupid. Thats exactly what kids want right? There has been animations and cartoons that actually play their parts better than this movie has to offer, if you want to see combat and explosions that seem fancy go watch a Micheal bay film because that isn't what Batman is all about there is more to it than that and that is what most fans seem to be forgetting. I feel ashamed every time I look and see the bad reviews some of the older movies get compared to this Batman that apparently has a sore throat or something. Have none of you even heard what the original Batman sounds like? At least I can take pride in enjoying most of the movies that actually have some character and isn't just about going in fighting and getting out.


                
Ohhh where to begin? I had been hearing so much about this movie. "Oh it is so much more like the original batman comic books". "Finally a serious Batman!" "Christian Bale is the best Batman" Blah blah blah. All three statements couldn't be furthest from the truth. This Batman film was the least like the comic book in so many ways I don't have room to write them all. I just cannot get over how many people are acting like this did something "better" or "more stylish" than the previous Batman movies. All the movie really did was make a complete departure not only from the universe of the previous Batman films but of the comic book world of the character created in the first place. The visuals were striking but no more striking than Burton's. The actors' performance were OK but Christian Bale as Superman was much the weenie at times and downright boring. Very very little is left the same from all previous representations that all is left is use of character names and places. Is that particularly innovative and creative? Uhhh no I don't think so. The action of the movie if you can really call it that was hardly groundbreaking or anything particularly exciting. Overall very slow moving at times and incomprehensible.


                
So,it's an all new original Batman film? HA! this film can't even get past the opening credits without "borrowing" from the other Batfilms! The Warner Brothers Logo morphs ,just like all 4 previous films.What else have we seen before? Batman pulls up criminal by lapels: "What are you?""I'm BATMAN!" Hmm... didn't we see that in BATMAN? Batman standing on pillar among Gotham's skyscrapers as heroic music swells...add a Batsignal behind him...and yep..already done in BATMAN.Batman knows KungFu? See BATMAN & BATMAN RETURNS.Bruce falls through a hole and finds the BatCave... wasn't that in BATMAN FOREVER? Bats frighten Bruce into becoming Batman...also part of BATMAN FOREVER! Batman hands his secret identity over on a silver platter? See all 4 previous BatFilms.(This only worked as a plot point in BATMAN RETURNS!) "Batman Begins" wastes about an hour telling you he's a secret KungFu expert. And wastes even more time trying to make Duchard & Ra's Al Ghul the same man.(Why does Liam Neeson claim he's Ghul?). Speaking of Ra's,he should have been of Arabic origins,not a feudal Japanese warlord.Ken Watanabe is a fine actor but Arnold Vosloo would have been THE Ra's Al Ghul.And speaking of Ra's,where is his daughter Talia? She was a MAJOR Batplot character as she was obsessed with Batman! (Would've made a better female lead character!) Why not give us more story by advancing the film,and logging the previous four "as read"? (i.e.: Batman is a superhero,destroying villainy,knows all sorts of fighting techniques,has cool toys,do not mess with him. Need we know anything more?)If you read the comics,BATMAN became a bat not out of HIS fear,but the fear bats give others. He does not find the cave as a child.(Stupidly drilled into us in two films now.).Much as I love Michael Caine...sorry,Alfred is NOT a Cockney. Gary Oldman looks right as James Gordon,but it's a thankless role.Morgan Freedman is relegated to Alfred#2,as they basically take most of the meat from Lucius Fox's character.(He's a shrewed Wayne Business exec.,not a technological errand boy.).The Scarecrow is reduced to a 2nd class villain,only slightly better than the crummy version they did of BANE! Where is The Scarecrow's scarecrow outfit? (Oh,right...we're trying to look "cool").Cillian Murphy makes a cool Dr.Crane,but he isn't given enough screen time! What did the film get right? Well,Joe Chill DID kill the Waynes in the original story. Carmine Falcone is/was the head of Gotham's mafia. Mr.Zsz does carve a notch in himself for every murder he commits. That's about it.And how does this disaster end? By suggesting their next NEW idea:The Joker!(Rumour of Two-Face is also in the works.). Let's erase this film from your memory,and imagine a Batman vs. Scarecrow directed by Tim Burton and starring Michael Keaton...we'll forget all about those other three BatFlops.
This was by the far the most overrated heap of 2005. It appeals to the A.D.D. X-Box generation. Who cares about Year One. That was just as overrated. This played so much like a video game from beginning to end I didn't feel like I was watching a movie. A lot of action and blowing stuff up for the sake of blowing it up. Bale was horrible as Batman with that ridiculous raspy voice. What the **** was that about? And in this version apparently Batman is also a pedophile. Katie Holmes as his love interest? She looked like she was 14. Guess this is the start of some kind of trend because Kate Bosworth looks like she's a pre-teen and is playing Lois Lane in Superman Returns. Ewww. We definitely all the vacuous kiddies to thank for this slew of super hero movie crappola.
The movie was completely unrewarding. Some of the plot elements had potential to be interesting, and the concept of the movie was great. Unfortunately, after watching it, I came away completely unsatisfied, because there was nothing more to think about. Everything was portrayed on a 3rd grade level, and nothing was really left to the imagination. where is the dualism of good and evil? Where is the delicate line between vigilante and hero? This movie attempts to draw these lines and then clearly plant itself in the good/hero camp. Yawn. What's the point?I am surprised that this movie is doing so well on IMDb, and hope that people will wake up soon and realize this movie is just another boring action flick. Some say its an improvement from Batman and Robin, notably the worst of the Batman movies. But for what Batman Begins makes up for in plot complexity and special effects, it loses by insulting my intelligence and trying to make everything in the Batman world so black and white.


                
First let me start off by saying the batman series started and ended with Tim Burton and Michael Keaton. All attempts at the capered crusader have been comical at best. Moving on to the 2hr+ piece of crap known as batman begins, i don't even know where to start ripping this flick -i will list only a few reasons why this movie should never have been made or thrown in the trash instead of releasing upon the public.1. Christian Bale's voice as Batman(tries to deepen his voice) it gets not only annoying but it sounds incredibly forced and dreadful.2. The scarecrow villain is in the movie for literally 1 minute of film time, completely a waste of time because underdeveloped is an understatement.3. The joker is supposed to kill Bruce Wayne's parents when Bruce is younger, not some random poor lowly criminal. Then what should happen is seeking revenge, Bruce turns the murderer of his parents into the Joker. -completely dropped the ball on this one4. Being Batman Begins, Batman can not have a better more updated car than Batman, made in 1989. If its a prequel, make sure everything coincides with the other films - not that hard.5. At the end of the movie - A) Batman gives the bat symbol to gordon - he is not commissioner yet and does not fit with other films b) Jim Gordon shows Batman a joker card, indicating a criminal is out and about on the streets of Gotham- If Bruce Wayne is supposed to in essence create the Joker, how is he around? Doesn't add up at all, leaves more frustration and questions.more things i would have mentioned about this horrendous film - Jim Gordon's character, Bruce Wayne's personality, the batcave, Katie Holmes' character, and a few other small things.All and all just a pile of garbage. The best superhero series as of our time right now is far and away Spiderman. The story is engrossing and extremely well written, and has tremendous casting, unlike Batman Begins.


                
