Let me begin by say that I am a Bat-freak, and I have read most Frank Miller stories. Having said that, I felt that Goyer's Batman Begins script comes off like a sloppy forgery of Miller's Batman: Year One miniseries (down to lifting the last scene with the Joker's playing card), with villains inappropriately thrown-in. The Bat-Tank is an idea from Frank Miller's Dark Knight Returns and it is also tossed in, not to assist the story, but to pander to a motor-crazy American culture in a moment of pimp-my-Batmoblie obviously inserted in the script by a Warner Bros. marketing team after reviewing last year's Hummer sales.I don't mean to totally hate-on a film without cause, after all this IS a step above the Joel Schumacher versions of the Dark Knight, but only slightly. This film has none of the visual resonance or thrilling pleasure of Tim Burton's Batman movies, also Katie Holmes' character is used to twice rip-off the Burton movies. Most offensive was at the end when a familiar line is used, badly, to reveal that Bruce is the Bat to the female lead, which is exactly like the mistletoe line in Batman Returns only much more lame. So lets say I was still expecting better, and I also felt that many of the 'jokes' that were designed to relieve the tension fell flat, like Gordon seeing the Bat-Tank and saying 'I gotta get me one of those.' I did like Garry Oldman's version of Lt. Gordon, but he wasn't used in any interesting such as the personal crisis Gordon faces in Miller's Year One. For me, Nolan's style for capturing the fight sequences was a total misfire, as you could rarely see a single landed impact through the over-editing. ASIDE FROM NOT BEING THE DEFINITIVE BATMAN MOVIE, IT IS JUST NOT A GOOD MOVIE PERIOD. I wasn't expecting perfection, just an enjoyable evening in Gotham City and they didn't even give me that. I had read some reviews asserting that Frank Miller fans and the Sin City crowd will be satisfied with this one, which can't be the case. If Warner Bros. wanted to make the Frank Miller people happy than they would have done a film of the real Batman: Year One with Darren Aronofsky directing, as originally planned 3½ years ago. Also, everyone was saying how serious and realistic this film was, and yet the climax of the film was so overwrought with separate elements that it became laughable. Goyer's attempts to clumsily tie the too-many strands of this film together with a death-train headed straight for the Wayne Enterprises building which will poison and evaporate all the water in Gotham within an instant. Come on, we can do better than this. This is a horrible idea for the ending of any movie, and to me is comparable in many ways to the very silly ending of Batman Forever.I found Nolan and Goyer did not learn from the mistakes of Schumacher, electing not to emphasise a single villain and instead orchestrating a rather lame pageant of familiar characters without focusing on any of them. In Batman Begins, the genocidal cult-leader Ra's Al Ghul isn't the charismatic megalomaniac as he is in the comics and cartoons and the Scarecrow is limited to an Arkham administrator / mob chemist. I am a dedicated DC comics guy, however if this is any indication of the type of DC films that are on their way into theatres, then Marvel has already won the biggest battle of them all. Both the Spider-Man and X-men films were far superior to Batman Begins, and in particular Spider-Man 2 had compelling action with a story that featured the allegorical properties of the superhero. I am sorry to report that Batman Begins offers us nothing more than action sequences which are obscured by 'stylish' editing in an endlessly hollow feature.


                
They tried to make Batman into Spiderman. This has got to be one of the worst ideas in the history of poorly adapted comic book movies, and I've seen "Elektra," people.Director Christopher Nolan said he wanted to take Batman in a different direction when he was chosen to relaunch the franchise. He didn't say the direction was straight down, though. He also said he wanted to use Frank Miller's "Batman: Year One" storyline as a model for the new film. If he was telling the truth, he would've admitted he was actually using the fantastic and very good "Spiderman" films as the model for the new film. There's just one big problem. Spiderman isn't Batman. In 60 years of history no one ever told Batman "With Great Power, Comes Great Responsibility" or "It's not who you are underneath, it's what you do that defines you." Batman sees ridding the world of crime as his personal mission, everything else in life is irrelevant. Most of all, Batman does NOT believe in the inherent good of Gotham City's legal and criminal justice institutions. Batman is a vigilante. Batman kills criminals as judge, jury and executioner. In a word, Batman is the anti-Spiderman in every way, shape and form. That's why this movie is awful and why most comic book movies just don't measure up. It's the old Hollywood saw of "monkey see, monkey do." Well, Sam Raimi has made millions making those everyday accessible Spiderman films, why don't we just make the new Batman film like that? Maybe because Batman isn't accessible. Sam Raimi has actually READ the Spiderman comics and knows why the accessible approach works for that character. It HAS worked for that character for 50 years. Batman is the polar opposite. But Christopher Nolan wouldn't know that, because it's obvious he's never read a Batman comic book. I conclude this because he said he wanted to emulate "Batman: Year One" but instead made an anti-vigilante movie. It's good that directors watch other directors and take note of what's successful in movies, but it's gotten to the point in today's Hollywood that that's ALL they watch. Their frame of reference is only as big as the local megaplex. Maybe that's why the water contamination plot of "Batman Begins" was lifted whole from 1989's "Batman: The Motion Picture." So Nolan essentially didn't create ANYTHING new with "Batman Begins." Instead he made a Frankenstein's monster out of pieces of other films. Hear's the pitch: Let's take the personal responsibility theme of "Spiderman" and add the poisoning of Gotham plot of "Batman." We'll get Morgan Freeman to act as a sort of Q character from the James Bond films to give Batman his suit, weapons and car so everything has a tidy explanation. We can even turn Batman's father (never a heavily-explored character in the comics) into an Uncle Ben figure, like in those boffo Spiderman films. Liam Neeson's (Ducart/Ra's Al-Ghul) performance is the best in the film and comes very close to saving this hodgepodge but even he can't rise above the muck that is the script. He and Cillian Murphy (Scarecrow/Dr. Crane) as usual, have the best parts as villains. But undermining all their good work is the other Hollywood conceit of having to make everything "real." Scarecrow wears a three-piece suit and only dons his mask when scaring people. Shouldn't we be in Gotham City where the rules of our world don't always apply? You want me to believe these people find it entirely acceptable that Batman runs around in his well-explained armor but it would be ENTIRELY out of the realm of possibility that Scarecrow has, oh I dunno, a Scarecrow suit? This is supposed to be a comic book movie, people. It's supposed to be fun. That's why the need to "explain" where every Bat weapon, vehicle and suit came from is so ridiculously out of place. No one asked how Spiderman made his spidey suit and we didn't see Superman knitting his baby blankets into a Supes outfit in either of their good comic book movies. It's not important, let it go. In fact, Let Morgan Freeman go. You're overpaying for one of the world's best actors so he can deliver plot contrivance and exposition. If it's that hard to shoehorn your exposition in that you need AN ENTIRE NEW CHARACTER for it, then your plot is probably too contrived in the first place. Or, if you insist on Morgan Freeman, give him a better role. Gary Oldman is great as Sergeant Jim Gordon, maybe if he had a comparable actor playing the corrupt police commissioner the two could really go at it and chew some scenery. Instead, you've put Q in a Batman movie. I guess Christian Bale REALLY wants that 007 role. Supposedly, the Fantastic Four movie is just as bad, reducing the rich, dynamic character that is Dr. Doom into a one-dimensional megalomaniac. It's stuff like this that's made box office receipts drop %18 this year because all these comic book movies are tent poles for the studios. Christopher Nolan, Ang Lee (Hulk) Mark Steven Johnson (Daredevil), Rob Bowman (Elektra) and David Goyer (writer of Batman Begins) should not be allowed to adapt comic books in the future. If they do, Bryan Singer (X-Men, X-Men II) and Sam Raimi should sit them down and FORCE them to read the comic books they're adapting and not just watch their movies.
I just got back from Batman Begins. I'm very confused.Not from the story, characters, ending, or anything technical. I am confused by my own emotions. I feel like a symbolic Two-Face.On one side, I want to give this thing 10 out of 10. It was awesome.But on the other side, I would wipe myself with it. Allow me to get down to business.GOOD: 1: The cinematography is AWESOME 2: Good CGI, can barely tell (if at all) 3: Dark. Very good, with the exception of Adam West, campy Batmans don't do it 4: Very deep, serious.5: Provides background as to why Batman can kick so much ass.6: Scarecrow done MUCH better than I expected.7: They made Batman SCARY and INTIMIDATING, which has always fallen short.8: Christian Bale did a great job at the intimidation with Batman.BONUS: Alfred grabbed a golf club when he ran into the house to help. I found that hilarious and awesome.BONUS 2: The very end. If you haven't seen the movie yet, I won't say anymore.BAD: 1: The fight scenes SUCK. They all cut way too fast, and too much to know what's going on.2: Hypocrisy. Bruce Wayne doesn't want to kill a murderer...but has nothing against killing about 50 guys two seconds later who fight injustice.3: While it was darker, it still wasn't a "Dark Knight". They should have made Batman a killer, much like he was when he first came around (in the first appearance of Batman he threw a baddie into a vat of toxic waste) 4: The new Batmobile is completely stupid. It's kinda cool...but logically WAY too much for any man (even a bat man) to need. The pivotal Batmobile is from Tim Burton's BATMAN.5: Still no explanation how the Wayne family is friggin' rich. A business, yeah...but still no reasoning why they're so rich.6: Scarecrow was HEAVILY under-developed. Barely in the movie enough. Not to mention Scarecrow's "defeat" at the end of the movie is the funniest thing I've ever seen in a Batman movie.7: I didn't feel any connection between Bruce and Rachel. They were childhood friends...and that's where the connection stops for me. Did I mention the fight scenes were bad? 8: When I first heard Christian's voice as Batman, I laughed. Not a good sign. He seemed to be trying too hard to try to become a different person when in the suit. He also did not look like a Bruce Wayne to me. I know there's much more than looking the part (George Clooney comes to mind), but it's a factor. He seemed too emotionless, detached. Christian is a good actor and I saw it...but it seems he fell short. Michael Keaton still holds the reigned for the most intense and perfect Bruce Wayne AND Batman.BONUS: The ending seemed a bit pushy (even if I did orgasm at it). But it was confusing for my friend. He was questioning if it was to show that it was a prequel to the Batman '89 movie. I explained that they were starting over. But still, I can see how people could be confused. Personally I'd leave the first two Batman movies in the timeline and redo Forever and Batman and Robin.Even looking back, I don't' know what to say. One thing, it's an awesome and excellent movie. Another, it's mediocre at best.I'll give it 6 out of 10. You might love it...you might not.


                
I wanted to like it, honestly!I've been a huge Batman Fan all my life. And yes I still have a copy of Batman Year One. Love it. But unfortunately....Take a seemingless endless budget, and all<U+0096>star cast, great special effects, set design, costume design, and add in a monkey for a script writer / director. What do you get? A movie a bunch of hopefull Batman fans go to, and end up grimacing at every line of dialog. You get a movie that is trying hard to be a psychological thriller, but seems to have been written by a 8 year old. The movie lacks any consistency, and any real understanding of what it is trying to do. By then end of the movie, you are stuck wondering , what the bleep was the point of any of this!?!??! You get a beautiful to watch, yet, literally painful to follow mess.What happened? In earlier Batman movies Burton went for a more campy vision of Batman. Well the fans wanted something darker, something along the lines for the more realistic "Batman: Year One". So Hollywood decides to cash in on another attempt at Batman, in the height of the whole Comic book movie craze. And someone decided this meant diving into Bruce Wayne's psyche, and showing his "transition" to Batman. In Burton's Batman, they just showed enough of a story we all know and let us settle the rest in our imagination. In Nolan's version everything is so blatant yet not thought out enough to stop it from completely contradicting itself. We are beat over the head again and again with Wayne's inner conflicts. There are several excellent ideas throughout the fill that just keep falling flat on their face, either because of not getting fleshed out properly, or just simply from contradicting themselves. Little about the movie makes any sense, from the characters philosophies, to training with live metal swords and no head gear. Burton's movies were at least consistent. They worked within themselves, creating a world that gelled together. He stayed true to his vision of Batman, and came up with some solid, consistent movies. With Batman begins, expect to go from a great scene, to sitting there and just thinking, what the bleep did I just see. The scenes with a child Bruce Wayne are just painfully bad. Expect no consistency, no vision, no cohesive story.So what is this film worth? It is a typical shallow action based comic book hero movie with little true substance behind it. Expect ridiculous leaps of faith as far as what is physically "possible", expect stupid car chases where the "hero" almost gets dozens of people killed and tears of the city, expect anything but a good story.Production value 9/10. Story and script 2/10. Overall 4/10.


                
As much as I like a good Batman film, this one wasn't really the best one made.I was able to spot several problems with this movie, and I'll be more than happy to point them out.The first of many was that they put too much emphasis on modernizing Batman: if you're going to deal with a classic character, you must think classic. The tank-looking bat-mobile... need I say more? Secondly, Jonathan Crane AKA The Scarecrow's origin was never discussed, thus leaving people that don't know about the legend clueless.Also, the continual mentioning of the city's water supply and the neurotoxic gas was slightly annoying.Finally, the one element that they forgot was the one thing that Tim Burton nailed dead-on: humor! There was no shred of humor to keep this thing together. Even Forrest Gump was a drama, but it managed to be funny too; this on the other hand, took itself way too seriously.To finalize, for Batman fans everywhere, this isn't really one that I'd recommend.


                
I saw Batman Begins and i was very-very disappointing. I thought Nolan was a credible direction and Bale a credible actor but alas the movie sucks big time... Qui-Gon (Liam Neeson) trains Batman to sword fighting like he's a bloody Jedi. The film is boring as hell. What Thibet has to do with Batman? They try to put some deeper meaning and all "a person is not what he feels inside, but what his actions make" but it's not worthy. Bale actor is great to play nerd types, (Velvet Goldmine, Lauren Canyon), he was OK in American Psycho but as Batman he is not very good. Michael Cane is the best as English butler and Morgan Freeman is typical as good guy again. Liam Neeson, a great actor, was much better in Phantom Menace, his performance here is disappointing. Bad plot, the worst bad guys ever, action scenes are very bad too. Tim Burton's films was much much better. Even Catwoman, a terrible movie, was in some ways superior than this crap.
I must be one of the only people in the U.S. that hates this movie. Not just dislikes, but HATES. That's right; I despise this flick. Let me explain why...When I was in high school, Tim Burton's Batman came out in theaters. I remember it being one of the most enjoyable movie-going experiences of my life. Goofy bat-props aside, it was epic, colorful, and operatic. It was what any true comic book movie should aspire to. I still consider Burton's movie the best superhero movie ever made. Yep, you heard me right.I will be the first to admit that went into Christopher Nolan's version with a biased opinion. How could Nolan, a director known for Hitchcock-like suspense movies, ever beat Burton's dark vision? After viewing Batman Begins, it turns out I was right to question everything I had heard about it. This movie sucks.Nolan is best left to directing off-kilter thrillers. Given his unique directing style, I have to admit that I was excited to find out that he was going to be helming this one. Unfortunately, he shows none of the originality that seeps through in his other flicks like Memento and The Prestige. How can such a good director turn out uninspired, boring schlock like this? Batman Begins is so ham-fisted and pretentious that I felt like I had been forced into watching a Baptist tent revival for two hours. The characters love sermonizing about "good vs. evil" and "morality vs. immorality". Especially Katie Holmes and Michael Caine. Now, I am a big fan of Caine's work (I won't even comment on Holmes; how she got cast in this movie is beyond me), but turning Alfred into a nagging I-Told-You-So moralist is completely aggravating. David S. Goyer should be smacked for writing such pandering drivel.I am a huge fan of Christian Bale. I have a ton of his movies in my collection. I had big hopes for his turn as the Caped Crusader. He is the only actor in this movie that even pretends to care about what is going on, despite his very wooden performance. Gary Oldman is one of my favorite thespians of all time, but he was a braindead zombie throughout the whole flick. Ditto for Holmes, Liam Neeson, Cillian Murphy, Morgan Freeman, and Ken Watanabe. How could so many great actors sleepwalk through one production? It's all mindboggling.The whole thing feels like a project that had a ton of energy at the beginning, but everyone involved slowly lost interest and just decided to finish it so they could collect their paychecks. Very Sad. This had such huge potential, and it turned out to be just another Hollywood cash cow.There were some highlights for me, though. The final train showdown was really cool, as was the appearance a psychopathic Scarecrow on the streets of Gotham looking like one of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse.Ultimately, Batman Begins is marred by poor scriptwork, poor direction, and even poorer acting. I am consistently amazed by reviews that herald it as "the movie of the year" or "the best superhero movie ever made". Uggh.I'll stick to Zebraman, thank you very much. At least that has some creativity to it.


                
I honestly don't remember the last time I was more disappointed in a movie. There is absolutely no action worth mentioning in this entire film. The fight scenes are choppy and VERY VERY poorly done. I feared this might be the case with a rookie action director in charge but I never thought a Batman film would fall this low in terms of fight content. The set up is long and often tedious and the dialogue is surprisingly "New Star Wars" bad. Even the bast costume itself looks off. They were promising us more flexibility and believability with this design but it still looked awkward. Keaton's original still looks better. Bale was remarkably average as Bruce Wayne and his "Batman voice" is near laughable.It pains me to say but Batman Begins should change its name to Batman Disappoints.


                
What an awful movie I went into this with the highest of expectations, after reading all the glowing reviews, and boy, was I disappointedCome back Michael Keaton, all is forgiven. Tim Burton, you are a visionary.C Nolan-- what oh what were you thinkingEvery possible cliché, every possible stupidity was in this movieIt was almost as bad as Spiderman (though saved from that ignominy by the absence of a "new-york solidarity" scene.The only saving grace was Michael Caine, who delivered the best line (What's the point of all those push ups if you can't even move a block of wood off you").Christian Bale tried hard, but had dire material to work with. Katie Holmes-- why was she in this movie?There seemed to be a desire to turn Bruce Wayne and Rachel Dawes into longtime sweethearts- but the flashbacks showed only the minimum of interaction, so when Rachel says "the man I loved you're left wondering-- when exactly did you love this man??????Liam Neeson-- totally wasted Morgan Freeman-- in it for the money and proud of it, another highlight ins this abysmal movie Gary Oldman--??????????I know everyone's been raving about the car-- but after watching fast cars in another awful movie (The Fast and the Furious), for me the Batmobile lumbered like a tank, and didn't fly like a bat!Yes some ideas were amusing, and some even clever, but overall the dialogue was substandard, and the lack of style unforgivable.Tim Burton's Batman was the best-- Batman and Batman Returns will remain the defining movies for this comic-book world
Well...this is just another bad action movie based on a comic book -that has nothing to do with the original book. First of all ,the movie has changed the entire character of Bruce Wayne -he's not an arrogant one like Christian Slater's acting ;he's more like a quite rich and respected gentleman who's life as a superhero are way different and separated then his life as another everyday person. And besides -the batmobile is just ridiculous in the movie -I mean ,a heavy kind of an armored tank....? what's wrong with you people?...the batmobile is way different in the book ,not mentioning all the unnecessary special effects around the movie and the random sequence of events (bad scrips and bad writing...). In conclusion: dry ,boring ,another pointless remake -too overrated and too hyped.
This film is severely under par and overrated! Nolan's directing should have propelled this adventure to the cosmos, but just like the character himself, it falls flat on its face. Nolan is no action director, and it shows! Too choppy and too damn close. You need a second set of eyes to see what the hell is actually happening during the action. The music, or rather lack thereof, was horrendous. Warner Bros. hired Zimmer and Howard to compose an orchestral masterpiece, and all that was made by these two men was a two-note fanfare!? How disappointing! The bat mobile chase, the training montage, and the "climactic" train sequence were so cliché. Didn't we already see this in a certain web-slinger's movie. I read that Nolan used about half of the budget on the car and train chases. Where did it all go?! The tumbler chase is just loud and uneventful. The "monorail" has three layers of train tracks, and only ONE car on ONE track was used. What potential the climax had! What a let down! The villains were stupid, but well acted. Cillian was neat, but his Scarecrow needed more than 1 minute of screen time to make an impact on the psyche. For sure there will be a sequel, but "Begins" has nothing on "Memento," "Insomnia," and "Following." Does "sucks" have three or four U's? Happy Viewing, If you can.


                
I have never fallen asleep in the cinema in my life! I thought this film looked pretty good and the cast was impressive, plus i loved the first 4 Batman films but i fell asleep like 20 minutes in and didn't wake till near the end. I guess i can't really comment but i think a movie that puts you to sleep that fast isn't worth spending money on. Plus the story was pretty awful the 'villan' was dumb and it just didn't have anything like the other films. I like the whole fantasy edge to Batman and the way the villains are formed (Joker with the acid, Catwoman with the cats etc) the film has none of this. The continuation from the original Batman was dumb as it was clear that the joker killed Batman's parents yet in this he does not? Basically save your money!


                
This has to be one of the more disappointing movies I've seen in a while. With such a top-notch cast of talent with names such as Christian Bale, Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, Liam Neeson, and especially Gary Oldman, one could be expecting to see a high-quality piece of cinematic entertainment.Unfortunately, this was far from the case.I used to be an avid comic book collector in my youth, and while Batman was never one of my favorites, I looked past that and put that past to keep an open mind and let the movie speak for itself. It really was not well-spoken.The plot, while unlikely, is totally non-cohesive and one finds themselves constantly laughing throughout and the nonsense they are watching. The characters are weakly written (especially Gary Oldman's pathetically boring 'Good-guy' cop) and the screenplay could have been conceived of by a 12 year-old C grade student. I only watched this because it was on sale after Thanksgiving for $4.88 on DVD and I can honestly say it wasn't even worth that.If you are really in the mood for a good comic book movie, watch the first X-Men movie. You will be far less disappointed.


                
"Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moonlight?"So sayeth Jack Nicholson in a riveting performance as The Joker in an earlier film about the caped crusader. There is not a line, a performance, a character, a joke or an idea that comes close to matching that single piece of sublime brilliance here. Burton's "Batman" of 1989 had class. It had vision. It had style. It had character. Christopher Nolan's "Batman Begins" is the antithesis of that former picture in almost every conceivable way. As a fellow film fan put it: "Batman Begins" is like eating dry toast with nothing to wash it down." But what is the problem here? Surely this is the film, according to critical and fan response, that has brought Batman into the light? Well, sort of: only in the literal sense of taking him out of the shadows and placing him where he does not belong. Nolan has crafted a picture that works against the inherent absurdity and twisted elegance of Batman. Like scaling Mount Everest with one's nose instead of one's feet, he has attempted performing the impossible and only proved that it cannot be done. Many people have cheered a naked emperor and his picture. It is a picture that embodies the faceless studio system that spawned it and aggressively sells itself as vapid entertainment disguised as "art".A good comic adaptation needs a good protagonist. In "Begins", which seems only natural, it doesn't get one. Bale physically looks the part as Bruce and even brings some reckless charm to the part - but he's ultimately too bland and joyless. Even worse is his Batman: a sinister, angry, uninhibited creature who blunders and blusters his way through the film's second half. Keaton may have looked less imposing and suave as Bruce Wayne -- but his eyes did acting aplenty. Keaton, like Christopher Reeve as Superman, knew that understatement was the key to suggesting immense intelligence and grace. But Bale's Bruce lurks as a non-entity and his Batman is ultimately overplayed (that gritty voice, some pained imitation of Alec Baldwin or Clint Eastwood, takes the cake).Not even the presence of other heavyweights saves this film. In fact, in many ways, it works against it. What is the collective might of Liam Neeson, Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman doing in the same picture? This is Hollywood product. Of the three, it's Caine that fares the best: he brings real authority and palpable humanity to butler Alfred. Neeson, however, delivers a villain as lifeless and flat as Morgan is cool and collected (I don't see Lucius Fox -- I see Morgan Freeman playing Lucius Fox). Katie Holmes, Rutger Hauer, Cillian Murphy and Gary Oldman are the best picks here: smaller names with real talent that work to the film's advantage. But it's not enough. Not a single person gets under the skin of their characters and actually does something memorable.It's not that Nolan hasn't tried. There are some inspired touches. Several early scenes between Bruce and Rachel, when Bruce is a foolish young man with a gun in his pocket and a chip on his shoulder, hit their mark; several later scenes between Bruce and Alfred are also infused with genuine warmth and emotion. Nolan also concocts some clever visual pieces - young Bruce watching stage performers morph into bats, the Scarecrow's vile hallucinations - that suggest a depth and power otherwise muddied or missing. The early cinematography, where the bleak Asian mountains are used to represent Bruce's cold psyche, is incredibly effective. There's even a moving line here and there: "Why do we fall? So we can learn to pick ourselves up".Batman is a dark hero - but his cinematic outings should inspire. The other big pictures of 2005, "Revenge of the Sith", "Sin City" and "King Kong", are rich in style and substance. Begins just flaps about in its own excrement. In attempting to be so literal, it forgets how to be abstract and entertaining. Bruce's training is a prime offender. Why, in six films, did George Lucas not once show any of the Jedi training to fight or construct their lightsabres? Because it wasn't necessary! Ra's Al Ghul repeatedly attacks Bruce and rattles off hollow soundbites like: "Training is nothing. Will is everything". All well and good - but Yoda said a similar thing in "The Empire Strikes Back" and then put his words into action. "The Empire Strikes Back" didn't just tell, it showed, and in lifting the X-Wing out of the swamp, Yoda taught Luke and the audience more than they thought possible. Such awe and wonder are alien to this film. Hollow sentiments like, "It's not who you are underneath, but what you do that defines you," again spelling things out, just rub salt into the wound.The film's narrative wants to be epic and serious - but it undermines itself at every turn. Bats don't attack people. People don't fall hundreds of feet and live to tell the tale. The technology that Bruce wields wouldn't have gone unused. Bruce refuses to kill a prisoner but then blows up an entire gathering (complete with said prisoner) and later leaves the villain to die. In fact, Ra's Al Ghul has no believable motivation for wanting to destroy Gotham (his explanation is downright laughable). The climax then plays out like "xXx" or the poorest of the James Bond features. People who crave good film-making are advised to look elsewhere. As if the other problems weren't enough, the horrific editing and tepid scoring kill the flow and scale of the film dead. But that was never going to be difficult. Even the woefully excessive "Batman and Robin", the previous nadir of the series, wasn't shackled in pretense. Nolan definitely danced with the devil in the pale moonlight. This isn't art or entertainment - it's mutilation.
By that, I mean one that everyone talks about will be so great, and one you wait for and know it'll be something excellent. But then as it is finally time to light, it turns out to be a great big dud.I expected something good, something new. We're talking about the Beginning of Batman, obviously enough. What I saw was a great big budget completely wasted on a script that wasn't written all that great. It moves so fast that ten minutes into the film so much has happened and you're left questionable to what the hell is even going on yet. I believe the term is Push-Plot, where they wanted to just skip all the boring scenes that would take their time and have plenty of room for the Deleted and Extended scenes section of what you know will be a special edition two-disk DVD set like every other comic adaptation.So much happens and so fast that it really did feel like the film makers decided to cut the only ten seconds of action from every well written scene and decided to just paste moment after moment to the point where you see so many jumps that it nearly gets annoying trying to catch up with what happened twenty seconds ago compared to what the hell is happening now. It left me and the few I was with very confused and looking around to mutter "wait, what just happened? Now he's over there ... now he's back.. What just happened??" and the little action there was, like a big firework, promised much and then delivered dully and barely enough to keep the viewers entertained.Something most might be disappointed on is the fact that this was not a film as promised that goes back to the original comics. But in reality it's a now-days presentation of what the comics would be, had they been written only a year ago by a guy who only had somewhat of a cool idea for a new comic character who dresses as a bat. If anything, it only steals from other newly comic adapted movies, like Spider-man and Superman (with starting him out with a lame costume, and saying Bruce Wayne is the mask Batman hides behind.) and alike all the other previous made Batman movies, hell, even leading back to the old TV show, This just seemed like a movie that wanted as many Big-Name Hollywood stars to be the cast as they could. Don't get me wrong, Bale plays an excellent Batman when he has the chance, and it's not his fault the writing was bad. The villain (Cillian, the Scarecrow) was one of the best characters, and his screen-time was seen more in the previews than it even was throughout the whole film!Over all it was an utterly predictable movie, with too much fast action and not enough plot to enjoy or even understand what's going on half the time. My biggest complaint is the bat-mobile .. What the hell was the point of making it some lame kind of tank? While the other films got very in-touch with fantasy, and maybe too much even, this was a film that the makers wanted to make a little Too real, and it ended up coming out as an even bigger joke than the rest. It's truly sad to say that the previous films, including the so horrible Batman and Robin was even put together more well than this one was. It's reasons like this that the great Tim Burton backed away from the series, and we all know that's true.** 2 out of 10. Save your money, wait for it to come on cable instead.
Batman begins is the beginning of an era of all around bad movies. Bad acting, bad directing and bad writing. Did anyone else notice batman had only one expression, the blank gaze. Except when he was really angry, that warranted a shaking jaw. His low, "I am Batman" voice got increasingly gruff throughout the movie, to no benefit whatsoever. His interrogation routine was severely flawed, what with the administration of insanity gas prior to shouting clichéd questions, to a now incoherent being. His defense mechanism was to jump off buildings at any sign of danger, and he couldn't even manage to lift a log of himself, despite the adrenaline that should be coursing through his veins, without the encouragement of Alfred. To top it all off, Batman was just a tool in general, wiping out hordes of innocent people for the sake of petty revenge. I miss the good old days, when superheroes weren't required to let angst affect their every move, driving included. Bring back the Batmobile, that hunk of machinery was a pathetic replacement for some long lost masculinity. All in all, the highlight of the film, and some of the best acting, was the hobo.End rant.
I am a religious Batman fan(sadly, haven't gotten ahold of the comic books yet), but this? This movie, is a pure annoyance.Ra's Al Gul? Could have been played so much better by his right hand man, Liam Neeson. Al Gul is not of any other nationality. If anything, he's British. And I love Cillian Murphy to death, but Doctor Crane is a gangly, red headed maniac. Not a drop dead gorgeous man. Comish G, perfect performance by Gary Oldman.I like how they used not so popular villains in this movie, but thats about it. Storyline is utterly insane. The police force/authorities of Gotham in a "league of shadows"(another non-popularvillain group of 'Vertigo'...bad mix of villains in my view.) to "fix" Gotham? No way. Never.If they rushed this movie to get it out to the "Crying" public, they should have waited and saved up money to get people that actually FIT the freaking character. Like Liam Neeson was PERFECT for Ra's Al Gul. PERFECT! When he first appeared in the movie and he said Ra's Al Gul, I was thinking that he was saying he worked for him, but really was him. I mean, come on! The goatee/mustache IS Ra's Al Gul! DID NO ONE ELSE SEE THAT?!?! (but then again you'd have to have seen every 1990's Batman Animation Series episodes over 3 times each ^_^) ...and weirdly, Christian Bale looked a bit...chubby in the Suit. (Honest, no joke. Sorry Bale.) The bottom line is, no one will ever get it right. Jack Nicholson, ruined Joker. I fell in love with the cartoon character and then wanted to burn the VHS of the first Batman because of it! Michael Keaton? Don't get me started. The film industry just DO NOT understand Batman, and never will. They never keep the story straight, or it all in the same book! But they never will make the movies the way they should be, because in their world, it's all about money, and not justice to the story.And yes, it seems they are making a new one. I checked out the man they're talking to for The Joker. And all I can tell is, they want him for his nose. Bad idea, boys.But I will see it when it comes out, only for 2 reasons.The Joker and Harley Quinn. (IF they feature her. My favorite role model in life ^_^)


                
Having just watched the DVD release of this summer blockbuster, I have little to report in regards to Batman Begins, other than these few words: exceedingly disappointing. After an enthralling and intelligent 40 minute preamble, the story slides into a cookie-cutter WAL-MART stocking-stuffer. What a shame - great cast, interesting setup, beautiful sets, intelligent director - but lousy bloody script! What a shame Hollywood shows only an interest in producing lunch-pail products. The film ends in one's mind before you switch off your television; you know he gets the girl, saves the city and punishes the bad guys . . . and yet, this film is so obvious and predictable, I had to watch it to the end, just to ensure it WAS predictable. Ah well, I've lost all my faith in comic-book to film adaptations. At least Sin City pushed the limits (of good and bad taste). All Batman Begins pushes are a suggested sequel, a Mac Ronald's promo and some Chinese action figures.


                
I was very interested in seeing this movie after the Tim Burton kind of Batman movies. I am not a real Batfan: I don't know much about the comic books and I just expected to see a great "fantasy" movie with interesting characters. Burton's movies were great. I knew that it will be darker now, but it was much more boring. It's an average big budget action flick. The writer and the director has no idea about a SUPERHERO: we got an average action hero of the Nicholas Cage/Steven Seagal type in a bat-suit. However, I haven't seen The Dark Knight movie with Heath Ledger yet and I still hope that it will be more exciting. See my comment there.


                
Just another superhero movie.They're all the same, batman, spiderman, superman... you get super powers and go fight off all evil. Great.This movie was supposed to be dark and a little disturbing, so that's why I decided to watch it. Instead, there was NOTHING dark or scary in it and I really have no idea why it's rated PG13.The one with the joker, the older one, was better.On the good side, there were very brief showings of the scarecrow. That's all that was good. I think only 7-year-old boys that like superheroes would like this.


                
I know I'm in the minority, but I found this to be a spectacularly bad film on almost every level. Michael Caine and Liam Neeson, fine actors who often seem to take roles to pay off their credit card debts, turn in the worst performances of their respective careers. Christian Bale turns in a stunning, or rather stunned performance (he seemed to be under the influence of some kind of heavy sedative). Only Morgan Freeman and Katie Holmes gave performances worth mentioning. The first because although he's in another of those "wise prophet in bad movie roles" that he seems to specialize in these days, his performance is warm and energetic. His Fox is actually likable -- in a three-dimensional way. Holmes turns in her best performance since Dawson's Creek. It's not saying much, but it's something.The plot and the characters is beyond unbelievable and, in some ways, downright offensive. Bruce Wayne's father, a billionaire industrialist who also happens to be a physician, who builds a monorail -- a MONORAIL! -- to pull the city out of a depression (but not the national economy? Does the monorail go all the way to Metropolis, too?), and centralizes all transportation and the municipal water supply in his own corporate headquarters is a good guy? Huh? Sounds like a megalomaniacal John D. Rockefeller-meets-Boss-Tweed type, actually.This isn't a minor point, since the father is central to Bruce Wayne's motivation (and his hackneyed Oedipal -- we saw it in Star Wars -- relationship with Neeson's Ra's Al Ghul). What the film is saying is that, without the intervention of corporate capital (Wayne Enterprises), the body politics will collapse in on itself; that the corporation -- Halliburton, maybe? -- will save the nation where civil society has failed. Make no mistake, Bruce Wayne is NOT a lone vigilante; he is the enforcement arm of the trillion dollar corporation he runs and which arms him. Given the state of things today, I find that disturbing.The plot is so full of inconsistencies, that I wouldn't know where to start. The one that leaped out at me and had me shaking my head the most, though, was the idea that the best way to stop the microwave weapon from blowing up the central water system was to send it sailing into the central water system. I'm no physicist, but wouldn't the pressure built up from the vaporized water leading INTO the central system cause it to blow? Wouldn't it be possible to blow the whole thing up just by getting close? There's not much to be said for this film. The long shots of Gotham City looked like the backdrops of a mid-90s video game. The on-site sets looked like they were trying to do Tim Burton without actually having the faintest idea how. I know Gotham is a declining megalopolis, but why does the WHOLE city look like a slum -- except for Wayne Manor, which seems to be in the foothills of the Scottish Highlands with nary a road nor a telephone pole, nor a building to be seen up to the horizon.I understand that superhero films require a suspension of disbelief. That, in fact, is part of their appeal. This one asks the viewer to suspend far too much. At the same time, it asks you to swallow an ideological message that only George W. Bush could love. That's just way too much.


                
I am surprised to see this film doing so well, its pretty much a re-hash of the batman character.OK how do we do this, we throw in some Martial arts, Liam Neeson & lots of fight scenes.It's a pretty average Hollywood film, at least Tim Burton added some character to his working of the subject & Michael Keaton fleshed the character out.Jack Nicholson was outstanding.This film will quickly slide out of the top 50, expect to pick it up in woollies fairly cheaply in a few months time!


                
Too long. Ugly set pieces. Ugly visuals. Bland colour palette. Christian Bale is not a great Batman. Michael Keaton and Adam West were far greater. Story is way too complicated. Takes itself far too seriously considering it's a movie about a man who fights crime dressed as a bat. Over all, very overrated. I turned off half way through. 90s Batman was superior. This was a horrible time for cinema.


                
A. Your not going to see Joker origin, How Ever You might a little bit of Jack Napier before He Became Jack Napier The Hood Gangsters. Your 'll see how ever Jack Napier old day's such has. When He was a comedian. The. You'll Also probley see The Joker Kill his Pregent wife.B. You'll going to see James Gordon From LT. Into Commissioner C You'll also get to see The Relationship between Harvey Dent Commissioner Gorodon & Bruce Wayne.D.You'll's will see Young Barbra Gordon in the movie at age maybe 12C.The other crime I think what will happen is The Joker Will Murder Commissioner Gordon's WifeD. IF Possisble They Should still two storyline From Burton's movie 1.You ever Dance with a devil on the pale moon light. & 2. In the BATMAN: Special Edition there's this story board That The Joker Say's He say's This Your'll miss my party BATMAN, & You Batman you'll the guess of honor BATMAN Quate's What Are You talking about BATMAN THE DON"T YOU RECOGNIZED YOUR PALE JACK AFTER ALL YOU MADE FOR WHAT I SM TODAY


                
by the time i'm writing this movie is rated 110 in the top 250 best ever made movies, i don't understand how since watch this was a lousy experience for me and complete waste of time, the story is boring and sometimes it gets confuse, i miss the old style batman when the joker Jack Nicholson with an excellent characterization, we looked at him and see evil... this time the bad guy actually is the one who teaches him how to be a good guy and explored is batman side, this Wayne is quite a stupid guy that doesn't have interest about is company, all that able to do is figth, i liked allot the old batman in the way that he was a excellent manager and good figther and was able to perform that at the same time. Another thing i disliked was the car too fancy and not that much practice, the "shield" was much more the batman figure. I would give this 3 stars for the excellent acting and some special effects but not even that can "distrash" this movie.


                
