Batman Begins is a well told story of the origin of Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale). It covers a lot of the same ground as Michael Keaton's original Batman, but goes much further in depth in many factors of his creation. It goes into great detail about subjects such as how he got his costume, what exactly it is. Same goes with the Batmobile. We also find out why he chose to be bat-like.One of the more interesting aspects here is how it shows Bruce's father, Thomas Wayne (Linus Roache), and how he molded Bruce's life and instilled good judgment within him, a point which is misunderstood about him by most people he comes in contact with. Thomas, too, teaches Bruce valuable lesson, such as "We fall so we can learn to pick ourselves up". This is pretty close to the theme of the movie or motto Bruce Wayne lives by. The resemblance of the father & son is pretty good, too.I also thoroughly enjoyed the training Bruce Wayne endured becoming "invincible". Bruce is trained by Ducard (Liam Neeson) in many ways like a ninja (The concept of Batman IS similar to a ninja). He is taught many valuable lessons in this temple and is shown no mercy. Eventually, we even see his first real enemy as a superhero/vigilante.Although I am not positive as to how true to the comic book this movie is, I am sure it took a few liberties, as did Spider-Man. Most of the small examples I have noticed are for the better and make for a good story. The Batmobile is more believable as an expensive armored vehicle that the military would not spend the money on than a juiced up Corvette (or whatever that was). Same with the Batsuit.Katie Holmes is excellent as Rachel Dawes, a D.A. who is not afraid to go after the big villains in court. Also worthy of mentioning is Michael Caine as Alfred the butler. I do not believe they could have found a better man for that role, although I could not get the image of Caine as Austin Powers' dad out of my head when he was on screen.Finally, in my opinion, Christian Bale makes a much better Batman than the three recent previous ones in Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney. Something about him makes Batman darker and more mysterious. Hopefully, DC Comics and movies have learned from their mistakes and we will not have to worry about Batman picking up a sidekick in this newest installment of the Batman series. 9/10


                
To start off this review I'd like to go back to the original batman series. Adam West hammed it up in what has to be the campest yet enjoyable version of batman. It was cheesy, it had the POW, WHACK, KABOOM, very very tongue-in-cheek which, brings me to my next point, is what batman eventually became. Batman, featuring Michael Keaton was a good film, keaton was a good batman, he portrayed the dark knight to a whole new army of fans, a darker batman, less camp, plus with a villain such as Jack Nicholson (turning in another great performance) as the Joker it was win win. Where from there? A sequel, Keaton yet again, Batman Returns, not as good as its predecessor but still a thoroughly enjoyable film with the villains being Penguin (Devito) and Catwoman (Pfeiffer) adding something different to the batman series. All is going well, then things start to go sour. Keaton is gone and in comes Kilmer who has to be the most wooden Batman ever, in come the clichés, the tongue in cheek one-liners and so on but Batman still has some credibility until, dare I mention it, Batman & Robin. This ruined the Batman series with Clooney just being the eye-candy for the ladies, the addition of Batgirl (oh dear Lord) and the villains just coming out with the most tongue-in-cheek one liners ever, example Mr Freeze "You're not sending me to the cooler", wrong, oh so wrong. Something had to be done and this was Batman Begins. This film rescues the Batman series single-handedly, it's a shame it didn't start off this way as it might not of died on it's rear. Bale is an inspired choice as Batman bringing a more serious side to Batman, the story is well paced, it's not all talk or just mind-numbing action, it actually keeps you gripped as you want to find more about Bruce Wayne's past. The only reason it misses out on a 10 is the quite pitiful bad guy scarecrow If you've not seen it I don't want to give too much away about the story but throw away all your perceptions about Batman because Batman is back and Batman has truly begun. D-man.


                
This movie is truly inspiring to us Batman fans out there. It's hard to believe that Christian Bale once weighed 130 lbs for one role and then shot up to 220 lbs, before trimming down to 190 lbs for Batman. This man is truly devoted to his work and it shows. Just look at certain interviews about how he portrays the character Bruce Wayne. It's almost as if Christian Bale does research and takes notes on Batman before he starts acting the part out. He makes all the right moves because he surrounds himself with a great group of actors. We can all relate to Bruce Wayne's character in some way and this is where we can thank Bale. Who else could've done it better? BATMAN IS BACK THANKS TO Christian BALE! I just hope the best is yet to come and he sticks with this role.


                
I loved Batman and Batman Returns, Tim Burton's direction and Michael Keaton's Batman were really good, and seemed to be the best we were ever going to get.I'm glad to say that i was wrong, Christopher Nolan has taken the character of Batman to the very beginning, fleshing out the characters of both Bruce Wayne and Batman down to the finest details. Nolan's use of realism in the creating the Batman character makes him more believable than ever.Christian Bale quite simply personified the character of Bruce Wayne/Batman and actually puts everyone else's portrayal in the shadows. Bale is supported by a wonderful cast, including Michael Caine, Liam Neeson, Katie Holmes, Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and more, but i found Cillian Murphy's performance as Dr. Jonathon Crane to be one of the finest in the movie.Overall Batman begins is an very honest, detailed and compelling adaptation of the Batman character, that is worthy of the recognition it has received. For Bat fans and movie lovers alike; this is a must see.9/10


                
Batman Begins, the much hyped, much publicised 'reboot' of the Batman franchise is finally here and boy what a treat it is! I was a big fan of Tim Burton's take on Batman, his portrayal of the dark knight as a brooding and reluctant bringer of justice, I always felt fit perfectly with the imagery of the comic books and gave a great feel to the whole Batman mythology. The following outings of Batman Forever and Batman and Robin, were less than splendid though. Over-blown campy nonsense with two-dimensional characters being upstaged by a campy over the top rouges-gallery of villains.So here is the re-boot. The beginning. Batman begins breaks from the convention of other comic book films. The first act of the film is told through flashbacks and does not follow a linear editing style. It gives a fantastic insight into Bruce Wayne's feelings towards his origins and his motivation for becoming the Dark Knight. It traces his path from young boy, to troubled young man; unable to vent the anger he feels for injustice he has suffered at the hand of the criminal element.Bruce Wayne attempts to confront his demons head on, but soon realises he is just one man in a corrupt and frightening world. The film takes us on the journey Bruce endures in trying to find what it is he needs to do to come to terms with his past and to guide his future. He travels the world and seeks out a means to better himself both mentally and physically. He trains with masters of martial arts, to learn the fighting skills and mental strength he will require to bring justice back to Gotham. This all provides the very convincing back-story of the transition from Bruce Wayne to Batman.Without giving too much of the plot away, Bruce travels back to Gotham and begins his quest for justice. It shows how he equips himself and the conflict he has within when dealing with the criminals of the city. It also shows what other Batman films have failed to show. The trouble of living a double life when you are a billionaire playboy. Bruce has to find balance between his public image as Batman and his public image as a rich, businessman and socialite.The film climaxes with an awesome final act, showcasing immense fight scenes, brilliant use of the new Batmobile, gorgeous sets and intense acting. The final scenes set the film up perfectly for any sequels and all the while maintains the sense of realism and down to earthiness that Nolan promised.Batman Begins is well written, well-shot and combines amazing special effects, set design and acting to form a perfect final package. This is without a shadow of a doubt, the best comic-book movie I have ever seen. Christian Bale puts in a sterling performance as Bruce Wayne, often reminiscent of his role as a businessman in American Psycho. He is also very convincing of a man driven to fight injustice, a man with a troubled past and a man seeking what he must do to come to terms with it. He is also entirely convincing as the all-action hero Batman, disposing of criminals with his expert martial arts training enthusiasm for justice.The supporting cast is perfect. Michael Caine is an inspired choice for Alfred. There is good chemistry between him and Bale and you are left convinced that they have a quasi-father/son relationship and that Alfred genuinely cares for his young master. Gary Oldman plays a brilliant Sgt Gordon, the last honest copy, torn between misguided loyalty to the force and an honest will to protect the innocent. Cillian Murphy plays a reserved, but entirely psychotic proto-super villain and Morgan Freeman and Liam Neeson, as always provide strong character roles. Holmes was a fine leading lady, but I couldn't help feeling she didn't really have enough to do in this film, however only a minor criticism.Batman Begins is a dark film, centred on strong themes of fear, over coming demons of your past and the fight for justice in a corrupt world. Unlike many comic book films, this film is not in anyway aimed at children. It is not strictly adult in nature, but follows intelligent character development, adult conflict and complex portrayals of the characters. Most comic book films introduce your hero as good because he wants to save the world and the villain bad because he wants to take over the world. Then the action begins. This is not the case with Batman Begins, it gives insight into each character's motivation and reasons for their actions, it does not expect the audience to blindly accept anything on face value.Well done to Goyer and Nolan for producing such an awesome movie. When I left the cinema, everyone in the audience was grinning at the end of the film, knowing they had just seen the beginning of something rather special. Bring on the sequels!


                
Last night, I went to check out Batman Begins, and I only have one word for the tone of this film: perfect.Absolutey nailed. Blasted out the park. A grand slam.The folks responsible for this adaptation of the Dark Knight simply "got it." 100%.Batman is a persona that was created to inspire fear into the hearts of criminals. A creature of the night that hunts from the shadows, strikes without warning, and vanishes into the darkness like a nightmare. The character is never meant to be seen by the general public, he is merely meant to exist in their whispers, an urban myth that is talked about in hushed tones throughout Gotham City.Batman does not have a "Bat Credit Card", and he doesn't attend charity auctions or débutante balls. He doesn't drive around the city streets in the Batmobile in broad daylight, waving to cheering citizens. He doesn't have a "Bat Phone" that connects him to the commissioner. He doesn't wear a costume with rubber nipples or operate vehicles with spinning neon turbine engines and open cockpits. He doesn't crack jokes like, "It's the car, right? Chicks dig the car." All of these things are wrong, wrong, WRONG...and this movie understands that. It understands that and washes all of these injustices away until they are nothing more than a faded bad memory. Screenwriter David Goyer and director Christopher Nolan have given us a film that treats the character with respect; a loud, thrilling masterpiece that doesn't insult your intelligence or bombard you with inappropriate campy antics.Christian Bale gives us a Batman that will scare the living crap out of you. His voice is a gravelly, menacing sound, and when he yells at some poor schmuck to get some information, it's downright terrifying. He swoops out of darkened alleys, hitting fast and furious. He's brutal, cold, and calculating. In short, he's everything that anybody who ever put that cape and cowl on is not. Perfection.The villains are also amazing, but a huge part of their contributions to the overall brilliance of the film is their failure to dominate it. The previous Batman movies were plagued by these cackling idiots in ludicrous costumes who pushed Batman to the back burner. In Batman Begins, we finally get to spend some time with the hero, learning who he really is behind the mask.Not to imply that the villains are poorly fleshed out or inconsequential to the story - quite the opposite in fact. Cillian Murphy is a very effective Scarecrow, turning in a subdued, but intensely creepy performance as a warped psychiatrist who uses fear gas on his victims, unleashing horrifying hallucinations. Ken Watanabe (The Last Samurai) is a shadowy Tibetian criminal warlord named Ra's Al Ghul, who watches over young Bruce Wayne's training with Ducard, played by Liam Neeson. But things are not what they appear with this situation, and a shocking twist comes into play towards the climax. The rest of the cast is solid, especially Gary Oldman, who finally gives us a competent, intelligent James Gordon. Essentially, the movie is about fear. Confronting it, learning from it, using it, and conquering it. It's a dark, serious film that leaves little room for humor, but some sneaks through in the form of some witty exchanges between loyal butler Alfred (a brilliant Michael Caine), and Bruce Wayne.This movie is awesome and a complete triumph for DC, Warner Brothers, Nolan, and everyone else involved.. Run, don't walk, to the theater. Amazing.


                
OK.. So i don't want to make this long.I went to the Wizard Wolrd Comic Con on Saturday June 4th and they had a special showing of Batman Begins at the IMAX theater in King Of Prussia. Well.. It was Awesome. I am a huge comic book fan and this made me very happy. It is on par if not better then Batman 1.The movie has a scene here or there that is only so so, but you forget about that by the end. Anything they change in history is easy to forgive too because it works so well and makes a lot of sense.All the actors did a great job. I thought to many big names would be bad.. i commend you ALL... i knew Christian and Gary would be perfect and they WERE.. Katie, Michael and Morgan i was worried about (no offense to them, just for the roles) and they did awesome. Katie Holmes actually really did a great job. I gained a lot of respect for her abilities.Overall.. SEE IT.. i would have been willing to pay so much to see it early and getting a free showing made it that much sweeter. I have to see it again on opening night and then a week later for my brothers last night as a free man.. and i cant wait... GET OUT THERE AND SEE IT.. well.. when it opens :) THANK YOU to all who made this movie happen.. you really gave a great film that will hopefully get the taste of the last two (i know.. new franchise) out of our mouths.


                
I've never had a thing for Batman films. I watched the cartoons when I was about 8. That was alright. Nothing special though. And not to forget...I was only 8. I always thought batman is just not one of those things for me.This film however has changed my mind. I can't wait until the next one! Christopher Nolan presented an almost believable story in this 2:20 hour blockbuster movie. I especially liked the way Nolan described the fear of bats Wayne develops in his youth and the way his father was a big influence in his life. Casting was very good... Normally I would have given an 8 for this film, but because it was able to totally change my mind about the batman theme i think it really deserves a bit higher. That's why 9/10!!


                
Christopher Nolan and crew are to be commended for a job well done. If you are moderately interested in Batman, perhaps enjoyed the first film or two but was appalled with Schumacher's take on the series, you will love Batman Begins for its return to the darker, more serious side of Batman. If you are, however, a true Batman fan (by that I mean you have read your share of Bat comics and genuinely appreciate the character), this film will blow your mind.First off, let me say that Goyer and Nolan do take a lot of "artistic license" with the origin story; though is such a thing possible with a story that has been retold countless times? Anyway, there are a lot of new ideas thrown into the mix of Bruce Wayne's struggle - and subsequently, a lot of dimension.The mission of Batman Begins is really very simple - to bring a sense of realism and maturity to the Batman tale.When I say realism, I do not mean it is realistic. How could it be? But the film approaches the subject with the question, "Okay - what if it WERE possible?" And the suspension of belief works well.But besides all of that, what is really important about this film? Christian Bale. He MAKES Batman work. Never before has any television or film truly captured the intensity, the ferocious growl, the unstoppable passion that Bruce Wayne has.And this is a film about Bruce Wayne, not Batman. Which is why it works so well.I think this film would not have been possible, perhaps, without Spider-man's birth to the screen. Spider-man revolutionized superhero movies, gave some credibility to them. It showed the world that, in order to make a movie about a superhero, you have to instead focus on the alter ego - the real person.But Batman is a little trickier than Spider-man, I think. You see, the twist to this character is that, the Batman IS Bruce Wayne. Wayne the billionaire is the mask. Perhaps this seems a little simple, but the film really takes a hard look at it, and shows us two different Wayne's. This Batman does not require his costume in order to be Batman.There's a wonderful scene that shows an interaction between a little boy and the Batman. Batman attempts to stay hidden as he clings to a building in an alley, spying on a villain attempting to get rid of criminal evidence. The boy emerges from his beaten down apartment, parents yelling at each other in the background. He looks out on his rugged balcony, then catches a glimpse of the Batman - right next to him. Instead of rushing off, Batman just kind of shares a moment with him, silent at first, and the boy says with hope, "I knew you were real. No one else believes me." Bruce watches him a second longer, then hands him a device from his belt and disappears. This wasn't the cheesy, super-hero interacting with adoring fan type scene. It was almost like two kindred spirits, the hero feeling the child's pain and reaching out to him. The thing that is so wonderful about this version of Batman is that, while he appears heartless, he's actually full of compassion. And it isn't just the dorky super-hero type "calling". It runs in the family. We learn in the film that Bruce's great grandfather helped slaves escape to the North during the Civil War. We see perhaps one of the deepest renditions of Bruce's father, Thomas, as being a strong, compassionate and loving father, who's saying sticks with Bruce all his life: "Why do we fall? So we can pick ourselves back up." Michael Caine does a riveting job as Alfred, much more masculine (in a gentlemanly way) than past incarnations, a bit more youthful and definitely more agile. His fatherly influence warms the heart and makes us treasure every second with the character (though it might just be because of Caine, who is a phenomenal actor). Think of a "Second Hand Lions" type Alfred.Then there's the love interest (if you can call it that), Rachel. Honestly, I understand why they put her in here, but she really has no point to the story. She's not the reason he becomes Batman. She doesn't stop him from being Batman. She's just kind of there, a convenient voice from the past. Really, any of her scenes (aside from the kiss at the end) could have been given to Alfred, and it would have worked better. But being that she's actually such a small part of the film, it doesn't bother me that much.I won't go into the villains, because I can't say much there without giving it away. I will say, though, that they are again, very much based in realism, not in comic color poetry. There are a wide variety of villains in this film, and at the end, the promise of one very special foe in the sequel.This film ends on a definite note of continuation, as even the main titles suggest it (the title "Batman Begins" doesn't even flash until the last scene has rolled). But it works, because you knew that was coming anyway, right? Personally, I feel this film is a much more mature comic book film than Spider-man, Superman, Fantastic Four, X-men, etc. will ever be. While not realistic, Batman Begins is BELIEVABLE, and I will definitely be frequenting the theaters quite a bit this summer to see this movie again and again.


                
After being disillusioned by just about every comic book "blockbuster" of recent times, Batman Begins comes as a nice surprise. The film draws a lot of visual inspiration from Blade Runner and looks all the more impressive for it. The storytelling is done at a decent pace, giving each stage just enough time to have an impact before moving on. On the acting front Michael Cane as Alfred steals the show serving as the comic relief. Katie Holmes is a bit disappointing but her role is largely forgettable. Christian Bale does an excellent job of re-imagining Bruce Wayne, even if he doesn't look quite right with the mask on. Just goes to show, with this and Sin City looks like Hollywood can do Comic Books.....


                
As a longtime fan of the Batman comic I am always glad to hear a new Batman movie. The amazing thing about the Batman character over most other super heroes is that Batman has NO powers. He is just a guy, a rich guy yes, but not super human in any respect. Unlike Superman or most other titans, this guy can be killed and won't come back from the dead, of course the comic brings in new writers and they start another story line parallel for the character.Which is what Batman Begins is all about, a new take.I am a big fan of the Tim Burton Batman film. Batman Returns is a good movie, but it didn't work as good and wasn't as much fun as the first film. The Joel Schumacher films pretty much turned it into a ride at Universal Studios Orlando. Batman and Robin was a sad deprecation of a once great character. Bruce Wayne and Batman had only a small cameo in a movie that seemingly tried to fit every Batman villain in the past 30 years into some part.Thank you David Goyer and Christopher Nolan. Essentially they have turned Batman into a Michael Mann film. Batman Begins is the story about a man who has a tough job to do in a dirty place. He isn't a machine and doesn't live in a video game. We know why he does what he does. For the first time since the first Spiderman, we get an action movie that tells us why the character is in action. The insert scenes of flashbacks of Bruce with his father go a long way in adding up our main character.Thanks to a beautiful, forceful score from Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard the brood of Gotham and the force of the Batman character come to life in a big way.All the actors in the movie play their necessary parts and because they are all so distinguished, we never question if they are even necessary to the plot, frankly we don't care. All the actors are so good we want to see them on screen and just hang out. It is the same feeling I got when I was a kid watching Dean Martin, Ricky Nelson, John Wayne and Walter Brennan sit in a jail and sing just to pass the time in Rio Bravo. Good work by all involved.Comparisons to the elder Batty film of 1989 will come up. Which one is better? Not sure, I think Nicholson was so dang good as Joker for me its a hard call to see anybody reprising that role. Overall I think both films compliment each other.Just as legends in history can be told and retold with pieces of the story changing every time, comic book stories that are so well grounded like Batman can be retold.The band may be different, but the song remains the same.


                
I was lucky enough to have seen the premiere of the movie on Monday evening and I was very impressed. This is easily the best Batman movie I have ever seen. This movie completely disregards the previous 4 Batman movies and begins its own franchise. The scenes are dark and foreboding, as is Batman himself. This film makes the previous 4 Batman films look as campy as the old TV show. There are no wild costumes or over-the-top freak characters. Scarecrow's costume consists of nothing more than a burlap sack yet it is more effective than the ridiculous outfits worn by Mr. Freeze or The Riddler in the last two terrible Batman movies.The movie is outright action. The fight scenes are realistic in that there are no stupid one-liners being dropped during the fight, nor does the fight pause for one of the characters to crack a cheap joke. Christian Bale is the best Batman I have ever seen. The supporting cast is incredibly strong; with especially solid performances by Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Rutger Hauer, Liam Neeson and even Gary Oldman (who I have been very critical of in the past). I hadn't seen much of Katie Holmes before this film, but her performance was every bit on par as those of the seasoned veteran actors mentioned above. Lastly there is Cillian Murphy, whose performance reminded me of the chilling characters played in the past by Christopher Walken. I can see Murphy becoming a much bigger name in film in the near future.This was not a children's' movie in any way, though the film is not overly violent or gory. I don't recall seeing any blood at any point in the film. I saw many parents bringing children to the premiere, but I believe these people were expecting a movie like the previous 4 that added corny jokes and enemies that bordered on slapstick with their appearance.The movie distances itself immediately from the others by showing the audience a different version of Bruce Wayne's parents being murdered. The origin is told well and gives us a much better insight on the character of Bruce Wayne/Batman. This Batman is realistic. We see how he is trained and hear what his beliefs are. He even bruises and looks athletic without looking TOO big to hide his appearance when not in costume. I applaud Christopher Nolan for breaking out on his own and not submitting to the campy formula of the other movies.I would gladly see this movie again in the theater. It looks to be the best film of the summer and easily the best film I've seen this year. Because there is no sex or gratuitous violence the film is okay to take the kids to, but don't expect them to be as entertained as they were with the previous films. At no point does this film even pretend to be targeted at a younger audience.
There is a moment towards the climax of "Batman Begins" which illustrates why this film is an exceptional superhero flick. During a stunning car chase sequence, Batman (aka Bruce Wayne), our hero, crushes a number of police cars, at the very least injuring a number of policemen. Once Bruce Wayne returns home, he is reprimanded for showboating by his loyal butler, Alfred. In this sequence, the strengths of the film are neatly summed up. An exciting chase sequence is mixed with ambiguity surrounding our protagonist with questions raised over what is necessary for good to triumph. Indeed, at some points during this film, we are left asking what is good and whether it is triumphing at all. In short, this film merges superb action, clever character work and intelligent moral and philosophical questions all the way through with perfect balance.During a decade where the box-office has been stuffed with super-heroics of all shapes and sizes, this film remains the best super-hero film of the decade, with the only imminent challenger to that crown seemingly being its own sequel. Even the "Spider-Man" films, which together with the "X-Men" films can lay claim to starting the major revival of the genre, are able to beat this. But the comparisons are strong and the influences upon each other even stronger. "Spider-Man" arrived in 2002 and boasted strong character work as well as blockbuster action sequences. "Batman Begins" was deep into production when "Spider-Man 2" arrived in cinemas in 2004 with even stronger and detailed characters, better visual effects and action sequences that were greeted with applause the world over. The bar had been raised by the time the Dark Knight's origins were brought to the screen a year later. Expectations were high and the pressure was on.Nolan had the guts to do what he thought was necessary to make the franchise credible after the disaster of Joel Schumacher's "Batman and Robin" from the late nineties. Out went the camp Batsuits and cheesy dialogue, the comical villains and supernatural design. In came a gritty, realistic Gotham with as much backstory as the central character and villains who were not cartoonish. This is a world that is not dystopian but downtrodden and at the centre of it is Bruce Wayne who we find in prison, a lost-soul.Nolan devotes a relatively action-free hour to the central character, his past and the genesis of Batman. He is trained with brutal methods, whilst we are slowly shown the origin of his fear of bats and the death of his parents. He faces questions of justice and identity before resolving to return to Gotham where he slowly confronts his fears, his guilt and his anger and becomes Batman.Once the suit is donned, the film hits top gear. The action sequences and set-pieces come thick and fast. We meet our villains (excellent performances from Tom Wilkinson and Cillian Murphy), though the nemesis remains a mystery until late on. We discover the childhood sweetheart, now District Attorney, Rachel Dawes (a competent but unpopular Katie Holmes) and other lead good guy, policeman Gordon (another brilliant supporting performance from Gary Oldman), not to mention faithful butler and serial scene-stealer Alfred (long live Michael Caine). The philosophical questions, already established in the opening half-hour, are expanded upon (a detailed exploration of justice being the main one, with both protagonist and antagonist believing that they are carrying it out) whilst the world is filled in and Nolan's canvas expands.But the focus never shifts from Bruce Wayne, who is complex, interesting, sympathetic and expertly performed by Christian Bale. For all of the action (and there is enough of it, with none of it disappointing) the most enduring image is an astonishing shot of the Dark Knight silhouetted against the dawn sky as he stands at the top of the skyscraper surveying the metropolis below. It is a beautiful spine-tingling moment that, in an image, shows the strength of the film. This is an in depth exploration of a fascinating central character done with style and in a thrilling manner. This is not just the thinking man's superhero film. It is every man's superhero film with action and intelligence working together to brilliant effect.The bar had been raised once more and it became evident in what followed. About a year and a half after the release of this reinvention came a similar change of direction for the Bond franchise with "Casino Royale" followed shortly by a trailer for "Spider-Man 3" which seemed to be heading into ultra-dark territory. Spider-Man's identity and soul where going to be at stake, but the film itself failed to match Nolan's effort. In fact, in the attempt to raise the bar once more it fell well short of previous efforts.And here we are, three years later, with the sequel "The Dark Knight" about to be released, and still Nolan's film sits on top of the pile. Why has no-one matched it? Is it something to do with the character or the director that makes "Batman Begins" unique? The franchise is not unique, but the director is. All you need do is look at his other pieces of work (especially the intelligent "Memento" and the intense "The Prestige") to realise that Christopher Nolan is a director of great intelligence, ability and style. Another film like "Batman Begins" from another franchise is not impossible, it is just very difficult.


                
Batman Begins was a movie I liked marginally when I originally saw it, but have grown to like it better the more I see it. Christian Bale plays the renegade billionaire Bruce Wayne who mysteriously disappears for several years while studying the criminal mind and element in the Far East. He is found by Henri Ducard (Liam Neeson), a member of the League of Shadows. This organization uses Ninja tactics and sees itself as the guardian of the world. The League of Shadows exists like a Star Chamber, taking actions against criminal elements government courts will not deal with. This secret league was responsible for the sacking of Rome, and the London Fire. Now, they wish to level Gotham City. Bruce barely escapes after learning their battle tactics. Returning to Gotham, he dedicates himself to ridding the city of Falconi, a ruthless crime lord who has the city in his grips for decades. In fact, the man who killed Bruce's parents worked for him at one time, making the stakes higher. Wayne uses his clout to look into weapon systems his company developed. He find some body armor. An unusual car. A cape. He forges them all into his new persona, Batman. While he brings down Falconi, someone else gets to him first: Dr. Jonathan Crane or the Scarecrow, played by Cillian Murphy. His gas agent causes people to go insane by releasing their worst fears. Apparently, he is working with the League of Shadows and release his chemical into the drinking water. We also meet a young cop named James Gordon (Gary Oldman), who is trying to go against the crooked police department. Another player is Rachel Dawes (Katie Holmes), an attorney who works for the city. This is how Batman should have been. Director Christopher Nolan deftly puts Batman into the real world. While I enjoyed Tim Burton's concept for Batman and Batman Returns, it was foreign - removed from reality into an uncertain time with uncertain technology. What Nolan does is give us not only circumstances, but also consequences for a man driven to the edge. I also enjoyed his use of non-linear time, which he seems to be a fan of. It keeps the audience interested and puzzled until the third act when it truly unfolds and fully makes sense. Also, Chrisian Bale does a wonderful job as a man conflicted. He hates the criminal mind and believes they should be stopped. Still, he cannot bring himself to kill those he hates. He also deals with his own hatred and propensity towards vengeance. The other performers also give great performances. Morgan Freeman is wonderful as the company man who leads Bruce Wayne to the interesting toys. He tells him how they work and how they should be used. Michael Caine gives the best performance as Alfred Pennwise, the faithful butler to Bruce Wayne. His charm, charisma, and dedication are portrayed so well. I was even moved by Gus Lewis as a young Bruce Wayne who took the role seriously and gave us a boy who truly blamed himself for his parents' death. The best scene is when Alfred comforts his loss. This was one of the best of the superhero movies of the last ten years. I hope the next one is done just as well.


                
In high school, I was part of the debate team, varsity volleyball, and Spanish club. But I was a HUGE fan of all the comic book movies. I was in my sophomore year of college when this came out and I drove all the way from New York to California just to see this movie with my dad. And I'm so glad I did.Now many assume that the more movies to one plot, the worse they get. They obviously haven't seen this movie. Plus, Christian Bale plays an amazing Batman. I would say maybe one of the best yet. Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine have left lasting impressions to everyone I know who has seen it.Now I can tell you right now - The Dark Knight is probably the one movie that I cannot wait to see in 2008. Bring on the Batman!


                
Well, it's official. Batman has gotten his balls back. This film is dark, extremely dark. So dark in fact, there are a great number of scenes filmed, I kid you not, exactly like a horror film. Now, I'm a huge fan of the "real" Batman movies. You know, "Batman" and "Batman Returns" which were done by Tim Burton, starred Michael Keaton, and were carried along by Danny Elfman's rousing musical score. Let's not forget, that old Batmobile from those films. This tank-like monstrous new Batmobile may very well be the coolest car I've personally seen in a movie in ages. Of course, if you're a fan of those rather putrid, embarrassing "other" Batman films (Forever & Robin), then you may very well not like this movie. Because it doesn't totally suck like those films did.Basically, this is the story of how Bruce Wayne thought of, created and became Batman. In a nutshell. However, it also tells, in the most personal way, of his struggles with the concepts of justice and vengeance. It shows us how he trained to become the ultimate fighter of evil and corruption. It introduces us to a different villain from the previous four films<U+0097>and does a mighty good job of it, too. Even as a side note<U+0097>we're introduced to good old Commissioner Gordon<U+0097>before he's police commissioner. So then, it also tells a bit of his "beginnings." We see the beginning of the Batcave and find out just how Bruce Wayne was able to, to quote the Joker, "<U+0085>get those wonderful toys." On top of it all, if you ever thought Michael Keaton was the only person who could adequately, correctly portray Batman on screen, you just may change your mind here<U+0097>I never imagined Christian Bale would do such a remarkable job.Here's the breakdown:The Good:--The action is fast and brilliantly choreographed.--The dark mood is finally back<U+0097>the way Batman is supposed to be<U+0097>it has even less "camp" value than Burton's films!--The Batmobile, as I said, is incredible<U+0097>and has some great sound effects to boot. Supposedly, it was designed by the same person who created Keaton's Batmobile.--Christian Bale is so good, he almost causes you to forget about Kilmer and Clooney<U+0097>thank god!--Michael Caine's powerful performances<U+0097>he's the major player keeping Bruce Wayne's humanity in check. More so than Katie Holmes, whose performance, while good, was a tad weaker than Caine's in this respect. She did an interestingly good job as a tough lawyer, however.--Bits of comic relief here and there<U+0097>that don't ruin the movie!--Brilliant atmosphere.--Excellent acting all around.--Not claustrophobically over-crammed with "Batman" villains like the last two films. The only major villain is the Scarecrow, and another character whom I'll leave up to you other movie goers find out.--Excellent tension.--Fantastic cinematography.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help:--The music is good, but for those of you out there like me<U+0097>you may miss Danny Elfman's beautiful score.--Gotham City is not as Gothic as it should be. However, the film has slightly more modern twist that makes it more "believable" than the previous films. Especially those last two, which, if you haven't guessed it by now, I hated.--Early on, the story deals a lot with flashback sequences<U+0097>a couple are a bit confusing as to where they belong chronologically. They may have indeed been chronological, but only seemed like a steady story with flashbacks. Still, it gets the point across.--The film seems to be set-up as either a new Batman series, or a prequel to Tim Burton's original Batman. I guess I'd be happy with either<U+0097>so long as they keep Christian Bale and don't sell out to that campy crap again.The Bad:--Scarecrow seems a bit underused.--We had to endure "Batman Forever" before we got to this brilliant piece.The Ugly:--We also had to endure "Batman & Robin" before we got to this. "Har har, ICE to zee youuu!!" Ugh!Memorable Scene:--Batman and Scarecrow<U+0097>talking "face to face."Acting: 10/10 Story: 10/10 Atmosphere: 10/10 Cinematography: 10/10 Character Development: 9/10 Special Effects/Make-up: 9/10 Nudity/Sexuality: 0/10 (there is none) Violence/Gore: 8/10 (a lot of violence, yum yum) Dialogue: 9/10 Music: 8/10 Direction: 10/10Cheesiness: 0/10 Crappiness: 0/10Overall: 9/10I finally went with a "9" over a "10" for these reasons alone: Scarecrow, to me, was a little underused; and I missed Danny Elfman's music. If you loved the first two films, you'll love this. If you loved the third and fourth films the most, well then, you sir, belong in Arkham Asylum and apparently hate movies. Everyone else<U+0097>go see it.(www.ResidentHazard.com)


                
Tim Burton's masterful take on the first Batman installment was wildly entertaining, boasted a terrific cast led by Michael Keaton, Jack Nicholson and Kim Basinger and a musical score courtesy Prince. After witnessing the cahoots of Schumacher's cheesy and lesser films, Batman Begins marks a terrific return to form for the franchise. Helmed by Christopher Nolan, the indie genius behind Memento and Insomnia, the blockbuster is given a restored sense of purpose, drama and bravura. The mere fact that the audience is not upset by the absence of Batman in full get up until the third act of the film, is a testament to all involved. This movie is about Bruce Wayne. Batman Begins quickly revisits what is already known by audiences, as a kid he witnessed the murder of his parents and is guilted/haunted by this;and he leads a tortured, almost reclusive existence. At a young age, Wayne drops out of Princeton heads to the Himalyas, is taken on as a protégé of Ducard (Liam Neeson). There we find out how he learns to fight and is asked to join the League of Shadows (a secret society of assassins), led by Ra's Al Ghul (the massively under-utilized Ken Wantabe). However, his morality is tested by a specific assignment, which discredits him in the League's eyes. Returning to Gotham, he encounters romance courtesy Katie Holmes and stumbles across a bit of corporate intrigue, as he tries to regain control of Wayne Enterprises. The film is not bogged down by its stellar cast as we meet his support team of Alfred (played with great comic chops by Michael Caine), Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman) and Commissioner Gordon (Gary Oldman....who proves he can not only do bad guy roles). Christian Bale as Batman is stunning. His looks, charm, poise screams Bruce Wayne, coupled with his acting prowess, he infuses the character with an air of sadness, grave intent and vulnerability. The film's narrative is steadfast and engrossing. The best surprise is the film's wonderful philosophical punch, with lines that can easily serve as "Thoughts for the Day". The film was also understatedly funny, in terms of Wayne's transformation into a superhero! The suit is cumbersome and watching him try to assume and maintain his double identity, conjures a twisted sense of humor. The darkness of this hero returns as he gets his vengeance by dealing with a crime boss (Tom Wilkinson), who is attached to the Wayne murders. We also get an all too contrived plot introducing the menacing Scarecrow (deviously played by Cillian Murphy), involving the "poisoning" the the city's water supply with an induced hallucogen. The final action sequence bored me, since I was much more captivated by the unraveling insight into the Bat's persona. The movie ranks right up there with X2, Superman and Spiderman 2 as one of the better superhero movies ever made.9/10
Well, first off, I must say; Bale, as mentioned before, is perfect as Batman. His acting performance in the movie is just outstanding, therefore my high rating. The movie itself, plot, dialogs and so on, its nothing out of the ordinary, but then you start to think about those 90's Batman movies. This just seem more realistic, more "Bruce" than "Batman" and with the perfect acting from Bale, it makes all other Batman movies look really dull and daft. They managed to put in a few funny lines as well, Michael Cane and Morgan Freeman gave the movie that extra "casual" yet serious, although funny touch to it all. I am impressed, more Bale, more Batman! Continue in style.danrozen,swe


                
The movie viewed in Imax screen gives one an unforgettable feeling. The visuals are excellently prepared, locations are out of this world and overall an excellent cinematic experience.The movie surpasses all the previous Batman movies so far produced.The movie has a very faithful story line, may be a little deviation from the comic but nevertheless a very good take off on the original. The screen play has been excellently written and picturised very near to natural surroundings of the magnificent Gotham city.The technological excellence & technical effects are something to be seen to be believed. The Batman suit designed, the way he glides using parachute techs and other gadgets , ammunition and the Batmobile used are all very well brought out convincingly.This Batman movie is really an outstanding piece of cenema, leaving one & all in a great feeling of watching one of the magnificent work, ever produced so far.


                
The trailers and the build up to this movie were fantastic so I was hoping that all the hype would prove to be worthwhile and Batman would be a classic! Although I wouldn't call it one of the best films I've ever seen, it certainly was an enjoyable film throughout! Christian Bale is a fantastic actor and its brilliant to see a Batman with a few more layers than George Clooney managed. Bale creates an edgy Batman who you can't help but emphasise with but also makes him seem almost dangerous in how unpredictable and reckless he is.The supporting parts in this film are so well cast its amazing! Sir Michael Caine as Alfred was something I couldn't see working before the film but him and Bale played off each other well and created the best character interaction.Katie Holmes was also surprisingly good but unfortunately the chemistry between her and Bale seemed non-existent really which is a bit of a shame.The major injustice in this film is that Cillian Murphy as Scarecrow has such a small part as the villain. This guy plays the creep to perfection in such a way, it seems creepily real. I hope he returns for the sequel as there is great potential there!


                
This film is a whole lot different than the other Batman films.I was never a fan of Batman films, but my friends told me that this film is really good, so i decided to go to the cinema and watch it myself.I was surprised by the difference between this film and the previous Batman films i watched.The film has a really good story, The fights are great, the Bat-gadgets are all there, the car (tank) is amazing, the plot is thorough and exciting and there is some nice humor throughout the film that make it that i have enjoyed the film very much.I am really looking forward to see the new Batman film in the future.


                
This is the movie The Hulk wanted to be, and failed miserably - the story of the man that turned himself into a legend. While Hulk failed on every conceivable level, though, this "Batman" succeeds.Although comparing Burton's Batman to this one is an exercise in tedium (both are great movies, although they satisfy different types of moviegoers), it may be enough to say that, while Keaton portrays Burton's Batman, Christian Bale is the comic book superhero. Keaton has an edge while showing off Bruce Wayne's strange and weird attitude, while Bale is absolutely amazing while depicting Batman as a man, driven by rage and hatred, who is willing to die to find inner peace.The only weakness I could see was Gotham city. Burton's vision of a future / past Metropolis is unsurpassed - his dark, menacing city is oppressive and hopeless. The new city can't approach the old one's power.Strangely enough, I found the actual "Batman" scenes not as satisfying as the whole Bruce Wayne transformation sequence. And the new Batmobile looks as if Batman has gone SUV-crazy - not a good thing (at least to me). Who cares - this is the Batman we thought we had lost ever since Keaton abandoned his mask.


                
yet again we have been treated to a true tour-De-force powerhouse movie that stands very tall with its head held high!!!!!! the only movies that have really got hold of me and given me a real sense of enjoyment (comic strip adaptations this is) is this and the x-men movies.BATMAN BEGINS the movie....the film starts with a young and innocent Bruce Wayne and its not long until you see why he ended up fearing bats they way he did and as the film progresses you get to see the reason why his parents are murdered and what affect this has on Bruce as he grows up full of hate and unforgivingness, as a result Bruce travels the globe in the hope that he will learn to understand the common criminal and therefore know how to combat them, and this is where he bumps into Liam Neeson who teaches him the ways of the ninja and other ways also in combating "evil" and you can guess the rest. the trick to this film is that you don't get to see batman at all for about an hour and the wait is really worth it, you get the lot in this movie... humour, sharp serious dialogue, great action, great actors and acting... but again the only down side to this movie is that pesky camera work in the fight scenes and it really annoyed me and made me feel a little dizzy at times, but when you look at the film as a whole you do tend to forgive this one and only discrepancy!!! he he..................9/10 for the film and would have been 10 but for the camera work.BATMAN/BRUCE WAYNE...where has this man been hiding he he, been a fan of bales for a wee while now and i was looking forward to him playing this, but i didn't realise how effective he would be, as the educated and mega rich teenager/business man he pulls this off with such a grizzly swagger and realistic charm you just have to love the guy...i am so glad that Christian bale was aloud to play the character as dark as he did, with so much conviction and because of this you really feel the hate/confusion that runs very deep through him........awesome! 10/10 for me!ALFRED the butler..... has Michael Caine ever been more suited to a character than Alfred??? i find it very hard to find any that come close, the only other one is probably peachy from "the man who would be king) with Sean Connery, the humour is bang on and really delivers the dialogue with real exuberance and is a delight to watch, witty, sentimental, and has the look of a real butler you could believe to be......10/10 again.COMISSIONER GORDON.....it is very rare when you get a Gary Oldman performance so perfectly played down as this, if you are a regular at the cinema then you will have no problems identifying him but if you're not you could very easily miss him altogether. Gary plays Gordon as the typical family orientated policeman who is just trying to survive in what is a real crap hole of a city in "Gotham city" where most of the cops are corrupt and the quality of people living there a quite unnerving to say the least.....you don't get the usual Gary Oldman here and just occasionally i would like to have seen just a little bit more of the actor i know and though i didn't get it i loved his character all the same......9/10 HENRI DUCARD/RHA'S AL GHUL.......Liam Neeson is consistently showing some REAL heavyweight performances in Hollywood at the moment and this is just another feather in that bow, for the first hour of the movie nearly all the best scenes had him in them, and was by far a better villain than any of the other batman villains in previous movies put together....this was a man with real issues and real hatred for corruption and lawlessness and his conviction in this movie made me go WOW on more than 1 occasion he he.....what a towering impression he gives when he is being forceful especially during the sword fighting scenes....awesome....apart from sounding a bit like Qui-Gon Jinn in some spots ( still sounded cool just too familiar if thats the right way of putting it) he was cock-on!! 9/10 MORGAN FREEMAN... though this guy is always Mr reliable he was never allowed to shine as much as you hope for in this, purely because his character isn't that big but what you do get you just know you like... he he.CHRIS NOLAN/ director....well, well ,well! this is excellent directing, the pace of the movie is spot on, the feel he gives you with both the scenery and the dark harsh Gotham city is quite exquisite. you do get lots of shots at like side profile and the use of these angles with shadows over the faces and body positions give you the sense of that you are watching a very dark and gritty movie and right from the get go you know that this is never gonna be like the originals as we know them! the only gripe i have is the use of extreme close up camera work when you get the fights on the go, i know they want you to feel like you're in e the fight but by doing this you lose the beauty of the the action scene and choreography between the actors. because of this i will go 9/10 i hope this is useful to some people and i URGE YOU ALL TO SEE THIS FILM BECAUSE ITS NOT WHAT YOU WOULD EXPECT......its much better!!
"Batman Begins" is the best batman film made so far. While Tim Burton's 1989 movie is already a box office classic, Batman Begins has all of the gritty power that made Batman famous in the first place. Chris Nolan has done what Tim Burton and Joel Shumacher couldn't do, which is make a comic book film true to the actual comic. While Nolan's direction is amazing David s. Goyer's script is great. The film starts with a tortured Bruce Wayne traveling the world, when he meets his soon to be mentor Henri Ducard played by Liam Nesson. his training wins him a spot on Ra's Al Ghul's League of Shadows. Bruce decides to pass on the proposal and heads back to Gotham. Soon we see Bruce transform into a fierce hero bent on cleaning up his city.The film's supporting cast including Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine make Batman Begins far more than just a kids movie. The only mediocre part of the film comes as Katie Holmes's performance as Rachel Dawes. Other than that, this picture is worth watching over and over again.


                
You know the story, you know the outcome, but nothing is lacking here. Thank God, even Rutger Hauer underplays his part - how good is that? The cast is perfection (yes Katie Who? does a fine job) and I won't mind looking forward to the sequel, the remake of the sequel, whatever they will call it. Bring the Joker on. Makes a real case for the fact that the right cast means absolutely everything. This is entertainment and comic book characterization come to life. Christian Bale's Batman makes Ben Affleck's tortured Daredevil character look absolutely ridiculous (sorry, maybe that is really not giving Christian enough praise - he deserves all he gets). Since we are in for a few more years of comic books as movies dominating the scene, I vote for more like this - made for adults, not children, with superb casting, and Hans Zimmer (with the help of Lisa Gerrard, maybe Moby, and the like) scoring the music. I felt that in no way was I cheated here - unlike so many other movies that I see where the corners that are cut are bleeding so profusely that you can't help but notice. See this on the big screen. Worth every moment.


                
