I have watched 4 episodes of this program and to be honest every one got more unbelievable than the one before. With blabbermouth, bungling, fumbling FBI agents giving every scrap of sensitive information to strangers and next door neighbors whilst the Soviet spies need no sleep, spending every night out murdering the opposition of getting their hands on the USA's secrets. I can't take it seriously. The reality is that in the 1980s (this is the time line of the series)the Soviet Union didn't really have much US secret information, in fact just the opposite, they became paranoid, convinced the US was preparing a nuclear attack at any moment. Google the name Stanislav Petrov it will give you a good idea of what the true situation was. It's well acted and the sets are very good but it's no true reflection of the 1980s spy game.


                
After a weak 2013 start I still held out hope this show eventually would find its legs and be a winner. Instead, at the end of the show's third season I found myself unfulfilled and asking in the words of the Peggy Lee standard, is that all there is? Each subsequent episode starting with the second season and plodding on through the end of season three became a chore to watch. Any mystery, intrigue or excitement seemed to have been drained from the show in season one.Also not helping this show's credibility as compelling cold war drama is the laughable, grossly improbable (and literal) pairing of Martha and Phillip as FBI mole and handler, respectively; the bedroom and hand-to-hand combat skills of Phillip's slight if not frail wife, and a rather miscast John Boy ... or rather ... Richard Thomas heading up an FBI counter intelligence unit. Indeed, for excitement and drama one might have better luck taking in a May Day parade through Red Square.By the end of season 2 the story barely seemed to be nudging forward, and by the end of the third season the show had plodded to a virtual stop.I can't recall when I felt more cheated after watching an episode, or two...or three. Watching the show I found myself asking: surely something big -- or some big things -- are about to happen? Surely! My God, please, something has to happen, doesn't it -- won't it? Surely nobody in their right mind would try, let alone think, they could get away with presenting so little after promising so much! In the last analysis, maybe the most telling point regarding The Americans and its inability to deliver on its season one promise is a comparison with another TV drama winding up its third season. A friend of mine recently remarked, "For heaven's sake, the story line of Bates Motel advanced further in its last three episodes than The Americans has in the last three years.In the process its (Bates Motel) cast and writers delivered some of the most compelling television in recent memory." And I have to agree.


                
I don't normally review, well, anything...but i still can't believe how horrible season 5 of this show is, especially after the first four seasons were fantastic. I had to check twice that episode 13 is really the season's finale as it just cannot end like this. Watching paint dry may be more interesting than what this show has become.


                
I start off liking this show, but man, do they have predictable situations. It's funny that when the female star face two males, in hand to hand combat, you know she is going to win. On what blue and green earth can a female beat the heck out of two full grown man. The situations her and her husband get into, some way miraculous get out of, even against trained soldiers.This show is a complete action series only action junkies would enjoy. This is no where near real to life. the only way this show rates an "8" is because of the sex scenes and the fact that you hate U.S. as a country and are waiting on they downfall.Watched season one and two, that was enough for me.
Having watched a couple of series of The Americans, (I just watched it for a laugh) it makes the FBI look so incompetent and totally stupid, these people must have a full upper floor of their house filled with silly wigs, which never come off under any situation (how do they remember which one is which and when to wear it is beyond me!) They have an endless supply of cars and a Travel Agent business that never gets any customers.but are never suspected !! Sorry but this program is total drivel and I cannot understand the high ratings that it gets. There are many fantastic series like Bosch, American Crime etc in which the situations are totally believable, The Americans unfortunately is miles behind any of these.
I could not get through the first episode - too much unnecessary violence and sex. I prefer a story line with a plot, not shoot-em-up time wasters, and pseudo seduction scenes. A seemingly normal American couple turns into Russian sleeper agents - OK. Then there's a flashback relating to the woman, while she's in training in Russia. Did they really need that brutal rape scene? Am I the only viewer who found it revolting? Then later on, the "husband" listens to an audio tape of her seducing some US government employee. She's "talking dirty" to him while trying to get government secrets. Sorry folks, but I don't need to hear what she said to the guy, especially on prime time network TV where my kids could walk into the room and hear.


                
The show makes no scents. they are never at work but live in a very expansive house. Their kids are left at home alone. The man has two wife's.( Don't know about any one else but I cant take care of one home). Not very realistic. Hay if you like this fine but not my cup of tea. They never show how they get dispose of cars and trucks that the use. If this was my neighborhood they'd never get away with it. I know their were spy's in the 80s but no way. When you make a fantasy show make it a fantasy. Not pretend it happened. If it was like this the USSR would be stronger than ever. Not shore wear the show is headed, The have killed so many people they will be in jail for ever or dead and kiss their kids good by. Like I said bad show cant wait till canceled.
DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME !!! It's a left wing nut political statement that uses the primary two characters to make evil look good and necessary. Good God-fearing Christian people are made out to be fools and "civil-rights" idiots. Christianity itself is ridiculed and made to appear as a sham. The United States ( in Reagan era ) is made to appear as "the bad guy". This is left wing nut brain washing and propaganda.


                
The fact that I even have to say this is so discouraging. Anyone watching the Americans is fueling counter-terrorism because this garbage show promotes anarchy against the United States Government. As a person living in America I need to tell you that this is insane the Americans is a dark spot on American culture, and I don't understand why no one agrees with me. The Fact that it is still on the air is beyond astounding. I love FX. Some of my most favorite shows come from FX but this is insane. The message you are sending to our youth is sickening please do the right thing and just end this pointless show. Everyone knows how the Cold War ends and why it is still so interesting to people is a mystery to me. Do the sensible thing. Who was still a country after the Cold War? America or the USSR? How many of you can even say what that stands for?


                
Loved 74 episodes, but the final episode is so lame and unbelievable it ruins the whole show. It also bombards you with constant dramatic music when there is no drama.


                
This was the most annoying series I have ever watched.I would not recommend this to anyone with common sense


                
A most ridiculous and unbelievable plot. Bad acting . Should have been a comedy.


                
I can't keep watching this show! The KGB couple are just too much! They apparently are spies, having another family, have sex and friends all over the place, kill innocent people without any remorse and still able to come home and cook all the time and be in their children life...great parents! Such lies! The wife, Elizabeth is a big pretentious, manipulating B! She played the husband all the time to get him to keep working as a spy. The husband is a big coward. Do these people really exist? They are the lowest form of scums! So the Russian just steal all of the everything from the US?! The wife should be slapped around and killed like she did to the old lady would be a great ending.


                
It does have a somewhat story. But, the acting is garbage. You don't get in a conversation with ah...ahh...ah. A series that's sad. I give it 1 star. Can't believe it's gone this many seasons Get better actors It's a 1 star it's a 1 star It's a 1 star It does have a somewhat story. But, the acting is garbage. You don't get in a conversation with ah...ahh...ah. A series that's sad. I give it 1 star. Can't believe it's gone this many seasons Get better actors It's a 1 star it's a 1 star It's a 1 star


                
