Initially this show had some decent intrigue. Some steamy sexuality. Some genuine suspense. And some interesting story telling. However, from the minute they introduced the Paige/Pastor Tim story arc the show went straight into the crapper. I have never seen a worse actress than Holly Taylor. Granted, it doesn't help that her character has to be the dumbest, whiniest teenager to ever walk this earth. (And that includes any teenager who has ever appeared in a slasher movie.) But even taking that into account, she is simply unbearable. And week after week she grinds the show to a painful, miserable halt. The show has completely devolved into a bad soap opera, with no merit whatsoever. And as if Taylor's ineptitude weren't bad enough, we have FBI Agent Stan Beeman, one of the most idiotic, moronic, obnoxious male T.V. characters of all time. Then there's the completely, totally illogical nature of the story arcs, if you can even call them that. So after a promising start, what we now have with The Americans is this: improbable plots, horrendous acting, insufferable writing and directing, and a show that is really going nowhere fast. (Which can't be said for the pacing of the show, which makes a snail's pace seem like the Indy 500.) This hot mess would make spending a few weeks in Siberia seem like a dream vacation.
First of all, at the end of Season 4, they were ready to go back to the USSR, because they were afraid that they might have been found out. Season Five, they seem to have forgotten about it and the writers seem to assume that the viewers have forgotten it too. Then we have Tuan appearing out of nowhere, going after a family of Soviet defectors with no apparent reason, other than to make them go back to Russia. Then we have Oleg Burov back in the USSR going after black marketeers. Nobody knows what this has to do with the rest of the story. Boring beyond belief. A shame. The series is tired, they should pack it up.


                
This show's totally unbelievable, no way it deserves the high rating it has. Soviet spies, back in the day, were suppose to be the best in the world you know? I mean they were able to steal the technology for nuclear weapons pretty much as soon the US finished the Manhattan project. No country has ever had an espionage coup that big. I've read the KGB even had one of their guys working as the HEAD of FBI counter intelligence right up to the nineties! But in this show the Soviet spies are like trigger happy morons. These people, they kill their own agents at the drop of a hat. They shoot people on the street in broad daylight. Blow up cars, houses, kill police, FBI agents. Why is it real life Soviet spies were undetected for long? Its because they DIDN'T do all that stuff. Good god the spies on the show are even worse than James Bond.In the mole episode, apparently all it took for the Soviets kill their own US ambassador was for someone to ask for him by name (in an "so obvious its stupid" manner). If that actually worked in real life, you might as well just keep doing that and Soviets would of killed off all their top officials on their own. No need for the cold war at all. The Soviets know the Americans know they're looking for the mole. After three desperate calls trying to finger the ambassador by name, any person with a brain would realise its a heavy handed attempt to pin him as the mole. That makes it less likely not more. Not to mention the guy they're trying to pin it on, is the head US ambassador. You could not pick a more unlikely guy in the entire embassy. They know the mole is someone IN the embassy, its perfectly reasonable someone was setting him up.But instead of conducting a through investigation, like questioning everyone's where abouts, who had access to the room, etc. (Or even relay false info to narrow the suspects down) They just ship the ambassador guy back to be shot. (And no randomly tortured the rockstar spies who bought them the intel in the first place does not count as an investigation).Another thing I didn't like is how the two main characters are total sluts. They're more like prostitute than spies. The even more unbelievable thing is that it actually worked. Lol. For some reason, instead of sweet nothings you'd say to your lover, the targets always to blab out top secret information as soon as their pants come off.In another episode I remember the wife actually start hating the husband for sleeping with his old flame. Are you serious? What a hypocrite. Both of them had been sleeping around like gigolos, for god knows how many years, and suddenly she wants to jeopardize their entire relationship just because the guy got together with his ex. Ergg.I'm mostly through season 1 but I can barely stand it. Unlikable douchebag characters, stupid writing... or maybe its just the writers want to paint the Soviets in a bad light? I donno. But for anyone who's ever read a real spy novel, these guys might as well be Dr Evil in a James Bond movie, totally unrealisitic.
The 3 rating is for Season Five- prior to this sleeper of a season I rated the series a strong 8. The Americans was one of the very few series that had been worth watching each week and looking forward to the next season. Vikings, GoT, Fargo and Saul are the only other current series I feel are in the same category. Sadly The Americans has suffered a severe decline in story line with the gross overemphasis of the Paige character. Paige's constant whining has dragged the series down and making her story central has substantially degraded the quality of the series. With any luck at all the season will end with Paige meeting an unfortunate demise which will then allow the series to get back on track. There has been little plot movement over this season. I hope the series gets back on track by focusing away from an extraordinarily boring character.
What could be an excellent show fails somewhat. Plot holes that a semi truck could drive through. How does Phillip and Liz acquire all those disguises and cars? Would be interesting to see them go through the process of changing themselves and back again. Where do they go? No one recognizes them? They never run into anyone who has seen them in disguise? The kids are always left alone sometimes overnight. They never question where they are? Don't they ever call the Travel Business where the parents are supposed to be all the time? The neighbors don't notice all the goings on? The different cars all the time? The befriending of the FBI agent is unbelievable. Very convoluted plots. Also, the way they kill people in cold blood is bothersome, and the way they use people for their plans is also quite unreal. Somehow the people they use always fall into their graces and schemes so easily. Nothing ever goes wrong with their schemes to wire tap and get into their good graces. Another instance is the Hotel scene. How come Liz knew the manager could be seduced? How is it he just HAPPENED to show her the main office, then be called away very conveniently so she could process what she had to do, and so easily, and he returns just as she finishes. Very unreal!! Please writers, don't make things so easy for these creeps.The kids are written as rather dumb not to notice all the things going on at home. The girl even reaches out to a supposed Aunt at one time who she has never met. Only relative and no get togethers for Holidays and such? Too bad, because the actual plots are sometimes interesting and the acting is fine. but they are done in with some very bad writing and plot lines. And the Martha character. OMG. What a dummy. Guess if this were reality it wouldn't' be a series. Granted, there are spies among us, but I can't believe they can be as rotten as Phillip and Liz. Hope they get their due at the end of the series. Feel like shooting them myself, but that would be the end of the show. Oh well....such is life for a TV show.


                
I started watching with the knowledge of the high IMDb score and the DVD cover design that is up to par, great was my disappointment when I fell into a crossing between Days of our lives and a vague subtraction of Nikita set in the 80's.Not really sure why so many people give it such a high rating, I suppose it's the only channel they can receive and are oblivious about what TV can produce in quality sense.The pilot drags you through basically one event, the capturing and eventually killing of a defector Russian spy and the moving in next door of a high ranking FBI agent. This is smeared over more than 1 hour with a cringe worthy 3-4 minute "love making" scene on the tunes of Phil Collins' "On the Air Tonight".The acting wasn't really bad but not exceptionally good either, and if the pilot suggests anything it is that the rest of the series is more about family drama and personal feelings then actual killer action and top notch spy games.I very much like the graphic art of the DVD cover, which made me try out the series, but the series lacks the art it portrays on its cover. Don't judge a book on its cover would be wise to apply to this series.
I really wanted it to be great, but given that we know how it all turns out for the Russians, it was hard to care. It takes really great writing and acting to elicit emotion when you know the ending. This team doesn't deliver. Some of the tertiary characters are sympathetic, but not many. All of the main characters are drab and uninspired. Even the situations they get put in are formulaic and easy to anticipate. Writers give Rhys some acting to do, with disguises and accents, but Russell gets nothing but wigs. Had to force myself through a few episodes, then asked myself why I was bothering. SPOILER ALERT -- The Russians lost the Cold War, so everything they do in this series is for not.


                
i wont even start with the Martha character.. aka "Just Call Her Thirsty"... oh yeah whoever thought casting felicity as a freaking super spy yeah right that really works especially the one time she was fighting a guy that at least 200 pounds heavier and beat the crap out of him while all the while getting her head smashed in ...i wont even go into detail about how the writers have the FBI looking like fools every chance they get god help us if the real FBI was that bad back then...the fact for most of every show main characters are out spying and killing and screwing anything that moves for info and yet have time to make it home for evening meals with the kids ... this show is laughable at best. and i saved the best for last, whoever the hell decided on these wack ass wigs they are using should be shot. overall i have no need to watch a show Russians killing Americans over and over and over for however this show runs... call me when the series finale is coming so i can watch the main characters bite it.


                
This show has great potential but I suspect much of the audience will fade away in season 6 due to boredom. In Season 5 Episode 10 there is a scene with Oleg and his parents at the dinner table where not a single word is spoken - a pure waste of the audiences time. Perhaps this was due to a case of writers block and they needed filler.Lets get a move on here - there are plenty of stories in this show to create excitement.
***WARNING,MAY CONTAIN MINOR SPOILERS*** Oh,dear.Started of promising in the pilot episode...Three episodes later,it's so clichéd.The Russian agents start to get a concscienous,and one of them is a cold killer,They cold bloodily shoot a poor security man in the head,then the next episode shoot another agent,the camera pans on their face to show how bad and guilty they feel.I'm sorry,it doesn't work.The soapy family background,the sham marriage that now is becoming real.And couldn't they have got younger actors to play the two main protagonists,during the flashback scenes set 20 years earlier? This could have been so much better,if they had left the on/off romance and feely stuff out.The 80's setting is the only decent thing.I am surprised there will be another series.It's dull.I gave it a chance,no more.I feel the writers are trying to appeal to a male and female adult audience,and also a teen audience(what a surprise,they have a teenage daughter)Remember the teenage daughter who spoils 'Homeland'? Well,the girl in this show hasn't been in it much,but it's only a matter of time.I'm very surprised by the high scores this is receiving.If you like a lot of yapping,little action,no tension,and relationship stuff,knock yourself out.
This series started off as a unique and wonderful work and continued so for a few seasons, then began a steady decline. Season 5 barely tolerable with the tedious Paige clogging up the works. Season 6, thankfully abbreviated, has been mainly treading water for the first couple of episodes and insists on illustrating Elizabeth's stress via her 'chain smoking,' when it is SO clear she isn't inhaling and anybody who's EVER smoked, or been around people who do, can see she isn't. So . . . a compulsive chain smoker who doesn't inhale. There's a new one.It just makes the whole thing silly and like make-believe. Knocks out all the credibility . . . sigh . . . Her tough, hard, professional bad-ass spyness is made to seem silly and girly. She looks foolish and the plausibility of the series is severely undermined. In episode 8 a character, describing Elizabeth, says, 'She smokes like a chimney.' No she doesn't. She smokes like a silly little kid pretending to smoke. No way. It's just stupid. Why didn't somebody TELL her? And in the eighties people who smoked did so indoors as well as outdoors, no matter who was around. She would have had an ashtray at her side at all times, during all tasks, cooking, driving, dressing, putting on make up, ALL conversation, if indeed she chain smoked or smoked like a chimney. At one point Philip joins her where she's been working in her hotel room. Not an ashtray or cigarette in sight. No smoke in the room. Puleeeeeze . . . .


                
The series is better than I expected it to be. I initially kept putting off giving it a try because there was something about it that made me suspect it would be another Homeland which I detest for the cheap plot gimmicks used to keep the audience in suspense.However, as it turned out the show is pretty good. The lead actors Matthew Rhys and Noah Emmerich are what make it strong. Rhys even looks sort of Russian and his struggle to remain a loyal communist in the face of daily evidence that America is a freer and far more prosperous model is particularly compelling. How long will it be before he finally admits that he's on the wrong side of history?I will also add that the kids are not annoying as most TV kids are. The young actress playing the daughter is especially gifted and I actually enjoy the episodes that follow her around.The only weak point in the entire series is the character played by Keri "Felicity" Russell. Her silly fight scenes are totally implausible. Week after week we see tiny fragile 5'4" 105 pound Keri beating up athletic 6' men trained in martial arts. Frankly, these scenes are plain stupid. What purpose do they serve? Is it a gimmick to appeal to feminists?


                
