The concept of this series looks promising for those who like the genre but as usual the way they set up the whole plot is so unrealistic that, for the Nth time it does nothing but insult our intelligence.There is an initial, setup scene where FBI people wait for a high level Soviet defector to come and brief them about the existence of Soviet illegals. Because many of them just don't believe such a thing. In fact, 'illegals', or sleeper agents are known to be around for decades before the 1980s, so this conference where a KGB defector is supposed to convince doubtful FBI officers about the existence of Soviet sleepers is absurd.Even more absurd is of course, that a defector of such importance would hang around late night in some shady neighborhood so that our main characters, the fake Americans (highly trained Soviet agents) could so easily abduct him. He doesn't even have a gun for protection, just some karate moves and a weird knife to impress the 14-year old viewers and those FX executives who approved the show. On top of all that, the defector appears to have been paid about 3 mln (in 1980's dollars) and still has zero protection. Just wandering around shady quarters and hoping to be abducted, tortured and killed by his former masters. That's how smart is the defector, who ran the whole sleepers operation and outfoxed his bosses managing to safely defect.I The writers of this show just choose to be lazy, cut corners and present a completely unrealistic picture. And get away with it. Most importantly, at the end of the pilot, the fake American family makes a crucial decision to stay with the KGB and not defect for reasons I found completely illogical and unconvincing. It turns out that the defector they abduct, back in the past, raped the female sleeper agent, and before being killed confesses that this is standard KGB training procedure. Clearly, such a practice would tip our couple, especially the male agent toward defection and not the opposite direction.There is also a completely ridiculous scene with some child molester going after their 13-year old daughter - in public place, before the eyes of his father, who could immediately call the police. Since when child molesters openly harass 13-year old children in front of their fathers in huge stores before the eyes of many people? So far, this is utterly unrealistic and relying on cheap shots to engage us into a completely fake reality. Let's hope it will get better.
TV drama series have a natural shelf-life before they slide out of their best before date. My rule of thumb for when this happens is when the episodes became more personality rather than plot driven. Working out carefully crafted plausible plots is a lot harder to write than emotional relationships of the main characters. The Americans has definitely gone past its sell by date. The first two series worked brilliantly, the concept was fresh, there was action, tension, locations and the main characters meshed together in an interesting way, creator Joe Weisberg was onto something.By series three though it slowly changed with the plotting spread over several episodes rather than wrapping it up in one or two, the relationships within the Jennings' family, especially those of Paige and Henry, took up more screen time and now with series four The Americans is just running to stand still. Its become a studio based talking heads show with the screen switching from one personal entanglement to another. There is a series five and amazingly even six. I don't think I'll miss them.


                
The writing for this show has gotten so bad that characters behaviors and subplots don't makes sense any more. How can Paige, once a goody righteous American born and raised bible study teenager changed to want to be a Russian spy without question ? It would make more sense to have her character being conflicted with the actions of their parents rather than joining her mother; the continual thought of betrayal would be much more interesting and believable. How can Phillip having second thoughts about his own spy cause not adamantly object to her own daughter going down the same path he is conflicted with ? How can their "travel agency", which suppose to be a Russian "spy front" goes in debt when you would think the Russians would make sure this doesn't happen - they have money to spend on Elizabeth's operation efforts and world travels but they can't afford to send their son to school ? Either drop the entire side plots of Henry and Paige or make them more believable.How can Elizabeth learn the whereabouts of the Russian deflectors so quickly and kills them and yet the FBI has essentially no progress of all the Murders Elizabeth has committed. Sure, it makes her a villain you come to dislike but the writing just leaves too many holes in this show. No comparison to similar shows that are much better written such as Berlin Station.


                
I love espionage films/shows, and I was really excited when I found out this one. But disappointment was quickly around the corner. I'm afraid it's a rough piece of work, no deep insights, only superficial entertainement following a stiff scheme, episode after episode. Elizabeth is the gutsy one, ok, but Philip is so pliable, so weak with her I wonder how he can have the stomach to do his job. As for Paige, hahaha, since when spycraft is passed down from generation to generation as a disease or physical features? Or is it to show how the Soviet Russians could brainwash even their own children for the cause, which btw is not true, because they knew that a good spy is a freely committed one? Dear oh dear... Want to watch a really breathcatching, well crafted spy show? Go for The Bureau, Berlin Station, or Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy (the mini-serie with Alec Guinness)
After hearing all the rave reviews I checked it out. Barely made it through the first season, definitely won't make it to the 6th. It takes place in the 1980s but, it's surprisingly nondescript. It could have taken place anytime from the late sixties through late 70s. All the cars were the same bland kind of crysler sedan look-alike. Alll the women's hair is the same style that's currently the fashion: long, flowing manes that look like they just got a blowout in a salon in my local mall. No big hair, no big padded shouldered suits. Their clothes are completely nondescript except when Elizabeth goes out for her regular 15 minute assasination, then she looks like the stereotypical cat burglar with leather jacket, black ski cap, black turtle neck. The only thing that gives a hint about it being the 80s is the occasional song by Flock of Seagulls or some other New Wave band. With Mad Men setting such a high bar for authenticity done impeccably, they could have tried a bit harder. And it would have been so easy to do the 80s. And speaking of assasinations, Elizabeth, who weighs maybe 90 lbs., frequently takes on 2-3 men twice her size and the only thing she got after umpteen slug fests is one broken jaw, the bruise from which she easily conceals with her Revlon skin-perfecting makeup. She slashes throats, shoots guys in the head at close range or jabs them with syringes loaded with poison and walks away with her hair perfectly swung over her slender left shoulder, not a drop of blood on her. And, she never breaks a sweat.And the action. Uuuggh! How many gruesome murders per episode? I lost count. And forget secrecy. Philip and four guys were plotting a complex assasination at a neighbor's football game party, in the living room, the game -which none of them are watching-on the TV behind them while other guests mingled around obliviously munching sandwiches. In another bold move, Elizabeth beats up (quite loudly) and kills a guy, stuffs him in the trunk of the family car in the middle of the night in their quiet suburban home with the kids sleeping upstairs. And right after work one evening, they both get nabbed, taken to what looks like the same garage they always secret their captives away in, get tortured, somehow escape and make it home in time to tell the kids, "sorry we're late, we had a car accident, totaled the car, but there's not a scratch on us, so sleep well, nighty-nite." I mean. Please.I can suspend belief but this series asks us to go through a wormhole.The character development is sloooow. Elizabeth's is bland to the point of looking mannequin-like. She seems to have one emotion: staring. She can stare at Philip for 5 minutes but he reads her mind and understands that her a) mission went wrong, b) her daughter almost caught her checking on a guy she has in the trunk of the car in their garage and c) she got another awful assignment to kill another guy tomorrow. She conveys all that in one long stare.This show demands too much of the viewer. It demands too much of itself. The amount of sneaking around, surveillance, murder and mayhem each episode dishes could be parceled out over the course of an entire movie. I think I'll watch again just to count each and every murder, close call and dangerous situation per episode. But, then again, I have better things to do. You should, too.


                
I'm not quite sure why this show has devided opinion so much. It's mediocre at best, laughable at worst and it ruins its potential by becoming completely nonsensical at points. Its set in the 80's but not really. Very little style from the decade, bland sets and some of the wigs and disguises are hilarious. The plot kind of just rolls about from one self inflicted crisis to the next. The Russian spies are the most conspicuous and reckless spies ever written, and I'm including James Bond in that. Keri Russel's character, who is supposedly a 'brilliant' spy, acts irrationally in essentially every episode just to serve the purposes of the plot which in turn makes everything unbelievable. The FBI and CIA are portrayed as bunch of bungling idiots with most of them being surface level cliches.Also a major problem I had was the complete lack of any meaningful motivations behind any characters actions. It's almost as if the writers just wrote "it's the Cold War durr, American's and Soviets don't like each other" whilst never properly exploring the cultural and political differences that propelled the struggle along. To me the whole show is a missed opportunity, chock full of contrived, cliched storylines and occasionally decent performances ruined by poor writing. Oh and the child acting is, rather predictably, terrible and to be honest the whole "family" side of the show only brings it down.


                
For a series set in the 1980s nothing but the soundtrack gives a hint of that. The clothes are either nondescript or could be from the late 60s. So many opportunities to really play up the 80s looks, at least for bit players. The sets and even the cars are definitely not 80s, vaguely late '60s or '70s. The women all have similar hairstyles, long, flowing and wavy, not like big hair of the 19080s, but like they just got a blowout in a 2018 salon. But beyond not even coming close to competing with Mad Men for authenticity, the action just doesn't scream "spy and intrigue ". Convos take place at dinner parties, in public places, practically in front of the kids. In one scene, four FBI guys are sitting in front of the TV while the game plays and a house full of guests mingle about, openly planning a hit on a major Russian operative. The couple Elizabeth and Philip are flat personalities, lacking in passion of any kind. They also carry out their mayhem sometimes in broad daylight, like when Elizabeth shoots a guy by a city bridge and they beat up and kill a guy in their garage while the kids sleep upstairs. And when they get tortured, not even a scratch on their faces, they just pretend to have crashed their car, enough to totalled but not enough to get sent to the hospital. Even then, they come home late, apologize to the kids and make dinner like Its just any day. It's almost like Boris and Natasha walked out of the cartoons, except with none of the exotic flavor or shtick. It's just not believable or compelling. I can't make it through the first season, let alone six.


                
