Among the numerous adaptations of the biblical Gospel accounts, Jesus of Nazareth is among the most superior.The acting is exemplary, with an all star cast that bring urgency and reverence to their roles. Robert Powell's inspirational portrayal of Jesus acknowledges his restrained power, and leads the fine cast well. Every character is played with the right temperament and fervor to capture that individual's role in the unfolding political and spiritual events of the day. Perhaps best of all is Olivia Hussey as Mary, the mother of Jesus. The most emotional and memorable scene of the entire film is the image of Mary holding the broken and lifeless body of her son at the foot of the cross. It is a beautiful and moving enactment of the Pieta, and Mary's agonized cries are genuine and heart wrenching. Because it takes on so much material, the story often condenses two or more events that occurred separately into the same scene. This is effectively composed to maintain the proper context and meaning of each of the events. However, the film still clocks in at just over four hours, so is best watched at more than one sitting (it was originally shown on TV over several nights).The film takes some small poetic license in speculating on the interaction of some of the principals who may or may not have actually known each other; most notably, Jesus and Barabbas. These encounters are not represented as historic fact; instead, they serve as dramatic foundation to compare and contrast the different attitudes and belief systems of those involved.A fine production, which offers a well-rounded vista of the material it's analyzing.


                
Of all the movies about Jesus Christ ever made, this one is the best by far. Perhaps the main reason is its lead, an unknown British actor named Robert Powell, who was 34 years old when this movie was made (there is a myth saying he was only 23 but that's not right; he was born in 1944 and the movie was made in 1978). His Jesus is ordinary - he is the typical, average Jewish male of ancient Israel - and yet he possesses a mysticism about him that ordinary folk cannot figure out (in the movie, that mysticism is accentuated by the fact that Mr. Powell rarely blinks!). Mr. Powell's portrayal of the man many consider the Messiah is nothing short of brilliant in its understated authenticity. I wasn't watching an actor portraying Jesus; at times, I felt like I was watching Jesus Himself.Another favorite portrayal of mine is that of James Farentino as Simon Peter, who later would become the first pope, the holder of the Keys of the Kingdom. Mr. Farentino's Peter is no plaster-cast saint; instead, he is an ordinary fisherman, angry at the Roman taxes that grind him and his neighbors into deplorable poverty. And when his brother Andrew introduces Simon Peter to Jesus, his reaction is so perfect: "What, another Holy Man?" And he spits in anger when, upon returning from a long and useless day, this "holy man" tells him to go out again. Peter replies "Come - you can preach to the fish." Mr. Farentino perfectly captures the essence of Peter and it is a joy to watch.Much of the supporting cast reads like a veritable "Who's Who" in Hollywood and England. Sir Laurence Olivier as Nicodemus; James Mason as Joseph of Arimathea; Cyril Cusak as Yehuda the Rabbi; Ralph Richardson as Simeon the Prophet; Anthony Quinn as Caiphus and Ian Holm as Zera add life and sparkle to the cast. Even the music, the authenticity of the costumes and the way the people live gives believability, a "you-are-there" feeling to this wonderful production. And when Mr. Powell speaks in Aramaic, the language of Jesus, in a few occasions, then it's an absolute revelation.This is, as I said, the best portrayal of Jesus Christ that has ever been made. It's long and the 2nd segment tends to drag a bit but the final 2 hours make any lapses more than worth it. I'm sure anyone who knows the story of Christ knows what happens but I won't spoil it if you don't know. Suffice it to say Mr. Powell's performance alone in the last segment make his a magnificent performance. Please - run, don't walk, to the nearest video store to buy the DVD or VHS set.


                
I remember watching this movie when I was only 8 year's old back in 1982. Then the movie was showed in Portugal in 1983 and in 1995.It was something astonishing for me, because in my country we only have colour T.V. since 1980, watching the life of Jesus Christ in T.V. with the realism given by the colour of this picture. There are some things in this movie that i can never forget- one are Jesus's eyes. Other are the setting of the passion and crucifixion, very different of the «traditional way of seeing Christ carrying the cross». ( I have to say it was the first time I watched a Jesus's life in T.V.)After studying and becoming graduated in History and watching other pictures about Christ's life like «King of Kings» by Cecil B. de Mille 1927),« Jesus Christ Superstar» by Norman Jewisson (1973) and the controversial « Last Temptation of Christ» by Martin Scorcese (1988),  I went to my «video club» and I found this picture and I have enjoyed this 6 hours of picture.I am specially concerned in studing the relations between cinema and religion and for me this is the official version of « The Life of Jesus». Some people think that this movie has not a soul. Well, I say that the soul are in the wonderful cast chosen and in the stupendous acting of Robert Powell, Olivia Hussey, Ian MCShane, James Mason or Sir Lawrence Olivier and in the score composed by Maurice Jarre. I think that it is impossible to make a picture about Jesus of Nazareth without anything to point it, to criticize. About two thousand million people all over the world believe Jesus is the SON OF GOD and every culture sees Christ on his own way . So This is one more way of looking at early Christianism and not the only possible.


                
