I have watched this film for many years with my family. Each year we follow the life of Jesus through Holy Week and Easter Sunday. The director has made this a film that is understandable for all ages and makes the realism unique. I would highly recommend this film for families. Even though I loved "The Passion of the Christ," I found this film easier to view for the family. Maybe we'll watch in earnest when the kids are a little older, teens perhaps. All in all this film takes you through an understanding of life as it would have been seen through the eyes of the common person. Perhaps it is this reality that allows people to gravitate toward a love for the film and a commitment to making the viewing of it each year and family tradition. Looking for a great family movie to help teach the faith, this is it.


                
I was a kid, the first time I watched this film. I really enjoy watching this movie every Christmas and easter time. Robert Powell really plays his role very good. Robert Powell has got a strong charisma. It was a very good idea to make this movie in 3 sequences. There is a lot of information and a lot we can learn from Jesus preaching. One of my favorite scene is where Jesus speaks to the roman soldier. Although some characters are not the same like in the bible, it is still a great movie. It's definitely one of the best Jesus movies ever made. For everyone who wants to watch a Jesus movie, this movie is a recommendation.


                
Unfortunately, it's been some years since I saw this mini series, but remember the experience being tremendously moving and uplifting back when I watched it. There are a few embellishments and minor deviations from Scripture, but only one (discussed later) that I remember these many years later as giving me pause. Of course I would advise anyone seeking strict accuracy to go to the true and best source, the Bible itself, and not rely on anything from the cinematic world. However, I believe this mini series would give a very positive spiritual enrichment to any Christian, whether Catholic, Protestant, or Orthodox. Watching it brought for me a closer relationship with the Lord.Robert Powell is magnificent in a role that is of course absolutely impossible for any actor to adequately fill, that of Jesus. Powell has the classic appearance people often imagine as Christ like. I note a great deal of discussion as to his blue eyes, but feel it's all much ado. True, Powell is not Jewish, so perhaps a Jewish actor might have given a more realistic appearance, but it seems minor in relation to his overall powerful portrayal. I agree with others' comments that looking at Powell here, one sees not the actor, but Jesus.The beautiful Olivia Hussey, who played Juliet in Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet, is perfectly cast in the role of the Virgin Mary. James Farentino gives a compelling portrait of Simon Peter, the sinful ordinary fisherman to whom Jesus eventually gives the keys to the Kingdom. The cast includes many other famous stars, such as Peter Ustinov (Herod the Great), Michael York (John the Baptist), Ernest Borgnine (the Centurion), Claudia Cardinale (the Adulteress), Ian McShane (Judas Iscariot), Anne Bancroft (Mary Magdalene), Lawrence Olivier (Nichodemus), James Mason (Joseph of Arimathea), Stacey Keach (Barrabbas), Anthony Quinn (Caiaphas), and Christopher Plummer (Herod Antipas). Although easily recognized & famous actors, they all seem credible in their roles, in addition to the lesser known cast members such as Yorgo Voyagis who is perfect as Joseph.Jesus's humble stable birth is eloquently captured. Also, the series brings vividly to life the miracles, parables, teachings, and especially passion & death of Christ. I found particularly compelling the depiction of the miraculous catch of fish, the calling of the tax collector Matthew as an apostle, and Peter's denial of Christ.Some events may have been omitted, one reviewer citing the marriage feast at Cana where Jesus changes the water into wine. I read from another reviewer that the series is based on the synoptic gospels (Matthew, Mark, & Luke), while the wedding at Cana is found only in the Gospel of John so that would explain its omission. In any case, it would be difficult to include everything, and I doubt that malice was intended here. One reviewer complained that the resurrection is not well portrayed. If that is the case, it did not upset me enough that I recall it these years later. However, I did find rather troubling the fictional sub-plot about the zealots and Judas trying to arrange for Jesus to meet with the Sanhedrin. His betrayal should have been depicted exactly according to Scripture. Nevertheless, Jesus of Nazareth is a captivating, reverent, & moving portrayal of the life of Jesus. It depicts Him as both fully human & fully divine, and shows at every turn His love for sinners. Despite perhaps minor flaws, it is true to both the message & spirit of Christianity. It is definitely a series I would recommend for viewing by any Christian and personally, I would love to watch it again myself.


                
This is the greatest, most realistic re-telling of the story of Jesus ever made. It goes into great detail, leaving out very little of the actual story found in the Bible. The locations, sets and costumes are authentic-looking, and the actors played their parts with great feeling. Watching this mini-series puts you right there in the Holy Land 2000 years ago. You really start to feel how Jesus felt when dealing with the various characters he met up with, and you really start to feel how the disciples felt as well. In fact there were a few scenes that put me in tears, such as when Peter denied knowing Christ. I always knew he did that, but seeing him do it- that's another thing altogether. I give this mini-series 9 *'s out of 10. It's a must-see for any Christian, or anyone interested in the Bible or in the life of Christ.


                
Sometimes Christianity has been confused with social commitment, I think this film restores the true sense of our religion. In 60' and 70' many filmmakers realized good and touching movies, but the Spirit of Christianity was somewhat absent, confused with then-up-to-date political and social doctrines. Christianity is life, death, resurrection of Jesus Christ, this movie tells the story of Jesus and you can read it on New Testament. I cannot imagine better compliment for the movie and I think it deserve it all.


                
A superb and moving film. Robert Powell's rendition of Jesus is magnificent and he has the benefit of a superb director, brilliant accompanying cast and such beautiful music to boot. I used to love watching this as a kid- and I am not even religious. In this day and age, it can be controversial to cast a man who looks like Robert Powell as Jesus. I do understand that critique. But there is absolutely no doubt that Powell is more than equal to the task and his appearance has never been a distraction to me- and I'm a black woman. The music deserves another mention because it is a brilliant achievement in its own right. My favourite scene is the musical accompaniment to Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead. A must-see for anyone who likes a classic.
Without the time constraints of a big screen production, the mini-series Jesus Of Nazareth got a lot more into character than previous productions I've seen on the subject. That includes Cecil B. DeMille's silent classic King Of Kings, George Stevens The Greatest Story Ever Told, and the Nicholas Ray sound version of King Of Kings. In fact most of the plot seems to be lifted from the last named film about Jesus. The major difference in this film is the lengthy introductory part about the birth and origin of Jesus and of John the Baptist as well. We get to see Mary played by Olivia Hussey get the word from heaven that her cousin Elizabeth is to bare a late almost menopausal birth who grows up to be John The Baptist and who is played quite eloquently by Michael York. And then of course she gets the word that she too is with a most extraordinary child, directly from heaven and implanted in her virginal womb. After the first Christmas sequence, the film jumps pretty much into the plot of the 1961 King Of Kings.That film had Barabbas and Judas Iscariot as friends and fellow religious zealots who completely misinterpret the message of Jesus as a universal one. They just see him as a powerful religious teacher whom they can rally around for a revolt against the Roman occupation. Stacy Keach is Barabbas and Ian McShane is Judas.Director Franco Zefirelli went for a relative unknown as Jesus, British actor Robert Powell who certainly wasn't known on this side of the pond. Though rather incongruously several blue eyed players are in Middle Eastern roles, Zefirelli in many closeups of Powell focuses on his blue eyes as a way of marking Jesus as something special.A whole host of name players are in supporting roles, a particular favorite of mine is Christopher Plummer as Herod Antipas. He borrowed a bit from his Commodus from The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire in portraying Antipas. Valentine Cortese is his wicked queen Herodias who he stole from his brother.In fact the only surprise for me is the absence of Charlton Heston in any part here. He had done John The Baptist in The Greatest Story Ever Told and so many folks like Anthony Quinn as Caiaphas and Ernest Borgnine as The Centurion had been in biblical spectacles before. Others to note are Laurence Olivier as Nicodemus, James Mason as Joseph of Arimathea, Anne Bancroft as Mary Magdalene, and Rod Steiger as Pontius Pilate and Peter Ustinov as Herod the Great. If not in biblical films, all these people have been in big budget items before.Jesus Of Nazareth is a reverential account of the most influential human being that ever walked the planet. And Franco Zefirelli proved you actually could do one of these films without Charlton Heston. I wonder why he wasn't included.


                
This is a long TV mini series about Jesus, but when I watched it over 3 days it did not appear that long.  It was relatively accurate and believable. Stacey Keach played Barrabas well.  He did not even have a line in this movie.  He just looked stressed.  This film is very touching, but it appears rushed as Jesus did so much.  It would take more than a mini series to examine his life further.  I wish they did, but maybe that will come.  They got the message right in the film.  It is a message of hope with the empty tomb.  It saddens me this film, because hope is so hard to find in this world.  It would of been amazing to see what Jesus would of been like in our world.  9/10


                
If you want to see the story of Jesus on film, there is none more detailed than "Jesus of Nazareth." Great Actors, excellent visually, and not as dated as many seventies movies. Presents Christ in such a way that Christians will be moved while others while contemplate the life and words of Christ without feeling talked down to. This movie has much better acting and directing than the "Jesus Film" but does not included extrabiblical details like the 1999 Jesus movies or the Last Temptation of Christ. Same attention to cinematography and similar focus on facial emotions as Zefferelli's other works like Romeo and Juliet and Brother Sun, Sister Moon.I also was surprised to find Anthony Burgess of A Clockwork Orange was a co-writer. Definitely recommended, but watch it over a couple days.


                
This is an excellent depiction of the life of the greatest radical and teacher of all time; and for those who really try to learn from him as opposed to getting caught up in what to believe about him, his behavior just might be the key to eternal life.Out of necessity, this film is very long and is best watched in 90 to 120 minute segments.Robert Powell is adept at portraying both the calm gentleness of the placid Christ and the charged energy of the angry Jesus. He looks very similar to the West's traditional guess at what the real Jesus may have actually looked like. Rod Steiger is very effective as the busy, no- nonsense Pilate. And Olivia Hussey plays Mary with aplomb; she's also one of the most physically beautiful human beings I've ever seen in a movie.The scene of the Sanhedrin debating the nature and fate of Jesus is exceptionally believable and well done. This film also fleshes out the story of Judas by rendering him authentically human and fully comprehensible to the viewer; he is no longer a straw man.In general, "Jesus of Nazareth" excels at portraying the complex tangle of allegiances and contradictory impulses in an occupied land - where Roman and Hebrew culture have clashed and intermeshed, yielding the bittersweet fruit of order and discord.Don't miss this one.


                
My family and I have watched this movie every Holy Week for more or less six years. We all love it! Especially me and my cousin. The movie is awesome and totally GREAT! It is the only movie that I have ever watched that is complete of all the events in Jesus's life, starting form birth to the Resurrection. But still, there are some events and things that I have expected to see but did not see it. For example, I did not see the Wedding Feast at Canaan, Jesus performed his first miracle there. I did not also see the event where Simon of Cyrene helped Jesus. And was Jesus really carrying a log cut in half, or a cross?? And where has the Acension gone to?? These are just some of my comments on the movie, but if it is a choice between positive and negative, I would choose positive because despite all other comments, it is truly the best film ever made about the life of our Lord from Nazareth.


                
I first saw Jesus of Nazareth in 1977, and I was 12 years old. My family watched it for our family movie night. The first part ran on Palm Sunday, on NBC, and the movie was to conclude the following Easter Sunday. I even saved the original L.A. Times "T.V. Guide," with rave reviews from Judith Crist: a "living tapestry." (The cover picture is very dramatic. Unfortunately, the kitty shredded part of it and the bottom is all tattered. Believe it or not, it still looks like a T.V.Guide.) I was completely transported. My younger sister and I even wanted to stop fighting for a change and start being good, more like Jesus. Most of the other Jesus movies I saw were sort of corny: plastic props,fake beards, lots of Styrofoam pillars, not to mention the uninspired Jesus actors,looks and all. In this movie, the Temple set is amazing, with magnificent columns and floors, the incense rising during prayer and offertory. The role of the priesthood of that time is portrayed well too: their attire,their superior attitude, their refusal to believe in Jesus as Messiah even when the blind man is cured practically in front of their very eyes (my favorite scene. Jesus is so kind to the frightened blind man.) Robert Powell as Jesus has such compassionate,penetrating eyes. His portrayal of Christ is very moving, very majestic. The crowds look more like the actual people of that area might have looked; it gives more of a feel of what life was probably like during Jesus' time. The costumes for the locals and for Jesus look authentic,whether or not they actually are,and the actors'performances are first rate. The musical score is somewhat haunting, adding to an almost mystical spiritual experience. All of this makes the movie very engaging and convincing. Except maybe for William Wyler's "Ben-Hur," I don't think I had ever seen a movie about Jesus as beautiful and realistic as this one. Since, though, I like The Passion of the Christ just as well, if not more so. What I don't care for in this movie is the Zealot subplot that I think is too much a part of the movie and could have been lessened,and frankly,letting Judas off the hook with the idea that he thought he was helping Jesus by arranging for a "meeting" with the Sanhedrin via the scribe Zerah(Ian Holm,) versus the Gospels' view that he wanted the money, and was willing to turn Jesus over to his enemies for it. This bothered me. That is why I give the movie a 9 out of 10. Plus, not to be insulting but, after seeing Jim Caviezel's Jesus, I hadn't realized how skinny Robert Powell's Jesus is. Great eyes though! I own a copy of "Jesus of Nazareth" and my husband and kids and I watch it regularly. It teaches about the life of Jesus very eloquently, yet it is plain enough so children grasp it, and although there is some violence, I think it is still suitable for young children.


                
The best film about Jesus I've ever seen......and I've seen a few. The Greatest Story Ever Told, King of Kings, The Last Temptation, The Gospel of John ,The Passion...they all have their strengths, but only this film tells the complete (and then some) story that is both dramatic and informative. The 'arcs' given to Matthew, Thomas and Simon/Peter are well thought out and even tragic. Two dimensional characters that were only briefly described in the Gospel are given full blown personalities here. Robert Powell's interpretation is one of quiet strength. For myself, this was my impression of what Jesus was like as I was growing up. The obligatory lighter hair and blue eyes make for a historically inaccurate depiction, but the performance is amazing.The first section (the birth and early life of Jesus, up to about 1:30 in) are slightly over-long and perhaps superfluous, but the remainder make up for it.8\10


                
I saw this many years ago on tv and as a then possible Divinity School student my faith was reinvigorated.  I lobbied recently to get to this film released on DVD and am glad to see in now in my collection.The blue-eyed Jesus is often criticized...but there's no denying the timeless message of this film.  I've often wondered how Robert Powell's life as person and actor progressed through the years.I often say I have felt the power of Christ or even seen him in others. Mr. Powell...that much can certainly be said of your portrayal of the master.Congratulations to everyone concerned with this interpretation of life/world changing events.


                
"Jesus of Nazareth" is a nearly 6½ hour 1977 epic TV film about the life of Jesus Christ. It aired in different countries as a mini-series, from two to five parts. The film was directed by Franco Zeffirelli and today is considered a classic. In making this film Zeffirelli departed from his usual way of casting. Instead of mostly all new, unknown actors, he has nearly two dozen prominent names of stage and screen in the major roles. Indeed, this film may hold the record for a cast with the most major acting awards and nominations. Seventeen of the performers, from Anne Bancroft to Peter Ustinov, have won 56 major awards, and have had another 119 major nominations. The awards of the various performances in this film include 9 Oscars, 14 Golden Globes and 14 BAFTA awards, 13 Emmy's and 6 Broadway Tony awards. The film itself, received 2 primetime Emmy nominations and 6 BAFTA nominations. Generally, this is a very good condensed portrayal of the life of Christ. Even at more than six hours, much of what the Bible has about Jesus in the four gospels had to be condensed. Zeffirelli doesn't try to create the more spectacular scenes that would require heavy special effects. So, such things aren't included -- the calming of the storm at sea, Jesus walking on water, temptations by the devil, and appearances of angels in the annunciation and at Christmas. The many miracles Jesus worked are condensed into just a few. He cures a blind man, raises Lazarus from the dead, and multiplies the loaves and fishes.Still, a great deal of the drama in the life of Jesus had to do with the signs - the miracles he performed. His miracles, and word of them drew crowds beyond Christ's public teaching. And, these were what the rulers of the time feared and objected to the most. Christ worked his miracles out of love and to teach. Zeffirelli said that he wanted to focus on Jesus the man, which the film does. Yet, the signs, wonders, and works of the man also help one understand him. Especially as his manhood relates to his divinity as well. So, the film might have shown a little more of the exceptional works as they inspired awe among the people. That is something that the film does not portray much, if at all - the awe, the wonder of the people, the crowds and his disciples at times for what he did. And, one specific thing that should have been included but wasn't, was the tearing of the temple curtain when Christ was crucified. That should not have been too difficult or costly to set up and record. The addition of the fictional character, Zerah, seems to be a connection that the director uses to embellish the Sanhedrin plot to kill Jesus. This glosses over a number of references in the Bible about the Pharisees and Scribes plotting and wanting to kill Jesus. Instead, it's presented in the film as a reasoned outcome after much discussion. The story also embellishes greatly the character of Judas Iscariot. This goes far beyond the Biblical information and tradition. The embellishment of the three kings, or wise men (magi), while fictional, is not as far afield because of the references to them in the Bible. On that basis, audiences may better grasp the significance of their roles in the story of Jesus Christ. The film has several other additions that are not in the Bible, and alterations or embellishments of some things in the Bible. Generally, it's a good condensed story of the life of Jesus, if not of his mission and its significance. And, that's what Zeffirelli said he intended with this film. It was to show the human person of Jesus Christ, in his ministry. All of the cast give very good performances. The costuming and makeup are very good. And the locations shooting in Tunisia, Morocco and Mexico closely resemble the countryside and locals of the Holy Land.


                
Wow. a great collection of fine actors...in this several hour miniseries. Get an entertaining film which is also a pretty accurate overview of Jesusmlife and work...from this movie.Right now, I'm seeing Sir Laurence Olivier, James Mason, Anthony Quinn, and several other A-list actors of their time all in one room...ARGUING!(portraying the Jewish leaders...debating whether or not Jesus should be handed over to the Romans for conviction). WOW!!!If you don't know who Jesus is, if you want a fairly quick overview of who He is, why He came, and what He did for us with His teachings, His death and resurrection on the Cross, this movie will do! And...this great award winning miniseries was shown on national TV. Its production value is high quality and the script is reverent and INtERESTING.


                
Every Easter and Christmas holidays, almost every TV network in Nigeria shows this movie. It's a tradition that dates back to the 80s and no wonder. This TV movie is a gem.Franco Zeffereli actually undertook a Herculean task to give us the life of Christ on celluloid. I have watched other Christ films like King of Kings, Passion of the Christ, Last Temptation(hmmmmn), the story of Jesus. All the above are great films but none would hold a candle to Jesus of Nazareth. Well, maybe the Passion would be a close first runner up.Zefferelli deftly and confidently eschews any voice over narration which was the norm then in biblical films- KOK, The 10 Commandments, The Bible,Solomon & Sheba(ughh!. He does not try to force down the essence of Jesus down our throats us by narrations. Instead he helps us reach that conclusion by the powerful performances of the actors and a beautiful moving score that can rival the haunting score of The Godfather.And what performances they were. Again, he craftily gets little known actors to play the major parts. Robert Powell as Jesus Christ, Olivia Hussey as Virgin Mary, Peter, Judas, John. And the tact worked. Instead of seeing Jodie Foster or Mel Gibson or Angelina Jolie or Brad Pitt or Tom Cruise, we are convinced we are actually looking at Jesus, Mary, Joseph etc.To give the film class, he then gets easily recognizable actors to play supporting roles. And from there the list is a Who's Whos of drama stars. James Earl Jones, Rod Steiger, Christopher Plummer, Peter Ustinov, Donald Plesance, Michael York, Claudia Cardinale, Anne Bancroft, Ernest Borgnine, Ian Holm, Stacy Keach, Anthony Quinn, Laurence Olivier etc.All the actors played their roles almost perfectly. It was as if they were actually divinely inspired. Honestly, I cannot fault any performance here.The direction was almost flawless. As the film unfolds the life of Chirst against the background of the Roman Occupation of Judea, we just do not see only Jesus but how it was to live in the life of Jesus. The film touches on almost every aspect of Jewish life under the Roman Occupation. The authenticity was so real that I could swear that I was in a time machine and sent back to the times of Jesus.Of course, there will be critics.People complained that they spoke in British accents and that Jesus had blue eyes. Blue eyes are not unusual in people of Jewish descent. However this does not detract from the powerful message conveyed in the movies especially by Robert Powell in the role of Jesus.Robert Powell was born to play Jesus. He effectively conveyed both the spiritual/mystery essence of Jesus the Christ and the physical attributes of Jesus the Man. Through him, we can experience his strength, convictions, his fears when faced with his pending death, his anger with the hypocritical religious leaders.My favourite parts of this beautiful movie include the raising of Lazarus(that scene scared the hell out of my baby sister), the emotional stand off between Christ and Pilate, the visit of the Magi, the birth of Christ, Peter's Confession, the scenes of Herod Anitipas(Christopher Plummer was a hoot!) Up till the present day, the film stand relevant in its preach of hope, love, charity and goodness. With Hollywod's growing cynicism, such films are rare to find. In these spiralling age of materialism, despair, terrorism, hate, starvation, we need more of these films to give us hope.
The only reason this didn't get a 10 out of 10 was because it did not appropriately show the gore of the Crucifixion, in a way that Gibson did, as the ultimate in profane humanity that would be reflective of our sins against God. Also, it had everyone speaking a Shakespherian English which wasn't even dreamed of in the times of Christ. It is amazing that Christianity survived at all, given the persecution that had happened to the movement for the 400 years following Christ. The book of Mark happened because a literate assistant to a man who had only a few years before been a drunk, illiterate fisherman - Peter - survived even as early Christians in Rome were running for the catacombs lest they be nailed to the walls of the Coliseum by Nero. Matthew was a Tax Collector, whose book which would be like a book by Bill Clinton talking about virtue and purity. John was an influential person who had been the best friend of Jesus and who had cared for Mary, the mother of Jesus, until her death, only to be exiled to Patmos, and it is today's best estimate that the Gospel of John, rich in theology but disordered in editing compared to Mark or Matthew, was written by his own followers who had invented their own "Jonnaine" traditions. The books of Luke - a two-part piece, was by a Gentile from Antioch for Gentiles, who had never met Jesus or been to Jerusalem. Thus, he wrote about the things of Jesus based on what the witnesses of Jesus had brought to him. It was all remarkable. This 5th Gospel, Jesus of Nazareth, like the William F.Buckley novelization, somehow puts it all in great historical perspective to explain how Jesus fulfilled the prophesies of the Jews for a long-awaited Messiah in a way they could have never foretold, as they had expected a great King dressed in the royalty of purple and gold, not the purity of spirit that came in the coming of the Messiah. As the character played by James Earl Jones explained early on ... God would have never chosen any other way than what had happened - to have Jesus of Nazareth (identified by the inscription above the crucifix Iesvs Nazarenvs Rex Ivdaeorum; Iésous o Nazóraios o Basileus tón Ioudaión; Yeshua HaNotzri Melech HaYehudimwith) born of humble origins, to prove God's love for all of us and to remind us that no matter how little we think of ourselves, God loves us.


                
Like i said , i agree with the opinion that this is the 2nd best movie of Jesus life so far. The cast is amazing and i find on the actors the ideal characteristics for their roles. Robert Powell had the absolutely right appearance for this role. The Word is right and the atmosphere through out the movie is nicely worked out. Even the set and all the natural places in the movie could make anyone believe what happened so many years ago. The true story!  It was really great! If Robert Powell was 15-20 years younger and Gibson had chosen him for the "Passion Of Christ" i would really couldn't think of a reason to vote for that movie("The Passion"). It would be out of competition to me!!!


                
Jesus of Nazareth is the best incarnation of the story of Christ that is ever produced. Everything from its cinematography to its characters and dialogues are perfectly made and with great respect to its source material, the Bible (the series of 2014 is hilariously boring) . It is common myth that Porbert Powell was so in to the character that after the end of the series he killed himself , due to the difficulty of the character, this fact is totally false ,if you go now to his IMDb page it shows him alive and well. During the production they were theologies send by Pope Paul the Sixth himself in order to ensure the faithfulness of the series and it definitely paid of, also the setting pitch perfect . In the end either you believe or not this is one of the best mini-series in television history and definitely check it out, dispute its monstrous run time of 6 hours and 20 minutes!


                
