It is nice to see the likes of Oliver Stone, Brian DePalma, Al Pacino, and even Michelle Pfiefer make one monumental piece of cinematic garbage. It is nice to see people so rich and 'successful' wasting their time on one of the most forgettable, trite, and pathetic pieces of film-making of all time. This movie represents the worst of Hollywood.What is this? Is it based on a true story. Well, they do start with some basic news bites and facts that they read off USA today. But then the movie departs to some fantasy world and a 'cuban' refugee going to make it in the American drug subculture; kind of like Rocky on cocaine. Is it a movie about Cuba or Cubans? For the life of me I don't believe there is a single Cuban in this movie. The accents are totally fake, and scene with Antonio's mother looks like a poster for midwest American values. The whole scene looks like something out of the Dick Van Dyke show. Is this movie about Miami? It looks more like L.A. transposed in Florida. Afterall, a palm tree is a palm tree. Is this a romance novel. The relationship between Pacino and Pfeiffer is so obvious from the getgo, and there is not one shred of possibility that these two characters could ever care for each other. Is this a drug movie? Well, no issues of obsession or addiction are even mentioned. The behavior of the actors after a line of coke is nothing different than had they had a drink of water. Admittedly, the acting is terrible.Let's get to the rest. The music is disgusting and sounds like latin elevator music or something out of a Lawrence Welk show. I think I heard a polka? The camera work is shoddy with too much movement and far more cranes than could ever be effective. Clearly, the photography budget was excessive. The sound is bleached in a number of spots, and the dialogue seems to be carried out in a warehouse. The writing is appalling. This is one of those movies were the script writes itself. You are dragged from one trite piece of dialogue to the next, each pushing the plot like a sack of bricks.So I am going to ask, Is this even a movie? It could be a drama series patched together for two and a half hours. But at least a drama series has some kind of focus. Maybe it is just a bunch of poorly acted scenes taped together. Whatever it is, movie or not, it is a piece of crap.


                
This is clearly a bad film. Terrible acting, bad writing, poorly directed. Pacino is a cartoon character, no depth...all noise and goofy mannerisms. I guess that's what many people like about this film, that it's so goofy it's funny. Sort of a so bad it's good...Ed Wood style. The other major issue is the film is far to long. You could cut this film to an hour and a half and it would be a better film. It still would be difficult to sit through because the performances are so bad (this has to be Pacino's worst ever) but at least it would not waste as much of your time. Most of the players here have done better work. De Palma's best works are Dressed to Kill and Blow Out. If you want to see Pacino in something where he's a gangster or shows off his skill with a weapon I'd say visit The Godfather films or Dog Day Afternoon. Just avoid this ridiculous mess!


                
This movie represents the beginning of Pacino's slide from important actor to self-parodizing caricature. If his performance was deliberately so awful because it was meant to be a metaphor for the way cocaine can destroy self-awareness and render one a manic self-absorbed fool, it would be justifiable but clearly that is not the intent of his performance (which must be distinguished from the Montana character). There can be no question that Pacino thinks he is giving a great performance.This is basically a comic book level effort except the acting and story is not as subtle as comic book characterizations.That said this movie is entertaining and one of the all-time classics of the "unintentionally hilarious" genre. That pretty much the same movie has been made hundreds of times on 3% of the budget and with .0001% of the pretension is besides the point.If you love bad movies with formulaic and unoriginal stories, sublimely awful dialogue mouthed by actors who equate histrionics with art and are punctuated with plenty of gratuitous blood and gore for shock value then you can hardly do better than this. If you REALLY like them when they are grandiose big budget flicks with writers, directors and actors who have egos the size of Jupiter then this will be one of your favorites ever.


                
I am sure that I'll probably get some nasty emails about this one, but I think SCARFACE might just be one of the worst movies of the last 25 years---especially since it is so adored by so many and been so readily accepted as a "great film". It is supposed to be an updated remake of the classic film of the same name from 1932 (starring Paul Muni). Despite this, the movie is sloppy and cheap. Instead of good writing and intelligent film-making, they hired Oliver Stone to write a hackneyed film. The result is a deliberate assault on the sensibilities by using the f-word again and again as well as using extreme and pointless violence throughout. It's easy to say "f---" and the like and it's easy to have millions spent for special effects explosions and gunfire, but these alone do not constitute a good film, as the writing was almost absent in the film and it was just a giant over-the-top parody of gangster films. It's as if DePalma's mantra for the film is "when in doubt, have Pacino say the f-word or have him kill some people". Also, while some have praised Al Pacino's performance, to me it seemed like ridiculous self-parody--like a dirty version of the guy he played in DICK TRACy--which, at least, was SUPPOSED to be a cartoon. None of his brilliance from THE GODFATHER is present, as he plays a buffoon. There is absolutely no subtlety, no finesse and nothing of value in the film. In fact, and I know this will again prompt some nasty emails, I really think the film is intended for a stupid and undemanding audience who actually get off on this sort of brain-rot. Avoid this like the plague--your brain will thank you for this!Ed Wood, Jr. could have made a much better film had he been given this budget.


                
I thought this film would be alright. Looked good from the opening few scenes, then it became seriously flawed. Pacino's character is very comical, and it's whole depiction of the drug world is laughable. In the end it just became a farce, a real farce. The Three Stooges couldn't have played it better themselves. It gives the viewer the illusion that the drugs trade is run by a bunch of monkeys, who live in big palaces, garish decor, and have piles of coke on their desks!! And they shout their mouths off and take a hundred bullets without dropping.No, not a good film at all. Very amateurishly done, by a bunch of cowboys.


                
This is not really a proper review since I did not see most of the film. I stopped watching it. The film is very violent, with nasty drug dealers and street punks, but that is not why I stopped watching.Here was the problem: I watched just enough to be introduced to several characters, all of whom were not interesting. Everyone was a tedious, despicable psychopath, with no engaging personalities, giving me nothing to look forward to. I found myself not the least bit curious about what they would do next or what might happen to them.If there had been even one person of interest, and I don't mean good or nice person, I mean an interesting person, I could have stayed with it. Watch "State of Grace" to see what I mean. In that film the Gary Oldman character is a complete lunatic, but he is *very* interesting. Al Pacino perhaps did a good job in Scarface, but his character just did not engage me.


                
I can't really understand why Brian DePalma felt the need to do a remake of Howard Hawk's 1932 gangster masterpiece Scarface. The original is so good and tough, lean and stark, short and to the point. This laughable mess goes on for an unbearable three hours, and has as its centerpiece, it's anchor, its star, Al Pacino who is simply dreadful. What has happened to this once exciting actor who gave so many memorable performances in the early seventies. His downfall may have begun with this very film, and he has gone downhill ever since. All his recent roles & performances seem the same, they blend and melt into one. His performances have become lazy, fat and dishonest. At times it seems as if his performances are yelled at us, and this is usually mistaken as intense and powerful acting. When he tries to be subtle and quiet,he comes off as insincere and all method. He was fun in Dick Tracy, because he was playing a cartoon, and his overacting was exactly right for a comic strip. His performance was all make-up. His Oscar for the cheap & sentimental "Scent Of A Woman" was undeserved, but as Oscar saw it he was long overdue. So in Scarface we have Al playing gangster with a bad Cuban accent which comes off as a bad Mexican accent. DePalma & the screenwriter Oliver Stone have change the Italian criminals of the original to Cubans, and instead of booze we have coke, instead of the fine subtle Hawksian direction of the original we have De Palma's over the edge misdirection. To be sure DePalma has made some terrific original films. Carrie, Sisters, Dressed To Kill and The Untouchables immediately come to mind, but Scarface is not one of them. There is however one top notch DePalmian sequence and thats the chainsaw in the motel bathtub scene, but thats only a few minutes in a three hour flick. The violence and gratuitous cursing wears us out, and after awhile it all becomes meaningless and stupid. I envy Michelle Pfeiffer who in the film gets to walk out on this mess. Also in the cast is F. Murray Abraham, one year away from winning a best actor Oscar and oblivion, & Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio who in the flash of a snort goes from being a good sweet girl to a raging party girl,unconvincely I might add.  The film also looks ugly and the recently deceased John A Alonzo's cinematography is muddy and common. Not exactly a highpoint of American cinema.


                
When I first heard that Stone and Pacino were remaking Scarface I was intrigued. What did they think they could add to Paul Muni's Original? As soon as the movie came out, from the very first scene, I knew: nothing.The only thing the two movies had in common was the title. Why they had announced it as a remake was a mystery.So I sat back, now without expectation, to see what movie they had made.Throughout the screening I paid close attention to all of Scarface's elements, from cinematography to acting, and finally came to the conclusion that the only reason the movie was made was Stone's ego and Pacino's determination to prove how greatly he could ham it up.Scarface, despite its commercial success, is a manneristic disaster that never should have seen the light of a projector.I do not agree that any of its flaws are fatal - overacting, lack of story, pacing, poor cinematography have all been overcome in numerous movies.What made those movies was something to care about; Scarface lacks that quality. Tony Montana is a nonentity; Pacino's portrayal is not that of a independent character but of an 8-year-old's fantasy of being as bad as possible. In short, there is no Tony Montana - only Pacino playing out that fantasy.And this is a crime common to many, especially many successful, directors and actors. More common among the Europeans but spectacular when an American puts his ego above the audience.So Scarface is a movie about nothing and no one, punctuated with a great deal of equally pointless violence.Many have pointed out that Pacino's overacting and the extreme of carnage were meant to makes points, to portray the real-world carnage of the drug trade.Pardon me? There's no hint of reality in the movie. Pacino isn't portraying a low-life, low-class 'Gangsta'. Pacino's trying to achieve an epic ham. He succeeded so well that the character was left behind.My reason for writing this review now is a show I saw last night that traced Scarface's transformation from critical bomb to cult classic. One of the show's implication was that all the critics were wrong - I disagree for the reason listed above.As for cult status - fine, even if Plan 9 from Outer Space was a better movie.


                
Before "Godfather", cops and robbers movies were exciting and entertaining. Then came the long boring gangster movies which tried to make us understand gangsters. It doesn't work. "Scarface" suffers from lack of likable characters, lack of believable characters, lack of plot, lack of motivation, lack of a logical sequence of events, lack of fun, just a lack of everything. It is not an exciting movie. You fall asleep before you hear the action wake you up, and then you don't really care. Pacino seems only capable of portraying a pretty boy, even with a scarface, he tries to stay pretty in each scene. Its not totally his fault. The writing is pitiful. Pacino's character comes from a multitude of beautiful Latino women, and we are to believe he lusts after some middle aged looking, raggedy looking, rather pitiful looking, pale lifeless ordinary blonde? Clearly a woman wrote this part of the script. No man could ever buy into it. The plot fails, too. Pacino magically becomes a top master criminal because....well, no one knows why. Nothing is explained. Nothing makes sense. But then, the modern gangsster films are all that way. We don't understand the characters, partly because we have no idea what's going on. Just a bunch of lines, mean looks and blood and gore we actually sleep through.


                
What is there to like about this film?  Pacino's phony accent?  The fake violence?  The totally unbelievable plot?  A finale which defies logic and credibility?  Certainly `Scarface' is one of the worst movies of all time. A lot of people get their guts blown away, but so what?  How about a few interesting characters?  A story line that is at least halfway believable? Is this too much to ask?


                
I had heard a lot of good things about this movie, but I don't understand why some people think it is so great or how it made the Top 250 list on IMDb.My husband suggested that I see this movie after seeing a stand-up comedian who referred to the movie, and I didn't get the jokes. Instead of actually watching the movie, my husband could have explained to me that every other word was f***, and I would have understood the jokes completely without having to endure this film.The plot of the movie is extremely simplistic---man makes it to America, man does a lot of bad things, man gets justice in the end. Nothing interesting, no plot twists. The characters are written in a way that doesn't make me at all interested in what will happen to them, with dialog that doesn't ring true (but maybe it's just dated). The musical score is typical of music for the time (early 1980s, think "Flashdance"), and is now very dated, and in no way relates to what we're seeing in the movie. With no plot, no characters I'm interested in, and terrible music, I was completely bored after 10 minutes of watching this movie.The excessive use of f*** in all its various forms (which starts to wear thin within minutes), and all the blood make this just another movie about gangs. I assume that if you are interested in pursuing a life of crime, then perhaps this film is in some ways interesting for you as a vision for your "American Dream." For those of us who achieve our goals through hard work, this movie only makes me grateful that I have my American dream and that I never have to watch this movie again.


                
Tell someone to imitate an absurdly criminal Latino, and he might turn up like Al Pacino in this terrible parody of a splatter movie. But this goes on for hours in drug trafficking Florida, a business since shown to us with so much more elegance and light-handedness in TV's Miami Vice. Probably the worst caper since The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Could be a promotional video paid by the local drug lords to get poor immigrant foot soldiers into the trade. Leave the barrio son, come to Miami and have just as much fun as the hookers on Hollywood Avenue in "Pretty woman". Pick a bikini girl of your dreams. All of them Nordic blondes. The beachfront is full of them, just looking for the worst looking creeps the Cuban prison system might produce. To share the life with in his lush home, a one just slightly smaller than the Versailles. All you have to do is killing as many as you can. No small wonder the video version of this film was an absolute hit among the third world young in Sweden's thriving immigrant ghettos! Who said hate can't get you to the top!?


                
I suppose my '1' ranking is a bit harsh considering the humor value of this film. It's really a laugh riot from one end to the other. From hanging Abraham from the helicopter to Pacino's horrific accent, I can't believe I'm alone on this. I guess that's what I'd expect from a site that ranks Return of the King as the best movie of all time. Anyway, back to this plate of movie-puke called Scarface.You know why it's so popular? Because in this generation of South Park and the "Underground comedy movie" starring Joey Buttafuoco, the prevailing opinion is "The more depravity, the better." Now, I have nothing against drugs, sex, and violence in movies, but it's the very overload that sets a genius like George Carlin apart from the obnoxiousness of Andrew Dice Clay.Back to the hilariousness...In this movie Pacino runs around, Napoleonic complex and all, saying the line "F*ck you" a billion times. He puts his face in a plate of coke and inhales. He gives the green light to have his friend chainsawed (the roar of the chainsaw by the way was drowned out when someone turned up the television set in the hotel room). The movie was a mess from start to finish and a total waste unless you are going for a hilarious romp from the video store.The writing was terrible, the acting Italians as Cubans was a riot, and this is hands down Pacino's worst performance as an actor. If you don't agree with me, please feel free to give a rebuttal ONLY IF YOU HAVE EVER SEEN MEAN STREETS.
How did this movie become a "Cult Classic" I see merchandise for it everywhere and each time it makes my stomach churn. The "Say hello to my little friend" line is far too over used. It is not that clever, nor is it amusing! The movie in its entirety is overrated. It's collaboration of drugs, organized crime and car thievery are laughable The acting is nothing to rave about and neither is the camera work. This movie pretends to be clever and shocking, but what's really shocking is why everyone seems to love it so much. It seems like one idiot decides a bad movie is amazing and everyone else follows, as is the case with the GodFather, Snakes on a Plane and Napolen Dynamite. These movies are terrible, disgusting pieces of trash.


                
I give this 1/10 for only one reason: I can't give it a zero. Granted, Al Pacino did a great job as a Cuban, and there were scenes that were intense, the plot is so predictable and boring that it was hard for me to stay awake. So, aside from not liking the film, I had been told that it is one of the best gangster movies, up there with the first and second Godfather and Goodfellas. It wasn't. The film sucked, and I was also believing that it was a fantastic film. I was let down, which made it worse. So, save your money and here's the synopsis of this film: Tony Montana comes to Miami as a poor criminal. He makes it big, taking over the mob and getting the previous leader's wife. He kills his best friend and his sister. Then, after taking a massive snort of coke (about five pounds worth) he goes psychotic and tries to kill everyone, but doesn't succeed.This synopsis actually makes the film sound better than it is.
Scarface, a brilliant portrayal of a Cuban male in America trying to make it? or the stupidest film ever made. For some the former just might be true for me the latter always seems to pop up inside my mind. Each time I view this atrocity trying to figure out the appeal i get angry and offended by Gina's over acting and Tony's bad accent. Never in my life have i met a Cuban person (and i've met quite a few) that talked acted breathed lived in the way tony did, and i know this is a fictional portrayal, but this was so fictional that i wouldn't have been surprised if unicorns were prancing around inside the cocaine mounds. i guess if the goal was to get people to think that all Cubans are criminals and coke-heads then they succeeded. my advice to those who might want to subject themselves to hours of predictable mindless drivel is don't, but if you must, do it with a friend at best this movie is good for a laugh.
I was disappointed in the run up to the end of the movie. I found that being shot in the back was a lame ending! After watching the film for like 3 hours I just found the ending sucked! Overall the film was OK, I did not see any storyline to it, so it was just about killing etc. I found that it could have been improved and contain a few more love scenes with hot women. Less guns and some love! I believe this is probably one oh Al's worst films. Carlito's Way is much better! I was disappointed in the run up to the end of the movie. I found that being shot in the back was a lame ending! After watching the film for like 3 hours I just found the ending sucked! Overall the film was OK, I did not see any storyline to it, so it was just about killing etc. I found that it could have been improved and contain a few more love scenes with hot women. Less guns and some love! I believe this is probably one oh Al's worst films. Carlito's Way is much better!
This movie was one of the worst I've ever seen. First of all, Scarface was Al Capone's nickname. Stone apparently wanted to lure in viewers who were interested in seeing a drama on Al Capone's life. Instead, they were surprised to see an idiot who couldn't control his urges and ends up getting killed by his own greed. Along the way he marries a woman only interested in spending his money (really smart dude) and associates with a bunch of idiots in plaid polyester pants.This story was so phony and predictable. I must say though it is a good comedy and provides a lot of laughs with the horrible accents and absurd plot.
Zero stars. Ultra violent violence for the sake of violence semi remake of a great classic. This film stigmatizes Cuban- Americans so much that left wing Castro loving screenwritter Oliver Stone owes them an apology. Pacino is good in the title role- but his performance is too difficult to take. Bloodshed, murders,killings, cocaine in a three hour gore fest. This one is bloodier than average "splatter" film. I guess there is a certain audience for this swill- prehaps a sociopath who cheered for "Columbine" who would want to see it over and over again. Has absolutely no redeeming social values whatsoever. It only glorifies the thugs who will stop at nothing-and kill anybody to pollute the streets of our country with these vile drugs. To call this a waste of time is to glorify it. To call it a piece of -hit is to call it exactly what it is. This will make you feel so dirty and repulsed after you see it you will need vomit to purge it from your system.It truly is that repellent.Sickening swill.


                
You always hear of "Scarface" being so amazing, well it isn't and if you have any sense at all you would agree with me, Al Pacino is the most terrible actor out there, i would take Robert De Niro any day of the week!!!. The only good thing there is out there of "Scarface" is the game it is pretty good but take no mistake in believing that film is any good. Its not only "Scarface" i hate Al Pacino for, i hate him in "God Father part 1,2 and 3" not the film, the films excellent but Al Pacino is terrible. Word of advice DO NOT BUY "SCARFACE" ON DVD!!! "Scarface" is obviously a remake of the 1932 classic which is Way! much better than this terrible excuse for a film. And do i even have to mention Al Pacino's terrible Columbian ascent, i thought at first that he was a retard. In my opinion Rober De Niro would of been better suited for the film, he would of brought the film to a whole new level. SPOILER WARNING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The only part in "Scraface" that i enjoyed was the ending, you finally get to see Al Pacino have bullets rip through his body and DIE!!! what a glorious moment that was in the film.
Lately I've felt drawn to long violent epics dealing with crime (Once Upon a Time in America, The Godfather, Goodfellas). Even though I don't think Scarface holds up to those movies I still think it succeeds at a level where the Howard Hawks movie didn't. I can't think of another person who could of played this role better than Al Pacino, and yes, that does include Paul Muni. I don't think it's a coincidence that the filmmakers chose the same person who played Michael Corleone. Both characters are bad, use violence for personal gain, and are incredibly human. Maybe it strays away in the famous final scene when Tony Montana is riddled by a swarm of bullets, not to mention the scene where a stoned-out Pacino inhales a mountain of cocaine on his desk. Still, Tony Montana is one of those characters that stays with you despite the fact that he's a monster that would kill a person at the drop of a hat, and drop the hat himself. The violence in Scarface is not there to entertain, but as a way to reinforce the self-destruction of Montana; so when it does get to that point where you see a crowd of people overwhelm Montana's mansion, you know that there's no way he's going to get out of this one. I'm not really use to seeing DePalma's work outside of his well-known thriller movies like Dressed to Kill and Sisters. Still, He's a master at building up suspense.
First of all, Al Pacino is an excellent actor. So, why is he in this piece of garbage? This is by far the second worst movie I have ever seen. I saw it with my husband when it first hit the movie theaters and it was all we could do to sit through the senseless violence and disgusting language. I love action movies (I have everything that Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Willis, Lee, Norris, etc., has made so far), that is why we went to see this movie in the first place. But this movie has no redeeming qualities. It is mind-numbing. It has a high rating, why I really cannot fathom, unless it appeals to the testosterone levels of inadequate boys. I suggest the original Scarface if you want to see a better movie. To Mr. Pacino: Please don't waste your excellent talents on such garbage again.
I just watch Scarface yesterday. I was surprise for how awful the movie is. I was expecting at least a medium quality gangsters' movie.My first surprise was during the riots at the beginning of the movie. The extras looks like they are playing around. Like kids playing pretending to kick each other. How could Brian De Palma left that scene like that? I though, maybe it's get better later. No, it was worst and worst. Amateur movie with a big budget. Pacino's performance is embarrassing. If someone show me the scene of the first encounter between Tony Montana, his Mom and his "Sister" Gina, without telling me that it was Scarface and If I magically would forget who were Pacino and Mastrantonio I could swear that it was a Scene from a B movie directed by Tommy Wiseau. I'm not trying to be funny or exaggerated. The overreaction of Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio against the face of the mother is ridiculous and it made the scene laughable. In fact, the only way I think someone could enjoy this movie is watching it to mock every scene like if you were watching "The Room".


                
This movie was awful, there wasn't any single good thing about it.The performance of Al Pacino was dreadful and laughable, also all the characters of this movie are all boring and despicable.The only good film of Brian DePalma was "Carrie". His other films are all boring and horrible, and "Scarface" is not the exception.I just don't understand what is the big deal about this movie. It was horrible and boring from beginning to end, there wasn't anything good about it."Scarface" must be one of the worst movies ever made, and it is way overrated and boring.


                
This movie is awful. The original 1932 version is great. And this one is nothing but guys with greasy hair shooting each other. There is some part about the two P.Is trying to bring down the mob. But not that mush. Meanly it is just bad guys killing each other. This time it is about the mob in Miami instead of New York. It is not well written. It is very stupid. Do not wast your time. Do not wast your money. Do not see this awful movie. See the original it is great. This one is just hype. Most remake are almost as good as the original. But this one does not even come close to being has good. I need more lines and I am running out of things to say.


                
