"Scarface" has a major cult following even now, 22 years after its release.It has also been widely criticized as being very tacky, unrefined, over-the-top and all bloated up! These are people who compare Scarface to The Godfather movies. It is true that on the technical front, (cinematography, screenplay, direction, etc.) Scarface is way behind 'The Godfather'.But it is also true, that what Scarface has and some other gangster movies lack, is the rawness, the sheer crude approach of the gangsters. The Latino gangsters in this movie look much more menacing and real than any of the polished Italian or Irish gangsters from other gangster classics like 'The Godfather' or 'Goodfellas'. This is one of the major winning points of Scarface and I strongly believe that this fact has been written off as "tackiness" by most critics! I have seen the original 1932 Scarface, and I must say that both these movies are way too different from each other and should be seen as two different movies instead of praising the original over the "remake"! Al Pacino has been criticized to be over-the-top and loud in this movie. But how about considering that that is precisely the way the film-makers wanted Tony Montana's character to be! He is this angry young man who takes hasty decisions and throws fits of tantrum every other minute! He is not the calm Michael Corleone here. He is Tony Montana, a very tacky, uneducated individual who doesn't really think much and gets angry all the time!There is definitely a very 80s feel to this movie. The soundtrack is all 80s! I love some of the songs, including 'Gina and Elvira's theme', 'Push it to the limit' and the title track instrumental.There are some memorable and beautifully shot sequences, including the famous chainsaw scene, the Rebenga hit, the first meeting with Sosa and Tony's visit to his mother's.About the performances: Al Pacino is brilliant as the angry Cuban refugee. He has reportedly mentioned that he enjoyed playing Tony Montana the most in his entire career. And it really does seem like he has enjoyed himself thoroughly in all his scenes! One wonders what "Scarface" would be like without Pacino. I just couldn't imagine anyone else portraying Tony Montana and in all probabilities, the film wouldn't be as effective without him!Steven Bauer shines as Tony's friend Manny.Robert Loggia is wonderful as Tony's boss, Lopez. So is F. Murray Abraham (as Omar) in a small role.Then there is some eye-candy in the form of Elvira played by Michelle Pfeiffer. She looks beautiful and is adequate in her role.The director does go a bit overboard during a particular part in the climax. Without revealing anything, I would only say that that was the only little part that suffers due to improper handling."Scarface" is definitely one of the most entertaining and one of the best gangster movies to ever come out. Enjoy it for what it is: a raw portrayal of the Drug Lords and their gangland!


                
"A Classic is something that everybody wants to have read but nobody wants to read. A classic is also something that everyone praises but no one has read." -Mark Twain'Classic' seems to be the word used to describe "Scarface", Brian DePalma's 1983 film about opulence, self surrender, greed, and danger among Florida's drug ring. People and critics (and rappers for that matter) deem this film 'an epic gangster classic' or 'eptiome of gangster films.' When it is anything but. It is praised for all the wrong reasons. Scarface is a terrific film that deserves praise from all over, but not all the praise it gets from audiences today, and therefor the fine points it so poignantly makes are missed by the general public.First off, the film is about a Cuban refugee, with a past of wanting to escape communism grasp and find happiness. Simple? Yes. But the layers of De Palma's directing genius, and the great story written by Oliver Stone (yes I know, he actually wrote a real good one here) play into all of it. The characters are all looking for an escape, as escape is a natural element dealt with in the film by all. Each character has something to offer, that makes them likable by everyone who could appreciate this film. They are entwined in a world of mystique and money, but all that has a price, as they all learn. Each character thinks they are getting better chances in life, when in true dramatic irony, they are actually getting worse. 'Tragedy' would be a better word to describe this movie. All those who praise the film for it's drug usage, it's violence, it's dialog, totally missed the point. There is nothing really positive about the film besides the characters positive expectations of themselves. And that is why the film works so well. The devastation through out the film serves to deliver the message of the film, not to look cool or attract viewers. Brian De Palma doesn't make movies for cult gangsters, or brainless action fans.Next on, the film is an adult drama. It is not a 'gangster film'. It has it's share of action, but the action is plotted very carefully, so it has a point. It's not like "Aliens"- an example of a big dumb action film, and most audiences perceive this film as a big dumb action gangster film about doing drugs and shooting people. Ridiculous. Hogwash. If this film is about that, then it is about how bad it is. Not a promotion of it. This being said, the film is indeed a great film. It has great cinematography that pulls you into the story. It has a very dramatic score (in true Giorgio Moroder style), which simply could give you chills, or bring you to tears. The film is rather lengthy, but it is a story, and each moment counts. The acting is terrific. Al Pacino - enough said. He can do any role that he puts his mind to, and this was no exception. Pretty boy Steven Bauer, as Manny. I didn't think much of him in other films he did, but he actually makes you like him when he goes under maestro De Palma's direction. Michelle Pfeiffer is a true gem as Elvira. Popping' fresh off the heels of a sort of embarrassment in "Grease 2" she got her ticket to ride performing a no holds barred performance of a beauty that is more than meets the eye. But the three true diamonds in this rough are Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio as Tony's sister Gina, who when she smiles, or cries, we see her soul and her fresh way of living, and watch it deteriorate; Paul Shenar as Alejandro Sosa, a drug lord, who runs deeper than a river, and Shenar portrays him as so; and Miriam Colom as Tony and Gina's torn mother. These three dig the film as deep as it can go. This reviewer learned one main thing when watching "Scarface" for the first time. Always go into a film unsuspecting. All the hype and talk of this film cannot possibly prepare you for what you really see. Only knowing De Palma (like I do) can give you even a glimpse of what this film holds. So ignore the rap crap, ignore the mindless violence supporters, and fix yourself a glass of Bailey's on the rocks, and indulge yourself in an emotional viewing of a great film, the real "Scarface."


                
This is one of my all time favorites.If the movie has a flaw, it's that it comes at you like a raging bull. It doesn't so much engage the viewer as assault him. ''Scarface'' is as voracious and unyielding a production as Tony Montana himself. Nothing is left to the viewer's imagination.Moroder's languorous synthpop fits the action to a tee. Like the chorus in a Greek tragedy, it wails and gnashes, broods and tugs, a constant reminder of Tony's inexorable fate.Not so much a tale of caution as a disaster in progress, ''Scarface'' rips across the screen with the unstoppable force of a runaway train.


                
Directed by Brian De Palma and written by Oliver Stone, "Scarface" is a movie that will not be forgotten. A Cuban refugee named Tony Montana (Pacino) comes to America for the American Dream. Montana then becomes the "king" in the drug world as he ruthlessly runs his empire of crime in Miami, Florida. This gangster movie is very violent, and some scenes are unpleasant to watch. This movie has around 180+ F-words and is almost three hours long. This movie is entertaining and you will never get bored. You cheer for the Drug-lord, and in some scenes you find out that Montana isn't as evil as some other Crime Lords. This is a masterpiece and i recommend that you see this. You will not be disappointed. 9/10


                
Ya know when one looks at this Brian DePalma film today, I'm sure there has been allot of criticism about how dated it is. Also, about the violence. When I looked at this film on VHS when I was 20, I thought it was ulta-violent and gritty as well. But I didn't get 'it'.A few decades go by and man, how I know how much I didn't get in this film!! This is a remake of an excellent film which was done back in the 30's/40's. How can you improve upon a classic? Ya don't. But you tell a tale that is brought up to date through the eyes of the "new immigrants" during the most greed ridden decade, the over indulgent 80's. DePalma, Stone and the gang present an ambitious, disturbing and darn right good film.Yes....Disco was dying and New Wave/Punk were taking over but these immigrants from Cuba who had to make a new home in Florida couldn't tell the difference. It was exciting, it was what they wanted but how to get it???? To these immigrants, there was only one way to get it in Florida where they were..by having lots of money and to get the money, you had to take over running a drug empire.Al Pacino was fantastic to me as Tony Montana, the "little train that could". What an amazing way to have your lead character look at America: to fight, kill, steal. lie, cheat all to get -- "the money, the women and the power."That's what Tony saw as the American dream.He wanted it, he wanted to live it and in his circle saw nothing wrong with how he went to get it. Tony Montana's command of the English language was heavily saturated with the "f" word but what did you expect, Emily Post's finishing school for him and his co-horts? Look at how they CAME to America, what they knew, what they were exposed to. This is the way Tony and his crew chose to "be all they can be in America." It was all about the power. Tony Montana would and did ANYTHING to achieve it..it all its violent, lying, stealing, crooked, thieving glory.The part of the film that personified the 1980's to me, is the money laundering. Tony's crew bringing sacks of drug money to the bank. Did those around Tony and his crew care? At the clubs where he spent and drank? Nope. Money was money and with money, you get the power. Tony was living high off the hog. He and his pretty blond American trophy he married played well by Michelle Pfieffer.After Tony Montana's rise to power, he finds out its really crappy up there. He's riddled with doubt, he's drug addicted, he's paranoid, he's surrounded by those who want to take him on in a bloody take-over, his trophy 80's American blonde drug addicted wife he finds out is a bore, he needs to keep atop of his empire because...he's going down. And down he goes in a horrific violent fashion, but again I ask, what do you expect?This is the quintessential 1980's film telling you a warped tale of how some misunderstand the American Dream...to obsession. It's violent, bloody, overly so..but it drives the point disturbingly home. Not all Cubans thrown out of Cuba who landed in Florida in the 80's were anything like Tony Montana. Give me a break. But the showing of how miserable the 1980's were with its emphasis on greed and money as the only measures in the USA to "be somebody" and have power took its tool on these poor characters and their lives in America.Makes you wonder -- has anything from then -- been learned today?


                
Arguebly Al Pacino's best role. He plays Tony Montana, A small time hood from Cuba turned into a rich and powerful crime lord in Miami, and he does it with the only two things he's got in this world, his balls and his word, and he doesn't break'em for nobody. Starts as doing jobs for a big time Cuban dealer, Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia) and quickly goes up the ladder of the organization along with his long time friend Manny (Steven Bauer). Soon he has an eye for the boss's sexy wife Elvira (Michelle Pfeiffer). After Frank sees a threat from Tony to his position, he attempts to assassin Tony but with no luck. Tony is upset and nothing can stop him now. the film has a great supporting cast among them is F. Murray Abraham as a jumpy gangster, another familiar face is Harris Yulin as a crooked cop trying to shake down Tony, Marry Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Tony's young sister. Credits to the Ecxellent screenplay by Oliver Stone. This film is one of Brian DePalma's Brightest points in his long ups and downs career, you can see this guy is very talented. The movie has a magnificent look to it. Also pay attention for two memorable scenes: The one at the fancy restaurant ("Say goodnight to the bad guy"). the other is the final shootout where Tony shows that he still knows how to kick ass and kills about 20 assassins that invaded to his house. this is certainly one of the most impressive endings to a movie I have ever seen. For fans of Al Pacino and crime movies it's a must-see. For the rest of you it's highly recommended. 10/10
Many people like this movie and many more love it, but it seems that it is all for the wrong reasons. Scarface should be liked and loved but not in the way it has been or is.Many people say the acting was over-the-top, but who better to do an over-the-top character than Al Pacino. To say that Pacino went over-the-top in here would be an understatement. Yet he does it so well, he just brings the inner devil out of you so well. His character Tony Montana was not such a great guy to begin with but his thirst for power just bring his sickness of greed to another level; an inhumane level. Sure at times Pacino seems to be a bit cartoonish and surreal but that does not at all to me seem to be a liability at all. The supporting cast served its job very well. Michelle Pfeiffer was not really at her best but she certainly fit the role she played. On the other hand Steven Bauer was at his best, still he is Steven Bauer. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio was good and like Michelle Pfeiffer fit her role very well. Robert Loggia I have always enjoyed watching in just seeing him yell. Other than Pacino they were not really any standout or memorable performances. Everybody just seemed to fit their roles by being there. They did not fit in perfectly but were convincing enough.Brian De Palma did a very good job directing this movie. Whenever an actor is able to become larger than life with his performance some credit should be given to the director and I will certainly give De Palma that. Brian De Palma, though not given the respect, is a very versatile director by my count. He knows how to direct movies according to their genres, but that at times has not turned out well. In here it does, this is by all counts a gangster movie but few are much better than this one because of De Palma.The writing was great it was just pure Oliver Stone. When I saw the credits at the end of this movie and saw that Oliver Stone had written this I was not the least bit surprised. That is a testament to him though. I have always though of him as a great writer and to me he proves this once again with Scarface. Nobody knows how to write a surreal reality for a movie than Oliver Stone.The music was good but not that great. It is certainly not my favorite from Giorgio Moroder. The music was a little bit too 80s-ish for me but it didn't annoy me. The cinematography was good, not amazing but really who cares with a movie like this.This has probably been one of the most influential movies in the past 25 years but as mentioned before it is for the wrong reasons. People should realize that the character of Tony Montana is no hero, he is a monster. He is not inspiring in anyway. He is greedy, bloodthirsty, uneducated and self consumed. Yet he is a role model to many people because he is in some way or another a rebel but probably most of all because he is a deluded gangster. A vigilante would be like Mother Tereasa next to Scarface.The good thing about this movie though is that it shows that the Tony Montanas' are not the real problem. If we or the people of authority would want to shut people like him down we could do it but we don't. In a freaky twisted way he is a necessity of our society. He is somebody you could blame everything on and fell better about yourself doing it. The Tony Montanas' of this world are the scapegoats of our society. This in no way excuses people like him. Instead it is more of a reminder that we shouldn't excuse or allow ourselves to do bad things just because we measure up or think we measure up compared better to a gangster or drug dealer. I love this movie because it is more than a corruption movie, it is a movie that in a strange way makes you self reflect.


                
A lot of people criticize Brian De Palma's 1983 cult classic "Scarface" for being a very campy and unrealistic version of "The Godfather" and similar crime/gangster films. I am going to be completely honest and say those who say that are clearly missing the point.Scarface is a great film, and one I revisit often because if you take away the reputation it's received since it was released(with rappers and just the related) it truly is a well made movie with some of the best acting in the genre. But I do believe it is necessary to address the aforementioned most common criticism. First of all, the violence in the film(and indeed, the three main shootouts are some of the finest in the decade) is not completely over the top and unreal as some believe because though it is exaggerated slightly, you got to remember gangsters kill people. And people who try to get them are killed often. The movie is gratuitously violent because the characters and their personalities are gratuitously violent. What do you want them to do, pretend this doesn't happen? This is a movie like "The Godfather" that is honest about who and what it is discussing. But while "The Godfather" was about a family, and how a family in the wrong business can affect the sensibilities and lives of both the family members and the people who are victims of their bloody business, "Scarface" is about what happens to a person when nothing matters to them anymore except immediate satisfaction of their deepest, and often darkest desires. Al Pacino's performance in the film is over the top yes, but the character he is portraying can be nothing but over the top because he has no substance in him to be subtle or even fairly human for that matter, and because of that the film contains a classic Pacino performance.The film also hints that perhaps Tony Montana himself isn't totally happy or engaged in what he is doing. The famous scene when he inhales the cocaine face first in the prelude to the finale, shows in a strange way, just how he realizes he ruined his life up to that point. There is nothing left for him at that point. There are scenes when elements of humanity come through though, but it's coming through a man who is a complete and utter louse at this point, and so everything is more extreme than a normal person would have dealt with it.For example, his attempts to protect his sister from losing her virginity by beating any man who makes the attempt, shows how he wants her to be with a good person and be happy, but coming through the disgruntled mind of Tony Montana he deals with it in the only way he knows how: through violence.He also still has certain reservations about himself. He won't kill children for example when a certain kind of mission is presented to him in the film, and he attempts to heal the wounds of his mother after all these years of him being a gangster even if in the way he does comes across as crass and perhaps desperate(even though the visage he adopts is of carelessness). But again that's the only way he knows how to act at this point. You see, Pacino's performance is so good that even though a fair amount of this is only hinted at(though some of it is pretty direct I think) you can see it in his face and hear it in his voice, which is so extravagant it's almost as if he's trying to prove something.The other characters in the film are all there to support Montana, but they are all quite memorable. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Gina Montana is chilling in the role of a normal young woman being abused mentally by her over protective brother, and starts to lose it herself later on. Steven Bauer who plays Manny, isn't a particularly well developed character, but that's because he exists more to help develop the other characters and in that regard Bauer does a fine job. And of course who could forget the beautiful and talented Michelle Pfeiffer as Elvira, who in her own way is just as flawed and miserable as Montana, but rather then exploding into drug dealing and violence she implodes in a sense to where nothing she says is exactly what she thinks, and almost seems to feel there's no point to her existence. But it's not only the actors that are important to Scarface. Brian De Palma's fantastic directing showcases each character in memorable fashion and all the faster paced sections are handled well too. And of course Oliver Stone's 4 letter word laden script is vulgar and foul, but memorable and effective providing many classic lines, but I do also want to point out the great soundtrack, put together and composed(partially) by Giorgio Moroder. Sure it's full on 80's synthesized new wave esquire music, but it fits the mood surprisingly well and is fun to listen to with the movie. And the haunting melody at the very end of the movie sums it all up perfectly.I have probably gone on too long, but I wanted to wash away any misconceptions people who perhaps are not sure they want to see the movie either because of it's obnoxious pop culture references and relations or because of common criticisms. I won't say it's the best in the genre(in fact there are many that are better and a tad more focused on story) but certainly manages to blend entertainment(because the story itself is intriguing, and the film is just fun to watch) and message together effectively without over doing either. If you like your mafia movie dark, gritty, realistic, honest and meaningful, then you could do a lot worse than choose "Scarface". Check it out.
Scarface is a very violent and bloody film? No, it is not, even in its time. There is a very famous chainsaw scene, of course there are killings and gunfights, but these do not make the movie so violent and bloody. Especially, if we live in 2000s when some movies with extreme violence and blood have been made. For the squeamish, Scarface might be pretty disturbing, but otherwise it is just as violent as a crime movie. Then, why do people call especially Scarface violent and bloody while Goodfellas or The Godfather are violent and bloody too? I don't know. Secondly, as I see, some hate Scarface because according to them, some people, especially wannabe youths imitate the character, Tony Montana. However, the question is does it make the movie awful? Then, let's put all the gangster movies including The Godfather into a basket and then burn it. Scarface is a masterfully directed, masterfully executed, masterfully acted and visually so stylish crime film by Brian De Palma. Scarface is a so stylish movie from the cinematography to the art direction. As for the script, I think it is Oliver Stone's one of the best works as writer (especially in terms of story editing in contrast with Heaven and Earth) I agree that the movie is shallow throughout, but not flawed even a moment. It is 170 minutes approx. so as it is understood, it is an epic! What is the advantage of the long duration then? We can see the life of Tony Montana, Scarface in detail which means satisfying. The movie or the characters are not deep at all, but personally, I did not even mind it while watching, because everything else was great? By the way, sorry, but why did you expect a deep character study? It is a crime epic and if Al Pacino is one of your all time favorite actors like me and if you like De Palma's style, then there is no possible way to dislike the movie. If you did, then congratulations, you are one of a kind. Personally, I like De Palma very much, for me, he has more than one masterpiece in his filmography like Body Double or Casualties of War and Scarface is one of them. Now, it is time to talk about Al Pacino. However, before that I want to say that this is a fast moving and ''event driven'' movie, not a character driven movie, but still Al Pacino is great in this movie and he gives a great performance. Tony Montana is not someone likable, because he is always angry, so angry and he trusts nobody, but Pacino makes him one of the most remarkable (and likable?) movie icons ever. Therefore, by Pacino, Scarface was a character who I hate and also like. And there is a gunfight sequence, one of the best parts of the movie for sure, it recalls John Woo movies and it is almost obvious that Brian De Palma was inspired by John Woo. We are talking about one of the best gunfight sequences ever. It was a 'edge of the seat' gunfight sequence and it does not happen often! so the importance of that sequence especially comes from that, but of course also it is impressive, stylish and entertaining, if entertainment is the right word in this case. Lastly, I have seen the original 1932 version and it was excellent too. Both movies are excellent in its own way. It was an early Warner Bros style gangster film and and this remake is one of the best movies of all time too.


                
This movie is very good and is really long. The basic plot is about Tony Montana who came into America from cuba. He wants more than a middle class job so he becomes,step by step a drug lord. This basically shows you how not to let greed take over.Although it is an excellent movie and has a great moral, the movie itself is really long and the whole time there is not 1 minute where the f word is not said.It is also very violent even though it has been 21 years since the film debuted. The film-making is excellent and very suspenseful at times. Sometimes people say the movie is overrated. I have to say that the movie does have extremely long parts with nothing in it except dialogue but thats what most movies are. Its just that in times during the movie the scenes are so intense that everything else seems boring. STICK WITH THE MOVIE.Its great if you actually listen and pay attention because the whole time they are building up to the end.It is the most fantastic ending I've seen but watch the movie.Its great.


                
Scarface (1983) Cast: Al Pacino as Tony Montana, F. Murray Abraham as Omar Suarez, Steven Bauer as Manny Ribera, Miriam Colon as Georgina Montana, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Gina Montana, Robert Loggia as Frank Lopez and Michelle Pfeiffer as Elvira Hancock. Director: Brian De Palma gives us an amazing action-thrilled, American dream-inspired movie to the big screen. Al Pacino is the main role in this adrenaline-filled film. Many 1970s and 80s Cuban cultural realms are debuted when crisis threatens Tony Montana, a dishwasher asylum resident of America seeking the American dream. When Tony Montana gets exported from Cuba to Florida because of being a Cuban Army hit-man, he receives his green card and seeks the American dream in Miami, Florida. Tony Montana is joined by Manny Ribiera (Tony Montana's former brother in law) and Gina Montana (Tony Montana's sister).This film served as great thrill with its continuity editing and fast kills and plot changes throughout the climax. De Palma used actors that could portray 'mean' and 'grungy' faces and accents such as Al Pacino and Steven Bauer; all of them executed respective roles. De Palma provided an inside scope to the Cuban lifestyle in urban sections of Miami, Florida. There is a cultural belief of an American dream that many drug dealers pursue in ethnic communities.The one actor that stood by Tony's side throughout his adventure to the 'top' was Manny Ribiera. After Tony seeks the world he so desired he realizes once he gets to the top that there is nothing there but loneliness. DePalmo uses an ideology of 'self' satisfaction to display negativity on selfishness and greed.At an astonishing amount of 170 minutes, the length of the movie was unique to consumer's and was detailed as a interesting characteristic of the film. This film is fairly long, there were a few times where the movie felt very action packed which gave it a very 'artificial' climax. Despite the constant amount of deaths, Scaface is intense, bloody, rich-- and real in portraying a glimpse of the roads to greed riches.


                
SCARFACE is definitely Brian De Palma's best film and the only one that isn't flawed or too violent and disturbing. It follows the story of a Cuban refugee in Florida who eventually becomes a major drug lord through connections with a powerful Columbian cartel boss. His best friend is Manny, played by Steven Bauer in his best performance yet, who is the more humorous of the two and is the only man Tony can always rely on. More strong supporting roles by Loggia as Montana's old boss, Michelle Pfeiffer as his love interest, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as his sister whom he is sickly protective of and a fine cameo by F. Murray Abraham as his ill-fated partner who gets whacked in a memorable scene.De Palma balances humor, violence, love and drama very well in this film. Nearly all the characters are fascinating and well created, like in his second best film "Carlito's Way", and the dramatic intensity remains as strong throughout the movie. From the rebuking by his mother through his difficult relationship with Elvira and finally the ultimate tragic ending, this movie is not an easygoing affair. Yet its suspenseful twists and interesting characters make you sit all the way through it's 170 minutes and the ending leaves you emotionally shaken. There is a lot to pity in Tony and his dark and violent end. Al Pacino turns in a simply breathtaking performance which is one of the strongest points of this film and the very reason why you can't get your eyes off the screen. He gives his character a unique emotional weight and strength.This is indeed a work which belongs up there with all the best.10 out of 10.


                
Hands down, this movie is unbelievable, the fact that it isnt in the top 250 is a disgrace, Al Pacino gives the performance of 1,000 lifetimes in this one, Tony Montana = greatest character ever, Pacino's performance = best ever, Scarface = best movie ever, can you see a pattern developing


                
This is by far the best movie I have ever watched in my life. Al Pacino has gotta be the best actor. The way he plays Tony, you would never think he was anything BUT a Cuban refugee. I can watch this movie every day and not get bored of it. Most other movies always have something in it that could be different, or mistakes in it that you wonder how it could have gotten past the directors and editors, or something that just doesn't make sense. But this movie, in my opinion, has absolutely no loose ends! The single thing I didn't like about it was Manny's accent. It sounded too fake, and it just annoyed me every time I would hear it. Although I was upset Tony killed him because of the obvious reasons, I was a tad relieved that I didn't have to hear that accent anymore. I didn't understand Tonys mom. Why would she turn her only son away. No matter what he has done, you don't turn away a child. ESPECIALLY when he is throwing that kinda cash at you!! Hell, I would love for my kid to give that to me, regardless of how they got it. To sum it up, this was an absolute masterpiece. No other movie could be better than this, and they just don't make movies like this anymore.
This movie is without a doubt in my top 5 and in terms of brilliant film-making, is very close to mine and IMDb's #1 movie; The Godfather. Everyone should probably agree that it has one of the greatest acting ever witnessed in film history in Al Pacino's perfect portrayal of the ruthless Cuban crime boss Tony Montana. How it didn't win best acting Oscar could probably be explained by the fact that unfortunately Ben Kingsley near perfect and riveting portrayal of Mahatma Gandhi (also one of the best in cinematic history) happened to be in the same year. How it wasn't nominated for an Oscar is a mystery I guess we'll never solve. And regardless of unappreciative acts committed by the Academy in the past, this movie needs and must be in the IMDb Top 250. By my standards, Top 10, but I'll be happy to see it in the Top 250. Critics who didn't like this movie should realize that the violence and gore was used as a tool for effective storytelling, and to derive deep emotions out of the viewers, and not just to produce a gangster flick. This is one of those rare 3 hour movies that after you have finished watching, you say to yourself "Whoa! that was 3 hours, it felt more like an hour". In my opinion, this film is almost flawless in every aspect. Rating: 10/10


                
Scarface is an excellent movie: satiric, humorous and violent. Al Pacino made a great job with this one, and I understand why it's so popular today.The dialogs are powerful, and the work of all actors is unforgettable, and it's impossible to hate that movie. It could have been a real fact, cause it sounds as a real story. Castro sent 125,000 refugees to Florida, and Tony Montana could have been one of them.But I hated one scene: the one with the chainsaw. It was so disgusting that I had a nausea the first time, but the rest is well done !!! My favorite part is the end of the movie, when Montana killed most of Sosa's henchmen sent to kill our hero. When he was killed by the shotgun bandit and fell in the pool, I thought myself that it was too bad for Tony Montana, cause he was very rich but very paranoid. Also, I was astonished when he was sniffing a mountain of coke and resisted to the hail of bullets. Betrayal has a price, a bloody price sometimes...You must watch Scarface absolutely, cause you'll enjoy it, I assure you !!! Steve Baillargeon
Scarface is the best movie ever made! There will never be another movie like it. This movie alone makes Pacino the best actor EVER! Regardless. Tell me who is a better actor and why. The reason that Scarface is the best movie ever is that it represents a realness of life for someone like Tony Montana at that time. It is a story of the little man building himself up to be the big man. *SPOILER*Tony's death expresses the realism of his life choices. The question is: Are we supposed to feel for Tony or look at him as "the bad guy" that got what was coming to him?
Scarface is the greatest movie of all time! Well, that might be pushing it, but it is definately one of the greatest movies in the past 20 years. I can't believe ranked Lord of the Rings higher than this. I'm so sick of hearing about Star Wars & Lord of the Rings. If you wanna waste your time with that crap, then go right ahead. But if you wanna see one of the best pieces of acting in history, then sit down & enjoy watching Al Pacino play Tony Montana! The world is yours!


                
Al Pacino at his very best delivering classic "Americana" in virtually every way. I don't think think another actor could have pulled Tony Montana off so well. The casting director deserves a medal for choosing such a perfect supporting crew especially in regards to Michelle Pfiffer who really did an excellent job of portraying the bitchy,bored trophy wife caught in the middle of a perfect storm. I personally would love to see a remake of this movie, but the drug world has changed a lot since then with many movies covering the narco culture topic. Best to leave Scarface where it is.


                
22,684 people have voted regarding "Scarface," which is a good sign that people appreciate this movie even 21 years after its release. I am not a huge DePalma fan but this movie is undeniably great, with immensely good acting, a great story, and some of the cheesiest music of the 80s. Love those electronic organs! If you haven't seen it... why are you reading this? Go see it already! At the time of it's release the violence caused an uproar but 20 years on it is not so gory, compared to some recent movies.One of Pacino's best, man I wish he did things of this caliber recently. Take the good (Heat) with the average (The Rookie) I guess. I believe Pacino is 64 years old, so I look forward to a few more years and a few more good movies from the method actor's method actor.


                
I finally had enough time to sit down to watch the icon Al Pacino at his best in the movie Scarface. The best mob movie I ever seen. I always thought it was one of those overrated films that only stupid Italians liked but this turned out to be one of the greatest films I have watched next to GoodFellas. Probably Al Pacino's best performance next to the Godfather. The story of this film was very well constructed, the director Brian DePalma got great shots for certain scenes throughout the film. It's basically one man who was at the bottom at the food chain of the mob rose to the top due to one job he did perfectly, then he let the power go to his head and became very successful in the mob. Allot of people and critics like those type of Movie Stories.


                
Scarface is easily one of the best films of the 80s , the cast is good, Al Pacino is excellent in one of its remarkable characters , the soundtrack is excellent , the direction of Brian De Palma is great , the picture is good, the script is very good, the characters are excellent , the pace of the film is good. Can sustain nearly three hours , has great moments , the scene he kills several in mansion with a machine gun and tells one of catchy phrases before he died, is very good, has enough blood and curse when Tony Montana kills friend because he was sleeping with his sister is very strong , Scarface and one of the best films ever made <U+200B><U+200B>, with great moments and inspired Al Pacino . Note 10
From the voice over at the beginning to the iconic ending this movie keeps you glued to your screen during its almost 3 hours (which is quite a feat) watching how Tony's ambition drives him to tragedy. Great performances from all the cast especially Pacino who does one of the best jobs of his career. Everything in the movie makes you feel like you are living in the 80s in the fast paced Miami (although the majority of the film was filmed at LA) and particularly thanks to the amazing soundtrack by the legendary Giorgio Moroder. With all the right pieces its no wonder this movie has become a genre classic and Tony Montana a pop culture icon.


                
Scarface is by far one of my favorite movies to ever come out. I seen this movie at a young age but it always stuck with me because of the reality of the storyline and what it can teach you. Al pachino was definitely the best actor for this movie and u couldn't see any other actor playing this. It's like he lived this role day in and day out. It all starts in Cuba, where AL pachino is sent to and he then gets his card to come to America and does so. He realizes that Cuba and America is completely different and you have to make a new living if you want money, power, and respect. So he finds a couple of connects and works his way up to the top with power by any means necessary. This includes murder and a numerous of other crimes. He kills his boss and starts working with a new boss who gets him lots of money. They realized he was changing but he didn't care because of the power he had so he used drugs and the movie gets better as it goes on.


                
Scarface. One of the greatest films of all time.Brilliant performances, directing and set design. This film is compiled of so many different themes that represent the time period excellently. The film acknowledges the impossibility that Tony Montana will never reach the American Dream through legal means and so shows his resort to crime. The story of Scarface is quite simply a rise from the bottom to the top. An amazing film and I love every second of every scene. Watch it right now!


                
