I had a lot of fun reading all the comments about this movie here on IMDb. It seems almost everyone agrees that this movie is a classic, almost to the point of being underrated (and a movie loved by everyone that is STILL underrated must be amazing!). I must say that i am of a different opinion. I would rather have to say that this is one of the most overrated movies of our time.The story of the Cuban immigrant going from having nothing to controlling the drug-trade in Miami, making millions and millions of dollars, is nothing spectacular. The same story has been made numerous times both before and after. This however is not necessarily anything negative. The story does have it's points. What i can't help feeling is that the story has been done so much better before. While there are many things separating "The Godfather" parts 1 and 2 from "Scarface", too many things to really compare them, the Godfather movies were still a so much better tale of an immigrants rise to criminal fame and riches.The main problem i have with "Scarface" however is that most of the time i don't even know if it's being serious or not. Simply because everything is so ridiculously over the top. Wardrobe, acting, music, cinematography and not least the dialog. It's all bordering on comedy, and sometimes quite blatantly stepping over that border. The most shining example is Al Pacino. A talented actor no doubt. But his accent here is... i can't even find the right word to describe it. It comes and goes through the whole movie, and his English is more broken in the finale than ever before in the movie (his English is WORSE in the end than it was when he first came to the US. "Sayy helo to my liddle fren"?! And i don't even want to know what Michelle Pfeiffer did here, she was awful to say the least. It looks as though she felt completely out of place. And i can imagine that a frantic movie like this could make actors feel a bit strange.So this is an entertaining movie. But i'm entertained more by how bad it is than anything else. It brings out loads of laughter, but not from being smart or well-made, rather by being silly and overblown. Many lines of dialog are instant classics, but mostly because of the laughable way they are uttered. DePalma proves here more than anywhere that he is the king of "style over substance". I watch this, and i am entertained. But a classic it is not. I rate it 3/10.


                
I was not shocked to discover that Scarface was not a great movie, as DePalma is incapable of making one. I am surprised by its reputation and high rating after finally watching it, even accounting for the way many flash crime movies are way over rated. As with every DePalma film I've seen, you're left trying to piece together why something's just happened and make some sense of the story. Forget it, it doesn't matter who writes the screenplay, DePalma will mangle it.All that matters in this as in all his films, is the sensationalism, visual and audible. It's always loud, garish and colourful, but I wish it meant a bit more and was easier to follow. You just get vivid, desperate to be iconic scene followed by trite small talk then next big scene, so it's bang bang, drivel, bang bang, drivel, bang bang with no meaningful narrative linking them. DePalma was an awful film maker of highly commercial sensationalist entertainment. It's not Pacino's finest three hours either as you see his character portrayal slide into wacky caricature. But, as always with this director and this lead actor, it is entertaining!


                
Spoken like a true hard-boiled u'an gangsta. The story is no worse than any number of gangster flicks, but never ever confuse this movie with The Godfather I or II, or Goodfellas. It is not in the same league.But what makes the film periodically painful to watch is all these Italian Americans swaggering around dropping bad gangsta lines in an even worse fake u'an accent. Pacino would have been great if they could just have dubbed him. I was looking forward to see Abrahams and Loggia, but their steenky accents spoiled the fun.Ah well, the script ain't too hot either. Don Corleone would have made this disappear five minutes after meeting him, smiling and patting him on the back all the while.


                
This movie is like the Godfather only without the class.  It's too long by an hour, pointless, and completely without entertainment value.  I was mildly amused, however, watching all of the caucasian actors pretend to be Cuban (Pacino pulls it off better than the rest, but his characterization is uneven).  And I laughed out loud when Tony sees his sister for the first time in five years and says, "You have my eyes."  One sentence tossed in to explain why neither looks quite like they should.


                
One of the most repellent films I've ever seen, and a travesty of the original. I was a Brian de Palma fan up till this film, and to my way of thinking, he's never recovered from it.It also marks a low point in Al Pacino's career, his most indulgent, excessive performance ever, but at least he bounced back. He not only makes Paul Muni look great in the original, he even makes George Raft look good.The whole film looks like de Palma, Pacino, and everyone else involved in it, stuck too much of that white powder that figures so prominently up their noses. A metaphor for 80s indulgence.


                
If you want a movie that sums up the bloodiness of action films in the 1980's, but also sums up the awful use of synthesizers, and highlights the outrageously ridiculous fashion hold overs from the 70's, Scarface is the film for you.Having grown up hearing how wonderful the film was, I went into viewing it with high expectations...which were entirely not met. The film is almost comic in appearance and sound, and is a prime example of what happens when things just don't age well. For those who were about when it came out and remember the early 80's fondly, then it might well be your favorite film. Anyone else, I'd suggest at best watching it when it shows up on cable, if not at all.For those who aren't aware of the film's premise, its about Cubans who come to America, when Castro released thousands from his prisons, taking advantage of American asylum promises. The main character and pals move in on the organized crime/drug trafficking in Miami...stir in your usual power/money corrupts scheme, and you've got yourself a movie. I've long thought the main reason folks like the film is only to shout out its tag line,"Say hello to my little friend!" ...and that may be the most redeemable trait of the film.


                
I'm always prepared for a heavily-hyped movie to fail to live up to the hype, but I was astonished at how p***-poor SCARFACE was, from the grotesque performances of Pacino and Loggia to the gawd-awful script, to the pointless little "hey-look-at-me!" directorial flourishes (my favorite: the little pullback/zoom-in move DePalma does *for no reason* outside the Porsche showroom), to the ending scene, which is just stupid. It's movies like SCARFACE that make me wonder if critics and film buffs get together occasionally to play a practical joke on the rest of the world by pretending to like a bad movie, just to see if they can get everyone else to go along. Sorry if I seem bitter, but I feel like I've had three hours of my life stolen from me.


                
Everyone and their yokel stoner buddy is going to vote against me here, but outside of good acting, awesome scenes here and there, and memorable "cheesy" lines this version of Scarface simply does not hold a shadow to other so-called "great" mobster cinema.A few of my favorite movies are: Once Upon a Time in America, Little Caesar, and the original Scarface. AS a kid, I was obsessed with the Untouchables television series too, never missed an episode. But, I have never liked this movie! The reason I don't like this is due to the way the main character is presented. All I see in this version's mobster character is some murderous sicko whom is in love with his sister, Gina (Mastrantonio). Then throughout the movie, Tony Montana (Pacino) makes one dumb decision after another because he thinks he's "too big" for the world and doesn't have to listen to "nobody." Montana is inevitably gunned down for his decisions in the famous "say hello to my little friend" scene. Now I'll go back and break down the plot points of this movie so that hopefully someone else in this world will see my reasoning as to why this movie is no good and overrated:Small mobster rises to power. Everyone does cocaine. People die. The main character and his friends kill some more people and have fornication with lots of women. The mobsters do more drugs.Small guy becomes big mobster and kills his loyal friend (Bauer) for making a move on Gina, then finds that he didn't just kill his best friend, but his now brother-in-law. Sister; Gina sees that her brother is in love with her. Tony does more coke and IT hits the fan.Small-big mobster is gunned down and takes almost everyone with him. Then the movie ends like a Shakespearean tragedy, only with more bullets.So here's a guy into incest, into drug addiction, who is paranoid and he is burdened by a Neapolitan complex too. And I won't even touch on how he makes Colombians look either, but I will mention that the original idea of Scarface was a modern day Robin Hood born and second generation America, who is sucked into the wrong type of life. This character was meant to me based on mostly the life of Al Capone. Montana was only similar on the surface, while Camonte from the 1932 original played by Paul Muni was clearly based on Capone. This does not mean to that for me to be a satisfied viewer I had to see a total remake word-for-word. But there are some things you don't twist such as real facts about a character from a book. Especially when the facts are based on a real person. When that is done, it's practically distorting history. Example: say that they made a movie about Sigmund Freud, without pointing out that someone tried to in 1984. The father of psychology comes up with many concepts. The ideas inspire others such as Jung and Adler to take the inspirational concepts and make them into psychiatry legend. Before this one Jewish man used his "theories" to make the human mind a more comfortable place, the cranium was simply a mystery that no one would touch. Then, instead of making a movie like that, someone, let's call the writer Olive Stoner, decides to make a movie about a man who was in love with his mother, robbed rich women based on "oddball" theories that his equals mocked, and the little man snorted cocaine all the live long day and was rude to everyone around him while demanding individuals refer to him as "Genius" or Dr. Freud. Stoner throws in a few catchy lines, some Hollywood eye-candy, two tommy-guns, and then calls it a day. The movie makes millions, kids buy the action figures, and everyone is happy, right? No. To write a character, you need more than a scar on a face, you need to show the other side of his face too and the freaking backside. When playing with a character that someone else created, you can't rip it apart and make 'em something else entirely while keeping the title "Mob" in your idea.So Stone's adaptation of this character was overrated by the public. Now, the character Camonte in the original was not a simple guy that you could describe as "just this" and as "just that." There was a lot to that mobster, in fact the writer Ben Hecht studied and analyzed real mobsters for the film and even had real historical moments within based on Al Capone's life. Plus, unlike Stone, Hecht actually read the book Scarface that Armitage Trail wrote in 1929 and he worked with the writer. Montana on the other hand was two-dimensional and clearly based on a rewritten screenplay of the 1932 film.


                
after i heard a lot about this movie, i decided to buy the DVD recently, i and i was shocked on how bad this movie is, indeed this movie is filled with mistakes and errors that are unbelievably left.the dialogue is so weak, the scenes are not linked properly, and the way the story develops is horrible, also the way the charterers develop is inconsistent during the whole movie, we see changing personalities of all the actors in this movie, it feels like a compilation of small different scenes that the director wished he ever included in a movie.Al Pacino is at his worst, he yells and shouts with meaningless scripts all over the movie, everyone around him just changes according to the scene, first we see the young rational sister who turns into a crazy whore by the mid of the movie, and we see Tony's enemies' assistants turning to his side without any reason! the scene where tony sees his sister for the first time in five years, it wasn't acted very well and didn't give any space for the characters to develop, after a couple of scenes we see Tony's sister yelling and shouting at him because he always interferes with her life!! how come?! they haven't seen each other for five years! another scene when Tony's sister falls for Manny, it was very silly watching how they suddenly fell in love! that all leads to the end where tony kills Manny, and his sister runs crying over his dead body telling tony that they just got married!, that scene was weak too.one stupid mistake in the movie appears in the end where Tony is first shot by his sister in the leg, but after 10 seconds he runs out of his office to fight like he wasn't shot at all!! and do we have to believe that Alex would come all the way to Tony to kill him after he was exposed in the UN!! this movie is a joke, and shows how violence and images have taken over the real art of movie making lately, this movie should have been forgotten long time ago to where it belongs in the cheesy 80's movie era
"Scarface" is an over-the-top disaster that runs too long and tries too hard.  It's pretentious in every aspect, including the performances.  First of all, I'd like to establish that I'm a huge Pacino fan.  This was his only role I wasn't pleased with.  He overacts way too much in this movie, and looks more like he's just having fun with the accent.  That's another thing that bothers me about movies like this.  If you want to make a movie about Cuban immigrants, HAVE THEM SPEAK CUBAN!!!  I can deal with the subtitles. But instead we're stuck with these phony accents.  The minute I saw Robert Loggia and F. Murray Abraham on screen, as Cubans, I was confirmed that this film reached the bottom of the barrel.  When was the last time you saw two Hispanic people who just recently came to the country speak English to one another?  It happens almost never.  And it's very unconvincing.  Hell, I have Hispanic friends who've been in this country for a long time and they still speak their language to their other Hispanic friends.  And I think many filmmakers take that flaw for granted.However, I don't agree with the majority who believe this film sets the record for excessive profanity.  I think the main reason why it had lots of profanity was b/c of its running time.  But face it, I've seen filthier. "The Big Lebowski" was about an hour less in running time and had approximately 244 "f" words--and that doesn't count the other curse words.


                
There is very little to like about this movie, Al Pacino as a Cuban refuge?! God, gimmie a break. Only 'The Conquerors' with John Wayne as Genghis Khan is more laughably miscast. Pacino's (over)acting wavers between lampoonish and just plan embarrassing. It is amazing that a movie can last three hours, and have absolutely nothing happen! Terrible in all extremes. Watch the 1932 version with Paul Muni instead.


                
A candidate for the most overrated movie of the 80s? Scarface is regularly described as visceral, involving and, above all, influential, but watching it is like sitting through one of those straight-to-VHS action flicks with people like C. Thomas Howell and Frank Stallone.OK - the good stuff first. Pacino is watchable, as he always was before he made Scent Of A Woman. Robert Loggia's quietly effective. And the sets are impressively garish.But there's so much else wrong, and the movie just doesn't convince. Maybe it's because hardly any real Cubans would touch the script, and most of the lead roles went to Italian-Americans (with the exception of, er, F. Murray Abraham). It feels like a Mafia movie (Godfather I & II being the obvious comparisons) done on the cheap.The music is utterly dreadful, especially those unintentionally hilarious stabs when Tony gets jealous about his sister (a character introduced far too late to make psychological sense). Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is weak, not helped by silly hair and mauve underwear. Some of the set pieces are incompetently executed - during the riot at the holding camp, during which Tony carries out his first hit, I'm convinced some of the extras are giggling. The disco sequences are like something out of a Jackie Collins movie, or, worse, Basic Instinct. Lots of Caucasians fulfilling stereotypes. Luckily nobody is wearing a Michael Douglas-style v-neck, but it's close.As for the idea that it was influential, sure. On Miami Vice, and that was naff as well.


                
Why is this movie so popular? Is it the violence? It is literally a movie about drug dealers and murders who get high, kill people, and drop f bombs. If you want to see people act like the scum of the earth, then watch this movie. I just can't figure out what the redeeming qualities of this movie are. Who do you root for? I will admit that there are many violent movies that I am a fan of and in these movies the language is terrible, but this is flat out trash. Not only was it a waste of time, but it was a waste of almost 3 hours. Parents, don't let your kids watch this. I was reading something about rap songs that talked about Scarface in the trivia section. I think that says it all. It is sad that people use Tony Montana to make a point or express what they are trying to say.
When I first walked out of this movie in 1983 I thought this movie would be panned. I just finished watching the entire movie again since I last saw it in the theater and I'm sorry, I still don't get it.Robert Loggia was the only believable character in the entire film. I have read some comments about having to overlook it appearing "dated". Dated is the last thing wrong with it.If you take out all of the non believable and gratuitous violence what do you have? Essentially a plot and quality of acting you could have expected from an extended TJ Hooker episode.What can be said of Al Pacino' performance that I don't think,(Not having read the over 700 viewer comments), anybody has ever said<U+0085> WHAT was that accent anyway? No Cuban accent I have ever heard<U+0085>talk about over acting! No other Cuban character in the entire movie sounded like him. I'm curious as to what Hispanic groups thought of Pacino's Cubano Stepin Fetchit performance.By the way, tell me Scarface lovers what is the difference between Tony Montana and Pacino's Big Boy Caprice in Dick Tracy?This is not to say that Pacino could have given a convincing, non comic book performance with the right direction and believable plot, minus the absolutely laughable and implausible violence especially the final battle in the mansion. Talk about implausibility and overacting that was the crème de la crème.I blame Pacino for buying into Oliver Stone's idiotic screenplay and Brian Di Palma's cartoonish direction. I really believe that Pacino and Di Palma quietly would agree with me, after all look what they were capable of 10 years later in Carlito's Way, a great underrated film with a great Pacino performance, brilliant script and direction by Di Palma.If there was a little more of Carlito and less Tony Montana in Tony Montana and whole lot less of Oliver Stone, Scarface would be memorable to me for other than the embarrassing hokey cringe factor.Hey, but what does it matter there are apparently enough movie goers out there that will buy into such mind numbing cartoons even when it wasn't meant to be.I'm sure everyone in- and associated with the film appreciated your patronage all the way to the bank.


                
Sad, flaccid machismo. Supposed to be gritty sexy stylish action/drama, Scarface is not any of those things. Scarface is better than, The Truth About Cats And Dogs, or Almost Famous, and countless other sh*tty movies, but that's like saying a sandwich made of spoiled meat is better to eat than a sandwich made of feces, I mean yeah, spoiled meat sandwich is the way to go if your other option is feces sandwich, but it's not that much better of an option. Hi, hello, do you know who Michelle Pfeiffer is? She is a lady but also, I guess, a human being. I know, a human being just like the rest of us, but you'd never know it from this movie cause they only cast her as a love-interest. Some creep thought 'Scarface needs some fine ass p*ssy to bang', then Michelle's agent got a phone call- acting!


                
I saw Scarface when it first came out, and then again some 35 years later. Through all those years only few images from that film stayed with me - mostly how gorgeous Michelle Pfeiffer was/is. This did not compare favorably to other great films which I remember to great detail, and upon watching it again recently, I found out why.
First of all, the main character, well portrayed by Al Pacino is far from an interesting of likeable character. His love of violence, dirty money and drugs may be attractive to some, but even when I was much younger, I found him entirely forgettable. There was not much reason to root for him, or even feel for him. "A dumb, violent newcomer with (almost) no morals gets in trouble? Let's see what's on other channels..."
Then there is the story which is entirely predictable. What can happen to a violent criminal other than violence? And that's what happens. Unless you like watching violence in all it's bloody glory, you don't get anything from watching this film.
And then the story itself, or whatever story there is, is painfully long - overstretched to saga proportions to give it some weight.
In the end, between all the "f" bombs, low-brow action and dialogues, and characters destined for self-destruction, I fail to see where the attraction that this film enjoys comes from. In a way, I think the audiences have been had by their own penchant for cheap thrills.
Shock value? Sure. Blood and foul language? Galore. But artistic merit or inspirited storytelling with strong characters? Not even close. This is one of those films that managed to garner praise despite it's lack of quality on all fronts, except for decent acting. Oh, and don't get me started on terrible music score... it only made the film age terribly, although it's age shows even without the score. As I was watching it, I could not help but think of much older films which managed to stay fresh, films such as "M" by Fritz Lang or "Rififi" by Jules Dassin. Heck, even lighter fare such as "Pehlam 123" holds much better over time than this overrated, pretentious piece of sub-par, cheap "entertainment", for lack of better word.
All in all, a forced three star. I had to watch something afterwards just to detox from the bad experience that left me wondering why did I even waste my time on it in the first place, when even on the first viewing in the theater, back in the 80's, I was not terribly impressed.


                
wow,what a disappointment.i had high hopes for this movie.i had heard it was great.and it was directed by Brian De Palma with a screenplay by Oliver Stone.not to mention it's rated #161 of the top 250 on this site.so far,so good,right?wrong.for me,this is a decent movie but nothing more.it never really engaged me.i wasn't bored necessarily,but i wasn't overly interested either.the acting did very little for me,except for Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio,who i thought was exceptional as Gina Montana.there were some good actors here,but i feel they were wasted. Al Pacino wasn't really impressive.also,this was supposed to be controversial movie,but i have seen a lot worse in terms of both violence and language.anyway,i would certainly not place this movie in my top 250 movies of all time.it doesn't have the impact of the original 1932 version.for me,Scarface is a 6/10


                
