The story turns around Antonio 'Scarface' Montana, an ultra-violent Cuban refugee who comes to the United States with less than nothing, and makes a place for himself at the top of the cocaine trade...As a calculating man with a conscience, and extreme ambitions, Tony strongly begins to desire the things he sees a criminal high-roller enjoying, including his luscious lover... Heights his way out of a refugee camp by enjoying the chance to stab a former taker of Freedom, takes out rival dealers, gains the confidence of an important drug lord by eclipsing a local gang boss in Miami, and eventually makes it to the highest levels of the drug organization...Pacino shows the results of greed and lust for power on the human psyche... He guns his way through the sunny streets of Miami where he got 'the world and everything in it.' With his ruthlessness, obscene dialog, and his negotiation skills, he begins to imagine himself invulnerable and above all others... He quickly moves deep to the world of gangs, and becomes more ruthless than anyone else can possibly imagine...Michelle Pfeiffer looks dazzling as the addicted wife with no inner life... She succeeds in portraying the trophy 'object' navigating uncertain waters with her anti-hero... Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio happens to be the best in Tony's life, the only thing that is good and pure... Her revulsion at the end of the movie is so fiery that her whole head could have blown off... Robert Loggia exhibits a weak and fearful disposition, especially when faced with Pacino as a challenger... He proves to be a less-ambitious boss in a position of power... Steven Bauer shines as the man of charm, loyal ally and faithful friend...The Oliver Stone-scripted 'Scarface' is a change in genre, lifting scene after scene of Hawks' classic while updating the rise-and-fall gangster saga to modern, drug-infested Miami... But, as always, the focus is on decadence, profanity and violence<U+0097>memorably a sickening chainsaw murder, rather than on the psychological and social reasons for the hoodlum's psychopathic behavior...
Spoilers herein.This may be Stone's best screenplay because it allows him to color big and be vulgar. And this is just exactly what Pacino does best: come down on a part like a sledgehammer -- not acting so much as pounding. I find both of these guys boorish. But watch what dePalma does with them.
Pacino's excess maps directly to Montana's excess -- both acting out the same role. dePalma keeps his distance from Pacino, holding the camera outside his space, never sharing his perspective. This is the first time that his camera's swoops and pans start to emote, to add substance to the narrative, to actually paint. This is where he gets his legs, leading up to what I think is a high point in cinematic painting: `Snake Eyes.' No one can do better without stealing from him.Excess -- so it matters that the substance of the film are the three American excesses: the Latin manner of self-satisfaction, the gangster ethic of gimme, and the church of drugs, all of which underlie the peculiar religion of the US. Stone does a good job with the tension among these three. Latin sex versus unsexing coke; American opportunity versus the destruction of success; violence versus humor well before Tarantino. dePalma uses each excess in his style: sometimes with great effect. The sets are so theatrical they approach fantasy; the moves of the camera are greater when the architecture has grand features. The moves are duller when Montana is. The cutting jumps when he does, as in the first interrogation, and when he argues with his mother over the sister.The best sequence cinematically (to my mind) is the attack in the Babylon, with the pans and mirrors, but there are other fine visual treats here. Credit the director. Most films are about other films -- this one is largely original sofar as the visuals and is the root of many that followed, including some of dePalma's own.Pfeiffer should be great, but she's merely pretty. Her thinness of presence is just right for the trophy girl who wasn't there, and she only gets by because the character is perpetually stoned. Wonder if she ever suspected she was being used that way? Mastrantonio has much more fire -- central to making the final sequence nearly work. But I guess it is hard to build a career on that. She pretty much faded after Scorsese's `Color of Money,' used that fire the best.
Written by Oliver Stone and directed by Brian De Palma, SCARFACE paints a picture not easily forgotten. Al Pacino turns in a stunning performance as Tony Montana, a Cuban refugee than becomes a powerful player in the drug world as he ruthlessly runs his self made kingdom of crime in Florida. This gangster flick is harsh, violent, loud, gross, unpleasant and must hold the record for uttering the word "f--k" the most number of times. Almost three hours long, and yes it can get repulsive. A stout hearted constitution keeps you in your seat cheering for the demise of a ruthless crime lord.Also playing interesting characters are Michelle Pfeiffer, Steven Bauer, Robert Loggia, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, F. Murray Abraham and Angel Salazar. Pacino proves to be one of the greatest of his generation. He manages to bring reality to his character that leaves a strong impression. This will not be a movie for everyone for you leave thinking you walked away from a disaster. Is that powerful enough for you? Crime does not pay for long!


                
this movie made me sick to my stomachCounting money f$ck. F&ck. F@ck you. Fu@k you. in an annoying fake accent al Pacino makes a fool of himself, as Oliver stone manifests one if his worst works I have seenThis movie is one of the worst works of pacinos, and I have seen two for the money with that faggot Matthew mchknahay or whatever his stupid name isMichael corleone was a real character: evolving to the needs of his family, changing feelings for his wife and children, not some coked up immigrant who has been drowned out by powerI am making a joke: Michael corleone and tony Montana are somewhat the same, i just really don't see the mystery and mystique and classic story telling that i fell in love with the godfather


                
The visual imagery is strikingly different from Howard Hawks' early 1930s version, but the plot is fundamentally the same, transposed from Al Capone in Chicago in the 1920s, through Tony Camonte and prohibition in the 1930s, to Tony Montana (Al Pacino) and cocaine in Miami in the 1980s. The protagonist begins as an ethnic nobody and rises to the top before being undone by his own reach. There's a sub-plot. A Latin kid falls for a trophy blond before returning to the girl who reflects his own roots, though she may be his sister.I'm not sure about that incest business, which showed up first in a shadowy way in Hawks' film. There it was arguable. Here, with Maria Mastrantonio as Pacino's sister Gina, it's made explicit in Gina's speech before she attempt to shoot Pacino. But, I don't know. Latin culture tends to be pretty protective of its women, who are either Madonnas or whores. (And not just Latins, but other cultures as well, including Samoans.) It's the business of the brother to protect his sister's reputation. True enough, Pacino seems obsessed with Gina, and the director, Brian DePalma, emphasizes this by giving us a close-up of Pacino's glare every time he spots her with a boy friend. But then, after all, Tony kills his best friend for being with his sister, only BEFORE he discovers they're married. Sure, it's ambiguous. It's just hard to believe that what amounts to fratricide would have taken place simply because of incestuous longings.Anyway, enough incest. In Hawks' film, Tony drove an armor-plated car and lived in an armor-plated room. We only knew he was rich because everybody said so. Here, we actually SEE the opulence and, man, is it disgusting. It's ritzy in the same sense that a Las Vegas casino is ritzy, which is to say pretty vulgar. No class, you know? The production designer, glimpsing the plan, just have entered the phase of ejaculatory inevitability. And in Hawks' film there is the usual final shoot out in which the sister is accidentally shot and Tony gets his. It's dramatic but it doesn't last long. In this film it looks a little like World War III. It's not a blood bath. It's literally a swimming pool of blood. (Two of them, in fact.) "Say hell to my LITTLE FRIEND!", Pacino screams before triggering his grenade-launching assault rifle -- but a bullet is just a bullet after all.Pacino, playing a rogue Cuban, is kind of funny. I wonder if he played it for laughs. His accent is a kind of all-purpose Romance language dialect, edging crabwise at times into some kind of Slavic. And coke has a peculiar effect on him. Where most people get a rush of exhilaration and euphoria from doing a line or two, Pacino can shove his face into a mountain of the stuff, take a big deep breath, and emerge more sluggish and dispirited than before. Michelle Pfeiffer is the trophy blond wife. (Yummy.) If you rubbed her belly with a hundred dollar bill she'd go into tonic immobility like a chicken. I was most impressed by the performance of Arnaldo Santana as Pacino's adversary Ernie, the henchman of Robert Loggia. Pacino has just killed two of his enemies, leaving only the remaining gangster Santana standing next to Loggia's body. (Why does Loggia wear a chai?) As Pacino and his friends are walking out with their guns still asmoke, Steven Bauer glances over and asks, "What about Ernie?" The expressions that flit across Santana's features at that moment are priceless. He's not exactly terrified. He's just monumentally UNEASY. DePalma stages a few memorable scenes. One is an argument between him and Pfeiffer in a fancy restaurant. My ex wife was a specialist in initiating such public scenes. Another is an attempted assassination of Pacino in his own night club, in which a fat Fellini-esquire clown with a plastic head gets caught in the crossfire while prancing around to "Strangers in the Night." The third has Pacino in a marble tub surrounded by sycophants, booze, and bubble bath. The shoot out, with Pacino taking bullet after bullet while waving his arms and screaming vile curses, is hard to take because of its excess. (Let the guy DIE, for crying out loud!)
Title: ScarfaceCondensed Storyline: A Cuban immigrant takes over a drug cartel and soon becomes the top dog, but lets his greed take over him. Notable Acting: Al Pacino plays our favourite Cuban drug lord, Tony Montana. His performance it the driving force of this movie. Mainly because the movie is based on him, so if his performance went flat that movie would fall flat as well. Overall Feel: I have a feeling this is going to be a short review, I'll just put that out there right now. This movie is basically the "Zero to hero" plot, but tipped on its head a bit. As Tony is a downright criminal, so I do say that the movie is a very interesting case for that. The movie also practices what it preaches as throughout the whole movie you see him moving up in the world, getting the money, then the power, then the woman. Before losing it all because his good honest morals get in the way. I can say that I am generally not a big fan of mafia based movies, but this is a movie which I enjoyed regardless.
This film has been endlessly parodied and quoted, and we have seen the repercussions in it in most all parts of our culture -- all for a reason... It is quite an epic, intriguing film focusing around an incredibly magnetic, motivated main character.In many ways one of the best portrayals of 'man against the world,' we sympathize with the political refugee from the beginning until the end, and begin to understand and see the world through his eyes. The genius of the film is that, in addition to being an action film, it does not seem to take on the necessity of most other action films of establishing the main character as an unquestionable hero, but rather it forces the audience to see themselves in and to sympathize with a gangster and a coke dealer. It demands of the audience to see things from another perspective, and to enter another man's world & reality, unlike your typical action film.This is one of the better epics put to film -- I would recommend this to anyone, in general, being quite a complete study of the human condition.


                
Brian De Palma's Scarface, a remake of the 1932 gangster classic by Howard Hawks, changes locations to Miami where Tony Montana (Al Pacino) arrives without much going for him. Soon, under circumstances at his disposal, gets to the reign of the gangster's world of 80's cocaine, soon having a sort of empire around him that soon becomes too much to control under the influence of snow. The elements that kept me interested the most while watching this film were Brian De Palma's direction and certain aspects of Oliver Stone's adaptation on Ben Hecht's material. The direction by De Palma (which owes a little credit to the cinematography by John A. Alonzo and the splendorous production design by Ferdinando Scarfiotti) is always at an edge and style to kept the audience hooked into where the story is going even if it seems inevitable in the sort of rise, seize, and fall saga of the money dream. Even though De Palma's presenting us with a more-often-than-not despicable character in Tony Montana, the techniques aren't tiresome or boring in the near 3-hour length of the film. It was by De Palma - and Stone's script, which delivers some good, tongue-in-cheek dialog, and tries to understand the scope of the characters in this world - that I stayed through till the end of this film. There were also a couple of surprises amid the conventions (i.e. the infamous "Chainsaw" scene).And yet, I was not one of those who thought that Pacino's performance was something incredible. I'm sure it's been influential in the twenty years since the film's been out there (the DVD did a whole tribute special by various rappers and real-life hoodlums), but from my perspective it served as something of a big liability. The supporting roles are alright, but his bravado, heavily-dramatic style seems like it COULD fit this revised version of Paul Muni's performance. BUT the accent and accentuations he uses from start to finish become distracting, and overtly comical, very quickly. And his booming persona is misused here; I can think of at least a dozen other performances where Pacino's been able to utilize his presence and style magnificently for the sake of a picture (The Godfather movies and his movies with Sidney Lumet are great examples, but so are some of his recent films like Insomnia or even the Devil's Advocate). This isn't one of them- here he confuses theatrical, operatic acting with ridiculous showmanship. What's even more interesting to me is that Pacino and De Palma's second collaboration- Carlito's Way- was a bit more mature in dealing with the conventions within the crime genre, and found that balance of forceful directing and acting. I do recommend Scarface and yet I don't recommend it as well. There were elements about the film that kept sturdy, even gripping (the last fifteen minutes or so is rather bloody though brilliantly filmed). However the film does have a number of flaws, and not just in Pacino's work (some scenes are a little too much for me, and I get a kick out of most crime films). 6.5/10


                
I've never seen the original "Scarface", but the remake is not something that you'll forget easily. Al Pacino plays Antonio Montana, one of the Cuban exiles known as "Marielitos". After arriving in Miami, he soon becomes a drug kingpin, distributing cocaine everywhere, not to mention getting all coked up himself. As one might expect with such a person, he gets into all sorts of bloody situations; in one scene, he and his friends commit what can only be described as the "Florida Chainsaw Massacre". Pretty much the whole movie shows Tony's violent escapades.I should warn you that this movie is not for the squeamish in any way, shape or form. But don't worry: the violence is not gratuitous. Overall, the movie was an interesting counterbalance to the 1980s' obsession with optimism. In "Scarface", all optimism is eliminated early on.Maybe it's not a masterpiece, but it is something that everyone should see just to understand Miami's mafia.


                
Since this movie has been dissected to bits by everyone, here are a few trivial observations: Was I the only one who thought that stupid clown Octavio deserved to get blasted? What kind of act was that - a big-headed dancing clown that only someone high on coke would find amusing? The song they were playing at Club Babylon: "llelo," were they singing about crack? Was everyone dancing to some cocaine anthem or what? All of the music was pretty awful and I can't imagine anyone actually wanting to dance to any of it.What was with Gina's afro? Did she and Tony have different fathers? She looked like a white man's version of what a Cuban woman should look like - Puerto Rican/Cuban/whatever - we'll just darken her skin, give her a stupid accent and an afro. If her mother raised her to be an honest, hardworking, respectable young lady, would a few thousand dollars immediately turn her into a coke snorting, ditsy tramp who had no more self respect than to let some "lounge lizard" fondle her rear end in a toilet stall? Why didn't Manolo simply tell Tony that he and Gina were married. If he was afraid of him - use the phone. Even if Tony hadn't been such a psycho, he would have still been p*ssed that his best friend didn't think enough of him to let him know that his sister was all right. Manny had the mother worried that something had happened to her. Why didn't they invite the mother to the wedding - why sneak off and wait to be found out? When Gina had the gun on Tony, he seemed like he was enjoying watching her robe open and close instead of being concerned that she might actually kill him. Why did the contract killer blow Gina away first when they both seemed to have the same objective? Why not simply start blasting Tony? If Alejandro Soso could get such a large group of trained killers to invade Tony's estate, why didn't he use some of them to get rid of the politician instead of asking Tony to do it? When Tony's mother was talking to him in her kitchen, why did she say "We haven't seen you for five years, and then immediately repeats "five years" in Spanish - That's right, throw in a couple of Spanish words to remind us that these were Cuban immigrants. The whole speech should have been in Spanish if they wanted to be authentic. She really seemed like a crappy mom anyway for all her talk about "You give hardworking Cubans a bad name." What was she doing during his formative years in Cuba? She should have been tough with him then, when it mattered. Even though she apparently attempted to raise Gina "right," she wasn't exactly a credit to her upbringing either.Did Elvira have any parents or friends? How did a seemingly middle class white girl get mixed up with a Cuban drug dealer like Frank in the first place? Talk about a cardboard character, we knew practically nothing about her. Why on earth would she even have been attracted to Tony Montana? Seems like she was better off with Frank.Tony was too arrogant to realize how stupid, uneducated and uncouth he was. When he had lunch at Sosa's house, he was ignorant enough to eat the lemon out of his finger bowl. I'll bet by the end of the movie, he would have done the same thing. His character never evolved from being a heartless, uneducated, cold-blooded thug. That haircut and those horrible, tacky clothes: why didn't someone suggest a different hairstyle for him, or at least tell him where to buy a few quality suits?
I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole. I've seen this movie,and like gangster type movies,as well as action movies as a whole.


                
Brian De Palma directed this updated remake of the 1932 film with Paul Muni. Here, Al Pacino plays Cuban immigrant(and Castro political exile) Tony Montana, who arrives in America with his friend Manny(played by Steven Bauer) and immediately goes to work for the drug cartels, nearly getting murdered at first, but Tony is a determined survivor, and gradually works his way to the top of the Miami underworld, where, despite his wealth and beautiful wife Elvira(played by Michele Pfeifer) he finds himself bored and dissatisfied, though a betrayal of a rival crime boss and obsession with his younger sister Gina will prove to be his downfall... Though extremely violent and profane, not to mention long, this film is still a guilty pleasure, with a most entertainingly over-the-top performance by Pacino and energetic direction, plus a most glorious go-for-broke ending.


                
Scarface is by all means a good film, Al Pacino is, as ever fantastic, and I have no quarrel with this. However, I've you've ever seen 'cribs', just about every person on there exclaims this to be the "greatest film ever" or some such. They just can't seem to see the irony. Scarface is a thinly disguised attack on capitalism and its ability to corrupt: a nobody arrives from Cuba (a communist country) and begins to exploit the capitalist system until he's living in a huge mansion, surrounded by mountains of cocaine, and wife who hates him. In such, capitalism has corrupted him, its taken away everything he had, most obviously his morals, as he betrays the "don't get high on your own supply" rule. And herein the irony lies. there they are, on cribs, in THEIR huge mansions, praising this attack on capitalism, the very system that has gotten them where they are.
After you've seen the remake of Scarface, you can completely understand why the original has escaped everyone's memory, even though it propelled a brand-new actor into instant stardom in 1932. You can also completely understand why Al Pacino sealed his fate to forever play bad guys. Even during the rare instances where he wasn't cast as the bad guy, his character was still given an edge or a shady past. After playing Michael Corleone and Tony Montana, it's just impossible to play a completely good guy.If you can stomach the violence, you have to watch this movie. It's one of those modern classics that gives you goosebumps during the first scene, since it's so clear you're watching movie magic. Obviously, if intense and frequent violence upsets you, you have my full understanding. Stick to your non-violent guns and never let anyone pressure you into seeing this movie. This is a man's movie, with a completely masculine protagonist who rises to the top of the crime world through drugs, violence, a raging temper, and a penchant for beautiful women. It also has one of the most memorable shootouts in screen history. When Al Pacino says, "Say hello to my little friend!" he's not inviting Michelle Pfeiffer into his bedroom. Ladies, you're much better off renting Frankie and Johnny.Fellas, you're going to find yourself a new favorite movie the first time you rent Scarface. I had countless friends in college who cited this movie as one of their all-time favorites, even the pretentious guys who valued art above all else. It's such a classic that it's impossible to dislike, even if you hate it. My mom, who is very much a lady and doesn't like violence, has repeatedly praised the effort of the film and Al Pacino's wonderful performance. See what I mean? It's just impossible not to appreciate this Cuban extension of The Godfather, with a flawless performance by the ultimate gangster.I used to have "movie star parties" when I was in school, and the lucky youngster who got to play Al Pacino enjoyed reciting his lines so much, and we all loved seeing him recreate the "say goodnight to the bad guy" speech that was so memorable from Scarface. There's so much from the movie that you'll remember, from the bottomless piles of cocaine, to the borderline incestuous relationship between Al and his sister Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, to Al's endlessly mimicable accent, to Michelle Pfeiffer's beauty that's so exquisite, you think you might go blind if you look at her for too long.Kiddy Warning: Obviously, you have control over your own children. However, due to graphic violence, nudity, drug use, and language, I wouldn't let my kids watch it.


                
In the tradition of the Godfather films, director Brian DePalma has brought Oliver Stone's creation Scarface to the big screen. It is the archetypal 'rags to riches' story of a young Cuban refugee named Tony Montana. Al Pacino more than fulfils this role as he conveys the ruthless nature of Montana and likewise the ruthless nature of Miami's Cocaine underworld. Although Montana's ultimate position in life is morally wrong, he is a character with unequalled resolve. DePalma brings the audience not only into the inner recesses of Montana's world, but also the reality of the world that he has built.


                
I just read Leonard Maltin's review and I'm in shock.  He claims that this movie wallows in "excess and unpleasantness for nearly three hours with no new insights".  Let me tear apart his opinion, if you will: 
#1:  Hollywood films are supposed to be excessive.  Although I hold much disdain for the shallowness of Hollywood productions, this is one instance where they got it right.  What do you expect from coke dealers? The dope dealers life is one of excess.  Hollywood usually entertains the audience with car chases and shoot outs and I think that Oliver Stone and Brian DePalma handled it with a keen sense of detail.#2.  The life of a drug dealer is unpleasant to the common citizen.  Murder, corruption, and violence go hand-in-hand when it comes to cocaine smuggling. What the hell did Leonard Maltin expect?#3.  I can't stand it when people complain about movies being too long.  I love long movies, as long as the film makers keep it interesting.  Long movies usually deliver an epic movie experience that's well worth the price of admission or rental.#4.  "Scarface" does in fact offer new insight.  This film was made during the '80's when the rich got richer and  coke flooded the streets of the U.S. and the rest of the world.  While yuppies moved their way up the corporate ladder, bought the new car and penthouse, they also snorted mountains. Oliver Stone's script points out the excess of capitalism.  The best example is Pacino's speech in the restaurant:  "is this what i work for?...eating, drinking, focking, sucking, snorting...".  Scarface has it all:  the biggest house, the most expensive car, the best clothes, the finest woman, $$$, power, an arsenal of weapons, and all the coke you could inhale.  Tony Montana comes from a communist country where all these things are unattainable, but he accomplishes success across the pond and he's still unhappy. Yeah, maybe the theme 'crime doesn't pay' isn't that original,  but it does speak volumes about the greed and excess of the 1980's.Finally, Al Pacino's performance is stunning.  I can't think of any role he's played in that even comes close.  Tony Montana makes Michael Corleone look like an alter boy, and yet it's 100% believable.  I totally forgot it was Pacino in the role, I truly believed he was a Cuban refuge.This movie is fantastic.  It's one of the favorites of my generation x counterparts.


                
I agree the film is a bit overrated. The script is not very strong and realistic. I'm sure criminal world is not that simple as it's pictured in this movie. Pacino tends to overplay his role and at times it's just merely funny when he tries to be real serious. I don't think the film is too long put there could be more content to fill the time. Still even though it's not a classic Scarface is strong enough to give it at least a try.


                
There were some scenes that I will never forget from "Scarface" The ending scene in hindsight is so lame that it's funny. And "Say hello to my little friend" is now one of my favorite lines. This was a good movie, but there are some things said about this movie that I don't think are true1. Greatest gangster movie ever- Give me a break. This movie paled in comparison to "godfather" that it's not even funny. The end of godfather is probanly the most well done scene I've ever seen in a movie. I don't think this movie was too long however2. Most violent- Yes, it's violent enough that I wouldn't recommend showing a 10 yr old. However, 17 years after it was made, the violence is a little more than what you would see in your common rated R action flick. I am shocked to hear that this movie was originally an X but i guess things weren't just that violent at the time. The chainsaw scene is a little gross and pretty bloody although they don't show anything else besides the blood spilling out. There are a couple other murders that are a little disgusting3. Great acting- Al Pacino was very good in the role that you don't even recognize him. However, he is such a good actor that I wouldn't rate this among his better films and he rightfully did not get nominated for an academy award. I thought the other acting was mediocre at best. Michelle Pfifer was very unmemorable in her first major role as a super bitch and Robbert Loggia as an Italian, give me a break.Sometime, I would recommend you see this movie because although it is not as powerful in today's times. it still is a little powerful. Plus, there is still probably more cursing than anything i've seen maybe outside "goodfellas" and "glengarry glen Ross". But don't make the mistake of expecting a lot out of "Scarface" because you will come out dissapointed. **.5 stars


                
I saw this movie for a second time after almost 10 years.I have to say I enjoyed it more as a kid.Even if Pacino does a great job, his latino character is sometimes too over the top.The 80's aesthetic is almost campy and the score is AWFUL, TERRIBLE!! It ruins many good scenes.Pfeiffer steals the movie.


                
Okay, this is a good movie and everything, but its too damn long. I'd give it a ten if it wasn't so damn long. At the end of the movie, I was like, damn finally. I was more happy that it ended than anything. My uncle Alfonso Cardoso liked it though.


                
I also had some issues against it.Seeing this last night on the movie channel, and of course owning it, and also owning the script, I think it is a good film.It could have been better as well..After Tony and Manny quit their dish-washing jobs and after being in the US for a few weeks, they don't seem to be hard up for cash - even before taking on their new found careers as drug dealers.When they snort coke...and lots of it, they don't seem to get high...or if they are, they don't seem to change in any respect.Now if I were to stick my face in a bag of coke and inhale, my eyes would be red, my nose would be stuffed and my head would be focked...but that is not the case with any of the actors who partake in the fine recreational medication of coca.They just seem the same - and that does not fare to be realistic at all. They should have been wired, yappy, schizo, psycho and neurotic, but they weren't.Also - when Frank Lopez is about to be killed in his dealership, he crawls on his knees and begs to Tony, offering to pay him $10 000 000 not to be killed.That was just absurd...he whined like a baby...the guy was a high-roller and just caved in too fast...it didn't quite fit his character.With all the attention that Tony made in the bar and in the restaurant, nobody said anything...just not real.It was good, but as good as it was, it could have been better...However, it had some awesome lines - which will stand the test of time in cinematic history.I would have loved to see Tony Montana, after doing half a kilo of coke in one snort just sweating buckets, his eyes red and puffy, his lips ranting, his body shaking, his mind scattered and his character just ballistic and freaking...he did not...and that is where this film falls short.


                
OK,everybody loves Scarface. From the teenage boys to the Gangsta Rappers to the general media..Everyone hails the movie. But really,as a film,Scarface is not as great as the hype has taken it to be.I like the movie,I like a lot of the dialogues. But the movie leaves too many questions left unanswered,too many things left out. It's as if they 'just happen'. One moment you'd be seeing Tony Montana negotiating with Sosa and the next thing you know he becomes a big dealer himself.Yes, all those rappers love this movie because it has everything they talk about..cocaine,girls,money. And it's glamorous. But really,if there was SOME depth it would have been a great movie,not just a good one.The rags-to-riches story is good,seems 'believable',but only if you answer a lot of the questions yourself,rather than hoping that the movie answers it for you.


                
I think scarface was a good film but is so overrated that it spoils the film if you hear about it before you watch it. Before i watched scarface, everybody told me it was a cinematic masterpiece, but when i watched the actual film I didn't see it as the as great powerful film it is portrayed to be. I thought it was decent and a good watch, but I don't particularly like Al Pacino as an actor, and think he is not in the same league as robert de niro and Jack nicholson, as many people see him. I enjoyed the godfather and liked al pacino in that as he was quieter, and less arrogant than in scarface , but i have yet to see scent of a woman, where i am hoping to see Al Pacino in a different way, other than the sick individual he plays as tony montana and not so much but to a certain extent michael corleone, where he has been, in both the godfather and scarface, involved with murder and illegitimately earning lots of money and respect.


                
Scarface at least shows humanity - that this violent world created by those in the Arts and those in society comes to nothing in the end. I think it success has to do with the fact that performances are very personal and the audience will not find it hard to relate to characters. It makes an interesting watch and it will make the viewer wonder as to what will happen next and like the participants we do too like those criminals who thought becoming a gangster was all that - just study the rappers of today and their lyrics.Al Pacino is brilliant as the great Scarface without a plan. Needless to say what I found most fascinating of all is the fact that it is based on a real story.I think it was violent, but it also showed how violence begets violence.We're becoming a society that celebrates violence and that is tragic. Hopefully more filmmakers will key into peace in the future.


                
