In 1983, Director Brian De Palma set out to make a film about the rise and fall of an American gangster, and that he did-- with the help of a terrific screenplay by Oliver Stone and some impeccable work by an outstanding cast. The result was `Scarface,' starring Al Pacino in one of his most memorable roles.  The story begins in May of 1980, when Castro opened the harbor at Mariel, Cuba, to allow Cuban nationals to join their families in the United States.  125,000 left Cuba at that time, for the greener pastures of freedom in America, and most were honest, hard-working people, thankful for the opportunity they had been granted.  But not all.  Among the `Marielitos' who streamed into Florida, approximately 25,000 had criminal records and were nothing less than the dregs of Cuba's jails-- criminals considered beyond redemption, who Castro had merely wanted to be rid of.  And they, too, saw America as a land of opportunity, even as Al Capone had considered Chicago some fifty years earlier.  And among the most ambitious was a man named Tony Montana (Pacino), known to his associates as `Caracortada.' Scarface.Now that he was free of the yoke of Communism under which he had grown up, Montana wanted what he felt was coming to him, and he wanted it now; and from the moment he stepped off the boat in Florida, he was determined to have it all.  Wealth and power-- that was Montana's dream, and he would get it by doing what he did best, beginning with a favor for a man living in Miami by the name of Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia).  Lopez, it seems, had a brother in Cuba who had met an untimely end at the hands of one of Castro's goons, a man who, having outlived his usefulness to Castro, had been summarily discarded and was currently being held in `Little Havana,' along with Montana and all of the Cubans just off the boats, where they awaited their papers from the government that would effect their transition into their new lives.  And in short order, Montana sees to it that Lopez's brother has been avenged, and it sets the stage for his own entrance into the underworld of America.Lopez, a wealthy businessman with the right connections, in return for the favor gets Montana and his friend, Manny (Steven Bauer), released from the holding camp, and puts them to work.  In his day, Capone may have had bootlegging as a means through which to line his coffers with illicit gain, but Lopez has the modern day equivalent, and it's even more lucrative: Cocaine.  Lopez takes Montana under his wing and indoctrinates him into the life, but once he has a taste of it, Montana isn't satisfied with whatever crumbs Lopez sees fit to throw his way, and he sets a course that will take him to where he wants to be:  At the `top.'  With a cold-blooded, iron will, Montana decides he'll do whatever it takes to get there, no matter what the cost.  but before it's over, he will realize the price for his dream, and he'll pay it; but for a brief moment, perhaps he will know what it's like to be The Man.  And he will also know whether or not it was worth it.In step with De Palma's vision, Pacino plays Montana larger-than-life, and he does it beautifully.  From the accent he affects (which he researched thoroughly to make sure he got it right-- and he did), to the body language and the attitude, he's got it all, and it makes Montana convincing and very real.  What he brings to the role is nuance and style, in a way that few actors (De Niro would be one) can.  This is definitely not a character that is sympathetic in any way, nor is there anything about Montana that you can readily relate to on a personal level; but Pacino's screen presence is so strong that it makes him a thoroughly engrossing character, even though it's hard to become emotionally involved with him.  It's quite simply a dynamic, memorable performance.Michelle Pfeiffer gives a solid performance, as well, in the role that put her on the path to stardom.  As Elvira, the woman who becomes an integral part of Montana's dream, Pfeiffer is subtle and understated, giving that sense of something going on underneath, while affecting a rather cold and distant exterior countenance.  She, like Pacino, definitely makes her presence felt as she fairly glides across the screen with a stoic, enigmatic and sultry demeanor.The supporting cast includes Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (Gina), Miriam Colon (Mama Montana), F. Murray Abraham (Omar), Paul Shenar (Sosa) and Harris Yulin (Bernstein).  An excellent precursor to the more recent and highly acclaimed `Traffic,' and `Blow,' and well as having a climactic scene reminiscent of Peckinpah's `The Wild Bunch,' De Palma's `Scarface,' originally panned by critics, has since been cited by many as being the definitive American gangster saga.  Much of the violence is implied rather than graphic, but this film still has an edge of realism to it that many may find somewhat disturbing.  But if you stay with it, there is a lesson to be learned in the end.  And like many lessons in life, the most valuable are often the hardest to take at the time.  But the reward is always worth it, and that's the way it is with this film.  I rate this one 8/10.


                
Remake from classical movie titled Scarface (1934) , in fact , De Palma's Scarface is dedicated to Ben Hecht and Howard Hawks. When Fidel Castro opens the harbor at Mariel, Cuba, he sends 125,000 Cuban refugees to reunite with their relatives in the United States. Among all the refugees, there is one who wants it all, his name is Tony Montana (Al Pacino reportedly stated that Tony was one of his favorites of all the characters he's played) but the world will remember him by another name , Scarface , being a fictional character . In 1980 Miami, a determined Cuban immigrant takes over a drug cartel while succumbing to greed . As Tony and his faithful friend Manny (John Travolta was considered for the role of Manny Ribera but was to Steven Bauer who is the only actual Cuban in the main cast and subsequently married Melanie Griffith) arrive in the U.S. and beginning working small time jobs importing and exporting cocaine. Soon, they are hired by Omar Suarez (during filming F. Murray Abraham was notified that he had won the part of Antonio Salieri in Amadeus) to do business to a group of Colombians. When the issue goes awry , Tony and Manny leave with the money and flee rapidly . Soon after , Tony meets with drug ringleader Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia , outstanding as a rival gangster) and falls for his boss's girl , Elvira (Michelle Pffeifer , Kay Lenz, Glenn Close , Kelly McGillis and Kristy McNichol both reportedly wanted the role , but De Palma turned them down). Later on , Tony reunites with his mother and sister (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio).This exciting film packs thrills , chills , noisy action violence and results to be pretty entertaining , in spite of its long runtime , as it runs nearly three hours . It's one of the most violent , gruesome , thrilling intriguing gangster move ever made . Al Pacino , in the title role , is firs-rate as the Cuban gangster and receives magnificent support from Steven Bauer , Robert Loggia, Mark Margolis , Harris Yulin and early deceased Paul Shenar gives a bravura performance as a Colombian kingpin . Interesting screenplay by Oliver Stone who wrote this film while fighting a cocaine addiction . The original idea was to make this film a remake of Scarface, which took place in Chicago, but this proved to be impossible due to budget constraints. There was a huge controversy in the city of Miami during the making of the film over whether the producers should be allowed to shoot in the city. The Miami Tourist Board decided not to allow filming, as they were afraid the movie would discourage tourism to Miami, particularly as it showed Miami's latest Cuban immigrants as gangsters and drug dealers. A majority of the film was shot in Los Angeles, California standing in for Miami, Florida. This was done because production would have been endangered by protest from angry Cuban-Americans over the film's reported subject matter. Streets and buildings used for shooting were redressed by the art directors to have the 'feel' of Miami. The movie displays a colorful cinematography by excellent and veteran cameraman John A Alonzo . Furthermore , it has a commercial musical score composed by synthesizer by usual of the 8os , Giorgo Moroder. The motion picture was very well directed by Brian De Palma who liked the script so much that he dropped out of directing Flashdance to direct this film. Ranked #10 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Gangster". Scarface, the version starring Paul Muni, was ranked #6 in June 2008


                
Whilst a little long, "Scarface" produced a movie well worth the old perusal. Al Pacino was his regular solid self, and Michelle Pfeiffer fairly ordinary which is to be expected. The degree of violence and swearing in the movie was an indication of the direction these kind of movies were taking as the eighties rolled into the nineties. This is another movie you can't help but admire the wardrobe on. The sheer arrogance of the manner the leads wear their clothes allows them to pull off a look that is laughable, yet amazingly stylish. One must applaud such a show. On top of all this, a well directed and written script allows the audience into what is quite likely an accurate portrayal of the Miami underworld.


                
Brian De Palma's excellent 'Scarface' has been misinterpretted by many people as a story of one man's 'rise to the top', but really it is about his self destruction.Pacino just gains this destruction by getting rich and powerful on the way.The editing of the picture and the cinematography is professionally excellent and very dynamic.  De Palma uses some brilliant crane shots in particular - they're really intriging to watch.The editing allows us to see Tony work his way from small time imigrant up to big time crime lord.  The thing is that what he really wants to be - legitimate - is never going to happen.From the moment he murders a political prisoner for a green card we know that he is a right c*nt!  Some viewers would root for him as an anti-hero; I would say that he is an idiot - because I know that he's going to get himself killed from the beggining.By the end of the flick (spoilers!) he has managed to become a crack head, a public drunk, a drug pusher, killed his best mate ever, destroyed his sister and mother, failed in his marriage and never fathered a child.  Well done son - what a loser!To his merit he finally realises that everything he has was worthless, and the opposites of the previous list are what its all about; but by this stage his house is under siege and he's about to get his bum blown out with a double barelled shotgun.  Good!Pacino is allowed to overact with so much charm its infectious, the action scenes are top notch and the sense of danger is perfick!  A great crime-does-not-pay film.Check out the DefJam documentary on the DVD to see how idiotic some rapper are (Puff "I've seen it 63 times" Daddy still doesn't get it?!!! Come on lads, get with the plot!).In the words of myself ; bloody marvellous little film.  Put it on your to see list.
"Capitalism too has to keep moving, keep expanding, or it dies. And because logarithmic growth is in its DNA, it can only grow on the basis of ever-increasing levels of consumption." - John Sanbonmatsu For French philosopher Jean Baudrillard, our era of post-modernity eradicates the traditional logic of model and copy, sign and referent. Signs now refer only to other signs, images to other images, and the world itself becomes a kind of hyper-real orgy, an inextricable landscape of simulations and simulacra.Brian De Palma's "Scarface" is a 1983 remake of Howard Hawks' 1932 gangster classic. Unlike Hawks' film, however, De Palma's aesthetic is resolutely postmodern. It is also a film which is explicitly about a postmodern culture, specifically one which is ruled by desire, production and which thrives on the constant and insatiable circulation of money, drugs, images and objects. Unlike other gangster films, the look of "Scarface" is thus aggressively pop, more akin to "A Clockwork Orange" (itself a future world in which all art, actions and objects are rendered impotent) than the more provincial world of "The Godfather".De Palma's aesthetic therefore contributes to a general "derealization" of the world, in which there seems no clear distinction between reality and artifice. Consider the way the various sunsets in the film - outdoors, on indoor murals, on our hero, Tony Montana's shirts (Al Pacino), on giant billboards etc - seem equally unreal. Miami and the "billboard" Miami, are all part of a single simulacrum. Throw in countless references to the original "Scarface", and early gangster flicks like "Little Ceasar" and "The Public Enemy", and you have a film that is obsessed with its own artifice. Where then, do these characters exist?Midway in the film, during a montage sequence, De Palma traces Tony's rise to the top of his own criminal empire whilst the song "Push it to the limit" plays over images of whirring money-counting machines. It's a cheesy scene, but the film's point is clear. There is no anchor to Tony's inflationary economy, no limit, no equivalence between labour and profit. In a reversal of his "Get To Know Your Rabbit", De Palma has cocaine highs echo the fantasy of capitalism; a perpetual money machine, without limits, ends or consequences, that spits out cash faster than eyes can count.But capitalism also functions like cocaine, in that it is an all consuming "substance" that engenders narcissism, egomania, delusional paranoia, pleasure and, of course, inescapable addictions which induce a need for more and more. Cocaine, in short, is capital, a point that is reinforced when Tony's cocaine addiction becomes inseparable from his limitless desire for "the world and everything in it".More than any other gangster movie, "Scarface" thus captures a totally madcap world; an almost Baudrillardian simulation obsessed with desire and production. Everywhere capital, power and desire form boundless circuits which dissolve previous social codes and reterritorialize them in simulations of traditional codes, observing no law but that of limitless excess. The "look" of the film is thus not only the look of the cocaine experience, but the "look" of late capitalism itself.Because it is mired in this tacky shamelessness, people have labelled "Scarface" a sort of inferior "junk food" sibling to supposedly more "authentic" and "real" films like "Goodfellas". But it is the very falsity of "Scarface" that makes it real. A huge generational shift took place during the 1980s (the "shame free" enjoyment of pornography, of Bling, of video game mega violence etc) and one of the reasons "Scarface" was so critically unpopular at the time was that it went against the Reaganite grain. Here is your American Dream, it said, and feel how tawdry, how plastic, how criminal it is at its base. "The World is Yours", but what a hollow world it is."Scarface" is thus the first Bling Film, grotesque in its glitzy 80s materialism. But it is Bling as purgatory. You can buy the stuff, snort the cocaine, get the woman, live in the mansion, but nothing will fill that existential lack. When Tony growls, "Is this it? fking sucking, snorting?", it is not just the American Dream rendered cynical, it approaches Sartre in its existential ennui: "Is this it? Breathing, eating, defecating?"With its Tarantino-styled chainsaw scene, pre-"Miami Vice" art design and shameless vulgarity, "Scarface" also marks the point at which the old gangster paradigm was superseded. "Scarface" intuits a future landscape of video game hyper-reality and violence as always excessive. It posits crime as incessant, paranoid and vengeful (revenge against destiny, competitors, class beginnings, genetic identity etc) and is one of the few gangster films to equate violence with castration, pleasure with self-abuse and action with male-impotency.Note too that "Scarface" opens, not in garish overdrive, but with newsreel footage of Cubans being expelled for disobeying the "spirit of communism". Birthed in the jails of Castro's Cuba, Tony's path to psycho-pathology is the result of ideological rejection; his excesses are the mirror image of the communist ethos. With Tony sitting in his lair like a paranoid President ("Is this it? Snorting? Vote rigging? Executing?"), fretfully protecting his expanding empire, surrounded by banks and banks of security cameras and a weapon's cache that would formally only have been in possession by a military, the film's bloodbath finale now reads like a pessimistic take on modern America, quaintly convinced that it can take on everyone at its own ultra violent video game.8.9/10 - An awful future, slowly dreaming itself awake.
I wrote a comment for Carlito's Way so I figured I would do one for this movie, they are considered companion pieces. I'll let others comment on the circumstances of the movie. Yes, Oliver Stone wrote the screenplay. Yes, the boat lift really happened. Yes, America still loved cocaine. The movie is colorful, over the top, and vulgar. Pacino imitated a sledgehammer. And this is just exactly what Pacino does best. But dePalma made an interesting decision.Never once does the camera eye share Tony's perspective. The perspective is from a distance, always outside personal spaces until the very end when he murders his brand new brother in law. Since we don't share any personal perspectives, the camera crane swoops and relentless panning have to emote so the narrative has substance.There are three cruxes to the narrative: the stereotype of the Latin manner of self-satisfaction, the gangster movie ethic of gimme gimme gimme, and the church of sex & drugs. Stone does a good job with the tension among these three. Sex is ultimately what everyone in this movie thinks they desire, but they end up like zombines being zonked out on cocaine all the time, so they can't even be bothered to have sex. dePalma uses each excess in his style: sometimes with great effect. The sets are so theatrical they approach fantasy; the moves of the camera are greater when the architecture has grand features. When Montana is stoned, the camera is stationary. When he is jumpy and agitated, the cutting suddenly takes on energy. The ambush in the nightclub was masterfully staged and edited.The best sequence cinematically (to my mind) is the attack in the Babylon, with the pans and mirrors, but there are other fine visual treats here. Credit the director. Most films are about other films -- this one is largely original.The women here are interesting. The scornful mother, the perpetually stoned trophy girlfriend and the sister - the actress playing her is on fire! Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, who would largely disappear from Hollywood films after "The Abyss", which by all accounts was a very unpleasant production so who can blame her.
I found this to be an interesting character study of a Cuban who comes to Miami and becomes a big drug dealer, rising from little to become a big-shot and wealthy....and then destroy himself. The movie got panned at the time of its release for its excesses in profanity and violence....but now since we've all become desensitized with decades of this stuff, the film is now almost reaching "cult status." Amazing. The critics, meanwhile, loved "Casino," which - profanity- wise, made "Scarface" sound like "Mary Poppins." Go figure.Nonetheless, at the time, Al Pacino ("Tony Montana") probably set a new Hollywood record for using the f-word in a mainline film. Pacino's wife, "Elvira" played by the beautiful Michelle Peiffer, wasn't a lot more wholesome than her husband. She got really brutal as the film wore on.If that language is no problem, you'll find the story quite interesting and a good study of how paranoia must wind up haunting most gangsters. It's a real downside to living the live of crime. Near the end, Pacino is going to bed each night with a gun under his pillow. That's not how you want to get a good night's sleep!Anyone who thinks being a big-time crook is "the life," should watch this film and pay attention. It may look like "crime pays," but it doesn't. I mention all this because this movie is perfect portrayal of how the paranoia of being in the drug business can do you in, as well as other problems that can do you in. It isn't all glamor. Even Pfeiffer's great face can't mask the ugliness inside.


                
This movie is like watching 100 mafia themed television commercials in a back to back marathon staring the corporations advertising mascot dubbed "Angry Cuban" who is played by Pacino.Or a cartoon, except the loony tune is played by an actor. Tony Montana is a larger than life character. And Al Pacino created him. As a character he is up their with Hannible Lector from Silence of the Lambs. But that movie whilst a 1 out of 10 too actually tried to be a good film.This movie only has ONE thing going for it and thats Pacino talking like a South American person trying to talk more South American than any other South American has ever talked. It was funny the first hour.Hell it was even funny the second hour.But you push it to three hours and your asking. Correction, your not asking anything. The movie needed to do more if its going to be a 3 hour film. The Godfather is a good example of how much story you can fit in to three hours. Scarface is a good example of how slowly you can pass 3 hours. Ether way both films were 1 out of 10. At least the Godfather bores me for good reasons.Stone penned this film based on his addiction to coke. At least that's what I heard. And the film shows. Its a sucky thing to base a 3 hour film on. If he had written it in the Betty Ford maybe the plot could have worked. Instead we get this angry stupid plot that just goes on and on.


                
4 out of 5 Stars Contrary to popular opinion, there were a lot of good eighties films. This is one of the best. DePalma's three-hour-long epic about a Cuban outlaw who comes to the United States and becomes a fearsome drug kingpin is one of the most stark, haunting, and rich cinematic experiences of the decade. While not without flaws, it is a towering cinematic achievement, filled with vivid imagery, spectacular acting, and a raw intensity that was extremely rare then and was extremely rare now.The eighties are my least favorite decade in modern history, and a lot of its films reflect its worst qualities. They are trite, overblown, and senseless. They prefer artifice over truth, and often attempt to sell artifice as truth. If I didn't know better, I'd say they were made by robots that are trying to understand human emotions. Rampant commercialism and an inability to connect with their audience- or people in general- ruin many of these films. A lot of eighties films are lack a metallic plant: "Oh, you liked this organic, lush sprout? Here, let us make one for you but take out all the lushness and organicness you liked about it. There. Aren't you happy?" What the great eighties movies, whether they be dramatic or comedic, have in common is that they deal with the grandiosity of the decade. Back to the Future and Ferris Bueller's Day Off both ride that grandiosity for all it's worth. You feel like you're getting away with something when you watch them. It's fantastic. On the other hand, a film like Heathers goes right at the excess and insanity, providing something of an antidote to it. Then there is the third option: rip that grandiosity off the tracks and show its horrendous underbelly. That is what this film does.This a film that could only have been made in the eighties. Nowadays, filmmakers take a different approach to portraying the excess of the eighties- see The Wolf of Wall Street. But in this film, the tragedy of 80's excess is shown in that same level of 80's excess. While this could have played to the film's detriment, it ends up creating a deeper and more believable world. It plays better now than it does back then. The opulence Tony- our protagonist- surrounds himself in during the third act of the tale is more surreal and arcane than it was back then. A modern filmmaker can attempt to replicate the insanity, but it would be a conscious decision and thus would not flow as well into the fabric of the film.It helps that this film was made by two of the most fundamentally 80's filmmakers in existence: I already mentioned DePalma, but this film was written by Oliver Stone. Both men have of course made films outside the 80's, but they were at their best in the 80's, are distinctly remembered for the films they created in the eighties, and represented many of the highs and lows of the eighties.The action is strong, particularly in the famous final scene, and the acting is good, though not great. There are a few pacing problems, though I appreciate the film's scale. The character work is shoddy, but the narrative is well written. The cinematography, music, and style of the film are exemplary. The combination of shadows and long shots with bursts of violence evoked the image of a predator stalking their terrain.While not the greatest work in its genre, Scarface not only remains a tremendously influential film, but an intense, unsettling, thoroughly entertaining film. I duly recommend it.


                
While other famous titles might first come to mind when thinking of classic gangster/mafia films, 'Scarface' might well have a claim to being the most brutal, over the top and relentlessly violent gangster film ever made. For pure entertainment value I can't think of many better. This film is a total blast, a hugely entertaining piece of cinema and one of the few three hour long films that seems to fly by.If there's one area in which 'Scarface' is lacking, however, it has to be the rather generic and predictable plot. The focus in this film is very much on the action and violence and, at times, it feels like the plot isn't given much thought, or at least it isn't the priority. That takes nothing away from the enjoyment of 'Scarface' though, which is a true gangster classic and unquestionably one of the best films of the 80s.


                
This movie in every way was over the top, just as the 80's was in America at the time. The acting is excellent, and for gangster aficionados such as myself the story was compelling and satisfying. Al Pacino is one of the GREATEST actors of all time in my humble opinion. And partnering up with the great Brian De Palma behind the camera is a guaranteed hit. However it is not their best work.No, their greatest movie together, and in my opinion one of the greatest gangster movies, and movies period, of all time is Carlito's Way. I know, this is a Scarface review, but it had to be mentioned especially because those who are really into gangster movies and this genre, must compare movies, that's just the way it is. Back to Scarface though, again I believe it is a must watch movie, but must be taken with a grain of salt, as it very over the top, and the most appealing gangster movies to me are the ones that no matter what happens in the movie, you feel like, wow that is very possible. It needs a sense of realness, where at times I felt like I was high while watching Scarface. However, it must be said this movie was chalked with some of the greatest quotes of all time from Al Pacino. One of which I had to write a blog post about @ The Hustle Never Ends.Anyways, I'm a huge Pacino and De Palma fan, and more so I'm a gangster genre fanatic. I wrote my top ten gangster movie quotes article just recently also on the blog The Hustle Never Ends.In closing, if you've never seen this movie, but are into gangster movies, you MUST watch this movie, even if it is 2017 and decades after it's creation, it is a true CLASSIC!


                
21 years after release, I finally seize the opportunity to watch "Scarface" in its entirety.  It's all about Pacino.  He's why I rated it as high as 8 stars and he's why I rated it as low as 8 stars.  With the direction of Brian de Palma and the script of Oliver Stone, the stars align to allow Pacino to blaze like a meteor.But oh that accent!  "Scarface" was made long enough ago that many of the roles of Latin characters were filled by Italian-American actors which of course includes Pacino.  I have a co-worker who occasionally affects an accent (he's of Mexican heritage himself) to get laughs. I discovered he got it from Pacino here.But Pacino can't be denied his use of the f-word.  In fact, it should be decreed that only Al Pacino can say the f-word.  With "Scarface" and continuing with fare like "Glengarry Glen Ross" and "Heat", no one can bark the f-word as juicily as Al Pacino.


                
Rating-8/10Scarface is a dark gangster film that has a great mix of dark and violent scenes mixed with near humorous parts which lighten the film up at certain times. With a lead role that makes this film better than just good, it also brings us good acting and some quotes that still are used in film folklore, worth a watch just to hear the memorable lines. I felt this film was just about very good, and here below is why so.The story as said is dark, it revolves around drug trading in 1980's Miami and a man bent on power to succeed. It is thrilling even at some times because it really makes you want to see what happens next and at times leaves you excited as to how Tony Montana will act upon a threat etc. The film has it's slow parts and can at times be a slight bit boring, but nevertheless the ending makes up for some of that with a big ending to a big story, a long story to wade through indeed.Al Pacino masterfully creates Tony Montana and brings him to be one the most famous gangsters in cinema, with his iconic voice and ever so crazy outbursts, you can't help but kind of like him(and his insanity). Michelle Pfeiffer does little to impress here I think and it is possible De Palma and Pacino were right when they said they didn't want her for the role. Steven Bauer as Manny is maybe the most well acted role ever but still manages to lighten the movie somehow and chips in well.I think the true man behind the camera here is Oliver Stone, he writes this so well and of course dealing with this own drug problems at the time, he probably felt he knew just what to do with the script. Stone writes well but Brian De Palma doesn't direct up to standards that the acting and writing are on, not a bad job at all but he never really brings the best out of every scene and can leave bits becoming stale and boring.There isn't really so much wrong with this, you could say there is too much violence and an overuse of it but I think at times it benefits from it and makes you more thrilled. I said about the directing, that could be classed as criticism and I also felt the camera work or maybe even the editing isn't done so well as some rather silly shots and the score quite often gets annoying here, the technical side has bits wrong with it in general.Gangster films fans should enjoy this as it mixes all you could want in gangster films together well and creates an even darker drug gang film. Don't watch if you dislike dark violence and things along that line as you will not enjoy, I will say it is also a powerful drama led in the role greatly by Pacino, but the violence contained in this might just throw you off it.Overall I give this a 8/10 meaning it is Just About Very Good, I think in the end that possibly Pacino just edges this over the line of just being good into very good with his brilliant portrayal. It is a long film nearly getting to 3 hours long but worth the watch for so many people who Ii know will just love not only the action scenes and the smartly written plot, but also the crazy tones of Tony Montana who just runs everything in this movie.


                
Scarface is one of those movies that made an revolutionary impact on its time, its one of the few movie that affected the culture of its time, The movie Shows the Rise and fall of Tony Montana(Al Pacino). Oliver Stones Screenplay in this movie is simply great, But what made this movie so powerful is the way AL Pacino portrayed Tony Montanans Character, If you have seen Al Pacino in his other movies, You will be Shocked with how much he changed his Voice, Looks and Even Physique for this movie, and if you haven't seen his previous performance than you will think this is how Al Pacino naturally is. Most Gangster movies has an emotional part in them, this is where Scarface is different. It simply is what the reality of the situation should be. If you haven't seen this epic movie, than i suggest you buy or rent this movie and experience what such hype is all about.


                
'Scarface' is a strangely alluring movie. The film is held together by Al Pacino's charismatic performance, the ostentatious '80s design and sets, and a dirge-like synthesizer soundtrack by Giorgio Moroder. Al Pacino's portrayal is really wonderful, giving an extreme amount of depth to an emotional, desperate character and helps the film redefine and brutally modernize the crime genre. Scarface chronicles the rise of Tony Montana, a Cuban criminal who immigrates to Miami in the early '80s and gradually attains influence in the drug trade. Tony's rise in the drug trade is interesting because it is the only avenue for his ambition. As a second-class citizen, an uneducated Cuban in 1980s America, Tony immediately realizes he will go nowhere working a 9-5 vending job. We watch him and his best friend work their way through gruesome early jobs and earn the respect of their coked-up drug boss. Of course, you can guess where the story goes since it has become so famous in modern film.There is a distinct contrast between Pacino's role here and in the Godfather films. This film is long, but the pacing is fairly continuous. There's even a montage (gotta have a montage!) at the beginning of the second half of the film to cover a long span of time really quickly. At times the film can feel draining because the drawn-out dialogs are often about such greedy, shallow, or heated personal topics -- or they just descend into Tony's uncanny ability to curse up a storm. Especially in the second half of the film, when Tony's personal vendettas and passive-aggressive traits become exacerbated by substance abuse. There are certainly a few twists in the plot, but they are somewhat predictable and simply have to do with Tony's bursts of anger. This is sometimes boring because the self-destructive nature of characters like Tony has been covered with greater depth by more succinct films ('Raging Bull', 'Aguirre: The Wrath of God'), so Scarface sometimes becomes something of an aesthetic experience. But then again, the aesthetics are so highly appealing: a flashy portrayal of Cuban subculture in early '80s Miami.I'm not sure if this film is quite as focused as the later Pacino/De Palma movie, 'Carlito's Way'. That one has a better sense of narration and features characters who are less distant. It gets to the point more quickly. But Scarface is completely unique. Scarface places the whole American dream within a newly interpreted context. Tony comes to America and works his way to the top through the only path that is open to him. It changed crime films forever and did something totally new with the classic rags-to-riches tale. Influential, ultra-violent, and interestingly admired in modern pop-culture.


                
Undoubtedly one of the all time greats in its depiction of the rise and fall of a certain character and/or their empire, Scarface is a fascinating moral drama which slowly descends further into madness and greediness.The character of Tony Montana, who is ofcourse brilliantly portrayed by Al Pacino, is one of the most fascinating and morally complex anti hero protagonist's in cinema. Mind you, he is generally never shown as being any more than a greed ridden psychopath with little consideration of human life, but Tony's backstory about him fleeing communist Cuba and his subsequent hatred for this ideology does give him tons of depth as to why he is the person that he is today. Even though he is quite unlikeable from the start, his descent into madness combined with his rise to power does truly slowly show the audience what the corruption of a position of power does to a human being, in a way that is quite similar to the excellent portrayal of Daniel Day Lewis as Daniel Plainview in There Will Be Blood (2007). Both characters are selfish, arrogant and slightly psychopathic from the start, but their descent into madness is still a really fascinating piece of character development., as Tony is gradually shown succumbing to his own greed.As possibly the ultimate Al Pacino performance, it is no secret that his acting is absolutely brilliant as Tony Montana. Anger, hatred, and even a bit of disconnection and sadness ( In scenes with his mother for example, who shuns him for the life he leads ) are all emotions that Al Pacino captures perfectly in his role. This versatile and emotional performance really shows the wide range of his acting capabilities after the quite monotonous and calculated character of Michael Corleone that he portrays in The Godfather. Other excellent performances are provided by the likes of Robert Loggia, F. Murray Abraham & Michelle Pfeiffer as the stand-outs of this superb cast.The set design truly immerses the audience into breathing the Miami air by its atmospheric replication of it, as most of the film was filmed in Los Angeles due to a lot of Cubans in Miami presumably protesting against the subject of this film. Particularly the color palette is outstanding, and provides many beautiful images during the nearly three hour running time. There is a lot of variation in color, as one might expect from a film that portrays something as lively as Miami. It does however not serve to be there to brighten up the day, as the film itself is quite hopeless, dark & in a way, even quite sad. Brian de Palma uses a lot of variation in his scenes, with many shots panning right, left, up or down, and sometimes varying between them during the same shot. This makes every scene and every encounter look fresh, interesting and dynamic. Oliver Stone's screenplay also results in quite a fascinating coherent narrative that slowly but surely brings Tony closer to his inevitable fall, which ironically is caused by one of the very few 'morally good' actions that Tony performs ( Saving the family, which causes Sosa to send assassins after him ). This is also a nice avoidance of typical Hollywood cliché's, because it shows us that performing the morally right deed will not always end in joy.The original score by Giorgio Moroder is fantastic, with a simple synthesizer melody that perfectly captures the duality of Tony's situation, as there is a sense of superiority in it which symbolizes Tony being on top of the world, but there is also a sense of eeriness in it which symbolizes the impending doom and death that is coming for him. The final scene in particular is also a fantastic visual example of this, as Tony falls into the pool with the statue behind him stating 'The world is yours', which is ofcourse a superb bit of irony of his gradual corruption to get to the top.There are some slighly absurd sequences, such as the scenes in which Gina ( Tony's sister ) is with some guy and Tony's compulsive protection disorder takes over, which shows us a close up of Tony's eyes while some triggering music plays. It seems kind of forced and lacks a bit of subtlety, which is something that is handled very well in the rest of the film. It is also quite obvious that Tony takes a bit too many bullets in the final sequence to still be standing, but this can be categorized as 'Suspension of disbelief'. Still, the final shootout is in a way quite reminiscent to Taxi Driver's, except that in Scarface the attempted scale of the fight results in quite an absurd and ridiculous firefight, with Tony gunning down about 20 professional hitman while being shot about 30 times. However, the gunfight itself is technically executed very well. The rich set design of the mansion as the beautiful shootout location, the fantastic editing, and the competent direction really does create a superb action sequence.Scarface is a fantastic and atmospheric study on greed, and is indeed much deeper than the 'Shoot 'em up gangster flick' it is for some reason many times labelled as.
In many ways Scarface, a remake of a 1932 film of the same name, is the next logical step from movies such as The Godfather trilogy, Once Upon a Time in America and Goodfellas. All those gangster films take place in the early decades of the 20th century and heavily feature mafia or at least gangs closely associated with them. Whereas Scarface takes place in Florida in the 1980s and features Cuban and South American drug lords. Where the crime in those first mentioned films can be seen as civilized, code-bound and even somewhat admirable, Scarface lifts away the thin veneer of civility and throws us straight to the wolves.Tony Montana (Al Pacino) is a Cuban refugee working to rise to the top of the Florida drug business. His rough, uneducated manners constantly clash with those around him, but no one can claim he doesn't get results. But despite all his success he is a man deeply immersed in vice and eventually those start to consume his every waking hour.Scarface has been called cheesy. It's been called excessive, brutal and gory. It's been called clichéd. And it's all those things, but what these critics fail to realize is the fact that it's meant to be all those. As I said, it's the next step. A gangster film where the main character doesn't hide the fact he's a completely irredeemable monster poorly disguising himself as a human being. And yet in Pacino's amazing hands even a character such as this one can have charisma, can pull us in. We still don't like him, but we can grudgingly respect his success.It's an ugly film. It's also charismatic, brutal, beautifully shot and well-acted. It features some truly memorable song tracks and has influenced an entire generation of film makers. Whether you like it or not, you cannot deny it its place in our cultural consciousness.


                
As someone who skipped out on this film when it originally released and only viewed it for the first time in 2017.... I rather enjoyed it and it feels like a film that can still stand on it's own today.I was kind of surprised with the way everything turned out in the end and the transformation the main character goes through, I felt at sometimes it was a bit forced or conflicting but I also was taken for a good ride in certain moments and left me with a deep feeling of sympathy for the main character and his family. I probably missed a lot of what the film was attempting to show me but id be happy to watch it again in the future and its a film id recommend to someone if they wanted to see a good crime lord flick and who may want to feel how it's like to have everything... and then suddenly nothing.


                
SCARFACE being one of Al Pacino's most famous, lead character, films is a magnificent look into the mafia world in the true American way, where its all very shimmered threw South-America and Cuban industry, being the industry of narcotics off course.Tony Montana is a political refuge (according himself) that gets himself dragged right back into the crime business after being in prison for a several time. He and his buddy Manny starts working for some high class gangsters and soon both Tony and Manny are top-notch gangsters earning big money in big business. Although, the gangster life ain't easy - especially not when you're not a mentally disturbed Tony Montana... STARS: 4/5
From reading other reviews, particularly from Ebert, Kevin Thomas, and the like, I'd have to say this is underrated.  Al Pacino plays the part of Tony Montana with the sharpness of a mach 3 razor blade. The American Dream obtained with wretchedness: classic story told with zeal.


                
WARNING: REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS
I hired this video out as I looked forward to the sight of Al Pacino wearing woollen knitwear. However, when I got home I suddenly realised that I'd misread the title <U+0096> I thought it was called Scarfface. But this matters little as we get Al fully immersed in a Cuban character, coming over all intense and fiery.The film is the ultimate exercise in excess, though works because it starts on such a low-key note. The intensity builds gradually, subtly, until we're left with what is, unless I'm mistaken, a small Christ analogy from De Palma. In many ways the film shouldn't work at all. A screenplay by Oliver Stone and incidental music from Giorgio Moroder? Yet work it does, with Moroder's downbeat, oppressive score perfectly theming the piece. The only slight missteps the film takes are in the final hour, with an eighties MOR tune playing over a sequence of images. Debbie Harry contributes to earlier segments of the movie, though this is part of the background music. Here the music is laid over the top, like Dirty Dancing or a John Hughes movie. And it's also a little incongruous seeing hitmen raid Tony's (Pacino's) house to the strains of drum machine electropop. But other than these leeettle discrepancies the film is on sure ground all the way. In fact, such full-on tactics only serve to mirror the demented nature of the screenplay.Pacino is on excellent form, spitting, yelling and elevating the "f" word to an art form. Best example is obviously his chat-up line to future wife Michelle Pfeiffer: "you got a look in your eye liked you ain't been f****d in a year." Though a later scene where he refuses to assassinate a man because his wife and children are in the car with him shows a touching layer of morality. And when the film concludes with Pacino, face plastered in cocaine, expressing non-platonic love for his sister and inviting about 50 hitmen to say hello to "my leeetle friend!" you know that, if only he would give us a "hoo-haa!" as well then it would be perfection.
When Scarface first started playing in my DVD player, I started to wonder what all the hype for this movie was about.  The plot started slow and all I wondered was "Why are they going to tell me this story?"  However, after the motel scene, I was hooked, the story seemed to evolve beautifully.  Al Pacino was brilliant in playing what I believe is the most powerful character he's ever played.  There were certain times that I thought they could have edited some things out, made it shorter.  It just seemed longer than necessary.  However, I definitely recommend this film to anyone who enjoys Pacino's work, especially "Goodfellas", you'll get a kick out of this.


                
This movie was good but I thought it should have ended halfway through.They should have made a Scarface part two if there was to be so much to it.However, it's still very much worth watching and an overall good movie.


                
this movie is a MASTERPIECE,is one of the great films on show the audience how not to live your life.there is a lot of people like tony montana in real live,but they use that character for the easy way,that drive,determination, will to be successful it is not focused in the right way.AL PACINO is unbelievable i can't understand how he did not get nominated at least for an oscar.STEVEN BAUER is terrific the only sad thing is that he never could shake loose of this character.


                
I have seen this movie many times and yet i aint got bored! This film was captured by Pachino's exceptional acting his idea of Tony Montana was absolute perfection the accent everything.It is quite honestly one of the most perfect performances from Pachino and is a must see movie. I now have this film in my collection Pachino movies along side my De Niro ones too! MUST SEE MOVIE!


                
