Every great gangster movie has under-currents of human drama. Don't expect an emotional story of guilt, retribution and despair from "Scarface". This is a tale of ferocious greed, corruption, and power. The darker side of the fabled "American Dream".Anybody complaining about the "cheesiness" of this film is missing the point. The superficial characters, cheesy music, and dated fashions further fuel the criticism of this life of diabolical excess. Nothing in the lives of these characters really matter, not on any human level at least. In fact the film practically borderlines satire, ironic considering all the gangsta rappers that were positively inspired by the lifestyle of Tony Montana.This isn't Brian DePalma's strongest directorial effort, it is occasionally excellent and well-handled (particularly the memorable finale), but frequently sinks to sloppy and misled. Thankfully, it is supported by a very strong script by Oliver Stone (probably good therapy for him, considering the coke habit he was tackling at the time). The themes are consistent, with the focus primarily on the life of Tony Montana, and the evolution of his character as he is consumed by greed and power. The dialogue is also excellent, see-sawing comfortably between humour and drama. There are many stand-out lines, which have since wormed their way into popular culture in one form or another.The cast help make it what it is as well, but this is really Pacino's film. One of his earlier less subtle performances (something much more common from him nowadays), this is a world entirely separate from Michael Corleone and Frank Serpico. Yet he is as watchable here as ever, in very entertaining (and intentionally over-the-top) form. It is hard to imagine another Tony Montana after seeing this film, in possibly one of the most mimicked performances ever. Pfeiffer stood out as dull and uncomfortable on first viewing, but I've come to realize how she plays out the part of the bored little wife. Not an exceptional effort, but unfairly misjudged. The supporting players are very good too, particularly Paul Shenar as the suave Alejandro Sosa.Powerful, occasionally humorous, sometimes shocking, and continually controversial. "Scarface" is one of the films of the eighties (whatever that might mean to you). An essential and accessible gangster flick, and a pop-culture landmark. 9/10


                
Brian De Palma's Scarface depicts cinema at its most macabre, and not for a second does Stone's cut-throat screenplay go awry in its unforgiving attempt to limn the naked reality associated with drug mafia and the kingpins who govern it. Brian De Palma's unquenchable thirst to mimic the gore reality on the celluloid didn't go well with the MPAA, which rated even the highly censored third cut of the movie as 'X'. Brian De Palma and the producer Martin Bergman arranged a hearing with the MPAA and roped in a panel of experts including some narcotics officers, who testified the movie's verisimilitude to the conditions prevalent in the drug underworld. Their testimonies greatly convinced the members of the rating board, who eventually condescended to give an 'R' rating to the aforesaid third cut of the movie. Brian De Palma used the pervasive kerfuffle as a subterfuge to release the unedited original version of the movie instead of the curtailed one and kept this fact surreptitious for months until the movie was released on videocassettes. A remake of a 1932 classic of the same name, Scarface portrays the life of a young, tempestuous Cuban émigré named Tony Montana, highlighting his sanguinary journey from being a thug to becoming a kingpin of drug mafia. Montana's story is one of rise and fall, trust and deceit, love and hatred, greed and lust, but most importantly: life and death. He is a hapless victim of the vicissitudes of his time; a product of his tainted conscience and naked ambition. As the modern-day Macbeth, Montana is the quintessential anti-hero of American cinema: he adores his friends and folks, and is unforgiving to his foes. Brian De Palma took yet another calculated risk by choosing Al Pacino, who was then going through a lean patch in his career, to play Montana's part. Pacino took few months off to prepare himself for the role and to perfect his Cuban accent. Chagrin driven, Pacino uses all his talent and guile to give Montana an ineffable charm and an element of frenzy, which not only brings Montana to life, but also makes the portrayal, singularly remarkable. Pacino's breathtaking performance, which is arguably his best, manages to hold the viewer in a transfixion right from the inception to the finale. In fact, it's clear from the very first scene itself (the first scene in which Pacino is interrogated by the police for being a Cuban emigrant) that Pacino is on an inexorable mission to outperform not only his contemporaries, but also himself. He punctiliously takes care of the nuances and the subtleties in mannerisms needed for an exorbitant portrayal such as Montana's. As Tony Montana, Pacino not only substantiates his acting prowess and answers his critics once and for all, but also establishes Montana as a cult figure in American cinema. The entire cast has given a thorough performance with a special mention of Michelle Pfeiffer and Steven Bauer. Pfeiffer is absolutely ravishing in her intense portrayal of the quintessential, uber-sexy mobster's moll. The chemistry between Pfeiffer and Pacino is scintillating and at times, awe-inspiring.The movie is a highlight reel of some of the most graphic and grotesque sequences ever caricatured in cinema. The scene in which Tony Montana asseverates his innocence and loyalty to the drug kingpin Frank Lopez elevates cinema to a new zenith, while the Macbeth like climax gives the movie an operatic feel that is seldom associated with cinema.Scarface marked the upsurge of a new force in cinema: the triumvirate of De Palma, Stone and Pacino. Almost three decades have passed since Scarface, but Al Pacino, Brian De Palma and Oliver Stone still enjoy a global iconic status as they continue to enthrall the audiences worldwide with their idiosyncratic cinematic styles.PS. Scarface has become a prototype in modern cinema and is one heck of a cinematic experience, but is not meant for the faint-hearted, or the sycophantic adherents of conservative cinema. 9/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
Scarface is surely one of the best crime movie ever made.Al Pacino's performance as a sharp minded,angry,dangerous and powerful criminal is phenomenal.Al Pacino is playing a character which is brutal,angry,fearless and at the same time has love for his sister. Although movie is 2 hours and 50 mins long,but you will not find any dull moment in the movie.Alhough Al Pacino is playing a drug dealer but you will still like him as a person.Dialogues were excellent and there were couple of good songs in movie too.I also liked the way in which Al Pacino's character used to flirt with Michelle Pfeiffer's character.It was funny sometimes and was gentle too.I have seen many criminal movies but there is something special in Scarface.It is realistic and touching.This is Al Pacino's one of the finest performance.There was violence in some scenes but this is a crime movie and we expect some fighting scenes with violence.I heard a lot of positive things about this movie and when I finally watched it, I became its fan too. I am surprised that this movie even did not received any Oscar nominations.This movie surely deserves to be in top 250 list.Movie is a treat for Al Pacino's fans.This movie is recommended for all adults. Overall I give Scarface 9/10.


                
Growing up I had many a favorite movie. One of them was the 1932 drama entitled 'scarface' with Paul Muni. I enjoyed it so much, I saw it twenty-two times. It was incredible. However, went I visited the theater to see this updated version, also called "Scarface" this time with Al Pacino, I was astonished and completely stunned by this remake. I should not have been surprised at it's electrifying performances because Brian De Palma stacked it with star power. In this explosive story we are given a young and utterly ruthless Cuban immigrant named Tony Montana (Al Pacino) who aims for the top of the drug world and will destroy anyone who stands in his way. To help him in his rise for power is his close friend and partner named Manny Ribera (Steven Bauer), who should have remembered, if you side with the devil, you will get burned. Others who join Tony's meteoric rise to power are Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia) and Omar Suarez (F. Murray Abraham, associates who feed Tony's appetite for power, begin as friends then become obstacles. Tony Montana shares many stock features with dictators. He is bold, daring and most of all fearless. Unfortunately, like all maniacal men of power he forgets the most important quality necessary to remain in power, vigilance. This is something he fails to maintain as he also tragically discovers, his love for his sister, may not be platonic. If you like brutal explosive violence in films, this one may become a favorite for you too. ****


                
In Miami during the 1980's, Tony Montana (Al Pacino) takes himself from nothing to becoming the biggest drug lord in Florida. From women to money to power, Tony experiences everything could ever dream of and things he wished he hadn't.Being one of my most favorite films of all time, I decided that my 100th review should be Scarface.Tony Montana is perhaps one the greatest movie characters of all time, due to the amazing actor who played him (Al Pacino) and the incredible story behind him. Rising from nothing, Tony quickly finds himself on top of the world after taking his original partners job, woman, and life. Betrayal, revenge, and loyalty are all major themes to a film in which describes the criminal mind so brilliantly detailed, that the film had to be three hours long.Al Pacino is a god, when it comes to film. He played Michael Corleone in The Godfather trilogy and many other characters that made him famous. But no one will ever play a character such as Tony Montana like Al Pacino. Flawless is the only word to describe the greatness of his acting during this film. The writing was already good, but Pacino gave the writing meaning with his tone and facial expressions, helping create some of the most memorable movie quotes of all time in large quantity."Say goodnight to the bad guy" describes the movie exactly. Tony Montana plays a vicious but needed character in society. Brian De Palma left out no detail in the life of Tony Montana. From chainsaw bloodbaths to cocaine addictions to a gang war in his mansion, Scarface could easily be considered one of the greatest visual experiences ever. I'm not going to go on and on about every single thing that makes this movie amazing but I will leave you with a final summary. Overall, Scarface is flawless in almost every aspect of film and is an instant classic and cult favorite.I highly recommend this film.


                
From my opinion "Scarface" isn't a very different movie about a man who makes his way to the top of the crime world. In the movie we see an ordinary, very ambitious man, who knows exactly what he wants and most importantly - what he has to do to earn it. And he is doing it. We are watching how this man is climbing the ladder in the hierarchy of the crime world step by step all the way to the top, achieving all he has ever wanted in this world - money, power, respect, a dream woman. Then at the end we see how these things just are impossible to have in this kind of sphere of living - and at the very end he loses all in a big collapse. He literally loses all, including his own life, but he dies when everything else is gone before that, so he got nothing to lose except his life. The difference "Scarface" makes in this kind of movies is that we see some brilliant movie-making, directing and especially acting, most in the face of the great actor Al Pacino. He turns the image of Tony Montana into a masterpiece of acting skill. Thanks to that, when we watch "Scarface", we are seeing more than just a 0-100 crime/drug lord rising.
Probably the best gangsta movie ever made ( all though that's hard to say with Godfather / Goodfellas movies been made ) It takes you back to the age where Cubans came fresh from the boat to America to live the American dream and to do so they had to use everything they learned in there home country.In my opinion the best Al Pacino movie out there he is so young and what a performance he gave.Michelle Pfeiffer as the lady in red being hooked on stardust.Violence Drugs Sex and so on This is a must watch to anyone who loves gangsta movies in general.If you didn't see this movie you have missed something in your life and you should watch it now ;-)


                
Took me all these years to finally see this classic film, even though everyone, even those who have never seen it, should know the famous "Say hello to my little friend" line. The film is almost 3 hours, which seems like it would be a drag and way too long to sit through, but it actually went by faster than many dumb films these days with no substance.Of course, Al Pacino's performance is perfect and amazing as Tony Montana. You can't help but like the guy... he's not just some straight out one-dimensional vicious killer, but he is a guy who isn't afraid to be truthful and not be a "cockroach". He has some limits to his morality of not killing kids; wants to value his family, but at the same time wrecks it with no self-control. He's overly protective of his little sister that he would kill anyone for her. The biggest threat to him was himself. What's very interesting is how the film is able to capture the crippling decline of what happens when money and power/control gets to you. It's not just some shallow dumb movie shooting random bad guys that many action films is only able to do and there's no character.Tony Montana, "Scarface", is a household name now because it's all about the depth of the character. Even the side character's like Michelle Pfeiffer, Gina, Manny, they all have character in them. I read some negative reviews from some people saying how the film is just about violence and degrade women, etc. and that it has no story... boy, are they wrong and only seeing it on the surface. Got to love the typical 80's overused montages. Haha They can't make films this raw and violent... the 80's really knew how to do it, like Robocop. Near the ending, pre-Terminator (T-600?) makes a cameo. Haha


                
The perfect example of what a covetous fellow from a hard working middle class family can do with power. "Scarface" takes you to another level where you can witness the whole process from an emptied pocket Cuban who in a dime turns into one of the most powerful men of America. The dark side of the dream you always fought for... Both sides of the coin are shown: Sit and wait until death arrives or go and reach your goal before it's too late. But "be careful what you wish for". Either you relax and enjoy the movie or pause a little to reflect how dangerous greed could be. Believe me if you want to learn something from life itself just watch "Scarface" and don't you dare to blink because every scene will be just remarkable.


                
Interesting movie but the essence of it was much exaggerated to almost a caricaturised degree. The action is solid but the characters are very weak and light minded. Hope to see a remake that will more accurately portray the underlying spirit of the archetypes from which the movie was inspired. It's good to see good chemistry between the characters of the movie but I believe that was only added for artistic reasons. There are a lot of things I would add to this review but I think keeping it brief increases its reach. Overall I am feeling hopeful for a continuation of the series with different reworked characters with a better ending. Happy new era everyone.


                
A epic by Brian De Palma outlining the drug cartel business. Movie is completely based on the drug mafia business, how an immigrant Al Pacino having a determination of making money becomes the drug lord by making and cutting connections.Eventually Pacino becomes the drug lord by assassinating his boss who had tried to kill him but the breaking situation with his sister makes him kill his close friend who also is his business partner and loves his sister. The climax is described as complete mafia war with Pacino alone and a whole lot of gunmen trying to shoot Pacino who is holding a machine gun.Movie is mostly rated on the role played by Pacino.


                
He looks good in the starting scene, but the moral is: Crime doesn't pay.


                
Scarface' is just about as near as you can get to a perfect movie. It is also a remake. How many times have you heard those words put together?! I dare say not many. The original was made back in 1932 and I think it's fair to say that film-making techniques had progressed enough (along with the world around us!) to create an original and totally different spin on the story of an ambitious criminal slowly climbing the underworld's seedy ladder until he becomes the kingpin himself.You'll probably notice from any associated artwork for this film that it depicts Al Pacino, almost always on his own. That's because he plays the lead Tony 'Scarface' Montana - a South American immigrant who comes to Miami and sets about taking over the local drug trade. It's totally his film. Many say it's his equivalent of Robert DeNiro's 'Taxi Driver' as it would be almost nothing without him.It's also worth noting that he's possibly one of the most unlikable leads ever to grace the silver screen. He's a truly horrendous character with almost no redeemable traits - I suppose the only exceptions to his evil is that he only really hurts/kills those who are already involved in 'the business' or know what that sort of lifestyle is all about and he does his best not to hurt any innocent bystanders along the way. However, even his attempts to protect those he has some genuine feelings for (i.e. his family) often end up in disaster.I suppose it's worth mentioning about the protagonist's character as some may find it a little hard to watch a man like that for over two hours of screen time. If you're looking for a hero you can root for and even relate to then you probably won't find him here! I guess most view him like a human 'car crash' who you just can't help but watch in order to see how bad it (i.e. his life) can get. There are certainly some other familiar supporting cast-members, Michelle Pfeiffer being the most famous (or rather PRE-famous!), but, again, it's all Pacino's show. It really is a vehicle to show off his acting talent.
There's not an awful lot else to say about the film. If you're into your gritty crime/gangster films then you should probably own this one already. I suppose the only negative thing about it is its content. Due to its foul language, violence and drug abuse, it's probably not going to appeal to everyone (mainly those with a more 'sensitive' nature!), but it really is the pinnacle of cinematic gangster films made about a true anti-hero (of course 'Breaking Bad' later copied the idea - sort of - and made plenty of changes to create something completely different for the small screen, but the similarities are all there -keep an eye out for them!).


                
Scarface is one of the most iconic, and one of the most quotable movies ever for a good reason. Throughout this movie I kept repeating WOW! There's no doubt that Oliver Stone is a great screenwriter, but with Brian De Palma behind the camera Oliver Stone's screenplay became very very entertaining, not just smart. I felt I was watching a movie its script is written by Aaron Sorkin, and is directed by Martin Scorsese! Al Pacino delivered a powerhouse performance as Tony Montana which, in my opinion, is the second best performance in his long career, just right behind his exceptional performance as Michael Corleone in The Godfather II. I don't want to say that Al Pacino's performance elevated the movie, because the movie is already great, but as a matter of fact, Scarface couldn't have become a classic without his iconic performance.Speaking of the Godfather, Scarface also is a movie that takes a bad guy and allow him to be a human. The result is a nasty, and vicious protagonist that you couldn't help but root for. But it doesn't stop here, In this movie I didn't only sympathized with Tony Montana, but I also sympathized with the people Tony Montana care about the most. I cared about his relatives that I was about to shed some tears, in a gangster flick!!!!The pacing is fast, and that was very acceptable. But at the last hour the movie dragged a little bit, but it picked up very quickly, and I found myself very engaged again.Also, I have to mention the De Palma's spectacular representation of the Magic City, Miami. And the movie's electrifying soundtrack. Scarface is one of the best gangster films of all-time that doesn't only entertain, but it also a great character study, and has an underlying moral philosophy. (9/10)


                
Brian De Palma remade the 1932 classic and exclaimed to Hollywood "say hello to my little friend!". Modernising it to colossal heights, thus creating one of the greatest gangster epics of all time. Relentlessly referenced in pop culture, my expectations were quite high. Suffice to say, they were met. We witness the irrepressible rise of Cuban refugee Tony Montana, as he enters the illegal drug business, and the eventual fall from decadence. The classic, to quote Drake, "starting from the bottom now we're here" narrative has consistently been a reliable structure. Enabling central character development whilst building an intimidating environment that allows for personality adaptation. The fictional Montana is a testament to this. Observing the manifestation of greed, lust and envy disguising the apparent loneliness and selfish behaviour of Montana. Money powers him, and De Palma's focus on the requirement of desiring the world makes him both ambitious and arrogant. Even when all can be achieved, his artificial greed beckons him to want more, consequently leading to his demise. A fascinating character study that was brought to life by the legend that is Pacino. Exaggerative, hyperactive, aggressive and commanding. Pacino embodied Montana and gave life to the drug kingpin. De Palma's lightning pace seamlessly combined frantic stylised action with punchy dialogue, whilst also introducing frequent long takes to spice up the Miami beach. Stone's screenplay is littered with memorability. "Her womb is polluted", "you want to play games?" and enough F-bombs to redefine the word profanity. Seriously, every other word! Plenty of exasperated action, particularly the mansion shootout, that excessively assist the visualisation of the crime world. My only criticism is with some of the song choices in the soundtrack, it comes off as trashy and I think Scarface is better than that. Despite the overlong runtime, this is 80s gangster mayhem and the sheer craziness from both Pacino and De Palma adds to the bloody charm.


                
'Scarface' tells the brutal story of Tony Montana who rises to become a leader in drug distribution from being a Cuban immigrant to Florida. He despises to be told what to think and owes nothing to no one. Living his life to exceed excess he lose touch with people. Or he has no from the beginning rather.Al Pacino gives his best role here, never weak, snorting blow from left to right, saying **** about 200 times... Music by Moroder captures the spirit perfectly and builds under the moods. Screenplay by Stone and direction by De Palma works very well.Maybe the best movie of the 80's and a better gangster epos than 'Goodfellas' and 'The Godfather'.


                
Just watch it for Al Pacinos performance.One can wonder what such talented actors are capable of given a meaty role. Al Pacino dives deep into the character as Tony Montana the immigrant from Cuba who has been lured by the lifestyle of the riches, gets in the act of becoming rich on whatever the given choice of work, overcoming any kind of obstacle obstructing his vision. One can feel the humane side in him when he cares for his sister so much like a little doll, when he exhibits his uncomfortness and anger on knowing that he is going to bomb the car that has the targets wife and children and his respect for Maama. The scene where he yells at Manny warning him to stay away from his sister, his telephonic conversation with Sosa are some scenes where his powerful acting can be witnessed.As a whole , a great movie and one can only understand actors like Al Pacino and De Niro are definitely the inspirations and encyclopedic reference of acting for actors to come by for generations !!!!!!


                
Arguably Al Pacino career role Scarface is the portrayal of a ruthless gangster, with no barriers who won't stop at anything.As good as Brian De Palma is and as good as this film is it would never be as good as its final result without Al Pacino in the title role. It is an amazing, one of the best portrayals of a gangster in film ( many of these portrayals belong to Pacino).This is a gutless, ruthless journey through the life of a penniless migrant who becomes a rich tyrannic, determined gangster and it one of the cult films of the early eighties. Michelle Pfeiffer also starres in quite a prominent role. Warning: if you think that this film won't be violent then I suggest you son't even consider the thought of watching it; this version of the film hides nothing.


                
SCARFACE (1983) Brian de Palma brings everything about the gangster saga and multiplies it to a point of excess in this intense, iconic picture about the rise and fall of a Cuban drug lord. Profanity, violence, and drugs are in full stock and the tightly plotted screen play by Oliver Stone unfolds beautifully. Al Pacino as Tony Montana is unforgettable, and as the film progresses he sinks deeper and deeper into tragedy until his whole world crumbles on top of him. Like most great crime films, this shows what the darker side of ambition can do to a person's life; the American Dream tainted and unholy. The climax in Scarface's mansion is masterful, also. The world was his oyster, and his conquest is our entertainment.


                
Brain De Palma directed, Oliver Stone wrote, Al Pacino acted.... their honesty comes alive when you watch 'Scarface'. In 1932, this story was told by Howard Hawks, a subject that's gone into Cinema History. Just read my Headline and you'll know that I itself run a personal Fan-Club for this 1983 cult film. I am one of the very few fans who believe, that 'Scarface' was the best Cinema we got way back in the 1980's. I am so amazed, happy, glad & most of all so so proud of this film... that I feel proud to be a fan of each and everybody who's associated with this Evergreen reel. The climax of the film according to me the Most Powerful Climax in the history of Hollywood Cinema. "THE WORLD IS OURS'... oh man what a , what a bloody film!9 0n 10. Twenty Thumbs Up!


                
"Scarface" has a major cult following even now, 25 years after its release. In 1983, Director Brian De Palma set out to make a film about the rise and fall of an American gangster. He did it with the help of a terrific screenplay by Oliver Stone and some impeccable work by an outstanding cast. The result was 'Scarface,' starring Al Pacino in one of his most memorable roles.The story is about an immigrant Tony Montana (Al Pacino) from Cuba who has come to live the American dream. He is a hard core criminal and starts by being in detention, where he plots a murder. Next, he moves in the Florida where he starts working as a dish washer on a road side joint. The attraction of money and power drives him into taking chance with one drug deal that goes miserably wrong where his friend is killed, and he in turn kills other gang members. With his daring, he starts climbing the ladder of drug dealers, and reaches the pinnacle of power and wealth and gets more and crazier (due to drug addiction). Finally he is shot by his own beloved sister before being brutally killed by invading gang in his own palatial home.It's the one role which you can't imagine Al Pacino playing. This was his comeback film after a short break and what it comeback film it is. I think when Pacino leaves the ungodly earth and people talk about the role he will be remembered for, a lot will say Michael Corleone in The Godfather Trilogy but I will remember him as Tony Montana in Scarface."Scarface" is quite simply one hell of a movie, especially such an epic example of its genre. It is controversial among both movie fans and critics. The main reasons are because the film contains excessive violence and has become a sort of inspiration for "gangsters". I think both are wrong, because the miss the message that it tries to give out. If these people didn't just skip to the final 10 minute shootout, then they would realize what the film really says.Some of the scenes, especially the infamous chainsaw scene, are disturbing. Scarface is as savage as they say and much more. I'll advice parental guidance while watching this movie in front of kids."Scarface" is rightly acclaimed throughout the film industry as a genre-defining classic, up there with the giants of crime-capers, worthy of an Oscar it never had.


                
INCLUDES SPOILERS! This is one of the very best gangster films I've ever seen. Almost all of that brilliance derives from Al Pacino's performance...on every level Tony Montana should be a truly contemptible piece of work: a treacherous, foul-mouthed, coke-addicted murdering gangster. But you empathise with him, if not sympathise. You understand his mentality, you can see the twisted logic to his actions. He plays the big guys at their own game and does it smarter, more efficiently, and even more honestly than they do. He wastes anyone who stands between him and what he wants: he falls for his boss's girlfriend, so he ends up betraying his boss, shooting him and marrying his girlfriend. Nice behaviour! And yet the viewer comes away feeling the weaselly, irritating boss deserved everything he got.Ultimately Tony's downfall becomes imminent because he has nothing left to prove, nothing left to offer, and so an entropy of paranoia, laziness and arrogance sets in. However the denouement is actually triggered by a momentary fit of anger, when he discovers his sister at the apartment of his sidekick Manny and he instantly shoots him. Like "Casino", all the power and money in the world cannot smooth over complex interpersonal relationships between gangsters, their girlfriends and their friends and family. "Scarface" combines the brutal, semi-dehumanised power of the Miami gangs with the more down-to-earth issues of having your mother disapprove of you, idolising your younger sister (to a point of suffocation where you refuse to accept that she has grown up and has her own life) and ultimately, the absolute futility of cocaine use.As for the "cheesy" music, I'm a big fan of Giorgio Moroder and although I can see how the brash synthpop is not to everyone's tastes, it does work perfectly in the context of providing a loud, tasteless, gaudy sheen of 80s glamour to the lifestyle depicted in the movie. That is exactly the kind of music non-artistic, money-orientated people would have danced to in image-conscious, coke-sniffing 80s discos. In fact, that's still the kind of music those sort of people would listen to today, although with more updated synth sounds! What's noticeable as well is how as the movie progresses the music becomes steadily slower, less bubbly and more morose sounding. By the end, the synths themselves seem to be having trouble breathing, with long, ponderous minor chords replacing the sub-Madonna bounce of the early scenes. Pompous classical music would have glamorised the movie, lending it a somewhat bogus air of sophistication and culture. Shallow 80s synthpop is much more in keeping with shallow 80s gangsters! It's definitely a movie that turns you off cocaine (not that I was ever turned onto it). It should turn you off violence as well, because it clearly demonstrates that in the end there are no winners. Nobody walks away with their head held high (apart from the gangster at the very end who shoots Montana in the back...but even he seems to plod away dejectedly as he takes stock of the blood-red swimming pool and dozens of mutilated bodies lying around the remains of Montana's mansion.The uneasy combination of shallow, cheesy glamour and extreme violence is what makes this movie stands out for me. Without the violence it would have just been cheesy. Without the cheesiness it would have just been violent. But juxtapose the two elements and suddenly each becomes more stark, more unnerving, more psychological. Like horror films that feature children singing nursery rhymes. There are loads of scenes that have this strange juxtaposition: such as after the chainsaw incident when Montana shoots the coke dealer in the street, in front of dozens of people, and then jumps into a car with blaring pop music as if shooting people is the most casual, everyday thing in the world. Or in the Babylon club where a ropey old cabaret act is suddenly interrupted by gunfire and an attempt to take Montana's life.There's one person who in particular seemed to really take on board this combination of violence and cheesiness...Mr Quention Tarantino. The tone, style and aesthetics of Scarface formed a clear prototype for later movies such as Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.Who on earth would want to be a gangster?! If you were thinking of it as a career option, watch this movie and think again!
'Say hello to my little friend' unforgettable performance by Pacino. A must watch for any gangster/ crime film fans.


                
This film is awesome. Just plain awesome! One of my new all time favourites. Not only is it intense as hell, but it's just a massive joy to watch. The acting is superb. The music is awesome. The story is really good. The action is very intense and fun to watch! I love this film!


                
Almost made me feel like I want to be a gangster too,


                
