A woman and her son are held in a garden shed, referred to as 'room', by a man who uses the woman as his sex slave, having abducted her 7 years earlier. The woman concocts a plan to smuggle the son out in order for him to find help and free them. After the plan is successfully executed, we follow the two in the aftermath of the ordeal, struggling to retrieve the life that was previously stolen from her.The film is repetitive and annoying. At no point is the captivity nor the woman's response to the situation believable. It's just a garden shed located in some suburb instead of underground. The woman's not shackled and can virtually escape every time the captor enters the room. Relying on child actors is a notoriously shaky endeavour and again the constant whining of the kid and the way it talks, is grating and tiresome. There also seems to be no real connect between the first and second act. The 7 years she previously spent in the room might just as well have been a written premise at the start of the film. With no deeper layers to the film and with no character really fleshed out, the film feels aimless and not well thought-through.3/10
It opens badly, but this is deceptive. If you watch carefully, are very, very patient, look at what's actually there, and give it three minutes-----it gets worse. But wait. This too is unfair. Are you actually seeing what's in front of your eyes? Are you sure? The film demands that you give it at least another ten minutes, and you do. And as soon as you do, it gets worse. After that it gets worse, and then worse, and worse, and worse. And it's only just begun. The setting hasn't even left the room. Then it does. Finally. Surprise! A goodly portion of the film, in fact, at least 30 percent, takes place outside the room. I have no idea why. To show that the outside world is just as claustrophobic? That would've been a good point, but the story doesn't allow it! The writer is adrift. The shift of scenery doesn't help. It makes Room even worse - and it gets worse yet, and even worse than that, despite the brief, welcome, charitable appearance of two superbly talented actors (William H. Macy and Joan Allen) who can actually act, whether they have a character to play or not. Acting, in fact, is not an issue in the movie. To be fair, the child star of the film, Jacob Tremblay (made deliberately genderless as only a 5-year-old could be) gives as execrable a performance as any adult ever has, and deserves a lot of credit for it. If the director intended it that way, he probably either has no children, or doesn't know or like any. It's not totally Tremblay's fault: he obviously found it impossible to believe in the story, as did the writer, director, actors and producers who concocted this infinitely boring, one-dimensional, unfelt drama. Here and there throughout the story, that sickly, treacly piano that has invaded the soundtrack of hundreds of anemic films like a skin rash makes an appearance. To top it off, Room is made with the highest of production values. They are the only values visible, and may lift the movie to the heights of Trumpian emptiness. Americans love nothing better in their movies: production values are the new family values. The overall impression is of a movie, clunkily directed by Lenny Abrahamson, written by someone (Emma Donoghue) whose entire experience of life must have been acquired in a room, probably a classroom, possibly a cloakroom, a writer unashamed to display her bad handwriting, and constitutionally unable or unwilling to share with the public how little she knows or cares about the world she inhabits. A lot has been written about the hell the cinematographers went through to make parts of this movie, jamming their equipment into a tiny cramped space for countless hours. It doesn't show, and what does is not interesting. If they'd shown us the hell, and not the Room they made of it, I'd have had a lot less to say but would've left with more than a craving for a quick burger on my mind.


                
Sometimes there are these special movies - high ratings, lots of ppl loving them and you just wonder - is this the same movie Iam watching ppl are talking about!? I was just well bored, almost bored to a brain-killing stupor. The young kid played his role not bad but if I compare him with the little girl from the movie Hidden (I know, I know, different genres but at least the location/space/set for acting is comparable)- he's just okay. The one thing I was the whole time wondering - why the woman didn't just kill the guy in his sleep. Well I heard about Stockholm-Syndrome, but the woman didn't behave imo like a person with that "kind of state" would, but Iam no specialist here. Well, so many ppl praising and liking that movie so tbh they can't be all wrong - so just try that movie and see what kind of movie Room is for you. Btw - one very weak point of the movie is for me that I didn't attach to the mother and his son at all - I watched that movie with no sympathy nor dislike for them. Well, I rated it 1 because of all the legions of 10s, my "real" vote is a 4 but no more.I re-watched the movie and I must say I even do like it less, if it's possible. I realised why I don't like this movie at all: Room tells us the typical Love-Conquers-It-All-Narration but if u have ever known/met a person or worked with a person who was sexually or otherwise traumatically assaulted you know that just love doesn't heal everything. Lots of ppl just never really leave behind the trauma, the trauma is a big part of their life. So this movie is kinda Disney-life and has not much to do with real life. Room is the typical sugar-coated version (and the book also if it has the same conclusion) of a Love-Conquers-It-All-script - it happens in real life yes, but this kind of story is told countless times before on screen and in real life rare. Many real good stories hurt reading, but Hollywood gives you 9 times out of 10 cotton-candy at the end. So does Room. Btw - the boy almost shows no sign of disturbance in his behavior whatsoever. If u see pictures (or meet them in real life) of e.g. war-traumatized kids you understand how dumb this is. If I compare this movie to The Lovely Bones with Saoirse Ronan, Mark Wahlberg and Rachel Weisz u also see that the actors are just mediocre. And whereas The Lovely Bones is really heartbreaking and got suspense and is told poetically superb, Room has nothing of it to offer. Or watch Chained with Vincent D'Onofrio as a sick, emotionally dead serial killer. To watch D'Onofrio's superb play was shocking good. And the relationship between Rabbit (Eamon Farren) and his captor Bob (D'Onofrio) beats everything Room provides easy. Chained is shocking good. Room is shocking naive and boring.
Room -A gross irresponsibility of the writer of this film, along with a supporting production crew, and cast. The story glamorizes the process of being held hostage, using a young women and her child. I am afraid why a story teller would choose such a topic, and why would he be so consumed as to make a message of this to the general population. Although it may seem cute at first seeing how a boy senses the room, and world around him; I am left with the taste that it only desensitizes others. This is not a story we should expose ourselves to like this, as a human race we might be tempted to play it down if it happens to others in real life, or make it seem to others it is not so bad to commit such an act to others.There is a responsibility here when you interact with the public. I realize art is based on trying to work through what happens to you or what you have experienced, the art part being you are trying to get others to feel and communicate with you and what you are experiencing. But if that be the case here, then a more appropriate form of art in the direction of it should have been a movie portraying the horror of being held captive, and better yet maybe even realize this is too hard a topic not just for the writer to articulate but also too hard for the general public to consume. I give this film a rating of zero, and suggest this film maker and crew take a different occupation to make money. I don't want to be a part of any of it anymore. And yes, there are many movies which could be labeled as I did with this one, but someone should write an honest review, a responsible review.


                
Couldn't get past the first 40 min of depressing material. This is just too much for me. Why is the story of a captive and her child interesting? It is not. Shows the detailed life of a captive person. I am sure there is something uplifting at some point but I am just not interested. This is current, has happened, etc. I just don't need to watch the detail of it including the emotional pain etc. This is not a story that needs to be told it is a story that we need to prevent in the real world. It is not entertaining, just exceptionally depressing. The possibility of harm to the child by the captor is in no way exciting or interesting to me. I could also watch a day in the life of a prisoner who is raped in the cell but why? Is that somehow interesting? Not to me.


                
This is the Ugliest film i have ever seen, the idea is good but there is a lot of weakness in the script and in directing. The boy is a clown or what? We all thought he was a girl? What are you trying to do? Does a boy really watch dora? Is it so difficult to cut his hair a little bit? All you want to do is showing us how a boy can become GAY ? Or you want him to be gay? It is really sad and the sadest thing is that people adore such movies , 8,6 for this movie? Is this movie better than schindler's list? Better than Titanic? And The pianist? And many others uplifting movies? You should open your eyes people, your ears and do not accept everything the garbage gives you.
First, how does the movie just start with no background information explaining to the audience how this woman even ended up stuck and living in this basement?? Like what happened to her that landed her in this place?? I honestly couldn't get past the first 20 minutes of this movie because it was so boring and offers no explanation for anything. I have no clue how it got such high ratings.


                
I've never liked her and this movie shows why.. Just the way she reacts to things is just bad acting...
The Kid got me through this one.


                
Do not waste your time watching this!!! 
Do not waste your time watching this!!!


                
Once again I am stimulated to review a movie based on what I cannot see, namely, the movie. This movie takes place in a town where, apparently, electricity and the electric light have not yet been discovered and are unknown. Worse yet, the cinematographer, director, editors, etc.etc. seem to be from this same town. Where the scenes are not black, they are so dark one cannot see anything. I wonder again why they bother with set designers, costumers, makeup or anything similar (things listed in the credits) when they can't be bothered to show any of it to the audience. I get the concept of darkness in the shed, but why the darkness anywhere else. One can show confinement and oppression yet allow the audience to see what is going on. Of course that's theory on my part. Maybe the producers and directors were so low budget they were embarrassed by sets and costumes and "painted it black" to hide them. The script is ok I guess, but this is supposed to be a movie, a visual art. If you can't see a visual art there is no point to it. There is no point to this.


                
It's rubbish and disturbing. It's like some stupid and boring life.


                
