Joy Newsome (Brie Larson) and her son Jack (Jacob Tremblay) live in a small room in a shed without windows and with only a skylight on the roof. When Joy has encounters with a man, Jack locks himself in a closet. When Jack is five years old, Joy tells him that she lived with her parents in a comfortable house and a man called Old Nick lured and kidnapped her seven years ago. Joy plots a scheme to let Jack flee from the room and call the police. When they are rescued, they move to the house of Joy's mother and they have to begin the adaptation to the routine of a normal life. But is it not easy."Room" is a sensitive and delicate film with a dramatic and realistic story of woman and child abuse and the effects in the aftermath. The screenplay is very well written increasing tension without the use of cheap means such as graphic violence, sex and gore but only subtle dialogues. Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay have awesome performances, showing also fantastic chemistry, and with magnificent supporting cast including names such as Joan Allen and William H. Macy. In the end, "Room" is an unforgettable and unique film that touches the viewer's heart. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "O Quarto de Jack" ("The Room of Jack")


                
Based on a best selling novel, "Room" chronicles the story of a lady and her son held captive by a kidnapper, who actually is his biological father, in a shed comprising merely a 10 X 10 room. For the boy, the room is the only world he has known. The only medium he can see outside is the skylight in the room. The story may sound a nerdy fiction; but the film focuses much on the psychological aspects and discovers the story of desolation and motherhood which comes vividly alive on the screen. There are few scenes in which the boy and the mother have screamed to each other which could have been avoided alas they were like the scenes demanding the Oscars. Nevertheless, the film won an Oscar for the best performance by an actress. The film avoids big star cast or sets; but still the film is rich in emotions, performances, and beauty. The film just beautifully portrays the perspective of a five year old boy who doesn't know the world for real except for what his mother has told him or what he has seen in the TV screen. The emotional attachment portrayed between the two is awesome. Brie Larson's performance doesn't yet equal the winning Oscar performances from Julia Roberts or Hilary Swank, but still she appears stunning and well portrays a petrified lady held captive for six years. Few sequences are pretty familiar, but there are certain moments in the film for which you are drawn to it.Rating: 3 stars out of 4


                
There has perhaps never been a more obvious metaphor in cinema for the loss of childhood innocence and the sudden arrival of the big, scary, grown-up world out there, but Irish director Lenny Abrahamson, who helmed 2014's magnificent Frank, translates Emma Donoghue's internal monologue-heavy novel of the same name with tenderness and care, successfully avoiding sensationalising the horror at its disturbing core. Room is one of the year's most complex and awe-inspiring films.Five year-old Jack (Jacob Tremblay) has never left the place he knows as Room. To him, the tiny shed he has lived his entire life is the whole world, with the pictures on the television screen beamed in from some distant galaxy. He and his devoted mother Joy (Brie Larson) spend every day in a set routine, with Joy using every waking moment to tend to her son and shield him from the terrible situation they're actually in. We come to learn that Joy has been locked in Room for seven years, taken a long time ago by a man she only knows as Old Nick (Deadwood's Sean Bridgers), who routinely re- ups their supplies and rapes Joy while Jack peeks through the cracks of his wardrobe.Larson won an Oscar for her performance here and rightly so. The relationship between Joy and Jack is more than simple mother-and- son, as it comes quickly to light that the boy is the only thing keeping her alive. Still, she struggles with his energy and growing curiosity of things he cannot comprehend, until one day she decides to tell him the truth and plans their escape. Her depression is becoming overwhelming, to the point where she may commit suicide, and then what then for her son? If you're unaware of the plot then don't read any further, for it is the moment Jack finally breaks free, followed shortly after by his mother, when the film moves into different territory altogether - Jack coping with this mind-blowing revelation. There now exists things he has never seen before, such as other people, other places, and the sky.Tremblay is equally as good as Jack with arguably a more complex character. It's appalling that his name was missing from the Academy's line-up, as this is the finest male performance of the year (as lovely as it was to see Leonardo DiCaprio receive his long- overdue award). His experience of this new, massive planet is amplified by some intelligent camera-work from cinematographer Danny Cohen, who films in sparse wide-shots to heighten the scale, and employs intense close- ups during the early scenes in Room to almost offend your sense of space. Yet its the two leads and their natural chemistry that really assist Room in delivering its intended emotional wallop. Whenever they're apart, you feel the tear and their need for each other. This is powerful, intelligent film- making, with a real hint of the greatness that could come from Abrahamson in the future.
The kidnapping, incarceration and rape of children is incredibly difficult to represent authentically on screen. 'Michael' shows how damning the effect can be when genre demands are prioritized over authentic portrayals. The first half of Room offers up a subtly plausible account of how a young woman copes with appeasing her captor in order to avert his gaze from her son. The performances of Brie Larson and an outstanding Jacob Tremblay are crucial here. Jack craves affection but also explores revolt, and the parent-child bond is utterly convincing. Sean Bridgers as the captor Old Nick takes a banality of evil approach: this could be your cousin, your neighbour, your boss. When Jack escapes and Old Nick makes the decision to abandon him in the street, the way he throws the boy down completely conveys the psychopathic nature of the man. The second half of the film, about Ma's difficulty in re-adjusting to society, works less well. Her father is wheeled in then wheeled off in order to make a point about the difficulty of accepting his grandchild. The A-list casting here did not help - a more anonymous face in this role would have given it more of an everyday dark fear appeal. The ending is low-key, but is in its own small way triumphant, a full stop placed right where it was needed. These two characters will go on. They will heal. Thoughtful, mature film-making that stays with you after the curtain closes.


                
What a touching movie. I had to force myself to watch it, as the thought of going through a story about a mother and her son trapped inside a small room for years was too claustrophobic and had too little room (no pun intended) for excitement. But I am glad I watched it. It's a gripping movie. The story of a girl who gets kidnapped and locked in a 10 sqm2 room for 7 years. She gets pregnant and has a son who believes their "room" is the only real thing in the world. When he turns five, she finally tries to explain to him the reality of their lives, and together, they need to find a way to escape. I am not sure whether this movie was anywhere the Oscar nominations or not, but either it is a movie that I hope people will watch. It deserves it. Way better than 90% of the flicks you have out there.


                
A Canada-Irish co-production from Irish director Lenny Abrahamson, the follow-up of his kooky psychodrama FRANK (2014). It wins Brie Larson a coveted Oscar for BEST LEADING ACTRESS, but the real backbone of this bracing indie drama is its 9-year-old child genius Jacob Tremblay.Joy (Larson), is captured by a man she calls Old Nick (Bridgers) 7 years ago, as his sex slave, she is locked inside a room with only a skylight above, and she gives birth to a son named Jack (Tremblay). Now Jack is five years old, he has never been outside the room, and Joy hatches a daring escape plan which puts Jack at the mercy of his luck, but it seems to be their only chance to get out of the living hell.The first hour (before Joy's plan) is entirely shot inside the room, a small shed, Abrahamson has done a phenomenal job to circumvent the claustrophobic setting and elicited an exceptional two- hander between Larson and Tremblay, especially the latter, who is born under such a unique situation, which makes his view of life worlds apart from our common sense and himself a perfect focus point for viewers to scrutinise under the lens of the dramatic sea change soon he is going to experience. Joy's protective strategy works well for a toddler in this extremely unhealthy growing environment (he has to submerge into imagination for companionship, believes everything shown on TV is not real, and the room is their whole world), but when she needs him to assist her in the plan to escape, she must shatter the entire fabrication and tell him what is the real world, here, the clash reaches its boiling point, again, Tremblay is such a godsend to watch, accurately expresses Jack's confusion, denial, fear and maturity from writer Emma Donoghue's taut but rational script.The next hour is less engaging, when Joy and Jack reunite in the outside world, Jack meets his grandmother Nancy (Allen, a fresh welcome to high-quality cinema since she is so overdue for recognition) and grandfather Robert (Macy, a small cameo, but his reunion with Allen as a couple hits the nostalgic sweet spot) for the first time, although they have separated since the missing of Joy, the cognitive knowledge of the real world is a lengthy and time-consuming progress for Jack, but thankfully he has no sequelae of the captivity and it turns out fine for him. It is Joy, who is struggling with depression, anger and guilt, collapses in the real world, Jack becomes her sole strength to overcome her psychological hurdles and there is a brand new life awaits them.ROOM has an all-approaching, soul-touching story at its kernel, burnished with a brilliant cast (the film is unswervingly taking the stance from Jack's viewpoint, which does make Larson's Oscar- winning showcase less reverberating than in SHORT TERM 12, 2013, although Larson's tenacity and mastery of emotions are peerless), and a humble diegetic approach through a child's eye, it adamantly gives rise to a heartfelt sensation without sensationalising its characterisation, a singular accomplish under the belt of Abrahamson and the sterling teamwork.


                
This movie has a certain spark to it. The first part is about a family stuck in a small room, trapped there by a sexist pig of a man. The mother finally gets them (herself and her daughter) out of there with the second half the movie about them adapting to the outside world. All in all, this is definitely a rewarding film to watch without question.
22 November 2015. What is remarkable about this movie is that the audience members didn't fall asleep for the first half of the movie and that's a great thing. Unlike The Diary of Ann Franke (1959), the underlying and ominous tone of Room doesn't have the constant and imminent death threat from Nazi occupation that helps to sustain the visceral tension that Ann Frank was subjected to. Instead the director was confronted with the challenge of somehow making the mundane and likely boring life in a small room something of modicum of interest. In a way, the audience experiences the same efforts of the mother to keep her child preoccupied as much as possible with the few resources possible. Overall this movie has a deliciously balanced and sustained plot development often times left out of the confined and happily released plot outlines of most mystery thrillers.The performances are superb and so consistent with the storyline, there isn't any pretense that any of this was stage or acted. The relationships are well developed within the timeframe of the movie and are delightfully varied to reveal the breadth of human responses to such a tragedy. The presentation mostly from the child's perspective made the directorship's job tremendously more difficult but at the same time more captivating and absorbing for the audience. Instead of the usual death lurking around every corner horror genre or the sensationalism of publicity drama, the movie narrowly and richly captures the amazing and arduous behavior of the mother's attempts at some form of normalcy and the doubts surrounding her own competence in having done so.Like The Miracle Worker (1962), the depiction of a world beyond our own universe, our senses, Room offers up a new way of examining our own environment. Unlike Helen Keller, though the child in Room wasn't limited by his senses, but by his limited surroundings. Nevertheless, the audience is exposed to a refreshing and innovative way to re-examine our own limited senses.


                
Though this movie is a little slow it shows the internal struggles of a girl who was abducted and they child she bore while confined. It is about hope and the unfailing strength and power of love. It was not exactly what I expected but it is not your typical "triumph over evil" situation but more of the complexities of the human emotions and what we as humans are capable of enduring. Bre Larson does really well showing the complexity of a girl abducted, confined, abused but still having strength and a glimmer of hope.
This one is an extremely difficult watch, but that is a testament to the powerful emotions the film inspires in the view. Brie Larson is moving, and her character is a complex one, and she imbues her with all of the trauma and conflicting emotions one would have in the situation she finds herself in. A harrowing movie, as it should be.


                
Even if it didn't quite emotionally grab me the way the book did, I finished Room satisfied. Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay are excellent, and major props to Abrahamson for getting such a quality, realistic performance out of Tremblay. Room does a great job of taking its time and letting the setting really seep into your mind, and then create a jarring contrast with the real world. It is broadly positive and uplifting, and I respect the choices they made, by and large. The biggest exception was that I thought Jack's rapid, rather smooth transition socially to being around other people and losing the familiarity of the items in Room was unrealistic. I also thought they could've further shown what was bothering Ma and her mental state after returning. Those points aside, it was great and I loved the acting, script, and intentional cinematography in the angles and lighting choices.
Brie larson is wonderful. Kid did the great job. 
This is great movie about motherhood and love, and care and it deserves all the awards and high grades it has. Very smart movie.


                
*SPOILERS*The movie has two very distinct parts. In and out of the room.In the first part we are shown the mother and her kid stuck in that room and the situation becomes almost overwhelming to the viewer. We learn through his eyes what the room is for him: his entire world. We learn how things like TV make sense to him and we learn that these stories were told to him by his mother, rather than the cruel truth. Of course this must be a seven year long nightmare to her, but for some reason it hurts almost more to see the boy, Jack, not knowing anything about the world outside. Although it is fiction, it still gives you a gut punch, because similar cases really happened. I have to admit I didn't even think about cinematography (a very good sign for a captivating movie), because the situation just takes over your brain. But, of course, the camera work brilliantly portrays their claustrophobic prison. The rather rushed escape is very tense, the movie handled it perfectly.Then we enter the second part, where the movie crumbles a bit. First the boy is confused and understandably scared by what is around him. Nothing makes sense to Jack and the performance of the young actor is just absolutely convincing. It is kind of heartbreaking when he asks when they can go back to the room. Jack's level of comfort rises slowly, as does his relation with other humans (and animals). He seems to be less fixated on his mother and I'm not sure how realistic this whole development would be from a psychological standpoint. I mean: This is the only other human he knew for his entire life (as he said, he was never sure if the rapist was real or like the people from TV.) At the same time the mental state of the mother suffers, fueled by regret, memories and mostly by (silent) blame of others and herself. It should be noted that the media people behaved absolutely disgustingly - as I'm sure they would if all this was real.It was a good decision to feature the life outside of the room rather than ending the movie after the escape. Life is not instantaneously perfect for them. But all this felt a bit unfocused. The movie doesn't really build up to anything. For example: it's only a couple of minutes between her trying to kill herself and then being completely healthy again. And then we have a happy ending.
Right from the first scene, Lenny Abrahamson shows us so much with a simple piece of information. Ma loses a tooth, making us realise she's not seen a dentist in years; Jack falls in love with a mouse because it's real, remaining us that he's likely never seen a living, breathing creature. We ache for Jack's lost innocence but also the same for his spiritually broken mother. When the two of them scream at each other, we feel the tragedy for both of them. Eventually, of course, Jack and Ma make it out of Room and Abrahamson does a terrific job at conveying Jack's terror at a world he doesn't understand. Shots from Jacob's POV are filtered, shaky and intrusive with extreme front-lighting, making us flinch back from the screen. The choice of music creates a sense of wonder but also a sense of sadness, and the inspired choice of casting the doctor to look exactly like their captor makes Jack's fear palpable. The whole film is cleverly from Tremblacy's point of view, replicating that spectator experience Jonathan Demme created in Rachel Getting Married. It is like you are there with Jack the whole time. The escape scene has the emotional resonance that Frank Darabont brought to The Shawshank Redemption, and even some of the small spats between Tremblay and Larson are reminiscent of Rian Johnson's Looper.The film breathes on the achingly beautiful performances by Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay. Larson's spirit is completely broken and we learn that early on from a rape scene where Old Nick is chatting nonchalantly as if she's a normal relationship. We see naked emotion play clearly across Larson's face as she is traumatised by a terrible interview question, scared by the knowledge that there may be no way for them to rescue her even if Jack did escape, embittered by her realisation that her friends all lived normal lives, and enraged by her father's refusal to acknowledge her son. Her performance is truly spectacular, but of no less import is Jacob Tremblay. He carries the film on his tiny shoulders and does such an incredible job in portraying Jack's emotions. A scene in which he cries about his imaginary dog will make you long to console him and then a later scene where he meets an actual dog will bring an enormous smile to your face. William H. Macy feels underused but is solidly excellent in his small role as Joy's father, whilst Joan Allen is a firm hand on the final third of the film and sets up a great Oscar-scene between herself and Larson.Emma Donoghue's screenplay is well-balanced between Jack's discovery and the events actually taking place. The character of Old Nick, whilst well-acted, is a great testament to Donoghue's writing more than anything else. There is a demented sense of morality in his words that show you he feels no remorse. That is what makes him a great villain. Donoghue's superbly written scenes make the movie what it is, everything else is a vital but supporting piece. This film would have stank with a lesser screenplay.Room is a film of small scope but grand effect. In many ways it is the Boyhood of this year. There's so much naked emotion floating around in this beautiful film that it's impossible not to be touched.
Room opens on Jack's world on his 5th birthday. To him, the universe is as expansive as the four walls he knows. Jack's mother known simply as Ma (Brie Larson) is driven by one mission in her life, to shield him and protect him from the true and harsh realities of their life in spite of the harrowing circumstances.I first heard about the book Room through a friend. She told me the concept and I was immediately intrigued and quickly added it to my Need to Read pile. But it had the reverse effect when I heard there was going to be a film adaptation. I was concerned how the distinct style and voice would transfer over. The wisest decision filmmakers and A24 made was to have the book's author Emma Donoghue also write the screenplay for her bestselling novel. Her faithfulness to the original source is unmatched and her expertise in expanding upon the literature for film should be a basis for all future movie adaptations of novels.For those unaware of the subject matter, Room is about a young woman being held by her kidnapper. She has been there for some time, long enough to have a five year old son named Jack. She creates a wondrous life for him in the confines of that 10×10 room in an effort to protect him from the horrors of their situation so may grow to be a happy child. What we the audience see is this life and the effect Jack's curiosity has on Ma, spurring a desire to escape to the outside.The beauty of Room lies in its unique perspective and distinct mechanism through which it chooses to tell the story of its two characters, through the eyes and mind of a five year old child. In that regard, it is awe inducing. In doing that, a film about several different simultaneous traumas is bearable when in reality it should be like living in a raw nerve. And still, the harrowing emotions these characters go through is palpable, going through the screen straight through your soul. There is a constant tension and quiet terror to Room, an anxiety that leaves you restless, wriggling in your seat as you desire to help the characters. I was left nauseous, an amazing feat given how restrained the film is and how perilous it may have been in someone else's hands other than Lenny Abrahamson. He showcases the two sides of this story, inside and outside Room, with balanced finesse and an artist's eye and accomplishes a film that is both tender and terrifying without being far-fetched or jarring.You really can't talk about Room without talking about its two stars: Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay. Both of whom give outstanding performances with the former perhaps having the luck of earning the role of her career. With as many complex layers to the film as it has, it rarely resorts to telling and virtually relies entirely on the actors' performances and the audiences' abilities to observe minute details. The character of Ma is strong, vulnerable, traumatized, scared, desperate, hopeful, and angry, along with scores of other gentler emotions and Larson does it with a quiet grace and inherent awareness of her craft. Her commitment to the character is so honest that there is no Brie Larson.You may not be ready for the intense subject matter of Room, and that is okay, but we implore you to give it a chance. Room is one of those films that will touch your soul and feel for your fellow man.Please check out the site for Archon Cinema Reviews for full reviews of all the awards season contenders!


                
Room has a fairly simple premise. Most people if they've seen the trailer know how the story goes. Woman and her son are locked in a room for several years. Eventually they escape but now have to negotiate a different version of reality. But which is realer to Jack who has only known the inside of the same 4 walls for his entire life? Will either of them be able to cope?This is a surprisingly sweet film given the darkness of what happens in it. Perhaps this is because at times our point of view is that of the 5 year old boy. His mother has concocted a fantasy world in order to protect him from their harsh reality. And so we don't feel shocked when we hear her routine rape (albeit unresistant) because it is made to be part of the normal routine of 'room', for Jack's sake.The planning and implementation of Jack's escape is the most harrowing and tense part of the film. I was shouting at the TV for him to get the hell up and run.When they escape things don't get any easier. Real life is new and frightening and the readjustment a shock to the system for both. The film then shifts from the relative simplicity of room to the much more complicated real world. The acting in the film from the two leads is great but particularly from the youngster. I know Larson wins the Oscar (and she is good) but Tremblay's performance is more affecting. I really couldn't tell if he was acting or actually just being himself. I'd recommend this to anyone with an open mind who doesn't mind something a bit different. No explosions in this one, just family drama, human relationships and human nature, all told without pretence or sugar coating.
How is capable soul of a man to overcomes all obstacles and to exceed all expectations to achieves that is intended?How are we able to return to real life following a terrible trauma.How shall the society and the family sees us following a return "from the dead"? Is it possible that quiet life to become most difficult than life spent before under violence of someone?I see this film as an expression of love of the mother towardsthe child.What is able to make a mother to the best of her child? How will exceed when faced with a difficult situation?How important is the ability to enter into the world of the child?If you have extinguish sentiment towards the atoning sacrifice of the mother and want to givelife your feeling towards mother, I recommend this film.
"Room" is a very brilliant film about a five year old boy name Jack (Jacob Tremblay) and his mother who escapes out of a room that Jack has only known his entire life. This film is way better than I thought it was going to be. I thought this was going to be one of those boring films that got nominated for and grabbed numerous awards. I was wrong. I was very impressed at the way this film was played out and was delivered. Imagine being a five year old boy who has only known an enclosed room his entire life and then escapes and live through the aftermath of it. This sets the stage for a brilliant film. At times I did want Ma (Brie Larson) to whip Jack (Jacob Tremblay) during and after the imprisonment and I did find myself getting angry with Ma (Brie Larson) after their escape. This shows the immense drama that was played out throughout this film. This film truly deserved the Oscar win and nominations it got.


                
"Room" is an American 2-hour movie from last year. The director is Lenny Abramson and writer is Emma Donoghue, who actually adapted her own novel for the screen with this one. Both scored Academy Award nominations for their work with the Best Director slot certainly being the more surprising feat. The movie also got in for Best Picture and won lead actress Brie Larsen an Oscar, just like basically all precursors. Jacob Tremblay, however was the real lead here and it is absolutely ridiculous that he was nominated for so many supporting awards. Voiceovers are usually a good indicator who is in the center of the story and we hear him at the very beginning and end for example. Also there are key scenes where we still find out about him while his mother is out of the picture, such as the successful escape or after his mother tries to commit suicide. But this should not mean that Larson isn't lead. She is as well, but only the second lead despite being credited first.I believed this film delivered on many areas, such as emotion and drama most importantly. The escape inside the carpet was downright thrilling from start to finish until the very moment we realize he succeeded. Butg even the the tension stays high as we do not know what happened to his mother. Did he kill her or not. The consequence of these scenes is also the emotion in here. The moments when Larson's runs towards the car with her son inside is really moving and there are more scenes like that, such as the way they meet the grandparents or also the scene with the boy and the dog towards the end. You will be amazed by these and it is really difficult to hold the tears back.This is a very tragic, yet very uplifting film at the same time, but certainly more of the latter. The scenes early on in the prison do not seem as sad as they really are as we see everything through the eyes of the son. It starts right away inside the shack and I initially thought the woman actually has a mental disorder because of which she won't leave the place and the guy coming occasionally is somebody who provides them with the necessary items in exchange for sexual pleasure. It is seen a lot more as a prison when the action moves outside, which is roughly the entire second half of the film. I personally think that there are a couple scenes that don't add that much really and could have been left out. It is also difficult to say if this film had worked even better if it would have ended with the reunion of the two outside, but I guess it would have been a major (maybe impossible) challenge to make it work for 100 minutes or so. I guess it was best this way. Another flaw I saw with it was the attempted suicide scene I mentioned earlier already. It felt a bit unrealistic drama at this point. Yes it was all too much for her, but she fought for survival for 5 years and then she would do something like that. Of course, the reason was that she had doubts after the reporter asked her why she did not give up on her son inside. But this also would have been her surrender I guess as she certainly would never have gotten outside without him. But yeah, the way the press was depicted in here was generic and standard in a negative way. They could have dealt better with that situation.But despite these criticisms, these almost 120 minutes were a captivating watch and truly flew by. I can see why The Academy turned out to like it that much. Larson and Tremblay shine a lot and it was impossible to say who was better. Okay, I could have done without some parts I mentioned already and also the mother-daughter argument, but these are just minor flaws. In the grand scheme of things, this film worked extraordinarily well and was extremely tense and touching at the same time. I command you to check it out. Highly recommended.
Emma Donoghue's Room (2010) is sublime alchemy, switching from heart wrenching horror to endearing tenderness with an air of innocence permeating throughout. It is a book that is so profoundly good that immediately when I was done I realized that even though the world is still the same everything feels different; I have changed. Narratives like this don't come very often for me. I love the book so much that I started and maintained a book thread in an internet forum (http://www.xtremeplace.com/yabbse/index.php? topic=99456.0). In prose, the harrowing subject matter is pushed to the background by using a very clever narrative device - the entire story is told from the perspective of a five- year-old child. We become privy to his thoughts, his emotions and his voice of innocence. I had my doubts whether this narrative stance could be replicated on film without losing its emotional impact. From the get-go I realized my fears are totally unfounded. Lenny Abrahamson has directed Emma Donoghue's adapted screenplay magnificently and it is buoyed by two stellar performances by Brie Larson and newcomer, Jacob Tremblay. How the film manages to avoid all the usual trappings of exploitation and emotionally manipulativeness is a case of absolute marvel. Room deftly dances around these big holes of hysterics and histrionics, but yet still manages to make the horrendous situations feel authentic and heart-hitting. From top to bottom the cast shines, especially with Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay. Larson has turned in a career defining performance and I think she is the one to beat at the Oscars. Such humanity and honesty, and through her character arc we are graced with what a mother would do for a child. She essentially creates a cocoon to nurture her child and to protect him from the cruel reality. Newcomer Jacob Tremblay is also phenomenal and he carried the film's weight on his little shoulders. He would of course say it is his long hair that gave him "strong". This is not a dutiful and obedient boy that does everything his Ma says. They do quarrel and have shout-fests but their diamond-hard bond is the beating heart of the story. I do feel the movie is largely spoiler free but I don't think I should say more on what happens after their escape from Room. The second half is essentially their journey back into the world and I am thankful that the movie doesn't whitewash everything into a stroll towards a golden sunset. Just like reading the book, I came out of the cinema feeling everything has changed, and I am grateful for the story of an unconquerable love between a mother and her child in harrowing circumstances. This is the first great film I have seen this year and I feel it is a profound cinematic and emotional experience to have lived in Room for two hours. Do yourself a favor by checking in at the earliest convenience.


                
Adapted by Emma Donoghue from her own novel, this Fritzl-esque tale of brutal long-term abuse may come across as the easier, Hollywoodised alternative to Markus Schleinzer's Michael, but that description misses the point. Room goes beyond the horror of physical incarceration and explores arguably the more challenging issue of the psychological incarceration that follows. It's easy for cinema to show suffering; harder to portray recovery, especially the stuttering kind.Joy (Brie Larson) and her 5-year-old son Jack (Jacob Tremblay) are imprisoned in a tiny room by an abuser known only as "Old Nick" (Sean Bridgers). Jack hides in the closet when Old Nick visits Joy every night. During the day, Joy teaches Jack about the world outside Room (note the lack of definite article). There's wonderful humour and pathos in her struggles to explain reality and fantasy via images on a fuzzy old CRT TV. But for all her efforts, Joy comes to the conclusion that she must help Jack escape and see the world for himself.I'll plant a minor spoiler alert here.We have a movie of two halves. The first half takes place entirely in Room. The second follows the escape of Joy and Jack, and their efforts to recover in the brightness and busyness of the wider world. There's no trial for Old Nick. This is not a movie about the all-healing power of justice. It's about a mother and son adjusting to long-term trauma, and how it affects their relationships with the (grand)parents who've been living in their own dreadful dark for the past seven years.It may be surprising to hear that this comes from Lenny Abrahamson, who last brought us the relatively slight and irreverent Frank. While that movie was distinguished by its irony, the earnestness in Room is almost suffocating. It's not always subtle, proudly wearing its intention to devastate, making it not so much a weepie as a complete and utter bawlie, expertly tailored to tug the heartstrings. In some scenes this can be a curse but overall it's a blessing. It's no small feat to reduce an entire auditorium to a blubbering mess.As Joy's mother, shattered by her relief, Joan Allen almost steals the show with an amazingly detailed performance. In the middle is Larson, playing Joy as powerful and principled, carrying her hidden brokenness out into the real world. But the movie belongs to Tremblay. Abrahamson has drawn an astonishing performance from the youngster. For a start, the kid really acts like a kid – it's not one of those creepily precocious manchild performances that American cinema sometimes conjures. Through Jack there's a sense of genuine wonder at the world, whether it's within the confines of a sound-proofed shed, or outside where the sky goes on forever. The youngest Best Actor in Oscar history up to this point was almost 30. Just saying.I can't say I was on board with every filmmaking decision. Stephen Rennicks' soaring, Johann Johannson-style music is frequently grating, seeming to exist to make us the audience feel all fuzzy rather than having any real relationship with the narrative. And there are certain scenes which don't quite ring true. For example, the primetime TV interview – an exercise in awkwardness – is unconvincingly thoughtless. I mean, as if we need any more help sympathising with Joy. Perhaps US TV journalism really is that insensitive, but it felt like low-hanging fruit to me.There are no answers to the evil of Old Nick, nor for the suffering of those he's abused. But uncertainty and doubt are not the same as hopelessness. I felt manipulated – but that's what good movies do. In its soul-scouring search for truth, inevitably the film dips into sentimentality. But let's applaud Room for bringing to a broad audience an extremely difficult subject and making it as accessible as it can possibly be.


                
Jack was a little boy who believed that the room he was born and raised in for 5 years was the world, and only he and his mother live there together. Than one day shortly after his 5th birthday, he has to come to grasp with the fact that "Room" is a very small part of the world.I thought they handled the situation perfectly, especially Brie Larson as Jack's Ma, Joy. Room was semi narrated by Jack, but this was his mother's story, of how she used Jack to keep her sanity while in the room, and she was still in that room even after she physically was let out.It was interesting watching the two in the room living there day to day life and how she explained the limited world they live in. It was suspenseful as Mamma Joy used Jack as part of her plan to break free and it was fascinating watching Joy readjusting to the world and Jack discovering it.I thought it was a well done picture with some great acting going on that revolves around Brie Larson but gives even small parts like the one William H. Macy had, as a dad who can't deal with what his daughter went though, the kind of subtle development that gets under your skin. It walks slowly buy says a lot, and I really like that.


                
Very powerful. Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay give tremendous performances as a young mother her five-year-old son who live in the eponymous room. As their story unfolds, the film begins to tighten its grip, so it's a pity that around this time in the story there are a couple of not very believable aspects to the plot. Never mind: once they're out of the way, the final section of what is essentially a three-act drama raises the emotional temperature further. I confess I was a tear-stained rag at the end.The presence of Joan Allen and William H. Macy in supporting roles is a testament to the quality of a project they clearly felt they wanted to be part of. Sean Bridgers, Tom McCamus and Amanda Brugel also make noteworthy contributions.On the basis of this, and of that excellent, eccentric movie FRANK, it's easy to see that Lenny Abrahamson is a superb director of actors, with an interest in and an understanding of the complexity of people's relationships.


                
I went into this movie thinking I was going to see film which is mostly or even only located in the shed, Joy and Jack have been locked in for years. But no, the movie is only based half of the time in the so called "Room". When I first noticed they would be free of the shed, I didn't like the idea of that and quite frankly my dear (see what I did there :D), this was the less interesting half of the movie. But it was still pretty good. At some times I thought their Kidnapper would come back and lock them back in, but then I remembered this was not an obnoxious action movie with an actor like Jason Statham or Tom Cruise, those are the typical movies that don't care about logic or a good story. This movie is different, you can compare it to movie like Spotlight or Whiplash. This movie deals with a very problematic thematic, it's not the perfect movie for people with weak nerves, but never the less a must see for every movie buff.
A young woman is abducted by a middle-aged man who goes by the name Old Nick and is imprisoned in his backyard shed for six years during which she gives birth to a kid who thinks that the room he grew up in with his mother is the entire universe. But we see none of this. The film opens with the two main characters, Jack (the five-year-old boy brilliantly played by Jacob Tremblay) and his mother (played by the talented Brie Larson) going about their everyday life in the room – sleeping, eating, exercising, playing, reading<U+0085> etc. with occasional visits from the mysterious Old Nick. Upon Jack's fifth birthday, the mother decides that it is about time to get them both out of the room.I won't go into the details of the extremely bold scheme and the mother-son heart-wrenching argument scenes, but they finally do it and they make it out of their prison – a crucial moment that, you might think, will bring about the two characters' happily ever after. However, Room is not a happily ever after story; it is a story about what happens after the happy ending – a story about transitions. The film is divided exactly into two halves: inside and outside the room, two places that are equally confining for Jack and his mother. In the first part of the film when we are trapped inside with the two, we could feel the sense of confinement in mother's eyes but Jack's giggles and jumping around make us feel that the small room is as big as a playground. When we leave the room – an overwhelming moment for both of them – the room's concrete walls are replaced by psychological confinement materialized through personal disappointments and people's judgments.The two main characters are tied by blood but differ drastically in the way they perceive the universe. For the mother, the room is the strange unfamiliar grounds; whereas for Jack, the room is the only universe he has ever known and the outside world is the unfamiliar, intimidating terrain. Despite the change of perspective, the bond mother and Jack share helps them become stronger, reach out to each other and overcome the difficulty of transition. Regardless of the melodramatic undertones, the story shows that it doesn't matter on which side of the wall you're standing because the only walls there are are the ones we build around ourselves and around other people, and that love is the only power that can overcome those walls.The natural chemistry between Larson and Tremblay is phenomenal. Period.
