Lenny Abrahamson's Room opens in a 10 x 10 room that has no windows, a locked door, and no light other than that provided by an overhead skylight. Jack (Jacob Tremblay), a slight five-year old boy with hair down to his shoulders wakes up each morning as he has all his life, saying hello to his world. He says hello, not to the sun or the grass outside his front door where he can run and laugh and play but only to the objects which is all his world consists of: the lamp, the sink, the plant, the refrigerator. His only friend is a mouse that he feeds with some pleasure.Not that he lacks for companionship. Ma (Brie Larson) is with him and their endless days consist of cooking, reading, and watching TV where Jack is told that what he sees on the screen is not real, only pretend. All he knows of the world is what he sees in front of his eyes. Old Nick (Sean Bridgers) brings food and other household items but when he comes, Jack has to hide in his wardrobe, out of sight. Ma, we find out, has been kept prisoner and used for sex by the hulking man who comes every night and we know that Jack is a result of his mother's rape. Jack is the focus of the film and we see everything from his point of view, with the help of his sometime narration but we can also get into his mother's mind and feel her pain and live her dreams.There is never any doubt of his mother's love though the obvious strain of keeping herself from crying out every minute is painfully obvious. To Jack, she is the center of his world and his reason for being. When the second half of the film takes a surprising turn and shifts 180 degrees, Jack and Ma are not prepared for what awaits them. Even when an alternative is suggested as possible, he doesn't want to hear anything about a different world with blue sky and rivers and trees. Room is a tense and compelling film in which Brie Larson more than fulfills the brilliance that she showed in Short Term 12 and should make her an Oscar contender. Tremblay is also superb.He lives his character and makes him come alive, even though he is only nine years old. Supporting roles by Joan Allen and William H. Macy also contribute to the film's second half but it is always Larson and Tremblay that carry the day. The film is not mawkish or sentimental even though the soaring score by Stephen Rennicks comes close. While there are has some plot implausibilities, the film is a tribute to the resiliency and the dedicated love of a parent for their child. It is also a teaching experience. Like many who are walled off from each other and think the box they are in is all there is, the film can give us the combination to open the locked door, if we take the risk to turn the key.


                
Based on the novel of the same name by Emma Donoghue, 'Room' is a challenging, unsettling, harrowing film, that leaves you disturbed. But that is its sheer power. The Incredible Performances only add to the film's hefty nature.'Room' Synopsis: After five-year-old Jack and his mother escape from the enclosed surroundings that Jack has known his entire life, the boy makes a thrilling discovery: the outside world.'Room' is a disturbing story about bad things that happen to good people. But its also about hope & fighting back. Its shocking to see the protagonist, a child, discover the world along-with his brave mother, who survived a harrowing experience. I was engrossed & often disturbed by the narrative, especially after the son & mother escape. The series of events that follow are so gut-wrenching, I almost broke down.'Room' is masterfully penned by Emma Donoghue herself. The Writing is consistently powerful & the dialogue are realistic to the core. Lenny Abrahamson's Direction is first-class. He has handled this dramatic, unsettling tale with complete flourish. Cinematography is perfectly claustrophobic. Editing is razor-crisp. Art Design is skilfully done.Performance-Wise: Brie Larson & Jacob Tremblay deliver incredible performances. Brie is astounding as the tormented, yet brave protagonist, while Jacob steals the show with a flawless performance. The child does wonders & makes 'Room' unforgettable. Of the supporting cast, Joan Allen & The Always Solid William H. Macy leave a solid mark.On the whole, 'Room' is a must watch! Its certainly unsettling, but its power is undeniable.


                
Room, based on the book by Emma Donoghue, starts on young Jack's 5th birthday. He gets a birthday cake from his mother (but no candles); a visit from his father; and a gift, albeit belatedly. This would all be perfectly normal except that all of this takes place within 'Room' - a confined space with only a single skylight for daylight and no means of escape. For the mother, Joy, was abducted as a teen and locked away for sex in the style of the dreadful real-life examples such as that perpetrated by Josef Fritzl in Austria. Jack is the (presumably) unintended result: a boy with no perception of the real world beyond his four single-sided walls and with the staunchly-held view that the things he sees on a flickering TV screen are in 'TV land' and unreal. Will Jack and Joy survive and ever see freedom again? And that's where I'll leave this synopsis, since (if you've been lucky enough to avoid the trailer) there is a tense cat-and-mouse story to unfurl here.This is an absorbing, although slow-moving, film that builds to some truly nail-biting moments. The screenwriter (also Donoghue) and director (Irishman Lenny "Frank" Abrahamson) are to be commended in keeping the story and drama really well-grounded and un-saccharined. Old Nick (Sean Bridgers), the 'evil kidnapper', is not painted as some predictable monster: he is even portrayed to be kind and caring at some warped level. And there is no gratuitous sex: we are in effect seven years into the story and the abnormal is now completely normalised.The film is told primarily from the viewpoint of Jack (Jacob Tremblay) but we also get under the skin of Joy (Brie Larson) and her emotions in trying to mentally deal with her ordeal. Looking at a picture of her with her school friends she bitterly comments that "Nothing happened to them - - they just got on with their lives".The acting is superb. I made the mistake of voting for John Boyega for the BAFTA Rising Star award before seeing this film (you can cast your vote here http://www.bafta.org/film/awards/ee-rising-star-award-in-2016). Not that Boyega isn't great, but Brie Larson really REALLY delivers here. She obviously won't give a hoot if she wins the Best Actress Oscar! And for me, for this award, she shines out in what I would perhaps see as one of this year's weaker Oscar categories. Jacob Tremblay is also exceptional as Jack - and it would be nice (rather than try to compare young performances with adult ones, as per Anna Paquin) if there was a special awards category for actors and actresses under 10. If there was, then Tremblay would storm it! You seriously forget that this is a child acting a part. He is totally connected to the role and these two core performances lock in your belief in the story.Supporting the cast are the ever reliable William H Macy as Joy's mentally tortured father, Joan Allen (Pamela Landy from the "Bourne" films) as her equally distraught mother and Sean Bridgers as the kidnapper.At 2 hours long some of the scenes in the middle of the film made my attention waver a little. But my main criticism is in the trailer and marketing of the film. If ever there was a need for a true 'teaser trailer' this is it. I never know who is responsible for putting trailers together - whether the director has the final say or whether its some nameless marketing bods in the distribution company, but whoever it is they should be taken out and 'given a good talking to' for this travesty. It's like putting all of the twists in films like "The Crying Game", "The Sixth Sense" and "Gone Girl" in their respective trailers. I've gone so far as to create my own One Mann's Movies cut of the trailer, just for you good people, which I have included with my bob-the-movie-man.com version of this review.A leisurely, nuanced and effecting drama, this is not for fans of "Die Hard" or "Fast and Furious" fans. But for everyone else, this should be a must see.Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this review. Thanks.


                
Too many tears, too much sadness. Story of a teenager Ma kidnapped, raped and made a mom. And mom and son Jack locked in a room away from the world. Really sad when Jack said I don't want to be 5 I want to be 4. Even a 5 year old wants continued happiness in simplicity and in the arms of his only friend his own mother. He wants to be breast fed , he wants to shower with his Ma. He enjoys the only place he knows for his first 5 yrs of his life. There is no chaos from the real person he knows. Ma wants Jack to rescue them from the room. Life outside the room has its' own problems of tears, cries, fights.Excellent writing by Emma Donoghue who wrote the novel and the screenplay. Jacob Tremblay as Jack and Brie Larson as his mother Ma are terrific. Every scene, every dialogue has sincerity. Oscar worthy screenplay. Oscar worthy acting . Joan Allen as Ma's mom and Jack's grandma is perfect grandma, loving, caring, sensitive and excellent. Definite Oscar nominees. Jacob Tremblay , so young and so perfect in every scene.
That review summary may sound very oxymoronic, but to me it applies to a film such as 'Room'. A film with a difficult subject, that is the stuff of nightmares, but tells it so beautifully with an interesting approach that works better than all the potential traps that films of its genre could fall under.What could have easily have been told in a lurid, gratuitous way (being inspired by the true-life case of Josef Fritzl) is instead told in a careful and restrained way. There is even an innocence in 'Room', due to its very fascinating decision to tell it from the viewpoint of a five year old, in this case Jack, one that comes off very movingly and gives a sense that there is a little ray of hope in a seemingly hopeless situation. The source material, equally brilliant, is to be thanked here, its author Emily Donoghue adapts it to screen here and none of its power is lost. Really appreciated the careful and restrained approach to the storytelling in 'Room', and for me and many others it was something different considering the subject. It does though affect some of the pacing in the middle act, where a little of the tension seen in especially the first part is lost a little. For my tastes too, though it probably did fit the film's younger and more innocent viewpoint it's told from, the music score does lay it on too thick with the treacle.However, loved how the story was told and its approach. What 'Room' also strongly benefitted from being told this way was that the mother and son relationship was able to shine through and really resonate, which it may not have done as effectively with a heavier tone. And shine through it does, with great charm and poignancy. Also appreciated that none of the characters were painted too black and white, even Old Nick. Production values are effectively claustrophobic and the nocturnal parts chillingly nightmarish. 'Room' is beautifully directed by someone who understood how claustrophobic thrillers worked, how mother and son bonds do in dire situations do and the ability to combine both to ensure a powerful experience. A directing job that's both unsettling and empathetic. Similarly 'Room' is written with effortless skill and deft thoughtfulness. Can't find anything to fault the performances. The superb one of Brie Larson, that was a very worthy Oscar (Golden Globe and Bafta too) win in her category, is an obvious starting point, but one mustn't overlook the beyond-his-years turn of young Jacob Tremblay, one of the best child acting performances in recent years, and William H Macy and Joan Allen both giving some of their best work in years. Sean Bridgers also gives much more to what could have been a standard cliché role.Overall, great powerful film but the somewhat fascinatingly unconventional (for the genre) way the story was told won't work for some. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
But that title was already taken. Also Room is pretty accurate and hits "home" (no pun intended). But while I had no idea what I would get with this (apart from the title and the lead actress I didn't know one piece of information), most will go into this knowing what it's about. The general idea is explained fairly quickly, though the why of the closed space or rather location and the reason for staying might take a while to sink in.If you already know some of the whys because of the trailer or reading the story, don't be afraid though. The movie moves forward and it does not stay stagnant at all. That is true regarding the story, but the characters have some other issues to solve. Talking about solving, you won't get all the answers for this, but this is a pretty good and strong depiction psychologically speaking of what persons go through, without getting into their heads. Great acting and drama make this a great movie ... if you like the genre that is of course.


                
I had never heard about this movie (or the book on which is based) until I got a call from my cousin inviting me to see it. When I heard its name, my first reaction was "is it a horror movie?". And she explained that it wasn't and told me briefly the story. I'll try to tell as little as I can, because I believe one of the reasons this film had such a huge impact on me was precisely my lack of previous knowledge.Jack (Jacob Tremblay), a five-year old boy, lives with his mother Joy (Brie Larson) in a tiny room in precarious conditions. The boy has very long hair, is still breastfed, and sleeps inside the closet. Soon you realize they are not there by option: Joy was kidnapped 7 years before and Jack was born there, inside that room, which he believes to be the only thing that exists in the world. He has absolutely no idea that there is an "outside" behind the door.I had all the possible emotions while watching Room. I was sad, happy, angry, and nervous (almost having a heart attack during an specific scene). Even my cousin was on the edge of her seat and she already knew what was going to happen.Everything in this film is great, starting with the cast. Brie Larson is so perfect with her portrayal of a young woman who has been through such a trauma that I strongly believe she has real chances to be awarded for this role. Her character is so complex and she's able to transmit to us the sadness due to the situation and the happiness for having her son with her. And, of course, the boy! Jacob Tremblay is perfect and you can't help but feel both sorry and sympathetic towards him. He is so genuinely naïve and oblivious of the bad (and good) things in the world that is impossible not to like him.Full review: http://wp.me/p5Rk4c-fB
'ROOM': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)The critically acclaimed dramatic thriller flick; directed by Lenny Abrahamson and written by Emma Donoghue (based on her 2010 novel, of the same name). The film is about a young mother, being held captive in a locked single-room, with her 5-year-old son. The boy has never known life, outside of the room; so his mother creates a complete alternate reality, inside the room for him. It stars Brie Larson and newcomer Jacob Tremblay, as the kidnapped mother and son. It also costars Sean Bridgers, Joan Allen and William H. Macy. The film is predicted to be a likely Oscar contender, come awards time, and it's received almost unanimously positive reviews, from critics. I liked it.Jack (Tremblay) is five-years-old, and he's been locked in a single- room, with his mother Joy (Larson), all of his life. He's never seen the world, outside of the room, and his mother has taught him 'room' is all there is. We later learn that Joy was kidnapped when she was 17, and her captor impregnated her, with Jack, five-years earlier. As Joy becomes even more desperate, to escape, she finally enlists Jack's help, in a dangerous plan. The film is really dark and depressing, but there's also a slight bit of hope (in the darkness). Larson is fantastic in the lead, and Tremblay is also amazing (especially for an actor so young). The movie is very moving, intense and heartbreaking; it's beautifully directed by Abrahamson, and brilliantly written by Donoghue. The film is basically everything you'd expect from a critical darling 'Oscar hopeful'. It's pretty hard to watch though, at times, but it's worth it.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/MylbbGyo_MU


                
Lenny Abrahamson directed one of the best hidden gems of 2014 in FRANK, a strange little film starring Domhnall Gleeson and Michael Fassbender about an indie band getting an unpleasant taste of mainstream success. It was a dark comedy with some real emotion sown into it. A year later, Abrahamson returns with a new film where he goes straight for the heart with a vengeance in ROOM. This man is one of the best directors I've found for emotional impact, keeping in mind I've seeing nothing else of his work but the two mentioned. But there is no denying the emotional gut punch you get watching ROOM. Based on a source novel from author Emma Donoghue (who also penned the script), it's a disturbing (and eventually uplifting) tale told primarily from the perspective of little Jack (Jacob Tremblay). As the movie begins, Jack is awakening for his fifth birthday in Room, the only world he knows. He was born in Room lived in it all his life with his mom (Brie Larson). He's a relatively happy child who believes Room to encompass the entirety of the world. Except, now that he's five, his mom believes it's time for him to know the truth. Seven years prior, she had been tricked and abducted by the man he knows only as Old Nick, the mysterious visitor who comes at night while Jack's asleep to bring food and supplies. Old Nick locked Jack's mom in the little 11' x 11' garden shed and she's been trapped there ever since. Now that Jack is getting older, his mom wants him to help them escape to freedom.ROOM is divided into two distinct halves: inside Room and outside Room. The first half of the movie is arguably the best material in my opinion. It paints a picture of daily life for Jack and his mom, giving the audience a glimpse into their meager existence. Ma tries to make the best of a bad situation for Jack but there's only so much she can do. Until now, Jack has had zero knowledge of a world beyond the walls. He believes TV shows are from other planets, believes common things like trees and dogs are make-believe, and addresses every item in Room as if it were one of his best friends. While Ma has done her best to keep Jack somewhat normalized and happy, she isn't faring as well. She's been beaten, tortured, and raped. She's been trapped in this room for seven years with only a small skylight in the ceiling giving her a glimpse of the natural sky. There are days when the pressure just gets to be too much; Jack calls them her "gone days" when she lies in bed, not moving or speaking a word. It's a nerve-wracking first half to a film and ramps up to the eventual escape planning. Again, the emotional gut punches keep coming as Ma realizes she will likely have to put her son in mortal danger if she ever hopes of getting him out of there with the chance of a normal life. Meanwhile, Jack is confused and scared out of his wits. His mom has turned his entire world upside down with talk of how there is an enormous world outside the four walls and how all those things he believed imaginary are real.The second half of the movie loses a little steam because we don't have the built-in tension that comes with a captive and her son living in a box with an unstable kidnapper, but it delves into life after Room. It shows how Ma and Jack begin to adjust to the real world. To Jack, of course, this is more than his mind can process at first. I mean, the kid has never seen a horizon before and now he's faced with new environments, new experiences, and new people. While Jack does have his own troubles acclimating to the new life, Ma seems to have it worse. She seems all right at the start, relieved to be free and happy to return to normality, but after seven years of that sort of tortuous existence, normal doesn't come easy. Her parents have since divorced and her own mother has an old friend as her new live-in boyfriend. Her father has moved away and returns to reconnect with his long-lost daughter, but he has trouble accepting Jack and his<U+0085>well<U+0085>origins. Brie Larson does a phenomenal job with this material. Ma is a complex, deeply troubled character and Larson positively nails it with a very natural, genuine performance. She deserved every award she brought home for this role. Equal accolades belong to young Jacob Tremblay. In my experiences, the grand majority of child actors turn in stiff, unnatural performances but there are exceptions and Tremblay is top of the list. I believed every moment of his performance in ROOM and it's a real accomplishment for both him and director Abrahamson. ROOM is undoubtedly one of the best movies from 2015 (again, my opinion but I strongly believe so) and it comes with a strong recommendation from me. You'd have to be pretty dead inside for this movie to have not even the slightest emotional effect on you.


                
Emma Donoghue's novel, inspired no doubt by the likes of the Josef Fritzl case in Austria, 2008, has been rewritten by the author herself for the screen. It's a mighty challenging undertaking and benefits to some degree by not being 'based on a true story' even if the inspiration was so obviously horrifically apparent.It tells the tale of a young mother, credited as 'Ma' but actually known as Joy (how ironic) played to Oscar winning standard by Brie Larson and her five year old son, Jack, who was born in captivity some time after Joy was absconded by a man entrapping her with the aid of a sick puppy.Thus begins Joy's nightmare. At some point Jack is conceived at the hands of her rapist jailer, Old Nick, played by Sean Bridgers. (It's a casting that may have given him some personal nightmares because he's not what you could describe as a sympathetic character). It's fair to say that although Ma tolerates Nick's visitations, she has to to protect her child and to be fed, no Stockholm Syndrome has developed.The movie begins on or around Jack's fifth birthday. Jack has never left the room in which he was conceived and into which he entered his insular world. He knows no place other than this, has never experienced any weather (or air even), never played with other children, never been admonished for fear of upsetting a very delicate ecology between him, his mother and the 'room' where they live.Aside from the nightly visitations of Old Nick for the daily rape of his mother he knows no other human being.Ma and Jack have a TV, so Jack has a perverse awareness of the 'world' but it's seen through juddering images and is as real to him as martians are to you and I.But somehow Ma and Jack soldier on.We catch them at the end of Ma's tether. After five years of protecting Jack from the fact that they live in a parallel existence she's decided it's time for the facts of life and so begins a plan to escape. You'll have seen the trailers so you'll know that ultimately the escape bid is successful and so begins the painful psychological process of leaving an almost feral yet totally sheltered existence into a world that's overwhelming.Relationships in the family have moved on in the years since Joy's disappearance. Mum and Dad, although both still alive cope in very different ways. The media go mad for the story, Joy finds the whole thing extremely difficult to cope with and we spend a very moving hour or so watching them come to terms with an existence that's completely alien to Jack and totally overwhelming for Joy. This is a life affirming movie. It's directed with great skill and sensitivity by Lenny Abrahamson and in Brie Larson and five year old Jacob Tremblay we can pretty much believe that this is not fiction but very real reality.A remarkable film that deserves all the awards that are about to come its way.Deep respect.


                
Room is a simple story that will hit you hard. Brie Larson plays a young woman (Ma) who was abducted and has been held captive in 'Room' for 7 years, where she has subsequently given birth to her son Jack. Jack has never been out of Room and knows nothing else. We see how they cope in day to day life in Room, as the captor brings them basic rations every day. Throughout the film it is left to our imagination as to where exactly they are and what is the reason why. Jack believes that the outside world is non existent and anything he sees on TV is not real. Jack is key to their escape so Ma has to explain the situation very carefully to him in order for him to grasp that the outside world is indeed real. The pacing of the film is very good, we pretty much have two halves: the first half starts straight away with the pair in Room, we see them go through many different emotions in their fight for survival. Then they plan the escape (which if you have seen any trailer for the film you will know that they eventually escape anyway so it's not a spoiler). The second half of the film is about both of them adjusting to the outside world. Ma going back to family life and facing struggles as her father can't even look at Jack. Thankfully her mum and mum's boyfriend are much more supportive and really help Jack along the way. The acting is terrific throughout the film which gave it a lot of realism. I do wish that the film had perhaps been a bit more detailed, we could've had another 20-30 minutes which could've explained briefly how the captor took Ma, what exactly happened to him at the end and how he was caught, a few bits of news/interviews detailing the fact that she was missing, search parties for her, was anyone ever suspicious of him etc. And also a bit more of Ma and Jack as he was younger just to get a sense of even more struggle they went through and then perhaps a little segment at the end of him growing up in the world. All in all though it is certainly my favourite film of the Oscar nominees for best picture this year. 9/10 and highly recommended to all.
'Room' is a powerful and tense movie that tells the story of a young boy who has been confined to a small box shed his whole life after his mother was abducted by a man, the boy's father, known only as 'Old Nick' in the movie.The movie centers around their escape and life in the world thereafter. As you would expect, it makes for a tense couple of hours of viewing but the viewer is rewarded in the end. The heartwarming relationship between mother and son is what makes this movie.'Room' is a gripping movie that will take you on a roller-coaster of emotions, but it's well worth the ride.
Lenny Abrahamson directs Emma Donoghue's screenplay and novel brilliantly. An exploration of the senses. After being abducted, raped and imprisoned in a small windowless shed, a young woman (Brie Larson) gives birth and raises her son, Jack (Jacob Tremblay), in that same confined space. Ma is a dedicated mother, nurturing her son with love and warmth with his happiness and safety top priority. After five years or telling stories, playing games and singing songs; Jack's Ma begins planning their escape.Larson and Tremblay turn in performances that are sentimentally elegant. Rounding out the cast: Sean Bridgers, Sandy McMaster, Joan Allen, Justin Mader, Matt Gordon and William H. Macy.
"Room" shares the innocent perspective of a 5 year old named Jack who is led to believe by his mother that life consists of being inside a tiny room forever.I can relate this movie with "Life Is Beautiful" and "Pan's Labyrinth" because in all this titles we see a young human with such an innocent perspective and big imagination that somehow softens the cruel reality by tricking the mind and distorting what is actually happening."Room" also shows the psychology of both of the primary characters after living through a traumatic experience. Jack not being able to walk upstairs since he had never done it before in Room is one example.This movie made me feel grateful about my life because you get to see Jack and his mother happy after all. Torwards the ending of the movie Jack says "since Ma and I don't know what we like, we decided we are going to try everything". That's my favorite part of the movie because it means Jack is finally ready to open himself up and be a part of the big world.
Room creates an impact as it starts with the mother and her son, within the confinement, that within a short time we are taken into their world. Not stressing much on the saddening prison-ed part, it quickly packs up and move into the reformation side of two soon up to happy ending.It remarkably acknowledges all the possible issues that should arise in various individual situation both are put into. One doesn't think of beyond because he has never experienced it, all the facts mentioned to him suddenly are fake and story for him. With time he realize the possibility of possibility.Satisfying performance of Brie and Jacob is worth noticing. The movie is courageous, powerful, questioning, emotional, agitating, disturbing and one of its kind


                
In a small room, Ma (Brie Larson) is celebrating the fifth birthday of her son Jack (Jacob Tremblay). There are no windows except for a skylight and no obvious door. Jack's understanding of the outside world is limited. It's soon obvious that they are prisoners of a man they called Old Nick. Ma finally tells Jack that her name is Joy Newsome and she was taken when she was 17 some 7 years ago. Jack angrily disbelieves at first. Joy comes up with a daring gamble to escape back to her parents (Joan Allen, William H. Macy).This is a star-making role for Brie Larson. Her performance in 'Short Term 12' is amazing but little seen. She once again delivers a top-notch performance. She has inner strength and humanity. Jacob Tremblay is a wonderful discovery with his squeaky little voice. It's an almost perfect little film. I was wondering where this movie was going at certain points in the middle but I think it ends in the perfect place.


                
It's hard to know what to write about a movie like "Room". On one hand, it is certainly one of the must-see movies of 2015, but on the other, you've surely heard the buzz by now, and don't need an IMDb reviewer to tell you. Further, it's a movie you ought to know as little about as possible before watching.I will say that Jacob Tremblay, the actor who played five year old Jack, deserved an Oscar nod. Being that they are always in such close proximity, you can't help but compare the work of Brie Larson with Tremblay. He should have gotten a nomination at least. I feel that there are many other actresses who could have done what Larson did, but not many more who could have played Jack.
I'm a sucker for emotional dramas, and even more so if they deal with difficult and/or sensitive subject matter. ROOM is both of those things and does so in a tasteful fashion. I also haven't been so emotionally invested in a film since probably PRISONERS. The story revolves around and Ma (Brie Larson) and Jack (Jacob Tremblay). Ma (whose real name is Joy) was abducted as a teenager and lives in a garden shed, affectionately (or not so, depending on how you interpret it) referred to as 'Room,' with her now-five-year-old son, Jack. When the opportunity arises, Jack escapes and the real meat of the story begins. First off, I was very impressed with performances in the film. Brie Larson does excellent work, but I was even more surprised by Jacob Tremblay. Even though he's quite young, he was able to convey a dramatic range that, although suiting the role in particular, sometimes isn't achieved by older actors. Playing someone who's spent his entire life in captivity, he portrayed the wide-eyed curiosity required as well as the confusion in someone whose perspective on the world is fundamentally changed. There were a number of intense and/or emotional scenes, and he nailed every single one. I also liked how, even though the story deals with women who have been abducted, there was a bit more going on under the surface. Separating the narrative from the obviously horrible situation in which a woman is raped repeatedly, you can see the film also dealing with the psychological effect when a woman has motherhood thrust upon them, the culture shock when someone who has lived in isolation comes into contact with the "real world," etc. There was a lot going on than a simple escape from captivity, in other words. The only issue I could possibly come up with is that the second half of the film doesn't quite live up to the suspenseful first half. Once mother and son are freed, the narrative drive is somewhat lost, or at least goes into a holding pattern for a while. The difference in pacing is noticeable, although I wasn't terribly bothered by it. And, the film wraps up in a satisfying way anyway. All things considered, ROOM is an extremely compelling story that will have some people reaching for a tissue. It has great performances, cinematography, score, etc., and is certainly one of the best films of 2015.


                
"Room" is the rare film that improves on the book on which it's based.I had a complicated reaction to the novel. I found the first half actually set in the room to be nearly unbearable. I'm a father of young boys and trying to imagine the scenario set up in the book made me almost physically ill. I'm not sure I could have read the whole thing if the mother and her son had not escaped from their captor, but once they did, I felt like the air went out of the book and everything that happened after was much less compelling.The movie spends much less of its time in the room itself, because what takes pages and pages to describe in the book can be conveyed much more quickly with a few carefully chosen images. Therefore, more of the film takes place on the outside, but the filmmakers do a better job of making that the compelling narrative. The movie becomes a tribute to the resilience and adaptability of children, and captures that feeling parents experience when the world and all it contains once again becomes a wondrous place because they're seeing it through the eyes of their children.Brie Larson won an Oscar for her performance, and while I certainly don't begrudge her the win, I didn't feel that her performance was necessarily the slam-dunk best of the year that her dominance of the awards circuit suggested. The one who amazes in the film is Jacob Tremblay, playing Jack. He carries the film in a way that many adult actors can't manage, and some of the later scenes, especially those with his grandmother (played by a wonderful Joan Allen), quietly reduced me to a quivering mess.Grade: A


                
Kid was the lead driver and soul of the story. Such talent.


                
Room is absolutely amazing.In the end I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone, whether your interested or not.


                
I think Larson's performance wasn't that much Oscar worthy, however Tremblay's performance was superb in my opinion. What I really liked about this story is actually that is told through the boy's perspective and the amazing reality his mother created for him whilst being captive, and how with the help of family he is shown a somewhat smooth transition into the real world.


                
A good film but a bit weird, Jacob Tremblay is a very good actor in this considering that he was only about 11 when it was filmed.


                
I really loved this movie especially because i read the book. it was such an amazing journey to go on.


                
I think this film is one of the best drama films I've seen. It's a painful story, but the most beautiful one is that it ended with a happy ending


                
