I think this movie is amazing for reasons I was not expecting. I had heard of Yasujiro Ozu's "Tokyo Story" for several years but never had an opportunity to see it until Criterion resuscitated it as part of their DVD collection. Over fifty years old, this wondrous 1953 film resonates just as deeply today. Those outside Japan rarely get to see a Japanese film classic that doesn't involve samurai warriors in medieval battles. This one, however, is a subtly observed family drama set in post-WWII Japan, and it is the quietude and lack of pretense of Ozu's film-making style that makes this among the most moving of films.The plot centers on Shukishi and Tomi, an elderly couple, who traverse the country from their southern fishing village of Onomichi to visit their adult children, daughter Shige and son Koichi, in Tokyo. Leading their own busy lives, the children realize their obligation to entertain them and pack them off to Atami, a nearby resort targeted to weekend revelers. Returning to Tokyo unexpectedly, Tomi visits their kindly daughter-in-law, Noriko, the widow of second son Shoji, while Shukishi gets drunk with some old companions. The old couple realizes they have become a burden to their children and decide to return to Onomichi. They also have a younger daughter Kyoko, a schoolteacher who lives with them, and younger son Keizo works for the train company in Osaka. By now the children, except for Kyoko and the dutiful Noriko, have given up on their parents, even when Tomi takes ill in Osaka on the way back home. From this seemingly convoluted, trivial-sounding storyline, fraught with soap opera possibilities, Ozu has fashioned a heartfelt and ultimately ironic film that focuses on the details in people's lives rather than a single dramatic situation.What fascinates me about Ozu's idiosyncratic style is how he relies on insinuation to carry his story forward. In fact, some of the more critical events happen off-camera because Ozu's simple, penetrating observations of these characters' lives remain powerfully insightful without being contrived. Ozu scholar David Desser, who provides insightful commentary on the alternate audio track, explains this concept as "narrative ellipses", Ozu's singularly effective means of providing emotional continuity to a story without providing all the predictable detail in between. Ozu also positions his camera low throughout his film to replicate the perspective of someone sitting on a tatami mat. It adds significantly to the humanity he evokes. There are no melodramatic confrontations among the characters, no masochistic showboating, and the dialogue is deceptively casual, as even the most off-hand remark bears weight into the story. The film condemns no one and its sense of inevitability carries with it only certain resigned sadness. What amazes me most is how the ending is so cathartic because the characters feel so real to me, not because there are manipulative plot developments, even death, which force me to feel for them.I just love the performances, as they have a neo-realism that makes them all the more affecting. Chishu Ryu and Chieko Higashiyama are wonderfully authentic as Shukishi and Tomi, perfectly conveying the resignation they feel about their lives and their children without slipping into cheap sentimentality. Higashiyama effortlessly displays the sunny demeanor of a grandmother, so when sadness does take over in her life, it becomes all the more haunting. In particular, she has a beautiful scene where Tomi looks forlornly at her grandchild wondering what he will be when he grows up and whether she will live to see what happens. Even more heartbreaking is the scene where Shukishi and Tomi sit in Ueno Park realizing their children have no time for them and are resigned to the fact that they need to find a place to sleep for the night. The closest the film has to a villain is Shige, portrayed fearlessly by Haruko Sugimura, who is able to show respect, pettiness and conniving in a realistically mercurial fashion. Watch her as she complains about the expensive cakes her husband bought for her parents (as she selfishly eats them herself) or how she finagles Koichi to co-finance the trip to Atami or how she shows her frustration when her parents come home early from the spa. So Yamamura (familiar to later Western audiences as Admiral Yamamoto in "Tora! Tora! Tora!") displays the right amount of indifference as Koichi, and Kyoko Kagawa has a few sharp lines toward the end of the film as the disappointed Kyoko.But the best performance comes from the legendary Setsuko Hara, a luminous actress whose beauty and sensitivity remind me of Olivia de Havilland during the same era. As Noriko, she is breathtaking in showing her character's modesty, her unforced generosity in spite of her downscale status and her constant smile as a mask for her pain. She has a number of deeply affecting moments, for instance, when Noriko explains to Shukishi and Tomi how she misses her husband, even though it is implied he was a brutalizing alcoholic; or the touching goodbye to Kyoko; or her pained embarrassment over the high esteem that Shukishi holds for her kindness. Don't expect fireworks or any shocking moments, just a powerfully emotional film in spite of its seemingly modest approach. The two-disc DVD set has the commentary from Desser on the first disc, as well as the trailer. On the second disc, there are two excellent documentaries. One is a comprehensive 1983, two-hour feature focused on Ozu's life and career, and the second is a 40-minute tribute from several international movie directors.


                
I can vividly remember the first time i saw this movie - it was during a festival of Japanese movies in an art house cinema here in Dublin. I must admit to never having heard of Ozu before, i went out of boredom and casual curiosity. I was embarrassed at the end to find myself in tears. I quickly wiped them away in that subtle way guys do when they don't want anyone to know, and got out to leave. What struck me was that even as the credits were finishing, I was one of the first to go. As i walked up the aisle I realized that most of the nearly full cinema was still sitting quietly, without the usual post movie chatter - and more than half of the audience had tears pouring down their faces. I have never, ever witnessed that in a cinema.Since then, i've watched it on DVD, and had to think a lot about why such a simple movie is so powerful, and so many people rate it as one of the greatest ever. And why i find myself agreeing with that rating, i truly think it is in the top 10 ever made - certainly the top 5 of any I've seen. But its hard at first to know why. It doesn't have the greatest script of any movie, there are few things in it that are truly original. The acting is great, but not the greatest ever seen, and the technical qualities are just average. I've come to the conclusion that the reason for its greatness is that it comes closest to pure art in cinema. By pure art, i mean art that in its simplicity but technical genius still reveals deep truths about our lives. When i think about Tokyo Story I don't find myself comparing it to other movies, instead I think of a Rembrandt self portrait, a Vermeer painting, or my favourite short story, 'The Dead' by James Joyce. It is simple, unadorned, and deeply wise. I realise in writing this I'm rapidly approaching pseuds corner, but this is my genuine conclusion (writing as someone who is shamefully uneducated in most of the arts).Of course there have been many great movies about families, about growing old, about the nature of life.... but I think somehow Ozu achieved a sort of perfection with Tokyo Story. Thats why its the only movie I would give a '10' to.


                
A fantastic film that belies the simplicity of its plot, Tokyo Story is the tale of a vacation gone sadly awry, with an elderly man and woman visiting from the countryside pushed to the sidelines by their busy children in the city. The younger generation (and by extension the "new" Japan) turns its back on the family from which it arose- because of selfishness, because of necessity, or because it's simply the way of the world. The movie provides no easy answers- its melancholy ambiguity is part of its charm. Whatever the case, Ozu delights in portraying the details of everyday life. The emotional resonances of this movie are extraordinary, and some shots (a child picking flowers, an old couple framed by the sea, a woman sitting forlornly at her work desk) are enough to give a sensitive film-goer the shivers. Despite the testimony of some critics, the film is not totally devoid of melodramatic elements (some stock characters and cloying musical motifs spring readily to mind), but the film is founded upon such an obvious love and respect for the importance of real-world interactions that it's hard not to be anything other than enthralled by it.


                
Two women are sitting on tatami mats. They are smiling and talking. One ofthem says, "Isn't life depressing?" Wow... that pretty much says it.Tokyo Story is defenitely one of the finest movies ever made. Easy. I don't care what anyone says: slow or not, this is one of Ozu's finest films. Very few movies have made my cry, but I did indeed weep at this movie. All of the actingperformances are very believeable, especially Hara's. The interesting knee- level tatami cinematography suits the film perfectly. Even the music isimpeccable. What really gets me with Tokyo Story is how stunningly realistic it is. From the dialogue to the story, everything feels like real life. No matter what language you speak, what culture or country you hail from, this element is universal.It's pretty much perfect... every character is fleshed out, there are no plot holes left open... I can't find anything to complain about it! 50 years after its release and it's still very contemporary... damn.
I give it **** out of ****.


                
I need to say this:  THIS MOVIE IS ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC!!!  Sure it starts off slowly, but the fact of the matter is the film is a great story of a family and the alienation associated with aging.  This is the kind of movie that will make you reflect upon your own family and how you treat them.I had never seen an Ozu film before, but now I feel as if I must see them all.  His use of cinematic space is incredible.  He breaks all sorts of conventions with his cinematography such as violating the axis of action. This gives the viewer the sense of a large, open, unrestricted world.Going with this realism, the characters seem real; not for a moment did I see the people on the screen as actors.  They were the family, and you as the viewer feels what they feel.  Part of this comes from the use of head-on-shots such that the characters are speaking TO you.It is a fantastic, moving piece of work and arguably one of the best films ever made.


                
I can't take my mind off this movie. The story is both universally human (old age, the end of life, parents and children) and specifically Japanese. The movie tells the viewer so much about Japanese middle class life in the 1950s: eating and sleeping; mourning the war dead; clothes and home furnishings; spoiled kids; a doctor's office; a schoolroom; life in Tokyo and small towns; how family members talk to each other; old men's drinking habits; a resort hotel. But while we see all these details of a real time and place, we are constantly drawn into reflection on the meaning of human life and relationships. The reflection emerges effortlessly from the simple narrative and the specifics. The director never annoyingly tells us how to feel, he is not preaching and not drawing attention to himself. (There is none of that "hey, I'm making a moving movie" crud that you get in Hollywood treatment of these topics). He just lets the story unfold in a quiet, natural way. It's not for folks who only like "action" movies. I put "action" in quotes because this movie is about the real action in life--enjoying life, sharing it with others, facing the end of it.


                
I first watched Tokyo Story in a classroom some time ago and witnessed something curious. I have never seen a group of people so choked up over a film, ever. The most curious thing about it though is that most could not place what exactly made them so emotional. There are moments in Tokyo Story in which you are hit with a wall of emotions, surprised and overwhelmed that this simple little film could evoke such feelings. It's something about the characters, the honesty, the way everything hits home despite the cultural and time-period barriers.Tokyo Story takes a deep look at familial relations in postwar Japan. Simply, it boils down to this: two aging parents (played by Ryu Chishu and Higashiyama Chieko) live far away from their children, who are in a quickly modernizing Tokyo. The children in Tokyo are quite selfish and focused on their own busy lives in the hustle-and-bustle of the city. The key character in this film, though, is Noriko (Hara Setsuko), the widow of one of the parents' sons who died in the war. Noriko turns out to be more active with her husband's parents than their own children are.The parents decide to make their first, and possibly final, trip to Tokyo in order to see their children and view the spectacle of the city. The only person that can make significant time for them, however, is Noriko; the children are busy with work and even send their parents away to a spa! In one heartfelt scene, the mother, Tomi, spends the night at Noriko's in which she begs her to re-marry and apologizes for the burden that her son has caused. During this time, the father, Shukichi, is out drinking with old friends and admits to them that he is disappointed with his children, agreeing with his friends who feel the same way.Ozu Yasujiro is considered to be one of the world's greatest filmmakers and Tokyo Story is considered his masterpiece. There is no reason to deny this. Ozu's camera is often a topic of discussion–it usually sets itself at the level of people sitting on the floor (tatami), which allows the viewer to feel like they are sitting right with the characters. It is usually always a calm camera, and very rarely pans. His films are also often slowly paced and meditative, choosing to avoid showing important events which later are revealed through dialogue. Ozu's direction of children has always been brilliant, they are never a weak point in his films and he often bases his stories on child characters (though not here).Tokyo Story contains all of the elements that make Ozu's films popular with film students and cinephiles today. His calm, observant camera; his real-life, non-embellished characters; his attention to detail and the emotional emphasis on certain objects; his perfectly timed music; among other things, contribute ultimately to the warmth and effectiveness of the film. Ozu's passion for filmmaking knew no bounds.Tokyo Story will not appeal to everybody, especially today. The typical moviegoer will either dismiss the film because it is "old" or "black and white," or find it boring. To the cautious and attentive viewers who allow themselves to connect with the characters and feel the story, Tokyo Story is a rewarding experience. Tokyo Story, along with Ozu's other films, is a good example of film as an art. Aimed at telling a story and depicting true life on camera, it is much less of the "entertainment" experience that people have come to expect from the movies today. There are no explosions, violence, chase scenes, or over- the-top characters here. This is Ozu. This is one of the greatest films ever made.


                
"Tokyo Story" is considered Ozu's masterpiece; it continues to be one of the most widely admired of Ozu's films, and one of the most immediately accessible. The theme of the disintegration of a family as a microcosm of societal changes is one which is universal: this is the theme of Ford's "How Green Was My Valley", of Welles's "The Magnificent Ambersons", of Satyajit Ray's "The Music Room", but Ozu is able to tell his story without the usual paraphernalia of melodrama. The story unfolds in an almost lifelike fashion, and we in the audience feel as if we are eavesdropping on this family. Gradually, small details and little incidents build, until such scenes as the widowed daughter-in-law's confession of loneliness create an overwhelming empathy.
I only got to watch this film for the first time ever about a month ago, as it is being rescreened at the OTHER CINEMA in London. I was told by my ex-Japanese teacher about 5 years ago back in secondary school that it was one of the most beautiful films ever made. I was only just getting into foreign cinema (i.e. anything not from Hollywood really) and wasn't sure what to expect and I wasn't willing to take the risk of being possibly bored to death with "old classics". I read many reviews written by the random public from websites such as IMDB, and I found too many unfavourable comments about it, so I thought I'd give it a miss... how wrong was I to conform to other peoples' opinions!I'm going to contradict myself now immediately after implying that one shouldn't conform to other people, because I am now going to say that it is a wonderful film and you should take my recommendation and watch it whenever you have a chance. Because of people like me, there will always be people that harshly criticise this masterpiece of a film, but because of these harsh words there will always be people like me who will praise it just a bit too much.Although in those last two paragraphs there was virtually nothing with regards to the theme and plot and acting of Tokyo Monogatari, there isn't really a need to express the overall beauty of the film, since it is a near perfect work of art from Yasujiro Ozu. His camera technique is so unique that one can immediately spot an Ozu film from a mile away. Tokyo Monogatari is that deals with family issues (Ozu's theme in all of his films), and how society messes things up so much that there is nothing that can be done to solve the problems. It leaves the viewer with a strange feeling of desperation to do something good for your parents. It may not be the most emotional and dramatic of films, but it certainly provokes a flood of emotions for the viewer to dream about in his/her sleep.I would give this a definite 10/10, and I would rate Ozu as one of the greatest directors of all time. Another two films I recommend by Ozu are FLOATING WEEDS and OHAYO.


                
My wonderful introduction into the work of Ozu tells from an elder couple, Shukishi and Tomi (Chishu Ryu, Chieko Higashiyama) who make a trip to Tokyo to visit their grown-up, busy, egoistic children. Only Noriko (Setsuko Hara), the widow of their dead son, cares about them with an open heart. Soon after the parents returned to their home in a small, rural town, the mother gets sick and is about to die. The family members come together for a last visit."Tokyo Story" deals with the break-up of a family and Ozu treats it in a way which is totally opposed to Hollywood manners. This gets especially obvious with the staging of the mother's death. We see the bed of the dawning woman at which the family members are gathered around. Then, Ozu cuts to a sequence of long shots showing the small provincial place: a deserted street, abandoned wharves, a boat on a river, boats in the harbor, orphaned tracks. When the camera comes back to the deathbed, the mother already has passed away. Here, Ozu does not do anything to force the dramatic art of the scene. On the contrary, he leaves out the moment of death and the instant reactions of the relatives and consequently keeps the film's balance. It is this controlled interaction of distance and balance which continuously shapes the superb production.This is shown equally well in the narrative structure and in the cautious performances of the actors, but most of all in the carefully composed simplicity of the pictures. Apart from a few exceptions, Ozu abstained from camera movements, and only in rare moments the lenses approach to the characters. The camera captures the actions from a low point of view and remains in half long shots most of the time. It is the perspective of an observer, sitting on a Tatami mat himself, like a guest who follows the course of events with contemplative calm and a due humbleness.Ozu intriguingly encounters the social course of time in the life of a family with a certain wistfulness and gentle melancholy. At the same time, he points out the necessity of such changes in the Japanese society as a whole. And perhaps that is why there lies some sort of comfort in the beauty of the pictures, because it divines that the certitude of the persistent process of time can be also a source for inner quietude.
In this film Ozu explores and shows great respect for the small, private suffering in each of our lives. He does this in the most UNsentimental way, but rather, is relentlessly mindful of the details and subtlety in the process of accepting facts beyond our control. Ozu has no resistance to the truth of regret and loss. There is no manic or depressive struggle, but a slow gaze over a beautiful horizon. He takes us to an emotional sanctuary where we can observe without averting our eyes. Ozu does not try to jerk our feelings around or deliberately set out to make us cry. He does not try to dazzle us intellectually or do anything creative or new. Rather he simply shows us an idealized transformation through stages of life where we can arrive at a state of peace through acceptance of "normal" events. There are no bad guys or good guys here, but simple declarations about life in the most monumentally unadorned style possible. A great, great work of art. My all-time favorite.


                
This may not be my favorite movie of all time. This may not be the best movie of all time. But this is the most perfect movie of all time.It's complex yet simple. It's easily understandable, yet every viewing yields something new. It stands in the past and looks at the future. Or maybe, it stands in the future and looks towards the past. It is the most Japanese of all the great Japanese films. It is a film that is still remembered after sixty-three years. It is a film that will still be remembered after sixty-three more.It is, in my opinion, the greatest non-English language live action film of all time.This is Tokyo Story.I recommend that everyone watch this movie. But there are some things you should do first. Watch some Kurosawa films. Watch some Ghibli films. Read up on the culture of Japan. Learn what a pillow shot is. Then come back and pop in this flick.There are stories that translate across cultures and generations. This is where the Hero's Journey and the Monomyth come from. But there are also stories that are specifically tied to one culture or another, that are engrained in that culture for all they are worth. One can watch them without knowing anything about their culture of origin, but the experience is... lessened.This is one of those stories.The plot is basic. An elderly couple comes to visit their kids in Tokyo, but their kids are too busy, and send their parents to a bathhouse. At its basis, this could be construed as your basic 'take care of your elders' story. But that is not doing the story justice. That is like calling LotR a basic 'kill the evil guys trying to take over the world' story.These characters are so complex, but their complexities do not get in the way of emotional power. At the end of the movie, after a potent climax, the characters gather together, and you feel for every single one of them. That is impressive.And that is just the tip of the iceberg. There are so many little intricacies to be loved about this movie. This is cinematic poetry in every meaning of that term. There are movies- movies I like and respect- where I say to myself, "I could do better than that." I never once thought that when watching this movie. The dichotomy between simplicity and complexity is shown even in the title of the movie. Tokyo Story is about the simplest possible title anyone could think of for this movie. It is like naming a song ___ Song. But it is also deep. Tokyo is one of the most storied cities of all time, and at the time of this movie's release, it was just starting to recover from the massive firebombing campaign the United States waged on it in the closing days of World War II.I think of this title like a fancy door. On the surface, it is simple and functional. And if that is all someone wants to take out of it, so be it. But if one looks deeper, they can see a whole new level of symbolism and detail.Remember when I said to look up what a 'pillow shot' is. There's a reason for that. Ozu uses these to great effect, giving the audience a chance to breath and compose themselves. It is a very Japanese way of doing things. I'd love to see what would happen if pillow shots were included in their next mainstream blockbuster. But I doubt that anyone who is interested in this movie in the first place would be put off by its Japan-ness.Typically, I don't talk about the use of restraint in film- it is important, integral even but no one comes to see a film because of its effective use of restraint- but I must make an exception for this film. This is a film requiring perfect balance in every respect. If one side or viewpoint became too overpowering, the movie would no longer be one of the greatest movies of all time. It would be simply great. Vast oceans of restraint are needed at every turn. Good thing the director is Ozu.But even with all its perfections, I would not love this film nearly as much as I do if not for how much I love who the characters become and what they have to say. They do not just feel alive. They feel importantly alive. The best example of this comes when three aging businessmen sit at a bar and talk about their children. In some movies, this would be a cheap throwaway joke. In others, it would a cheap attempt at melodrama. But in this movie, it results in one of the most profound discussions I've ever heard in a movie. I was awestruck.That is the second-best scene in the movie, at least in my opinion. The best comes at the very end of the movie. I won't spoil it, but no one who watches this movie closely is unaffected by it. It captures the tone of this movie as perfectly as any scene can capture the tone of any movie.Melancholy without being depressing, insightful without being preachy, fascinating without needing to be flashy, this is one of the greatest pieces of mature, adult, thoughtful art that has ever been produced.


                
I was shown Yasujiro Ozu's Tokyo Story- my first Ozu film- in an Art-film class some years ago, and I watched it again a couple of months ago. This has to be a truly indelible Japanese film, even to those who might dismiss it dimly as 'slow' or one where nothing happens. Actually, if you're going by traditional plot, not a lot does happen. But then again, not a lot happens on Seinfeld, either. In fact, maybe on repeat viewings, this could become the serene, Japanese tragic-comic equivalent of Seinfeld. After two viewings I get the 'jist' of the characters, their simple objectives and how they live their lives, but there's still much that can be taken in, it's hard to describe. While I'm not sure I've seen one of the ten best films ever made, as it has been for some critics and audiences, I do think it's a very unique film, one that moves in a way akin to an Italian neo-realist film, but filmed with a very particular eye that sets it apart from them.In terms of how its characters go about in the story, it is really closer to a work of De Sica or other, as it is centrally about the importance of family, and how a family and its members through the petty parts and especially through the tragic times has to stick together. The family unit here involves a couple of grandparents (Chishu Ryu and Chieko Higashiyama, who have those funny, dependent, though truthful ways about them as elders of the common ilk) who come to visit the rest of their family, and aside from (more than any other) daughter-in-law Noriko (played in such a wonderfully every-day, compassionate way by the great Setsuko Hara), they're dealt with the 'it's the old folks again'. This is particular by their own real daughter, who seems most ungrateful for their arrival. They send them to a resort, but then something un-expected happens, which turns the situation around and ground the henpecking to an immediate halt.Some scenes still stick in my head even when I least expect them going about my days, much as the aforementioned Seinfeld episodes seem to do. I loved the gentleness in one scene where Noriko is offered a gift by the grandmother, it rings perfectly true to the everyday, but it's handled in such a way that could not have been done as well in another film. There's also a great deal of humility, with moments of amusement, when two male characters (one of them the grandfather I believe) get drunk. And throughout the film, Ozu creates impressionable compositions, setting him apart with just this film alone for me as a remarkable artist; I still remember certain shots of the houses and scapes (his specific way of shooting characters in the interiors is really neat too). In the class our teacher told us this was part of what were called 'handkerchief films' or something close to that in Japan, where audiences would bring hander-chiefs with them from crying so much during the film. I can see why; probably the best that can be said of Tokyo Story is how he pulls so much out of so little, and the interest that is always constant, even through little domestic squabble scenes, quiet moments with the elders (the old man has a look that's perfect throughout), and the more intense ones later on. In short, it's definitely at least one of the very best Japanese films of the 1950s, in the same rank as Kurosawa's best films.


                
It's films like Yasujiro Ozu's 'Tokyo Story' that transcend the idea of a movie and enter the realm of art in its most pure and provoking form. Often considered the greatest achievement by a directed who constantly challenged his audience with pensive and realistic material, 'Tokyo Story' is a heartbreaking look at the passage of time and the gradual estrangement that unfolds between two parents and their absentee children. The realism of the film is undeniable, much of which stems from Ozu's long series of pillow shots seen throughout the film. These shots are cutaways, for no obvious narrative reason, that serve to add that extra depth and sentiment by letting the natural landscape and surrounding themes sink in that much more. Many of Ozu's pillow shots convey darkness or the transience of family memories and, by letting these shots linger on for several seconds, his narrative is quietly telling us that the flow of the world around them continues to truck along. These shots are as enigmatic as the feelings of the characters we come to know in the film, saying one thing but doing so with faces that would suggest a hidden subtext. At the film's most heartbreaking moments, we struggle to understand exactly HOW they feel though it's clear to us that their suffering exists - but to what end? Truly one of the most beautifully crafted creations to come out of Japanese cinema and even cinema in general. This film is a masterpiece in every sense of the word.


                
It seemed strange to me that this film was rated 8.2 at IMDb when the scenes began so slowly and tediously. However, eventually, I agree with such a high rate. Even though there are not so many actors in the film, I felt as if each of them showed a certain aspect of myself. I gave 10. And, now I understood why Aki Kaurismaki follows Yasujiro Ozu's style.


                
Tokyo Story contains more passion, frustration, and anger than the vast majority of the mainstream films that are described as masterpieces of recent times.( you only have to look at recent Oscar lists to know what films i'm talking about) Its portrayal of a post war Japan is not only one of the most powerful and true descriptions of the family struggle and conflicting emotions brought on by a changing social pattern, but Ozu's profound use of camera and his ability to create so much with so little showcase some of the films best attributes. I recommend this film to any one with a passion for film and who wishes to experience one of japans greatest directors.
"Be kind to your parents while they are alive. Filial piety cannot reach beyond the grave." The story of this film is simple, much like the other Ozu film I've seen Good Morning, an old couple come to the city to visit their children and grandchildren. Their children are busy, and the old people upset their routines. As the old man remarks near the end of the film, the person who treats them best, their widowed daughter-in-law (portrayed by the mesmerizing Setsuko Hara in surely one of the greatest performances of all time) isn't even related to them by blood. Their grandchildren barely pay them any attention. There's a beautiful scene when the Grandmother and her youngest Grandchild, whom she has never met go for a walk. The child ignores his Grandmother's questions and runs around. In a quiet way, without anyone admitting it, the visit goes badly. There isn't much else to say, but the film is like an emotional atom bomb. The scene at the end where the old couple release all they have kept under the surface throughout the whole journey is magnificent. They express their disappointment in their children. They think their daughter isn't nice and are also surprised by their son's lowly job. In the end, they agree that their children are simply "better than average". The heartbreaking thing about this film is how well it expresses the disappointment of life and how life goes on, illustrated by the final shot of the rooftops of the town and a boat passing by on the water. Just brilliant, brilliant stuff.
"Tokyo Story" is an incredibly poignant film by Yasujiro Ozu about grandparents tonwards the end of their lives that visit their children.The children, however, while trying to be respectful, simply don't have time for them (or don't want to have time for them) and therefore the grandparents seem to be a burden to them. Shige even seems to dislike them, and insults them on certain occasions, but not in an over the top way, but rather a pretend playful way. Many of the shots are in frames within frames and I think this is to emphasize the different worlds that each generation inhabits, and how they are separated by age. It is also composed of mostly low angle shots and seemingly 2 dimensional compositions. There are many poignant moments in the film regarding time and age, all ending with a sadly realistic but silent ending. The first is when the grandmother, Tomi, is with the youngest grandchild outside. The child has his back to the grandmother while she asks him what he wants to be when he grows up. He doesn't respond, but she thinks about it anyway. Then she states that she might be dead when he is grown up, and she follows him as if to try and reach back into her youth.The grandparents are sent to a spa at one point by their children, but the spa ends up being too lively for them. This shows that maybe they are getting too old for the world, and their time has passed. This is the first time they are visiting Tokyo, but at this point they may be too old. When Shukishi, the grandfather, gets back together with his friends that he used to drink with (apparently too much), we get the feeling that it isn't like it used to be. It's a much more depressing time. One of his friends expresses his disappointment towards his sons low position in work, and his regret for raising him the way he did. He also mentions that losing a child is hard, but now living with them can be just as hard. Shukishi feels similarly toward his son who is simply a neighborhood doctor, but he says that times change, and you can't expect too much for your children. His other friend has lost all of his children. He doesn't say a word throughout the whole conversation other than mumbling drunkenly. Tomi stays with Noriko, her daughter in law who was married to the son that died. Tomi isn't related through blood, but does more for them than any of their real children. Tomi is desperate for her to get remarried, since at this point she knows how lonely she will feel without a husband on her older age.When Shukishi and Tomi reunite, Tomi gets sick on the train, and before they know it, she is in critical condition. She dies soon after, but it's important to remember the fact that Ozu never gives in to the usual sentimentality films usually resort to in order to make you feel something. It has an ear for the usual happenings of life and the silence in between the dialogue, as well as the small talk we resort to so we don't have to open up about our doubts and fears and hopes and regrets.They visited one of their grandchildren, Keizo, before she went into critical condition, and it shows him joking that he must be a good grandchild to them because you can't be a good grandchild to them while they are in the grave. But despite him first considering the encounter as a nuisance, once he finds out Tomi is dead, he can't bear the idea that she will just be lost in the sea of graves that he sees before him. He admits he wished he spent more time with her. He simply didn't realize how fragile her life was. Shukishi stays away from his children when he hears about the death of his wife, but doesn't cry. He is simply empty. He gives Noriko his wife's watch as she was their only true child through all of this. She thinks she doesn't deserve it because sometimes she "goes for days on end not thinking about him (her ex wife and their dead son)", but this isn't about him. It's about her, and her kindness. For the first time since her husband she feels loved, and she ends up with the happiest of the endings. Shukishi then goes home and sits. Alone. Probably for the rest of his life. Sadly, it's also implied that they didn't get along for much of their marriage, so it wasn't that loving to begin with. And if we don't end up at that point eventually in our lives, then we will probably be dead. That's the sad truth of life and probably the true ending after Norikos happy ending. Children grow away form their parents, and parents grow old."Isn't life disappointing?" Kyoko asks. "Yes, it is" Noriko responds, smilingly.
Warning: This review contains several spoilersRightly regarded as one of the finest movies ever made, this 1953 film of Japanese master Yasujiro Ozu is about Shukichi (Chishû Ryû) and his wife, Tomi (Chiyeko Higashiyama), an elderly couple living in a small town in Southern Japan, who we are told are about 70, but to our eyes look more to be closer to 80. They decide to visit their two eldest children, who live in Tokyo: Koichi (Sô Yamamura), whom Shukichi and Tomi believed to be a prominent city doctor, but is actually a harried local practitioner and Shige (Haruko Shugimura), who is a beautician. Neither of them has too much time for their parents. Koichi is too busy with work, and his young, rowdy children openly disdain their grandparents, whom they have never met before. Shige, the eldest daughter, is considerably worse, as she continually voices her disapproval with her parents and scolds her husband for attempting to treat them with nice gestures (Shugimura plays her character's meanness with relish). The elderly couple has also a younger daughter, Kyoko (Kyoko Kagawa) who still lives with them and works as a schoolteacher in their hometown. Kyoko resents their elder siblings' aloofness towards their parents. A fourth son, Keizo, appears only towards the end of the movie, seemingly also indifferent to the fate of his parents.At the end, their children's indifference prompts the elderly couple to return early to their hometown, but in their trip back Tomi gets ill and dies soon after reaching home.Clearly the elder children had some unresolved resentment towards their parents: we don't know exactly the reason for it, though Shukichi's alcoholism when he was younger is mentioned several times in the movie.Only their daughter in law Noriko (the wonderful Setsuko Hara, a regular in many Ozu movies), the widow of their fallen son during World War II, treats them with kindness and attention while they are in Tokyo. In the movie's climatic, tear inducing scene, Noriko initially protests to Shukichi that she is not such a nice person, and that she is really selfish. And we come to understand what she means by this: as sweet and humane as she is, Noriko is also seeking closure to her husband's death in the war, and with her attention and niceties she is desperately looking for her parents in-laws approval: when he is happy to give her that in the final scene, encouraging her to forget his son and find a new husband, she breaks down with tears in one of the most moving scenes in the history of cinema.
This is so perfect it makes the hair on the back of my neck bristle thinking the film was nearly lost right after its completion in a fire at the Yokohama lab! (What we have nowadays doesn't come from a master negative but from dupes)If you've seen your share of Ozu, you know the modus operandi: the stories recur from one movie to the other, similar shots, same actors, even the same names for characters. And predominantly, the same radical way of seeing the world: the multi-layered, meditative, agile (despite being stationary!) and deeply dimensional eye that pierces simultaneously through multiple rooms; characters are positioned to the frame just like any other object, conversing with each other and also with the surrounding space. Much of this sense of space comes from Ozu shooting low, close to the tatami, meaning that the ceilings are often visible.The story is never extraneous, nor is it melodramatic. The undertow of loss is ever as poignant here, a complete antipode to the light family banter in its two predecessors in the "Noriko" trilogy. We've waded warm and pleasant waters so far, even when considering there's been departure. The word "you'll get better" will break your heart, as will "I'd have been kinder to her" delivered with apparent fake cheer by the surviving widow. This will make one think of one's own parents, and if you're married, your own wife and children. What a gift we've been given in them!It will always remain a mystery why Hara's character in all the three films is named Noriko — not the same Noriko, but still obviously a central element and a link between the three. There are other curiosities: the young children in "Bakushû" (1951) are named Minoru and Isamu, just as they are in this film. Minoru is actually played by the same boy, Murase Zen.The music is brilliant, and the main theme is one of the greatest in film history.


                
Why did it take so long for me to see this film? I don't know why that is, other than being behind with my movie watching due to studying, and I am still kicking myself because Tokyo Story was one of the best films I've seen in quite some time. I haven't seen enough of Yasujiro Ozu's work to judge him as an overall director, but seeing Tokyo Story it is very easy to see why anybody would consider it one of his finest achievements or him as a master film-maker. Tokyo Story is beautifully shot, everything looks homely and evocative and the shots, frame and cinematography are done to perfection. And Ozu directs very sensitively and assuredly, it is said that he specialised in middle-class family melodramas and I have no trouble believing that. The story is quiet and meditatively paced but never bored me, because every bit of writing, family scene and character was dealt with in such a poignant and intelligent manner. Tokyo Story is also helped by some truly wonderful acting. Setsuko Hara just epitomises gentle kindness, making us warm to Noriko easily, while Chishu Ryu and Chieko Higashiyama play their roles with nuanced and affecting dignity. In conclusion, a beautiful and deeply moving film in all respects. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
The movie begins with an elderly couple packing their bags to call on their children in Tokyo and also meet their son Keiso at Osaka en route. They call on their son, an established doctor in the neighborhood and then on their daughter, a hairdresser. While the couple are treated well indoors, their children have no free time to spare with their parents-to take them to places of tourist attraction. They are finally taken on a tour of the city by their widowed daughter-in-law, who is the kindest among their hosts in Tokyo. Their daughter and son-in-law send them on a tour to Atima with all expenses paid. They enjoy their tour but after they cut short their tour and are back at their daughter's place do they realize the motive of their daughter in sending them away. The man gets drunk with his old pals while his wife takes shelter at their daughter-in-law's place. They leave Tokyo the next morning. They are forced to get off the train at Osaka with the woman falling ill. They rest there for a day and make it back home. Their children receive telegrams from Onomichi saying the woman is dying. The children take the express train and watch the woman pass away. After the rituals, the children quickly jump into dividing their mother's belongings. The helpless father thanks them for sparing their valuable time to come down to Onomichi. The man later confesses to his daughter-in-law that she was more caring and loving than their blood relatives.While Japanese films are synonymous to Akira Kurosawa, Yasujiro Ozu made a masterpiece that still hasn't received the rave reviews it deserves. The movie portrays the plight of the aging parents who had burnt the candle at both ends to provide their wards with education and a comfortable life, how children get busy with their work schedule and their respective families that they have no time to spare for the ones responsible for the luxuries they now enjoy- parents, who are left alone till their time comes to an end. A film that leaves a deep impact on anyone.
Yasujiro Ozu's Tokyo Story is a very simple narration where nothing really spectacular happens that couldn't happen in anyone else's life. What takes place in the film is just life itself. It's about the not uncommon difficulties of generations that have to deal with each other, where natural gaps arise after the children have moved away from their parents and each family member is living a different life now - all things we might have experienced ourselves in a similar fashion from the one or the other side, or even from both. Everybody tries his/her best in their own kind of way when it comes to a visit. One means well, stays polite, but the lives the family members lead are their own now. While the parents don't want to impose on their children, the children are fine when their parents are on their way again so that things take their regular course to which they are used to. But in between many things are left unsaid. "Tokyo Story" shows us in its realistic depiction of a Japanese family that only when something major happens which stirs the daily routines and challenges our outlook we become aware of what's important and where our allegiances really lie.Ozu's unobtrusive direction is what makes this film so touching and powerful. He stays true to life and just shows us what's happening, doesn't judge, and typical of Ozu decides to refrain from camera movements altogether throughout the film which strengthens the impression that this is just how things happen out there. "Tokyo Story" is a quiet and contemplative work and the actors seem to be taken right from reality. That's why this simple story has such an impact and ranks as one of the greatest - it hits close to home, where it resonates deeply.


                
One of my favorite films from Ozu, and it probably deserves to be on the top of my favorite Japanese film list. This is, in my opinion, one of his most accessible efforts, although you have to be at least used to Japanese or classic cinema in order to fully appreciate it, otherwise it is more likely that you'll find yourself not caring much about what's happening, on account of Ozu's pacing style. Without any doubt, this film has to be one of Ozu's most complete works, it contains every single technique and theme he's widely recognized for. I also find the music sounding throughout some parts of the film really beautiful and catchy, which doesn't mean I'm giving less praise to other tunes in many of his other films (they are individually amazing), but this has just been the one I find more fitting concerning the story, and definitely the one I've most liked as well. The acting is at its finest, everyone fits their roll perfectly (it was hilarious watching Chishu Ryu impersonating a drunk and somewhat disappointed father). To conclude this review, I know I might probably not be adding anything relevant or new to this film (I'm aware there are more extensive and better explained reviews here), but I just wanted to make one for such a riveting and fascinating movie that's deserving of all the praise it gets. My score: 10/10


                
Tokyo Story is one of the classics of world cinema. It also shows a master director at the peak of his talents. It tells the story of a couple who travel to Tokyo to visit their grown children, but find their children are too absorbed in their own lives to spend much time with their parents.The film is a poignant domestic drama that recounts a heart-breaking domestic family rift. Director Yasujiro Ozu may be making a point about a self-regarding younger generation, and about urban life too hectic for old-fashioned family loyalties to survive. This is a quiet, subtle, tenderly observed masterpiece. Tokyo Story has twice appeared in Sight & Sound magazine's 'Top Ten' list of the greatest films ever made.
