An appreciation of this movie may demand some understanding of Japanese culture. The Japanese are rather reserved, and were even more reserved back in the early 1950's, when this film is set. No embracing, even of parents, children, siblings; no dramatic histrionics; even a death scene in this movie is much quieter than a Westerner might expect.Consequently I can't really blame several reviewers here for calling this movie boring and slow-paced. But it is not at all slow-paced from a different cultural perspective. It just depends on what you're used to.If you do take the time to watch and try to understand it, you'll find an engrossing analysis of the dynamic of a middle-class family, the rift that grows up between generations, and of the many excuses we find ourselves making to justify our neglect for others, even those dearest to us. These themes are universal, but are couched in a postwar Japanese idiom, and so probably less accessible to the average Western viewer.I have wondered awhile about a speech at the end by Noriko, the widowed daughter-in-law, in which she denies that she's such a good person (though her actions in the movie indicate otherwise). I'm still not sure I understand her motives in saying this. For the most part, however, this movie will not leave you puzzled, but it may leave you a bit wiser, and a bit more reluctant to make those excuses.


                
TOKYO STORY is a film that has a moderate tone, unobtrusive style and quiet family story. An elderly couple from the provinces coming to Tokyo to visit their grown children. The story shows how the children, preoccupied with their daily lives, do not show enough care for their parents, as opposed to the former daughter-whose husband died in the war. At first glance, everything in this film seems simple and clear, but on the other hand is a sensitive topic and family discord, somewhat generational conflict with fairly deep emotions without excessive melodrama.Staff are interesting, a little strange, however, show sincere emotion without many words. Of course, you need to understand Japanese culture, which I somehow fascinated. The story can be identified three generations of which is the oldest in a harmonious relationship. Although it can be concluded that it is not always the case. The younger do not have time for yourself and not for others.Most people do not live. Survive. Understanding and tranquility in fact represent the fund in relation to the sentiment and satire. People consciously or unconsciously influence the lives of others. People woven in one's life are there, even when they are not physically present.Setsuko Hara as Noriko Hirayama really is a beauty. She plays a woman who has all the prerequisites that clearly says "Life is disappointing", but again full of mercy, kept calm and beautiful smile that does not come off from the face. Well, sometimes that smile accompanies large tear.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Tokyo Story" (1953) is an ageless story about family, love and realizing of true values in life. This is a sad but at the same time inspiring story - but enough about stories - this movie shows life as it is - still. I loved the performances in this movie by simply everyone involved, as well as great directing and amazing writing. Although the movie is 2 h 15 min long and its a black and white "old" movie don't be fooled - this is a great movie that makes you think about your life and especially the people you love and that you have to love them while their are still here with you, because life is very short and better make most of it with the people you love. Great movie.


                
The omission of Ozu's oeuvre is definitely an unerring embarrassment for any movie aficionado, thankfully TOKYO STORY comes to my rescue, presumably Ozu's most renowned work, tellingly it merits all kudos it gets, gracefully scrutinizing the post-WWII mental disposition of Japanese people, and quietly tear-jerking in eliciting recollections and rumination between parents and their children. Parenthood is not for everyone, but we all have parents, we forever hold a sense of regret towards them, especially in the oriental culture, filial piety is the foremost virtue to measure an individual's worth, at least viewed by other family members.Ozu's camera stands or stays in a perpetual static angle, aka. the now famous "tatami-mat" shot, collectedly watches the motions of its objects, the Hirayama family, Shukichi (Ryû) and Tomi (Higashiyama) is an elderly couple living in Onomichi, taken care by their youngest unwed daughter Kyöko (Kagawa), as the film starts, they set about visiting Tokyo for the very first time, to stay with their grown-up children there, it is a big deal for them, nevertheless, when sojourning in with their eldest son Köichi (Yamamura) and eldest daughter Shige (Sugimura), the couple find themselves become a nuisance towards their families and their busy business, only Noriko (Hara), the wife of their deceased second son (who died in the war 8 years ago), treats them sincerely, brings them to sightseeing, hosts them in her small single apartment. After being sent to Atami for a hot spring spa which turns out to be too rowdy for the elderly, they decide to cut their trip short and return home. However Tomi falls ill on the train, so they have a layover in Osaka, where they meet their youngest son Keizö (Ôsaka), when they reach home, Tomi's illness deteriorates, all the children head back and Tomi passes away shortly. The story can be derived from every ordinary family, the common dilemma is when we grow up, parents are slowly slipping from our priority list, for the successful ones, Köichi is a neighborhood doctor, Shige opens a beauty salon, they are both married and the former has two young children, but they could not spare one day to spend with their parents, either swamped by urgent appointments or find it hard to close her business even for one day. It is a quotidian trepidation can happen in the much-urbanized city, but Shukichi and Tomi take it lightly, in their simple-minded, you can sense their disappointment, but all they do is enduring it calmly, claim that it is a natural course when children grow up, parents should not be in the way of their lives, beyond all the offhand pleasantries and formal proprieties, the bond of blood relations is sharply lopsided, one cannot help but interpreting it as a faddish mindset of Japanese at that time, but, over 60 years has passed, the film is still distressing to watch as our world barely changes into a better one. Ozu never married in his entire life, so overtly he had been defying this detrimental malady all his life, in the film, Noriko is a sheer opposite of Hirayama's self-seeking offspring (bar Kyöko), it testifies that blood doesn't mean anything at all, which is a lightning bolt to those who deems bloodline as their purest and ultimate legacy in this world.Performances are uniformly high-end, Ryû radiates with utter aplomb and understanding although it is against his own age to act as a sexagenarian (he was in his early 40s then); Higashiyama calls forth great compassion in audience for her simple and unadorned charisma, Yammer and Sugimura superbly represents two very different kinds of self- obsession, the former is more depicted in a way of thoughtlessness whereas the latter parades her self-pleasing philosophy reeking with a whiff of opportunistic shallowness, but if one observes carefully, the more spiteful one is the former, more than often he awaits the latter to broach on some ill-considered remarks or ideas and then echoes with a genial smile.The most emotive of all comes from Hara, she is the exemplar of a golden-hearted soul, through her Noriko, Ozu consummately sheds light on the true, the good and the beautiful essence of human nature, Hara has a magnetic affinity on screen, which facilitates herself as one of the most indelible and iconic goddess in the Japanese cinema, now at the age of 95 and let us truly hope she will always stay with us with good health and longevity.
I thoroughly felt moved by Tokyo Story. Ozu's camera felt like I was looking in to a real life family with real life ordeals. The drama centers on the relationships of parents and adult children in a way that is both touching and still relevant. How does one go about aging gracefully? And how do children respond to aging parents? Certainly the way it is handled here is leaning on the malicious and greedy side. There's a sense of yearning for this alien presence (the parents) to be gone and to not be dealt with. It seems like such a burden and a chore to care for elders. And yet there's the silver lining of a widowed daughter-in-law (daughter-in-law!) to save the trip from complete disaster. The ending of a mother passing lingers with you. Even then there's bickering over trifling possessions that the deceased had owned. I felt angry, but also know people in my life who hold no respect for even the dead. The movie ends with Shukishi meditating. I was left to ponder how he must feel knowing that he will be left all alone and also be treated in the same way. I felt sad and bitter, but know also people such as Noriko exist and could bring lightness into the film.
After watching this movie I realized how I don't respect my parents enough and this ending could happen to all of us. We are all busy in this modern world and most of the time we don't have time for our parents. We should help our parents as they helped us when they raised us. This movie has a soul and wonderful story. Highly recommend.


                
Tokyo Story is a few ordinary days in the lives of some ordinary people, and then about the unanticipated death of one of them. Its triumph is cross-generational familial truth in the telling.
Poignant, honest and humbling drama about parenthood. It's lost none of its power over the years. Ozu observes human nature and doesn't pass comment or sentimentalize the story. The director paints in delicate watercolour emotions, in which the viewer glimpses pain and joy, tenderness and mystery from simplicity and reticence. The central question, universal: How do we look after our elderly parents as they confront all manner of emotions about their own deaths?


                
Yasujiro Ozu has been called  "the most Japanese of Japanese directors". That's doubtless correct, insofar as the director is insistent upon an adherence to a rigid form in his directing style.  One doesn't have to be a cultural anthropologist to glean the Japanese concern with traditional motifs and the patient perfecting of a given aesthetic.But I'm guessing that this is not so true of today's Japan, and I'm also guessing that, deep-down, many critics and audiences over there right now probably find Ozu insufferably old-fashioned.  One wonders if the exulting of Ozu is a dig from cultural snobs toward Akira Kurosawa, who dared to base his movies on pulpy American detective novels and John Ford Westerns.  In any case, it's important to point out that Ozu's directing style is rather his own style, not some sort of  "traditional"  Japanese style.  This is what should be celebrated about Ozu.  He's an original artist, over and above being a  "Japanese artist".  And his greatest film, *Tokyo Story*, is only  "Japanese"  in its particulars.  After all, elderly parents being ignored by their busy grown-up children are not exclusive to Japan.That famous style consists of no panning with the camera, and keeping the camera at just above floor level.  The static mise-en-scene is broken up with cuts of close-ups in which the actors speak directly to the camera, as if the camera has taken the POV of the listener.  Occasionally, in the case of  *Tokyo Story*, there are exterior shots of Tokyo itself, jackhammering busily away under the Marshall Plan.  (The movie is set several years after World War II.)  Ozu's martinet control of both composition and the actors -- all of whom are tightly reined in by stylized performances -- is actually a benefit to the story, which is really nothing more than a weepy soap opera, let's face it.  The manner in which the carefully written dialogue and the overall formal restraint of the piece overcomes the melodramatic tendencies of the script is really quite astonishing -- it's art of the most difficult kind.  Put it this way:  imagining this movie redone in America will give one a sense of deep appreciation for both Ozu's microscopic control and for the foreign setting itself.The movie is generous to its characters, despite all the outward restraints. We're not meant to hate the adult children, who are only too willing to shuttle off their aging parents to a  "spa"  that turns out to be little better than a bordello for decadent young hipsters.  Ozu ruefully shows us how the War had turned a whole generation of young Japanese into calloused survivors so consumed with rebuilding and then maintaining a semblance of normal life that there's no time or room for traditional family values anymore -- indeed, no time or room for extended family, period.  We're meant to sympathize with these characters, as they struggle under the new realities of post-War Japan.  And even deeper than this, Ozu has something to say about the heartlessness of Time:  Life Goes On, and whole generations come and go and are promptly forgotten.  "Life is disappointing,"  one character exclaims.It can be argued that if you've seen one Ozu film, then you've seen them all.  (Well, I can argue that, at least.  Sorry, but I prefer the variety of Kurosawa.)  In that case, *Tokyo Story*  is the Ozu film you must see.  I grant that the director's platitudinizing may make you feel that you should give your mother a call . . . but is that such a bad thing?


                
"Tokyo Story" is one of Ozu's poetic masterpieces. It is the story of a journey - of an older couple visiting their relatives in the bustling metropolis of Tokyo in the 1950s, the journey of the coming of age, and finally, the journey of life itself. With his touching images, Ozu manages to capture the spirit of a simple Japanese family's household but also the unsaid conflict and tension that can never really evacuate because of a cultural taboo. "Tokyo Story" is a wonderful narrative which contrasts tradition and modernity and the abrupt changes life brings. The perspective of the film shots is remarkable, as we can see the actors sitting or lying on the floor most of the time - this approach allows the viewer greater access to the more intimate spheres of a Japanese house while the dialogs reveal strong emotions. The film, despite its very modest storyline, will not leave anybody untouched because the impressions in it are very intense and unique.


                
Before watching the movie I already have had high expectations for it, as I already knew it was considered one of the classics for Japanese filmography. Yet, this picture still managed to bring truly delightful experience and gratification to me, as a person who mostly views a film as an art of very expressive sculpting of events/statement/story.First off, it perfectly emphasizes the Japanese culture of film story-telling for that era. Bringing the issue of human complexity by telling the story in a simple and delicate way is a truly exceptional way of story-telling that has been practised in Japanese filmography for a while. Development of the story is quite slow-paced and steady, that draws attention to the right aspects of the film and intensifies its main subjects.Moreover, the whole picture perfectly portrays Japanese culture, people behaviours, their understandings and way of life. It can't be unnoticed how reserved and respectful (even formal) people are among their families. Cultural side underlines and enhances the dynamic of the film, that was mentioned above. This aspect probably brings some requirements of having background knowledge and understanding of Japanese culture to have a stronger appreciation for the story development.The picture is set in post-WW2 Japan, that centres on two elderly couple, who are visiting their grown-up children in a busy city Tokyo. The plot moves around the relationship between parents and children. It figures how some simple, but rather important, behaviours, can go unseen and unnoticed. Little background stories of characters, that we are slowly getting to know, personalize them stronger and amplify how these people make in our every-day lives as well. Some aspects articulate generational conflicts as well, as we dive in some conversations among characters that focus on family discord.In General, Tokyo Story simultaneously combining all these aspects in such a wonderful way, that it has to be truly appreciated and recognized as one of the masterpieces of Japanese classics.


                
A beautifully crafted film atop a subtle but engaging family drama. The cinematography is compositionally dense, owing much to the aspect ratio, the shapes and forms of traditional Japanese interiors and the lower camera position which emphasizes the vertical and horizontal lines. The story itself is traditional, simple, linear, slowly developing and without pronounced acts/climaxes. This has the effect of keeping you engaged evenly throughout. The performances are, however, worth mentioning to modern viewers. I personally enjoyed it, but there is a "stagey-ness" to some of the acting. It can't be ignored. I couldn't quite decipher if that was an accurate rendering of traditional Japanese social formalities, a directorial stylistic choice, or just a feature of films of that time period. If you can overlook or even appreciate that, it's really a brilliant film.


                
If there were ever a film to define the phrase "Less is more" it would be Tokyo Story. It's so simple yet I find it unbelievably compelling and moving. This is mainly thanks to the nuances of the cast that portray so much emotion. For example, Chishu Ryu's subtle performance conveys everything. In a scene where he is plainly nodding, deep down inside you can feel all the sadness and pain he is feeling and it hits you hard. Ozu also never makes the film feel overly sentimental with earned emotional moments and explores the human condition so beautifully. A true masterpiece of cinema.


                
This was my introduction to Ozu, and I have to say that I thought it was at times unbearably sad, and all the more so because of its misleading simplicity.In "Tokyo Story," a mother and father make a trip to Tokyo to visit their three children and their children's families. Time, distance, and the children's busy lives have caused them to drift away from their parents; the mother and father learn that their children have become different people from those they used to know, and must face the uneasy conclusion that they may not like the people they have become.Ozu has created a prototype for cinematic minimalism. The camera hardly ever moves; static shots are edited together to give the movie whatever momentum it has. This style can become admittedly frustrating; I found myself fidgeting more than once. However, it also helps give images a more profound impact than they might otherwise have, because there are few distractions. As a result, a simple shot from behind of two old people sitting on the edge of a wall watching the sea in silence becomes achingly beautiful. Ozu is able to communicate their feelings of loneliness, regret and obsoleteness without a word or strain of music. He takes the exact opposite approach from that of a filmmaker like Steven Spielberg, and it works beautifully.And the movie is not as simple as it appears. For underneath the story about this one family and its dynamics, there is a larger story about the changes taking place in a post-war Tokyo, and the increasing divide between generations. Shot after shot of factory chimneys, power lines, and construction sites serve to both highlight the progress of a city about to take off and the inevitability of certain traditions being left behind.You will have to have patience with this movie, I won't lie to you about that. But I found that its subtle and haunting effects stayed with me for days after I had seen it.Grade: A


                
This is a beautiful film, carefully and lovingly directed by Yasujiro Ozu, with a very basic story that conveys very profound messages on several different levels, the highest being the awareness of life's deepest disappointments, not only by those in the final years of their lives but by those who experience devastating loss at a young age as well. On a different but related level, this is one of the most successful and most effective depictions of life in post-World War II Japan that I have ever seen. The war, with enormously traumatic and devastating consequences to the people of Japan, had ended only eight years earlier.Although I am not an expert at the "tatami-mat" camera shot, which is taken from the floor to the ceiling of the several interior rooms, almost every scene seemed like a framed painting to me with the central characters deliberately placed in specific positions that strongly conveyed a statement about their cultural, social or emotional status through the artistic means of understatement. The emphasis was on their emotional circumstance, which pertained not only to the universal human condition of aging itself but to this critical recovery period of Japanese modern history, which, to me, is very significant in its own right.I regret that other reviewers apparently have never been immersed in Japanese culture, including exposure to uniquely Japanese mannerisms and ways of speaking, as I was for three years of my life because these folks were obviously distracted by mere superficiality to the point that they could not appreciate this film as the timeless cinematic masterpiece that it is.Other reviews have sufficiently described the simple story, so I won't repeat what has already been written. The segment of the elderly couple being shipped to the inappropriately "lively" Atami spa/resort deliberately emphasized how disconnected the couple's children were to their basic needs and desires in the closing stage of their lives to the point that their "well intentional" decisions actually caused at least one of their parents serious, physical harm. Beyond the film's very important theme concerning the universal, human condition of being insensitively discarded by society and family before the end of life, another significant aspect of the film is the very subtle but compelling message of the cost of war to Japan. We witness this in the pathetic reunion of the elderly drinking buddies as they discuss the loss of their sons to the war, and, even more forcefully, we feel it through the sad loss experienced by Noriko, the kind, devoted daughter-in-law, as if we are living her deep sorrow firsthand. Accolades to the beautiful Setsuko Hara, who portrayed the role so impeccably. Through all of the sad beauty within her and around her, how could we not fall in love with her by the end of the movie? Have you ever met anyone with such inner beauty in real life or is Noriko someone who can only exist in the wonderful world of the cinema?


                
An elderly couple are excited to make the long trip to visit their grown children in Tokyo; once there, however, they find the children are too busy to spend time with them.This is a lovely and touching movie from the acclaimed director Yasujiro Ozu. His specialty was observing familial relationships and the ordinary day-to-day life of post-war Japan. In "Tokyo Story," we see a couple who love their children and patiently and philosophically forgive them for their rudeness. The circle of life and the real personalities of all the characters make for a poignant story.It moves slowly and may be too long, but the result is an unforgettable glimpse into another time and place. In Japanese with English subtitles. Recommended.
"Tokyo Story" tells a tale as simple and universal as life itself. It is about a few ordinary days in the lives of some ordinary people, and then about the unanticipated death of one of them. What it tells us about the nature of life or death is not new or original — what could be? — but it is true.It doesn't want to force our emotions, but to share its understanding. It does this so well that I am near tears in the last 30 minutes. It ennobles the cinema. It says, yes, a movie can help us make small steps against our imperfections.It was made 60 years ago in Japan, and it is about our families, our natures, our flaws and our clumsy search for love and meaning. It isn't that our lives keep us too busy for our families. It's that we have arranged them to protect us from having to deal with big questions of love, work and death. We escape into truisms, small talk and distractions. Given the opportunity at a family gathering to share our hopes and disappointments, we talk about the weather and watch TV.The film's director Ozu is not only a great director but a great teacher, and after you know his films, a friend. With no other director do I feel affection for every single shot. Every single shot is intended to have a perfect composition of its own, even if that means there are continuity errors. All the shots are framed in some way. In the foreground of the interior shots, perhaps tucked in a corner.If there is movement in an Ozu film, it comes from nature or people, not from the camera. He often shows a room before people enter, and lingers a second after they leave. If characters go upstairs, they are absent precisely long enough to actually do that. If a character is speaking, he shows the entire speech. No cutaways, no listening shots, no overlapping dialogue. He is comfortable with silences.There are scenes that will be hard to forget: The mother and father separately thanking the daughter-in-law for her kindness; the father's laborious drunken odyssey through a night of barroom nostalgia; and his reaction when he learns that his wife will probably die."Tokyo Story" moves quite slowly by our Western standards, and requires more patience at first than some moviegoers may be willing to supply. Its effect is cumulative, however; the pace comes to seem perfectly suited to the material.
Considered a cinematic masterpiece, late director Yasujiro Ozu's "Tokyo Story" is a deeply affecting tale of an aging couple's visit to see their four children.In black and white and with a usually motionless camera, Ozu followed an unforgettable holiday of father and mother Shukishi and (Chishu Ryu) and Tomi Hirayama (Chieko Higashiyama) from the seaside to the city."It's like a dream being in Tokyo," says Tomi, having arrived by train; one which quickly becomes a nightmare.The partners' children become frustrated with having to entertain. Their eldest daughter Shige is particularly disdainful (Haruko Sugimura) – a testament to the actress' portrayal of the character – and tries shipping them off to a resort, encourages her brother to buy them cheaper food and uses her widowed sister-in-law Noriko (Setsuko Hara) as a local tour guide.The dignified, timid and unassuming Hirayama seniors never vocalize their pain, but events often result in their heads simultaneously pointing south as they realize their children have become utterly egocentric. It takes 122 minutes until a family member uses the word 'selfish'.Noriko, however, is a doting daughter-in-law; they share a gentle bond over their lost husband and son. Contrast, instead of overpowering dialogue and drama, is the main storytelling tool.Themes of regret, bereavement, friendship and family are explored slowly, but never painfully so, in this gripping journey. Sixty years have passed since this film was made. Its meaning is timeless.Find all of our film and festival coverage, as well as our events and education at www.DohaFilmInstitute.com. Follow us on Twitter @DohaFilm.


                
Just watched Tokyo Story. This was my first film by Yazujiro Ozu. I got captured like after the first 20 minutes. I've been putting it off because of the length and the plot, but I really loved it. It's not visually beautiful, because there are almost no camera moves, but it did fit in the simpleness of the film, but damn, story-wise, it was incredible! It looks like some people were bothered by the acting, but I thought it was fantastic and also natural IMO. The characters were amazing, and I just wanted to knock some sense into the adult children (whose names I've forgotten), because here we have a couple who're going to visit their children who they haven't seen for a long time, but the children don't have much time for them, so their daughter in-law has to be the kind one. One of the themes in the film, that I really loved were selfishness and also ingratitude. There was one scene that made me realize how very thankful I am to have fantastic parents and made me love them even more, and I hope I won't make the same mistake as the children, because we don't have our parents forever.There are many forms for art. What I love about art is that it's subjective and can touch people in many different ways. Tokyo Story, is what I call simple but beautiful art.


                
Tokyo Story is not Tokyo's story. It is the story of ageing, old age and letting go. The director's genius is in how he uses the media of film to narrate life, without diluting or manipulating it. Life is depicted as is. The movie has a slow start and the first half an hour goes by without really making much of an impression. It shows daily life – chop wood, fetch water – an old couple visiting their children in big city. Everyone has busy lives, though of course, busy is how one chooses to be. Time goes where one wants it go. At the surface, the grown-up children are concerned, but it remains at the surface. There's contrasting dialog where one person says "you can serve your parents only till the grave" and another says "children have their own needs". There's really no wrong or right. Its what is. For the mother, getting the chance to sleep in the bed of her long assumed-dead son was bigger than being shown around Tokyo city. Priorities are different and keep changing. Life has a unique way of tying different threads together. Sometime, they are left untied. There's comment on how clothes take centerstage instead of the lived/shared experience. Sense of consumption and objectifying life takes away from the deeper connection and being with the experience of living life. The daughter-in-law inherits the goodwill, while the daughter takes the goods. The movie reflects on the isolation and increasing loneliness of ageing. It ends with a sense of loss, stillness and depth – all signifying old age.


                
An excellent movie about Generations (Old vs Young). Of course it's not simple as that, that is just the main theme of the movie. And you have a great movie about this generation gap and the conflicts lying within. And it all moves on quietly - even the camera is still most of the time, not moving but capturing everything that is happening from one angle, often even without cut-aways to close-ups or anything else.The acting is phenomenal, sublime and subtle as the overall tone of the movie. Of course if you're more into Bruckheimer movies and/or anything fast paced, then you'll probably be whining about the seemingly slow pace of this movie. But if you let yourself into the movie and it's pacing and the characters, you will love it. Or maybe even hate some of the characters for being who they are. But it's in the looks and between the lines, where most of this movie is happening. A true masterpiece!


                
An elderly couple from a small town visits its children in Tokyo but the children are too busy with their own lives to attend to their parents. A simple but moving drama about generation gaps and the rat race we are all caught in as we try to get ahead in the world. Although made more than 50 year ago in Japan, the themes explored are universal and timeless. There are fine performances from Riyu and Higashiyama as the elderly couple and Hara as their widowed daughter-in-law. Ozu's visual style is simple but elegant. His camera is usually static but he masterfully uses framing and editing for dramatic impact. The score is lovely.


                
Many have been said by other writers here, so I just want to add some personal thought and experience. I think that there are always some aspects of recognition within our own personal circumstances "in" TM. Mine is the fact that my parental family lives separated life's in different countries. When I come "home" with my own family to visit my parents (it happens every 3 years or so) I recognize the situations in TM. <U+0085>We are just as close as family, but in some cases as far as acquaintances, too<U+0085> Other universal things like egocentricity, discussions about money, how to organize things without hurting someone's feeling, match our own needs with customs, etc.. are the tools Ozu used to reach us, so simple but so effective.I don't agree with the notion that Ozu had not made a moralized, stereotypical message with TM: it is obvious that Ozu let us seen what he considered the greatest value in human quality, namely the will and the skill to take care of others, much more than ourself. Watch Kyoko and Noriko, the 2 Cinderella's, do their little "things" almost invisible in order to keep the family happening going smoothly. Although Ozu didn't "speak" directly for himself, I can feel his strong hidden message through the words of Tomi and Shukishi Hirayama. This is what I call the art of passing a value through a story.The most melodramatic and meditative moment come in at the end of the film when Noriko and Kyoko communicated the characteristics of life at such deep, simple and short manner (typical Japanese way). There is a kind of psychological climax despite of the most hearing comment about Ozu's "monochrome" way of telling stories by avoiding dramatic high and low ends, that is: trying to leave the audience creates their own drama's by providing the chances to do so.The film ended with a hopeful open end: Noriko and Kyoko will meet again in Tokyo (soon). Life goes on <U+0085> like the train which brings Noriko back to her own life in Tokyo, leaving Noriko spotting the train from her classroom window. The beautiful smile in Noriko's face is overwhelming and paradoxical at the same time, especially when she profoundly mentioned that life is full of disappointments.The only thing I still want to ask Ozu: why using a Western-looked actress to portray Noriko, which I consider to be the leading role ? Having said so, I realize that TM has no one leading role.


                
After seeing Tokyo Story several times over a period of years I've come to the view that movies don't get much better than this quiet, unhurried look at the human predicament.Those who have never seen an Ozu film may find the first hour or so a challenge; the characters could easily seem unappealing and the pace alarmingly slow. Ozu's camera is set at the level of someone sitting on a tatami and remains stationary within each scene.  But the patient viewer is rewarded as the film builds inexorably as it tells this simplest of stories.One of the four or five greatest films I've seen.


                
A straightforward story of generational conflict, within the strict cultural norms of Japan, this film has additional advantages of being atmospheric and having generally clear subtitles faithful to the original Japanese audio. Following the parents through their visit to Tokyo, and back home again, was an experience oddly like what we might see in the west 50 years later.  No shocks, no surprises, much gentility and thought.  I loved it.


                
I started watching the movie, and it moved so slowly.  By the end of the movie, i was emotionally connected with the characters and i almost cried. I have never cried at a movie before (almost at Life is Beautiful, but thats another story).  You just have to get out of the MTV-rapid-cutting mindset, and live with a story told from a camera located on the ground.


                
