Frankly i feel if is overrated. Gabbar is also based on like this story. Thats more better. Not really enjoyed this.


                
Rang de Basanti features average direction and below average performances by some usually wonderful actors. The story is undeveloped and way too clichéd. This is not the greatest Indian film as some may argue - and personally, I think saying so should be regarded as an insult. Lagaan and Dil Chahta Hai are both hundreds of times better than this nationalist drivel. The songs were decent - nothing worth bringing the name A.R. Rahman out onto the credits. What was so great about this film to make so many people love it? Quite frankly, I can't understand it. This film has the depth and emotional intensity of a dreadful rom-com.The film seemed so promising when I first found out about it - a sociopolitical drama connecting India's epic, century-long fight for independence and India's modern day youth and culture - and I was so excited to see this film. Perhaps more so than I should have been. I may very well have overrated this film before seeing it, and may not like it as much as I should due to that. However, I know that this film is not as great as everyone says it is.I am a great fan of Aamir Khan and have seen several of his other films - all of which I enjoyed tremendously, if it wasn't for anything more than the fact that he was in it. However, this film is different. I don't respect Aamir in the film like I usually do. Aside from the juvenile plot, there isn't any dialogue worthy of remembering or even applauding. This film is tasteless and pretentious. How anyone can call this one of the greatest films ever made is beyond me. It's average at best.


                
i don't think this movie is worth all the extra-ordinary praise and hype that has been created. in fact, i feel i wasted my time and money by spending US $20 and buying the DVD. the only thing i liked about the movie was the perfect print and some good work done by the editor. otherwise its just another commercial masala Hindi movie. nothing much on the lyrics side or music... some sort of comedy is there in the beginning, but otherwise nothing more than "teri maa ki.." and "behen ki ankh..." words ... very funny ? maybe for some....i know i might be the only one who differs in opinion from the majority, but i deserve to express my views since i do think most of you are not doing justice here to people like me.....


                
The market was buzzing with Rang de release dates....& the people who watched it never stopped praising it....so I finally made time to see Rakeshs Rang De I had liked his earlier work Aks...which was a "cult" film of its time...or rather ahead of its time & it truly proved acting prowess of Manoj Bajpai (AB didn't have anything to prove ..as his one of Baap of entertainment) So Rangde Basanti started in the cinema hall....most people were confused with the past scenes of Bhagat Singh n comradie but still the viewing was intact.The films strength is the novel concept & its characters.I didn't liked the idea of Habitat center as the Delhi University (DU) considering Rakesh is a product of DU he should have at least shot some portions in real environment As the characters got introduced/etched further....I couldn't help thinking Manoj Bajpai as DJ (Aamir Khan) coz he was the original choice of Rakesh's but as producers changed hands...the director had to ensemble a different cast Manoj would have been great Mona Sardar considering he his a delhite Sues character (firang babe) looks honest only in few scenes & her chemistry with DJ is zero Soha looks fine...trying her best to be natural & actually succeeds in few scenes Shraman Joshi has lot of potential...Kunal is excellent...siddarth is so-so....(Arjun Rampal was supposed to play his role.....n considering the footage his character had in end......so he was replaced with Siddarth ) Aamir looks disinterested/out of focus at most places....but scores at all places wheres hes not.Music is good...editing excellent....camera outstanding.....so where does this film lacks...its universal appeal Yuva was almost similar film in terms of the revolt concept but was a pure debacle...reason not a hyped film....so Indians need only hyped films ? or probably they didn't saw anything which gave some cerebral activity for a long time....Though Rakeshs attempt is genuine it doesn't hit across all minds...it could have been a great cult film after Aks & probably might be as well if the film runs for many months.Its good for watching once...rather on a DVD....


                
