Rang de basanti is a well made film and thoroughly enjoyable. The acting and screenplay is brilliant and this fits in another one of the all time greats of Hindi Cinema. Brilliant Soundtrack by A R Rehman and Aamir Khan's acting adds all up.THe only problems I had with the movie were - 1. A white girl speaking broken but kinda fluent Hindi --- Come On!! that was really cheesy. 2. Some of the patriotism stuff was really too cheesy. 3. There is something called restraint while dealing with terrorists??? Hellloooo.. Most terrorists in nearly all civilized countries are given a chance to surrender and go under trial. The commandos simply do not shoot on site unless its a hostage situation. 4. Do you think the Government is stupid?? not to know who killed the Defense minister?? Again some bollywood stupidity I see.Some of my friends said this movie was too revolutionary. I was disappointed in the end after seeing it, it was good definitely but not the best.
A brilliant plot has been utterly wasted in the second half that culminates in a series of f***ed up events. As one comes away from the movie, one is led to ask 'what did the kids die for'? What was the take home message (kill the minister and give a half baked justification)? Clearly the purpose of Sue's visit is lost and so is the message that could have been given. The pre-independence Bhagat singh & Co had a clearly defined enemy (Brits) and a solution to that (freedom). What parallels could be justifiably drawn in the modern day 'Bhagat singh & Co'? To me the movie can be conveniently divided into two parts? The 'Pre-Madhavan' half and the 'Post-Madhavan' half. While the build-up of the storyline in the first half was nothing short of fantastic (until the death of Madhavan's character), the plot fails miserably after the news break of his death. The storyline breaks down completely after the TV episode and what happens thereafter is a bunch of disgruntled youth showing their ire on a bumbling 'defence minister'(who becomes a hero anyway). The movie also takes convenient potshots the saffron-brigade as if the vast majority in that gang were a bunch of trouble seeking goons.The story had an excellent chance showing a new breed of revolutionaries who could have made the faulty system PAY for its actions and bring the government down to its heels. Instead of literally assassinating the minister (who conveniently reflects the faulty system), they could have systematically gone about assassinating the character of the bad minister and senior officials whose shady deals often cost the lives of invaluable fighter pilots. The movie 'Tango Charlie' and 'Lakshya' perform admirably in this regard where the climax is smooth and makes an even landing. In the end the movie looks nothing more than piece of good documentary. The first half is really natural and thought provoking. The second half degenerates into a hurried climax, thus insulting the great performances by the entire cast (not one excluded).Rating - Frankly anything above 7 is over-rating.


                
RDB is an out and out pop corn entertainer. I liked the movie because it made me smile as often as Dil Chahta Hai. Saying anything beyond that, e.g. movie for the youth, movie for our future, best movie of our generation (avg. mortality has increased well beyond 30 yrs. even in poorest of African countries), etc., is plain kidding ourselves.the big problem is that the movie heightens expectations in the first half and like most of the promising movies in the recent past, lets down in 2nd half. 2nd half is just too hurried, half baked, and flawed. well, bollywood wallas don't like to give us too much of a good thing and always seem to come short.It will be great to watch a Hindi movie in which complex issues facing our society are addressed in an intelligent/clever manner rather than taking a short cut and shooting the politicians. "Go, kill a guy you think is a root of all evils" is a non-message. it is high time the scripts matured and showed something of substance that meant something to us. till then I will continue to "dingi-danga-dingi-danga-dingi-danga-ding" :)


                
I really went in this movie with great apprehensions, i expected another one of Aamir Khans egoistical and narcissist movies where the only thing he cares for is himself and everything else be damned. Also a lot of people really loved this movie and I'm not a big fan of others choice for movies, especially the way people are so obsessed with dramas (hell i had a guy tell me this is a film and not a movie whats the difference dumbass!!).Well....this movie is a drama and it is another egoistical attempt by Aamir to make his version of bhagat singh and make it work where others failed. Yes he does play a 27 year(max) old when there are 1 billion people who know he is over 40, but despite that this movie is great in the first half.One of the reasons i didn't give this movie a higher rating is that I'm one of those crazy patriotic Indians who believes that India was and is the best country in the world etc etc. and i know i liked this movie much more because of its high dose of patriotism. Also i know this movie may have been meant to target the urban Indian audience who all know English but i don't understand the obsession of using only English titles and credits ill always minus one rating for that only.That brings us to the worst part of the movie. The end . It was highly stupid predictable and quite irritating and although it couldn't succeed in ruining a damn good movie it tried really hard.Other than these things the movie is lovely the acting especially from the junior actors is great even the foreigner is not that bad. Special mention should go to The guy from style he is really turning out to be quite a lovable actor.Go watch this film!!! Jai Hind.


                
The context which the director tried to project is same as that of Director Maniratnam's "Yuva". But, the director was successful in presenting it in a new context and won accolades for the same. On the whole the movie is good with small weaknesses, which can be neglected. The action by all the actors is good, with credits going to Aamir Khan, Siddharth R. Narayan, Soha Ali Khan and Atul Kulkarni. Other supporting actors did justice to their portions. The movie starts flaccidly and gains momentum to reach peaks with small discrepancies, and finally ends on a note. The movie gives more value to the patrons money and time. Worth watching once.


                
This movie could have cut out a bunch of unnecessary scenes and been an excellent movie. There are quite a few'music video' like scenes in the first hour and a half of the movie. And they really suck. The characters are also obnoxiously annoying. I guess it's somewhat for a purpose of showing that they are young and still immature. But damn, I get it. I don't need to watch the same point reinforced over and over. Anyway this movie gets incredibly good for the last hour or so. It ties together the first part with the ending very nicely. Even though I hated the first part it was still worth watching.First hour and a half: 4/10 Last hour: 9/10
This movie was a rather good movie that portrayed the traditionalist/modernist divide among Indians and among the Indian Diaspora well. I liked the message of the movie and how it tried to portray that the deeds and heroism of Bhaghat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and others is not something best committed to the history books but rather a living spirit of rebellion that still has meaning today. It seems people take for granted the heroic deeds of the characters of the independence movement and see little relevance of these people to today's India. This movie shows the continuing relevance of these heroic characters in modern times. I think the assumption of the roles in reality of the 5 college students is a bit unbelievable. I mean just how quickly it happened and how quickly they decided to do what they did seemed to be a bit hasty and go beyond the willing suspension of disbelief a bit, but it was an entertaining movie just the same. Not a 10, or something of unbelievable insight and depth, but a valuable commentary and interesting movie.


                
lets see the good things about the film, direction:- top class, the style of speeches and the perfect way and rather different way to tell a story. that is definitely a conduct of a good director. acting::- the best person to act in the best way was Aamir khan of course. plus the hero was Sidharth as well. Sharman Joshi and Kunal Kapoor are also brilliant in the movie. technically the background score and the original score are also notable by the maestro A.R Rahman. it just never fail to swing your mind with patriotism. however there are bad things in technicality as well.first and for most there were goofs in middle which were not much noticed by many. a particular soundtrack which the musician had made did not fit in the screenplay. in simpler words it lacked good sound editing, and for few seconds there was a patriotic theme playing and the other at immediate effect it changed into some painful theme.there were few(one or two) defects in editing as well. also the screenplay was to be blamed to make short scenes which sometimes increased the pace of the movie making it faster than the rest.but as a story and acting and direction the movie is one of the best movies Bollywood has made.


                
A very sensible movie, aptly for the current Indian youth to wake up and take control! That's what the pitch of the publicity campaign of the movie has been all around, and the film stands true to those words! Cinematography is good, although not upto the expectations that I had having a great fan of Binod Pradhan's earlier work (Parinda, 1942-A Love Story, Mission Kashmir). But there are some shots worth mentioning! Esp the MIG flying over 4 guys jumping, Amir Khan falling into water (top shot) etc.Art Direction is decent - the sepia tone sequences are nice.Music is average, passable! Rehman belts out some few techno tracks which are passable ! The title song Rang De Basanti is well-done by Daler Mehndi. Somehow, Rehman has been able to bring out some quality out of Daler (earlier, 'Nach Le' from Lakeer was another one).Rakyesh Omprakash Mehra is certainly laudable for his second effort. his first effort Aks being more of an art house worthy than any commercial success.Amir Khan is not new to meaningful movies ! Atul Kulkarni, Soha Ali Khan, Alice Patten, have provided great supporting cast.Its a decent movie. And carries a strong social message.


                
"One leg in the past, one leg in the future, this is why we're pissing on the present." So observes a character in Rang De Basanti. Of course, this is predicated on the assumption that it's men doing all the damage. In a Patriarchal country like the beautiful India, it's more than an implication. There's a cognitive dissonance, a man-made conflict of interests. It's a closed system with two interacting elements; the patriotic and the pecuniary.The film tells its story, one of mistakably dimming relevance, in a very calculated and inviting fashion. The fight for independence from the British, as a historical documentary being made on a zero(denied)-budget by an ambitious British post-adolescent woman, that needs re-enactments, which shall be done by the boisterously youthful protagonists. (They jump drunkenly off bridges where the original young revolutionaries jumped on moving trains.) This dissonance spills out of the narrative and into the film making craft itself; about 75% of the cuts in the film are truly cinematic, impressively invisible, and serve emotion and storytelling, the rest are so hip-hoppy you think Honey Singh is going to burst into the frame. The Dance Numbers are derivatively progressive.A subplot of external conflict, with a clique of militant dogmatists who are offended deeply (and paid heftily to take deep offence) by the 'Western-wannabeism' of the protagonists is inflated and paraded for us to notice, then buried for virtually the rest of the film.A key character crosses over from their side (a big key too, considering he's the one getting the money), gets a role in the documentary, and then only serves as a pair of fists and knees in a plot-hinging fight scene. After that, he's just a diffident extra in the documentary. Anyone paying attention to the story at this point will tell you he has more conflict, both internal and external, than all the other characters aggregated.That wouldn't leave running time for Aamir Khan's comic relief though, would it? But is this a story that needs relief, from what? The premise itself is a tricky compromise enough. I don't know whether it's the New Bollywood way of tickling the audience's ribs, but there's a whole lot of standing-up-and-stomping-around going on, it gets on your nerves, then bites down and gnaws on them.Still, the film is very dramatically effective, and there are enough 'realistic' performances from the core cast to sour-down and hair-up the cutesy syrupy moments. Consider, how the director sets up an in-joke about a television that reacts better to a well-timed slap than a turn of the knob. Without repeating the joke too many times, he hurtles the movie forward swiftly and smartly, and right before the intermission, supplies a Soap Opera proposal we don't want to see. The sly disconnect with which he uses the punchline of the T.V. joke to cut down silly romanticism with grim foreclosure is not only tragi-darkly-comic, it understates one of the movies running themes; "Put your life on the line for your country in this new world, you're not a revolutionary, you're Nuts." Safer to make movies and documentaries about stuff. Apropos, did Tropic Thunder steal its premise from this, strip away idealism and purpose?The message seems to be that, inherently oppressive, colonialism (ancestral to anti-nationalism in a way) is an indelible stain that only permeates wider and changes color with time. I heartily agree. However, wherever you stand on this contemplative time curve, you leave a puddle. Blood, tears, or likely, pxss.Overall, the film is an efficiently constructed, cleverly told and expertly presented crucial bit of overarching history, worth the demand of its running time.


                
"Rang De Basanti" is a drama movie in which we watch an English filmmaker who casts a group of students in order to to produce o documentary / drama about India's revolution against British in the 1920s. Everything change when she meets DJ, who is a guy who graduated five years ago but he is still in the University because he does not have many expectations about the outside world.I liked this movie because of the plot which I found very good. The direction which made by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra was also very good. About the interpretations of this movie I have to mention for one more time the great interpretation of Aamir Khan who played as Daljeet 'DJ' / Chandrashekhar Azad. Another equally good interpretation made by Alice Patten who played as Sue.Finally I have to say that "Rang De Basanti" is a really good movie and is really worth seeing because it shows us how many things can change in the life of a person when he learns to think and see things different. Everything is possible and everything can change, we just have to watch things from a different angle.


                
the scenes edited out have made the movie irrelevant to some extent. sid did good job. for u guys who think that this is sid's 1st:1)sid worked as mani ratnam sir's assistant director before venturing into acting 2)and that too inspite of graduating from a business school (mumbai) 3)he rejected at least 20 job offers because his only passion was films 4)his earlier films were BOYS,AAYITHE EZHUTHU,NUVVOSTHANANTE NENODDANTANA,CHUKKALO CHANDRUDU(for which he did story writing besides acting in the lead role) 5)apparently sid played A FUN LOVING SPOILT BRAT IN THOSE,which is an absolute contrast to KARAN in RDB. 6)RDB SHOWS JUST ANOTHER HUE OF SID'S SKILL. nonetheless RDB(cast and crew) was "THE BEST"


                
