Paint It Yellow<U+0085>. Oops<U+0085>.that's suppose to be Rang De Basanti<U+0085>.. Well that's exactly the director tries to convey. Its about today, us and our present, yet the similarities we have from the Pre-independence era. The Gen-x who knows Mac-D but still prefers the Dhaba Paranthas with sweet Lassi. However they restrict their national values only to food and nothing more. Its not a run of the mill stuff with 6 six romantic songs, couple of foreign locales and then finally some emotional drama<U+0085>.. No no no<U+0085>.. Rang De<U+0085>is a Cult movie. It is more of an introspection, a food for our thought process. It makes us think, as to how should we actually celebrate our freedom. I was really moved by some of the ending lines by the narrator, "I thought there are 2 types of people in the world, one who die crying and other who move away in silence but today I learned there is third genre, people who go laughing". That says it all<U+0085> Rang De<U+0085> is definitely a very brave and innovative attempt by the director and for that matter he has selected a near perfect cast. However veterans like Om Puri and Anupam Kher looked disposed. All the characters grow gradually in the film and make you think their way. Everyone is given enough space to justify their talent. Rakesh Omprakash Mehra is a director of the new emerging Indian cinema, he always tries to bring in something very different. I was really impressed by his last attempt in 2001 for Aks (Amitabh Bachchan and Manoj Bajpai ), and he definitely has succeeded in making another fabulous master piece. The highlight of the movie is the great use of cinematography techniques. Its probably for the first time in Indian cinema that juxtaposing has been used with such a great effect. The way each character gradually immerses into scenes from the past leaves you fantasizing about the hard work that has gone in the background to create this, both technically and on the part of the actor.The movie starts on a very high spirit reflecting today's youth mindset who believe that patriotism is something that looks good in history chapters and today's world is far ahead of all that, they would prefer to go boozing and dancing rather than thinking on any of those lines. The way the campus scenes are shown really makes everyone go down the memory lanes of beautiful college days. This is followed by some intriguing drama and events which turns the life of a group of buddies upside-down altogether.The film grows on you gradually. The director has made sure that there is a clear message in everything he presents, even the group of boys represents different sects of society and religion. Hence creating an appeal for everyone watching it. Music is another high point of the show, its foot tapping and very much with the mood of the subject. The songs give you a sense of freedom from within, a freedom to think in one's own way. A.R. Rehman doesn't need any introductions and he is surely one of the most original music directors we have in the country.The brilliance of Aamir Khan is something very difficult to narrate, he has proved it umpteen number of times that he is truly the most versatile actor in the industry. His comic timing in the first part is better than anything seen in recent past. He is extremely fluent even with difficult Punjabi tongue twisters and the acting prowess he has shown would be very difficult to match by anyone around. He appears so natural and his complete look with new hairstyle (which is now part of his every new movie) gives a very striking combination.Well the most wanting part of the whole thing has been the script to certain extent, it appears very loose in the second half and at times gives a droning feel. Few new ideas presented by the author looked half-baked. However it has been the technical expertise of the director who managed to save the things with some outstanding camera work and editing.Rang De <U+0085> is for sure a must watch movie, it doesn't have any preaching but still it will force you to think once. As they say it "There are two primary choices in life, to accept conditions as they exist or take upon the responsibility to change them". I believe most of us want to bring about the changes without doing anything, so its time to think again folks and take some responsibility, lets Paint It Yellow <U+0085>


                
all the people who are waiting for good, original and well executed Indian film . the wait is over for you people. Go and watch this movie. i wont tell you anything about the story. from direction to screenplay, dialog's and all other parts in technical sections extraordinary work done by all. the performances of every actor are mind blowing. don't miss this movie. its worth watching. the use of flashback to show the historical scenes, very fine use of cinematography and art direction to show the difference between past and present India. its a journey of boys from college students to the fiery,rebels. No wonder... it gives you real life look..


                
Aamir strikes back guys. Its the movie of the year. Simply amazing performances by all. Though i felt that the movie dragged just a little bit in the beginning, the second half was amazing. The movie begins in a very light manner and gets takes a serious turn in the second half. It basically tells a story of how truly normal students get ready to even risk their lives in their fight against the system. The performance of Soha Ali Khan was better than I had expected. I specially loved the manner in which the historic events were shown. A truly amazing transformation of normal college students into rebels. Miss it and you will regret it.


                
When I first watched Rang De Basanti, it started out as a fair film, telling the story of a group of friends making a film about freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and his friends. As it progressed on i realized, well Aamir has done better than Mangal Panday. Then after the intermission, i said, "hmmmm...good film" and i don't say that easily. But when the film ended i thought "Finally symbolism has returned to Indian cinema, and Aamir has regained his status as a superstar." Aamir Khan easily outclasses himself and all the other performances in 2006 and breathtakingly acts very naturally. This performance is unlike any of his previous ones and certainly the best performance by an actor of his age. I'd even say that he outclasses Mr. Bachan in Black and Paa. For this two reasons are present. No.1 both of the roles by Amitabh in Black and Paa were overplayed and both films were copies from two very good Hollywood flicks. The rest of the cast is also very well put together and each and everyone pulls off a decent performance. The soundtrack of the film is perfect for its mood and this is coming from someone who does not, under any circumstances acknowledge A.R Rahman as the Mozart of India. I'd recommend this film to anyone who has taste for good cinema and who loves films with a message, because at the end the message in the film is what makes it memorable. Hats off to Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, Aamir Khan and A.R. Rahman and a memorable thank you to the supporting cast that made this film the best of 2006 (in my opinion).


                
Plot Outline: Sue (Alice Patten) is inspired by the legendary characters of Bhagat Singh, Azad et al from her grandfather's diaries during his days in the British Raj. She lands in Delhi to make a film on them and finds those characters in Sonia's (Soha) friends DJ (Aamir), Karan (Siddharth), Aslam (Kunal Kapoor) & Sukhi (Sharman Joshi). The friends belong to Gen Next who care not about values like Patriotism & Sacrifice. The accidental death of their friend Flt Lt Ajay Rathod (Madhavan) in a MIG Crash and the wrongful blame on the pilot makes them take up cudgels against the corrupt establishment.Comment: Very rarely are movies that talk of relevant values for the Youth. Most of the Patriotic movies are full of either anti-angrez or anti-Pak sentiments with heaps of Melodrama thrown in. With RDB, Rakeysh Mehra has made a significant movie from stereotypes. Unlike others, RDB does not have the typical 'hero' & 'heroine'. Aamir and his friends are people the youth can easily identify with. They are simple minded students who live care free lives and they plainly react 'normally'. Those who have disliked this movie are the ones who prefer stereotyped abnormalities.Most notable performance in RDB is that of Siddharth whose character grows as the movie progresses. Aamir, of course has been brilliant but looks too old to play a College Student. Some of the movie's best moments are Madhavan's proposal to Soha, breaking down of Aamir in Sue's apartment, Atul Kulkarni's recital of Bismil's poetry and of course the last scenes of Siddharth and Aamir. Don't miss AR Rahman's youthful and soulful music too! Quotes thrown in RDB include: "There are two primary choices in life, to accept conditions as they exist or take upon the responsibility to change them". Inspiring, isn't it? Watch the movie to get charged. This one is highly recommended for those who're young and those who still think themselves to be young!


                
Every Aamir Khan movie is special. I was lucky enough to catch the premier show on 25th, the atmosphere was perfect and the buzz of anticipation could be felt in the theatre. As there are no reviews for the movie at that time, we had no idea how the movie would be. I always thought Aamir Khan was a heavy risk taker. He proves me right again with RDB. He needs to be applauded for not over shadowing his co-stars. Also his enthusiasm to make movies that pack a message to the society needs special mention.After all the hassles of RDB had from the defense ministry of India, IAF and Maneka Gandhi. RDB finally makes it without losing out on any impactful parts.The movie starts with Sue (Alice Patton) reading her fathers diary. Her father being an office during the Independence struggle of India writes a dairy glorifying the Indian freedom fighters. Sue rekindled by the diary travels to Delhi to make a documentary. This is where the story starts to form a crux. The whole group comes together. The first 80mins of the movie are really hilarious with DJ (Aamir) one-liners as well as his passes at Sue. Sunil as Sarman Joshi needs special mention as he makes us laugh a lot.The first half cruises as the documentary develops, so do the group of start thinking more about what they are and what their destinies are. The main part of the movie starts when Madhavan who plays a MIG pilot dies due to technical complications because cheap Russian parts were used in the flights by the defense ministry.The story that follows after the death of Madhavan is a high-pitched drama. It absorbs us in RDB, the direction of Omprakash Mehra come to the fore. The whole movie runs on comparison to the freedom struggle where few bits of similar situation are shown in Sepia toning.The movie ends quite dramatically and will be quite a surprise to everyone. Few points that even the perfectionist Aamir missed are.? The murder of the defense ministry had to be a bit more complicated than shooting some one on the road side ? The Pilots at Madhavans funeral looked like school kids. This really took the intensity of that scene away.But saying the above are negative points would be wrong as it would be too critical in an otherwise good movie.A R Rahman's background score keeps the movie at a fast pace; the songs are all well woven onto the movie.Some outstanding phases of the movie? Auditioning after Sue arrives in Delhi ? Auditioning the DJ gang ? DJ speaking in Hindi thinking Sue doesn't understand it ? Scenes between Atul Kulkarni and Kunal Kapoor ? Aamirs funny lines with Sarman Joshi ? Siddartha is ultra cool in the movieSiddartha quoted in one of his interviews that without Aamir Khan there would be no Rang De Basanti. I would like to applaud Aamir, UTV and Omprakash for making such a wonderful movie. It might not be a complete entertainer but it definitely is undoubtedly one of the better movies. Go for it<U+0085>


                
A brilliant movie with fantastic performances and great music. It sure made my day !!!!!!!!........and the days to come !!!Rakesh Omprakash Mehra's movie 'Rang De Basanti' is a must-watch for reasons that the length of this review may not suffice to express. More than just a technically brilliant flick, 'Rang De Basanti' has a story that entertains you, makes you think and stirs you deep inside in the end.The most remarkable part of the movie is the parallel that Mehra draws between the freedom fighters and DJ and his group of friends. The movie keeps transposing the same actors into characters from the past. And then, as the story draws to its conclusion, even these differences in the characters disappear. The modern, city-bread 'young guns' of the twenty first century become one in spirit with the revolutionaries who sacrificed themselves for the country's freedom.


                
There is no doubt about it. Aamir Khan is totally forgiven for the Mangal Pandey disaster. Ketan Mehta did everything possible to mess up Aamir's record, but with Rang De Basanti, Khan's "Rising" mistakes will be forgotten.The director (only a film old with Aks), is also one of the screenwriters, and has written a compelling, emotional, informational and entertaining storyline.The story starts of with a British TV producer, Sue, who comes to India to make a film on freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and his compatriots. Her story is based on the diary entries of her grandfather, who was a soldier in the empire during the 1920s. With the help of an Indian friend in Delhi called Sonia (Soha Ali Khan Pataudi), she starts auditions for the cast of her film, at Sonia's college. Here she also meets Sonia's friends: DJ (Aamir Khan), Aslam (Kunal Kapoor), Sukhi (Sherman Joshi) and Karan (Siddharth Narayan), as well as Sonia's boyfriend Ajay (Madhavan in a guest appearance). This group is soon joined by Laxman Pandey (Atul Kulkarni) who is a pro Shiv Sena activist. What follows on from here is an unbelievable ride of fun and emotions. A story that starts out in the middle of a college day with friends playing jokes and having fun (a la Dil Chahta Hai) breaks into an adventure of self discovery.Even at the interval, you will not be able to imagine what the end is like. I wouldn't like to say more about the storyline, you just have t watch it yourself.Why is is movie a winner? I heard the album before watching the movie and found it to be very average fare from A.R. Rahman. My opinion changed completely after watching the movie. The music is so apt, and plays such an integral role in the film that you can't imagine anyone else having done it. In fact, the scenes there are scenes that are actually memorable BECAUSE of the effect of the music. People tell me that Rahman is losing his touch, since a lot of new music directors have popped up. I disagree. AR Rahman is a person who makes music completely from his soul. His soul needs to understand the feel of the movie. The director needs to tell him what the storyline is, what the scenes are. And I'm sure this director did. He had a crisp story, and a very serious vision of what the feel of every scene is. Once he passes that info on to Rahman, the music director transforms that into a musical piece. Basically, give AR Rahman a clear-cut theme of the movie, and he will create magic. Examples aplenty in Roja, Rangeela, Bombay, Dil Se, 1947 Earth, Lagaan, Saathiya and Yuva.The casting is a real treat. Its rare to come across an Indian movie where there are no casting mistakes, but this is a unique gem. Not a single character was miscast and every single person gave their best to the role. You can't imagine other actors in these roles. Kunal Kapoor as Aslam is superb, Aamir Khan is brilliant, Soha Al Khan surprised me with her poise and confidence, Sherman Joshi is great, Atul Kulkarni has proved time and again that he is a serious character artist and Siddharth as Karan is another role that comes alive very well. In addition to that, the savior is that they have cast a British woman who actually has some command over the Hindi language, so instead of struggling with her accent, you see her emoting her role really well. The supporting cast, made up of Kiron Kher (as DJ's mom), Anupam Kher (Karan's dad), Madhavan and Waheeda Rahman are finely suited for their roles.The director has made a brilliant venture into the movie world. I would like to see what else comes out in 2006 because I am having a hard time believing that there will be anything much this year that will beat this film. I rarely rate things this high, and I would have given it a ten if it wasn't for the scene where a certain woman hears bad news about her man on TV, while she is purchasing green chudis. Bit lame.
"I always believed there were two kinds of men in this world, men who go to their deaths screaming and men who went to their deaths in silence. Then I met the third kind..." Those were the first few lines of Rang De Basanti, which is more than just a movie to me. It's a wake up call for anyone who witnesses injustice and just watches. For anyone who wants a change. Ultimately, Rang De Basanti scores due to its innovation. The film does not shy away from being unconventional. Rang De Basanto is a treat to all who love great cinema and to everyone who loves their country.Sue, a documentary filmmaker from England wants to tell the story of Bhagat Singh and his fellow revolutionaries. Despite opposing views by her bosses, she goes to India to make the movie. The story of these men is important to Sue because she read it thru her grandfather's words from his diary. Her grandfather, who was a jailer during that era, had very strong opinions of these boys. Sue reaches India and sees her characters through a young group, and then begins a journey, an awakening.Rakesh Mehra grips you just from the first reel where you see Bhagat Singh's execution about to take place. From beginning to end, one thoroughly enjoys the flick.Rang De Basanti's plot is not really what makes it work. It's the characters the viewer understands, loves and in the end leaves the theater with. It may be an ambitious Sue, the lovable D.J., the intense Karan, the crazy Sukhi or even a character like Pandey who one starts out hating and ends up loving.The moments are also another thing one leaves with them. The talk about corruption etc is excellent and so real. We all talk about this in our everyday lives and can't help but agree with the talk. The characters are straight out of reality.There are flaws here, like every movie. The second half does lose steam at times. The biggest problem people had with this movie was the climax, which I thought was also a drawback. I did not hate it but the film could have ended in a different way.A.R. Rahman's music is first rate and comes at the right time. Thankfully, the songs do not interfere with the narrative here. And they're all brilliant here. Cinematography is international standards here.The writing is good for the most part. The way the stories of the revolutionaries of the past and the present day group collide is brilliantly written. Dialogues are superb.Rakesh Mehra's direction is flawless. It kills me to say this, but I don't think he'll make another film like this again.Now to the performances...but before that, let me say that there is not a hero in this movie...besides the director. What I mean is that everyone's a character here and performed with amazing amount of competence.Aamir khan lives his role here. Everything is perfect in his performance and one really doesn't expect anything less than that from this fab actor. He's terrific.Sidhart is a revelation. Kunal Kapoor is first rate. Sharman is lovable. Soha plays her part right. The actress who plays the British filmmaker is outstanding. Kirron Kher is great. Waheeda Rahman is as always. The rest of the cast supports well.One more performance I'd like to mention is that of Atul Kulkarni. He's just brilliant. The way his character changes, you see it but he does it so subtly and wonderfully. He's one underrated talent.Overall - Rang De Basanti is not perfect, but I don't think there is a perfect film out there. However, it does force you to think and at the same times gives you a great time.


                
(Contains traces of the climax. Read only if you have watched the movie)When I saw the trailers of Rang de Basanti on TV, a particular scene appealed to me. Four men exuding so much freedom, running about like they give a damn to anybody else in the world. They looked free, they looked happy, they looked like they were filled with all the exuberance of youth . They looked true. And I decided to watch the movie. I wasn't disappointed. The four friends were just what I thought they'd be <U+0096> friends who lived for each other. Friends who died for each other. Friends who thought the world about each other. Friends who remained true not just to each other but to their dear pal who died fighting a lonely battle. I should actually be saying five friends as the four are joined by the person who probably ridiculed their friendship the most. But remained with them till the end. Rang de Basanti is a beautiful movie. Beautiful from the start to the finish. The characters are convincing. Each one has celebrated life and patriotism in his own true way. Alice Patten as Sue touches your heart with her sincere desire to live her grandfather's dream. Soha (Sonia) looks very endearing and innocent and is loved by all. Her friends dote on her. Kunal Kapoor as Aslam is more serious than the rest but believes in his share of fun despite protests from home. Athul Kulkarni is irreplaceable as Lakshman Pandey. Aamir Khan's Dijje (as pronounced by mum Mitro) stands tall and true specially when he starts realising Sue's dream and slowly falls in love with her. But the people who I found most endearing were Siddhart (Karan) and Sharmaan (Sukhi). Sukhi is adorable. He's like this joker of the group. He tries his best to make his friends laugh when they feel low. His famous last words that he's still a virgin will surely make u smile despite yr moistened eyes. Siddharth was fabulous. He looks like your boy next door and smiles at every joke with that coy boyish smile. But chances are, you will fall in love with Karan and adore him till the end.Rang de Basanti has fun and seriousness beautifully superimposing each other. The boys are boys in their mirthful world- drinking, dancing and generally making merry- but mature convincingly into fuming, outraged patriots. And when they die, they are smiling, holding on to each other and being proud of what they did for their friend, their country. They become one in spirit with their martyrs who had gone to the grave not in silence, not screaming but with a proud and triumphant smile on their faces.


                
All of my life, i have heard people accusing Bollywood of not experimenting. They say Indian movies are very much dreamy. Well, the time has come for those people to sit up and take notice. The story of this movie is not normal and at least it is not mushy mushy. It deals with the hard facts of lives of normal Indians. Unemployment, corrupted politicians and rusted system, frustrated youth in the state of indecision and their aspiration to make it big (and they do not know what is that they want), everything has been taken up and dealt with honesty. The movie inspires and speaks loudly of the fact that is does not help to complain. Stand up, take your stand in what you believe is right and then do it the way you want it. It does not matter if people do not agree with you. The movie takes help of a story from India's freedom struggle and makes it center theme and actually draws a striking similarity between the two periods. Although, you may want to say that the violent way adapted by the characters in the movie is not right, but as i have always believed the question of being right or wrong is always subjective. Aamir Khan again stands out but does not steal limelight from others. Every one does his/her bit in the movie. The movie rocks. Do watch it. The most impressive line from Movie: "I have always believed there were two kinds of men. Those who go to their death screaming and those who go in silence. And then i met the third kind".


                
'Rang De Basanti' is an absolutely brilliant flick. Kudos to Prakash Mehra on his sensational directorial debut. With brilliant performances by the entire cast, scintillating cinematography, a brilliant musical score by A. R. Rahman, this inspiring movie about a bunch of carefree university students is a complete winner from the word go. The film deals with some quintessential issues that affect India. It's heart-warming to see on screen a portrayal of those issues that as Indians, we feel strongly about. There are two or three moments in the movie where you can't help but get emotional and you feel the tears well up. That is the mark of a well-made movie. There's zilch melodrama - an affliction for most Bollywood films. 'Rang De Basanti' may not go down well with the 'masses' of India for the same reasons that 'Swades' was a flop - it's a film with a message. But for those who think, here's a movie that is entertaining as well as inspirational. A must-watch. I am going to watch it again in fact!


                
"The movie Rang De Basanthi is an awesome cult movie. Very moving, beautifully portrayed, a must watch for all, especially the younger generation<U+0085>." Saying this I could have finished this blog and no one would have opposed my opinion. Then why don't I feel contented about it. What is that inside me, that wants me to go that extra mile and write this blog? Why do I have this inner voice that's screaming that the real adulation and appreciation one can give to this masterpiece, is not just by watching it umpteen times or telling all your friends and relatives to watch it, but by actually implementing the underlying message of the movie, the very essence of national spirit and patriotism that our forefathers once showed in great abundance.. the essence which WE, the present generation seem to have shelved it as something for the history books.. It is more of an introspection. It makes us think, as to how we should actually celebrate our freedom. I was really moved by some of the ending lines by the narrator, "I thought there are 2 types of people in the world, one who die crying and other who move away in silence but today I learned there is third genre, people who go laughing". That says it all<U+0085> RDB is a masterpiece.. and I say that not for the classy camera shots, great editing and cinematography, breath-taking music and background score, awe-inspiring performance from all the characters, but for the way Director Rakeysh Mehra had come up with a piece of art which blends moments of Dil Chahta Hai and Mangal Pandey!! The transition from the pre-independence India to the modern multi cultured, cosmopolitan India is a testament to the fact that nothing has changed in both the scenarios except the enemies<U+0085> British in the former while the corrupt 'US' in the latter. The RDB is a journey.. a journey towards truth.. a journey towards justice and self awakening, which the 5 boys and one girl from a Delhi University go through while filming for a documentary. The same guys who were once the merry-makers, the don't-give-a-damn-about-this-bloody-India sort and the ones who consider 'having one leg in their past and another on the future.. but are just pissing at the "present"!!!; connect to their true identity which are of Indians who are struggling to make a mark because of the wrecked bureaucratic system. It is about how they relive the scenarios they played in the documentary, and the relevance of 'Inkilab Zindabad' even to this day! This movie not just shows the deep self excavated well that we have dug up for ourselves, but also provides the ray of hope.. the silver lining amongst the dark clouds.. the attitudinal change needed by each and every one of us to bring about the true Indian in us<U+0085>. The Indian with a sense of freedom and national pride.The fact that amazed me the most was that such a hard hitting, in-your-gut movie is such an enjoyable experience. The sublime humor and playfulness among friends makes you feel one amongst them. The relevance of the subject.. the fact that it makes to think once. As the saying goes.. 'There are two primary choices in life, to accept conditions as they exist or take upon the responsibility to change them". I believe most of us want to bring about the changes without doing anything, so its time to give food for thought folks and take some responsibility.


                
Pluses: The movie is well directed. I was really hoping that it doesn't turn out to be a disaster like "Aks". But Raykesh Omprakash Mehra didn't disappoint me. It has a fresh storyline, good screenplay, fantastic cinematography and efficient editing. The film is technically very good.The film has a great cast and the fact that most of them are relatively new helps. All performances are commendable. Aamir Khan is good, as expected. Kunal Kapoor and Sharman Joshi are impressive. Soha Ali Khan is surprisingly good. Atul Kulkarni is always efficient so that's no surprise. Alice acts well and speaks great Hindi. The best performance, however, belongs to Siddharth. It is his character that is "awakened" by the happenings the most and he is remarkable in his role. Thats good casting at work.The dynamics of the group has been well-developed. Even the relationships within the group, like the Aamir - Sharman duo and the closeness between Siddharth and Soha have been developed effectively.The dialogues are different from the normal fare and all the songs are of course superb. The placement of most songs is good too. In fact, "Rubaroo" gets the best place a song can ask for in a movie.The film tries to present the freedom fighters in a new light. Sepia tone, special effects and bike chases make them look very cool.The film touches a very contemporary issue of MIG accidents.The movie never gets too dull or boring. Its entertaining throughout. It also has a certain freshness about it.The message of the movie has been put across well.Minuses: Aamir Khan looks old. I know he is a great actor (though overrated) but if the director could find so many young actors for other roles, he could have very well found someone to play Aamir's role. Bollywood really needs younger actors.The mixing of scenes from the freedom struggle with the present scenario works most of the time but not always. Some people in the audi even laughed when the five heroes were shown as freedom fighters just before they enter the AIR.The Jalianwala Bagh sequence is not effective. Its a little shoddy. Though the satirical replacement of General Dwyer with the Defence Minister as part of a dream is funny.Even though the songs are good, the film could have done with lesser number of songs.
I went to see this film last night outside New York City. I LOVED IT! The only part of the evening I didn't enjoy was the racial profiling of the ticket collector. A line was forming and I was about 20 minutes early for the movie and asked the ticket collector what movie this line was for, all he said was "the American movies are over there" and directed me to the other side of the building. Then I showed him my Rang De Basanti ticket and he said "it's right here." And that was it. But I digress.The movie was excellent. The pace was great, the acting was great, and it was exactly the sort of Bollywood fun I expect every time I see a movie. They were pretty scarce on the song and dance routines though. I was sort of disappointed I took my friend to see this as his first Bollywood movie, it ruined the surprise because it was REALLY good and wasn't cheesy (don't get me wrong, I love the cheese).


                
Finally - a breath of fresh air in Indian cinema. After countless remakes, Hollywood 'inspired' indianised flicks, mindless comedies - comes a fresh, clean movie which can be enjoyed by the whole family.After seeing 'Aks' - (Which I incidentally liked) I was amazed at Rakeysh's clarity as a film maker, considering the fact that it was his debut. So when RDB came out, I was eager to watch it and I must say - I was glad I did (especially on the big screen).Pros - Well executed, great background score & music, great acting by everyone, excellent camera-work and cinematography (No need for swiss alps or any foreign locales here. India looks amazing. The 'Golden Temple' in Amritsar looks dazzling). The songs are perfectly and seamlessly integrated into the movie and never seem out of place. Others should learn from this. Also, the transition of the five friends from careless beings to serious ones is done brilliantly.Cons - Seemed a LITTLE bit over the top but even then - its handled neatly. (But thats me, I am a big sucker for happy endings). No other weak points from my side.All in all - a great future lies ahead for Rakeysh. It has renewed my faith in Hindi movies which had faltered after watching movies like Shaadi No.1, Kyun Ki, Aashiq Banaya Apney etc in the recent past


                
i am not a movie critic. i am not a professional reviewer. i am not those "mai ka laal" types. i am also not the India is my mother types. i have my mother and father and i just watch movies for time pass.this week's time pass was Rang De Basanti (RDB), Rakesh Mehra's second movie after the over-intelligent Aks.RDB is a path-breaking movie as far as the concept is concerned. The problem lies in the build-up portions of the movie. You feel you are watching one of those Bhagat Singh movies during the first half, but it is the second half which completely shocks and hits you like a hammer. It makes the film a must watch! Pre-interval portions are realistic, believable, and well shot, though only partly. The campus scenes are genuinely funny, and identifiable. The characters are straight out of life, representing all strata of society, ranging from filthy rich brat to poor Muslim. But it is the script in the first half that just doesn't move. the first half just looks like a documentary about a group of friends and Bhagat Singh. Even the interval point doesn't give rise to any expectations. But you are pleasantly surprised after the interval.The real story starts 10 minutes into the interval. The last 45 minutes save the film almost entirely. I wont spoil the fun by discussing the story. You have to watch it.Coming to the performances, Amir Khan looks a bit old to play a 25-30 year old, but manages to bring smiles and tears with his performances. His lingo and dialogues have been obviously penned keeping him in mind. He shines, but does not overshadows others, which is to the credit of Rakesh. He should keep away from Managal Pandey type roles and stick to such characters. Alice Patten is a revelation. Her Hindi is amazing and her expressions with Hindi dialogues are just perfect. She should be nominated for some award for sure. Obviously she looks very good, yet real. Soha Ali Khan surprises. She is a complete natural in front of the camera, and looks like a typical girl next door with dreams and love in her eyes.The best performances come from unexpected ones. Sharman Joshi is just awesome and fits his character to T. Kunal Kapoor's rough and brooding looks with his great physique give him a great screen presence and he delivers too. Atul Kulkarni is as expected, good, even though he does not get too many lines to speak. The real scene stealer and best performer is Siddharth from Tamil movies. You just have to see the movie to understand what I mean. He just dominates every sequence hes in. Madhavan has an itsy bitsy role, during which he endears himself to us. His character though, is integral to the movie. Kiron Kher, Waheeda Rehman, Mohan Agashe lend adequate support.The music rocks, so does the background music. The title song has been imaginatively shot, and stands out. The songs blend quite well with the movie. Roobaroo song at the end is just perfect. Cinematography is top notch, matching any Hollywood movie. Editing is innovative, and enhances the overall impact of the important scenes. The movie is colorful, and carefully differentiates between the current and flashback portions through different hues.Rakesh Mehra has done a great job, especially in the concept and style department. Screenplay wise, he should have realized the obvious similarities to the Bhagat Singh movies. But the second half proves he is an international caliber director. Give him a complete screenplay, and i bet he can win international acclaim. Though the concept may not be identifiable universally, he should be lauded to present something refreshingly different and completely original. He tackles Hindu-Muslim unity, dirty politics, college life, and creates a great collage of all. The way the central characters develop is very realistic and identifiable. Three cheers Mr. Rakesh Mehra, you rank right up there, and add me to your fan list! When Soha Ali Khan says "Maar Dalo" in the second half, your heart echoes her sentiments. Thats where the movie succeeds. It connects with me, and hopefully will connect with everyone. There are some cinematic liberties, but when you leave the theater, you have tears in your eyes, and a mellow heart, with a remembrance of all characters. You have been painted yellow at the end. That sums up Rang De Basanti (Paint It Yellow) Devesh Rampuria, UAE


                
Change the system!Rang De Basanti<U+0085>.. is to awaken the youth and steer them into action.The messages that this film expresses are very clear:1. It is not about film making, it is a juxtaposition of India 60 years back and today. Are things any different? Any better? Any worse? These are contemplations the film poses to its viewers. 2. Youth is where issues always bank on, only youth can creep in changes, be it good or bad 3. Politicians and political party ideologies are all just for media, campaigning and newspapers. The film indicates a party that campaigns using religion as the ideology is extremely hollow from inside. And how there is no ethics or values in politics. Basically that it is a as good as gambling in Las Vegas! 4. it is a soother for those parents who lost their beloved sons and daughters in MiG crashes, petrol scams, land scams and such manipulations in the administration. 5. Reminds people that life here for us Indians is values at very cheap rates and that the govt doesn't care. 6. For the youth, the message is clear <U+0096> if we make want a 'free' India, we have to dig out the filth, give our lives, end corruption brutally and form our own transparent govt. 7. "don't make comments standing in the peripheral" - is another noteworthy messageI agree with all the above. As for Lyrics..Prasoon Joshi has done a wonderful job, the actors are fabulous, except for a pitiful act of crying by Soha Ali. Aamir looks good, Sid looks very good, all the rest look wonderful. Its a must watch!


                
I do believe that despite all the rubbish that we have been forced to accept as mainstream Indian cinema, there is a new dawn which will soon turn into a full blown Renaissance, one hopes, and sweep away all the Mallika Sherawats, Imran Hashmis and the entire Karan Johar camp in one fell swoop.After watching the movie, as we drove back from the cinema, my two normally garrullous teenagers were as silent as mice. I share this with you only to indicate that this is what a good movie like Rang De Basanti can do even to young people normally prone to sneering at the nonsensical stuff they see promoted night and day on Zee and Sony.It is easy to relate to the movie because even though it is fashionable to be bitter and cynical about the state of affairs in one's country,India, there is still within us that little kernel of hope that we, as citizens, as individuals, as Indians, would be able to make a contribution to our nation. If not that then at least dent the pernicious corruption that threatens to demolish all notions of civil society and good governance.The question is-- how many of us actually have the courage to step out of our comfort zones and take that life threatening step to challenge the all powerful bureaucracy and ageing satanic politicians who continue to rule over a nation that has long outgrown that antedeluvian style of politics?? The story is set in New Delhi and has a wonderfully brisk screenplay (absolutely sag free)that tells of a motley group of young people, some of them quite easily classifiable as wastrels, (lounging around eating "dhaba" food, dancing at midnight on small hillocks of the adjoining Faridabad area, racing each other on motorcycles and cars)suddenly faced with the dilemma--to be or not to be? So in essence this is what the movie is about :the classical angst of young people of any century, the love hate relationship that we have all had with our parents, the dislike of ageing and outmoded traditions and beliefs and above all to be able to stand out as individuals when it is so easy to get lost in the crowds of an over populated third world country, the slow and gradual identification with their alter egos (freedom fighters like Bhagat Singh and Chandra Shekhar Azad)--- all this is what makes Rang De Basanti a great movie.The superiority of the movie lies in the deftness with which the director proceeds to portray the anguish of the young, even the young idealistic party worker who believes he is so superior to the westernised group of college goers. The freshness of the new actors is like freshly brewed coffee, stirring and stimulating--totally unlike the nauseatingly stereotypical performances of a lot of young actors in films today. Every actor is unique and leaves an indelible mark on the hearts and minds of even the most jaded cinema buff.The modern day tragic protagonists move through the story with adroitness and one gets a sense of their total immersion in their role. There is none of the artifice and adam's apple bobbing that describes all of Sharoukh Khan's recent portrayals of patriotism.Even though the subject is noir the colors, the photography and the music are not. In fact, the music is upbeat and uplifting throughout and I do believe that is in keeping with the final message of the movie which is not to say the movie is didactic but that there is definitely a message and it is a positive one. In keeping with the spirit of the movie AR Rehman creates a score that is youthful and energetic and Daler Mehndi's rendition of a particularly popular song is great. It contains all the elements of the spirit of Punjabiat, of the energy and the vigour of that most beautiful part of our country.What else? Loved it, loved it, loved it.Amir Khan-- Shobha De should eat her words--the foolish woman called you an over rated actor on Karan Johar's tutti fruity show. You are GREAT-- I have always said this and I am happy to repeat myself. People, go watch the movie-- for God's sake don't miss it.


                
I've been trying to compose this review in my head ever since I left the movie theater. This is a hard review to write because the words and thoughts don't come, and those that do are disjointed and often at odds with each other.Rang De Basanti is the sort of movie that does that though. In viewing and judging this film, we cannot help but take a good hard look at ourselves. Here are the emotions coursing through my system right now; guilt, shame, anger, elation, warmth, happiness. These emotions are conflicting and are at odds with each other.But this is the sort of movie that will put you at odds with yourself. This is because there is a little bit of all of us in its characters. Thus, we sense that the things they do (or don't), we may well do (or not do). There is a moment, early in the film, where Aamir Khan's character DJ, explains to us that he should have finished college years ago, but he remains there because on campus people know him, he has a name, he has the warmth and affection of his peers. If I leave this place, he says, I'll disappear into the hordes that have gone before me, and I will be and feel as insignificant as them.At that moment, I sank low into my seat because he reminded me of someone I know... me. If I were (god forbid) to be plucked from the face of this earth right now, I would have to leave with the knowledge that I have done nothing of note and have had no real effect on the lives of anyone around me. More importantly, in 48 hours, I will forget this soul searching and find myself sitting with my friends, laughing about something that makes no difference to anyone's life.Rang De Basanti is about a group of characters, all in college, who want nothing out of life. They're adrift in a sea of hedonism and ennui. captured brilliantly by director Rakeysh Mehra. These kids aren't callous; they're only happy-go-lucky and cynical about the state of the nation because according to them "nothing ever changes". This cycle of theirs works just fine until they are presented with a situation whose tragedy is all too real, all too grave and all too personal. They find themselves in a position where "nothing ever changes" is not a good enough excuse anymore. At first, we sense that they do not understand the gravity of what is happening to them. "Humme ki ho raha hai?" says one of the characters in a moment of despair.This isn't a perfect film. In fact, its far from it. There are some deep flaws but the film is strong enough to work around and in spite of them. The film's politics are simplistic and it paints in broad strokes, but it's still real enough to hit you where it hurts. There are moments of such intense melodrama that they threaten to undo the film, but it is to Mehra's credit that he manages to reel it all in and keep the motor running. This is in no small measure due to the cast, one of the best ensembles I've ever seen in a movie. Their chemistry is perfect. You can't help but feel that if you sat down with this group one evening, you'd hear stories of their experiences as a unit. Atul Kulkarni is brilliant as always, Kunal Kapoor is understated, Sharman Joshi is by turn hilarious and heart-breaking, Soha Ali Khan reminds us whose daughter she is, and Aamir Khan reminds us that yes he may grow his hair and yes he may have a new found media-hunger, but he is still one of the finest actors in the world today. But the film belongs to Siddharth Narayan, in a performance that is always on slow burn, always close to exploding, but never getting there.Yes, I could easily accuse this film of being dramatic, and its third act of being almost outlandish, and yet I won't. I can forgive the drama because it is all a means to an end, to a strong point that the film-makers are trying to make. They're asking us to take a good, long, look at ourselves. And then they're asking us to do something about what we see when we do.Rang De Basanti is that it isn't trying to teach us anything new. It merely reminds us of old things we should never have forgotten in the first place.
I don't watch too many Hindi movies, but I will rank this movie as THE movie of the year. Best representation of the Indian youth and what we can do. Superb photography, music and songs...There are lot of reviews, but I would say why you want to read what others have to say. This movie is about you, so make your own opinion. If you can understand the message, no one need not say anymore.It is the story of India as is today, it talks about reality and inter wines with the our glorious past and presents all in a way which makes sense. Life has not changed and we still have to do a lot for our country. If we want to be top nation of the future then it is in our hands not existing system.Simply watch it, instead of reading reviews.


                
Rang De Basanti is about a group of college boys in a college in Delhi, who live life like everyday is their last. They are trapped in bubble where life could not get better, too afraid to face reality, until a British reporter who wants to make a documentary on Indian freedom fighters comes into their lives and asks them to act in it. A series of events occur that ultimately lead them to experience the rage and anger felt by the characters they act out in the documentary and ultimately become them. Rakesh Omprakash Mehra does an excellent job at drawing the parallel between the youth of the earlier 20th century and the youth of today by showing the quality they both share; the passion to fight for what they believe in. The movie also criticizes the view that any attempt to improve India's government system is futile, which is shared by many today, and I think it is necessary to challenge this view if the country is to really make progress. Even though this theme is often overused to make any commercial film seem more meaningful, it is not the case with Rang De Basanti where there is a lot of meaningful symbolism used to convey this theme.In addition, Amir Khan, just as in Dil Chahta Dai, does a great job at acting out a college kid, making the audience laugh at every moment. His accent although, not completely genuine, is nevertheless impressive. Excellent screenplay and A.R. Rahman never letting us down with a great soundtrack.


                
A line in the musical "Bombay Dreams" reminds me of a frequent dilemma with us Bolly-Holly-woodians - "Motivating, penetrating, That's how movies could be. Heroes flying, villains dying That's how movies could be" Should we continue living with happy endings? But there are "those who want to learn, those who like to think" ..I am a firm believer that the optimum lies somewhere in between. But mixtures often turn into worse recipes, as some popular "khichdi" mixes from both Bolly and Hollywood have shown. So, here is the first complement for Rang De Basanti, Mr. Director, you have succeeded in giving us just the right mix of the two and the taste is like never before. I will not argue as to whether the climax presented in the movie is stupid/idiotic/brave/fit or perfect. Nor will I say whether it left the audience stirred or nonchalant. All this for a simple reason.. the appreciation of the movie is simply beyond such subjective criterion. Here is how this medium of expression crossed terrestrial movie making -1) The script. Very Original and fresh.. 2) A thoroughly unbiased view of the society, picking the good and the bad in each 3) Wonderful music.. Rehman vindicates himself after Lagaan .. among the best fits to the scenes I have ever seen in Hindi movies. 4) Lyrics - I had to bring it out separately.. try listening to Luka Chuppi, Roobaroo.. in fact all others again 5) Acting - Talk of a superstar and here is one who never forced himself on the audience(unlike others whose presence diverts your focus from the movie).. consistent acting/dialogs by everyone. 6) For not being afraid to break the "happy ending" legacy 7) Good use of the time line and the transitions.. could have kept it a little more subtle though 7) Sheer overall impact !!In the end, everyone had his/her own share of heroes, villains, motivation, grudges, chance to learn and a chance to hum. More than anything, such movies give bollywood viewers an alternative to dumb superstar blockbusters or the penetrating art movies.. its a genre in its own.. and i would say.. thats how movies should be.


                
Kudos for Director Mehra and Aamir Khan for producing such a movie. Thousands of movies have been made on issues striking the country but this stands out because of excellent mix of outright reality and fantasy. Aamir is simply awesome with its colorful role and an uncouth Punjabi accent and so as each and every character. No wonder this movie will also fail to awaken the unconscious minds of government on any issues but it is successful in making every individual to think at least once that things are certainly not right. Soha Ali khan looked nice in a simple girl role and Siddhartha stands out as a wonderful actor in such an intense role.Its a must see !!!!


                
First and foremost I would like to request some reviewers with Hollywood hangover to shut up . This film has the best of everything from acting , direction, music to story . People who think some scenes from the film were overblown clearly would also say that Bhagat Singh couldn't have gone into the parliament with a bomb . For them this is as unreal as shooting of a high rank British official in broad day light. Pseudo Intellectual's bashing aside this film awakens a generation . The plot and scenes are taken from real life and real life has taken from its plot and scenes. The situation of police beating innocent people is very much evident in every part of the world let alone India.The last scene is very emotional and gives you a perfect hangover even after the film has ended. All in all I don't want ruin your experience of this film , its a must see *period*.


                
