Over the past twenty years we have seen an absolute invasion of cop shows and crime dramas on the small screen. Some have been highly acclaimed, like "NYPD Blue", and others have been long running, like "Law and Order". But all those shows developed notoriety based on strong characters and overly developed drama, a combination that seemed to be a necessary formula for prime time. The end result was entertainment at the cost of realism and integrity, as show plots became as convoluted as the characters. Think "The Shield", except that show had a very narrow focus. Now there's "Southland", and after the first few episodes it becomes immediately apparent that it is a show that will not be well received because it is vastly different than what has appeared before. Simply put, it will not live up to mass market expectations of what should constitute a crime drama. This is unfortunate. "Southland" offers a different perspective. It is simplistic without sacrificing depth, an effect achieved by cutting out unnecessary interactions and plot developments. The scope of coverage is revolutionary as well, with the portrayal of several different divisions--patrol, homicide, organized crime. The characters are developed and highlighted by both their strengths and flaws, making their statements through the performance of their duty without becoming preachy or pathetic. They are not all perfect and selfless, but instead are presented as basically moral and slightly jaded. It is not a testament as a whole of the LAPD, therefore it does not require the presentation of issues that are unnecessary to the purpose of the show--racism, sexism, corruption. The continuity is beneficial, and unusual enough to be revolutionary. The acting is solid. The greatest surprise is Regina King, who appears as a socially struggling homicide detective, a drastic change from the often overbearing or domineering African-American female roles she has been stuck in. Her portrayal of a heartfelt but complex detective is spot on. C. Thomas Howell delivers an absurdly believable rendition of an alcoholic, barrel-driven patrolman. Michael Cudlitz and Ben McKenzie are the most intriguing, as they are the rookie/veteran partnership who have common integrity and incredibly different backgrounds, yet manage to work together without the clichéd buddy-buddy relationship. And the subject matter? Raw, gritty, realistic, without fanciful or violent action scenes. From the mundane, to the absurd, to the disturbing. The difficulties of police work are highlighted, and obstacles are not always overcome. It has been many years since a television show has delivered a straightforward, pulse-pounding episode, as evidenced by number seven, "Derailed". If you dislike crime dramas or cop shows, you obviously won't like Southland. For the rest, it will probably be a toss-up. Stop looking at what the show doesn't present, and focus instead on what it does offer, and you will discover how exceptional it is.


                
I work in the field, and I was genuinely impressed. Based on the pilot this show looks like it could be excellent. What strikes me is the focus on the very real impact of the job on the officers. In the real world, an officer doesn't fire his or her weapon at another person and then respond in a cavalier way or crack one liners (as you might believe from watching other cop dramas). The normal reaction is actually shock, and a massive adrenaline dump. and it takes time to process and deal with it. And as for language, I agree that I would rather see this show on cable where the realistic language wouldn't have to be bleeped out. Real officers and real bad guys don't say 'shucks and darn'... But bravo for NBC for putting something like this together. Can't wait to see more!


                
'Southland' is a no-nonsense American cop drama, each episode following a squadron of L.A. police as they go upon their daily rounds in a mock fly-on-the-wall style. Much of each episode is incidental, featuring the random sequence of small and large crimes that each policeman or policewoman has to deal with: there is typically one story per episode that is worked out as a conventional plot, while the personal relations of the characters evolve in the background. The absence of forced melodrama makes it a compelling watch, although the protagonists tend to take their closest personal feelings home (and off-camera) with them at the end of the day. I've seen more ambitious dramas; but there's a commendable terseness that gives 'Southland' a real feel of authenticity.


                
I've been in law enforcement for almost 4 years now, and must say that SouthLAnd is probably one of the better cop shows, excluding The Wire. Get beyond the fact that a show can only have so many characters, which creates the necessity for one or a few characters to go through an astronomical amount of excitement, and you've got a realistic story. I absolutely love Cudlitz's character. The acting in this show is most definitely a notch above. I can't believe that NBC had the nerve to cancel this show, while keeping some of the other garbage they toss out there. I'm glad TNT has a reasonable sense of taste. Hopefully after we're done waiting half an eternity for the third season, they'll make it worth while.


                
Ben Sherman starts out the show as a child of privilege who joins the force because of issues he had as a kid. We see several scenes that are meant to show that Ben is growing more and more distanced from his old rich friends and family. However, I think that by season 3, Ben starts going full-Entourage and living the high life, buying a party house, driving a Range Rover and sleeping with different women every night. Women are dropped from his life at the drop of a hat and he ends up in different women's bedrooms with no explanation whatsoever. It just seems like such a dramatic shift in behavior in his personality from the first season.John Cooper is another odd character. He's shown getting drugs from different women, one of whom was his wife, apparently, his dad raped and killed his girlfriend, yet, if you missed some subtle hints, you wouldn't find out he was gay until the episode with the suicidal gay kid. Were they just confused about where they wanted to go with this character?Southland is a great show. Those two characters I discussed were quite possibly, some of the most inconsistently written characters I'd ever seen. The only characters who stay consistent are Lydia and Dewey. I didn't think Dewey was realistic though, considering how he kept his job after all the drinking on duty and flipping the car in the LA ravine/river, whatever you call it, but he's a fun character, so whatever, I rolled with it.The show is a little like The Shield, but it stays a bit more consistent with its storytelling throughout its run, whereas The Shield cratered after the Armenian Money Heist nonsense and got lazy. It was just a dead horse that was beaten too long. Some say it's realistic, but I have my doubts. You only see cops call for back-up when suspects start shooting guns, but I've had a couple incidents at my house in the past and they will call for everyone over absolutely trivial stuff, especially if you start arguing with them. They're also not reasonable guys either who let things slide like you see on the show, had one other incident that was absolutely silly that they wanted to turn into a major felony. I couldn't stop laughing because I thought these guys had better things to do but they apparently do not. One more thing I will add, people who aren't cops don't tend to make friends with them. They know all your business and love to gossip. Couple that with hypocritical, entitled, self-righteous attitudes that many of them have, which even their non- police family members have, and it tends to make them pariahs in their own community.Aside from that, the show kept me watching and I had a great time with it.
I think I can solve a lot of the police - community relations problems in LA. From looking at this show, I see LAPD has very few African-American male police officers. The ones that are shown all seem to be sitting at a desk in the background. They are never at a developing crime scene and never seem to have anything to say. Now we do see female officers, a couple of Hispanic detectives, a gay cop, and plenty of Black criminals, but no Asian or Black officers ever responding to the latest emergency. LAPD needs to diversify!Despite all that, I can't wait to see the next episode. I sure hope TNT keeps this series going.
