I've been on IMDb for quite sometime now, but have yet to feel compelled to write a comment. I suppose my biggest concern is that one of my favorite shows (i.e. Freaks & Geeks, The Class, Undeclared, etc.) will again meet its' demise if not for full and utter fan support.Right out of the gate, this show grabs you with not necessarily likable characters, but real characters. It makes no excuses for the way people act or the situations life inevitably holds for us on a daily basis. It is not over-dramatized, watered-down or needlessly careful. It's appeal is rather than being presented as a miniseries, it is shot more in the tradition of a motion picture or cable series (not unlike The Wire -- best show EVER) where measures are taken after the shoot to make it prime time friendly without being corny or sappy.Though it's too early in the game to give this a 10, I can say that if you haven't checked this out yet, do yourself a favor -- you won't be disappointed.


                
To start I have to say that the pilot episode was amazing and the show only got better until the season finale.I have been policing for some time now and have yet to find a show that depicts policing as accurate as Southland. Sure there are some scenes in this series that are a bit over dramatized, as in any show; however, the attitudes, behaviours and problems officers face are very real.Many of the messages Cst. COOPER says to his "rookie" Cst. SHERMAN are very valid in policing today and are often utilized. SHERMAN's responses to things that he has to see and experience are spot on.The fact that many of the terms used in Southland are not sugar coated, as in other TV series, blows my mind and is what keeps me watching. I see far too much in other series where the characters actually seem awkward as their language doesn't reflect what their behaviour is showing or the producers want to appease the censors and use softer language.Having two separate views of cases may distract some people, but this is exactly what it is like in reality. There are detectives in the same division as the front line officers and although they may work together on some incidents, often go about their day on different paths.The finale is and what will make me a dedicated viewer because of how close it hits to home. As an officer you tend not to try and get involved in your neighbours business, this is a reality in today's world where anything can happen if you choose to do so.All in all amazing acting, real characters, real settings and scenarios. I recommended this show to all my co-workers and anyone else interested in television shows depicting policing as it really is.9/10 (Only reason I didn't give a 10 is because I don't believe anything is ever perfect).


                
Southland turned out to be better than the ads for it made me believe. The ads seemed a little over the top, heavy handed even, but the show itself worked very well.Michael Cudlitz's Officer Cooper has that nice combo of jaded and cynical but still obviously caring. His character seemed most likely to be over the top from the commercials, but in the context of the show came across about as close to perfect for the moment as you could ask. Looking forward to more with this character.Benjamin McKenzie as Officer Ben Sherman also did very good. We didn't learn a whole lot about the character in the Pilot, but that makes sense in the debut as we will most certainly be learning more about him. Well acted by Mckenzie and has a nice rapport with Officer Cooper, that will by nice to watch develop.Everything else in the show worked, and apart from a couple of moments that didn't quite jibe with the reality of the rest of the episode, makes me optimistic for the rest of the series.


                
i am impressed with this show. most of all i'm impressed with regina king. she is a standout talent in whatever role she takes on, and to say she is believable in this role is an understatement. not once do i stop believing i am actually watching a detective in the LAPD who is totally emotionally invested in her work. with her eyes she can convey more emotion than most actors can with the finest dialog Hollywood has to offer. ben mckenzie as "ben" is believable in this role. he seems to find roles that suit him well (stoic, troubled, mysterious, ready to throw down) and although he isn't quite a great actor he has great moments. michael cudlitz as his partner plays the role of the bully veteran patrolman to a T. anyone who hangs around with enough big city cops has met someone just like this guy (if not a dozen). his performance is a treat. with the heavy use of hand-held cameras and the documentary style of filming, at times it all combines to give the feel of a live-action reality show, and i can see why some onlookers were reportedly duped into thinking ben mckenzie had traded professions for real. there are some flaws in the show, and some of the story lines involving lesser characters seem contrived and unconvincing at times. but with a few adjustments and a whole lot more of miss regina king this show could find a place of its own amongst a crowded field of cop shows.


                
I am a fan of the "The Shield". By that I mean a really huge fan of "The Shield". When I got "The Shield" seasons 1 through 4 on DVD, I watched one disc a night, every night until all discs had been viewed. I lost an average of 5 hours of sleep every night for at least two weeks. So when "The Shield" wrapped up, I truly believed that I would never watch another police drama as long as I lived, because I couldn't imagine another police drama rising to the level of greatness that "The Shield" maintained for 7 seasons. And then came "SouthLAnd".Though not as emotionally gripping as "The Shield", "SouthLAnd" succeeds because of how authentic the show is. Notice I said "is" and not "feels". Any one familiar with gang culture in Los Angeles has to really appreciate the research that the crew of "SouthLAnd" does from one episode to the next. They seem to really understand the structure of Mexican gangs and they way they relate to the Mexican Mafia. The episodes in which they break down the power structure of the Avenues gang, one of the most notorious gangs in LA, is pretty accurate, down to the portrayal of the matriarch of the gang, whose sons are among the most powerful gangsters on the street, and, according to reports in the LA Times and Daily News, are closely associated with the Mexican Mafia.In another episode, we see the kidnapping of an elderly man by a recently paroled drug user who walks away from a halfway house and forces his victim to withdrawal funds from an ATM machine before he attempts to kill him. This story line is a modified version of the Lily Burke case, where a 17 year old girl (Burke) was kidnapped by a recently paroled drug user (Charlie Samuel) who escaped from a halfway house and attempted to make her withdrawal money from an ATM machine before killing her in the backseat of her car.There is also the season long case of the Bentley shooting in which two unknown individuals shoot the driver of a Bentley on the 3rd street bridge in an apparent mob or cartel assassination. This mirrors a similar shooting with the same kind of car that took place on the 101 freeway just a few months prior.Now these aren't the normal "ripped from the headlines" type of plot lines that appear on "Law & Order" and other police procedurals. Rather, they are cases that have been specifically selected because they represent the type of crime that is uniquely associated with the city of Los Angeles, which is home to the largest county jail system in the world, the birthplace of some of the most notorious gangs in the world (MS-13, 18th Street, Mexican Mafia, Bloods, Crips, et al), and the largest recipient of cartel drugs in the United States.In an era of television that is saturated with "CSI", "NCIS", and "Law & Order" spin-offs, it is refreshing to see a police drama that is grounded in reality, finely acted, and extremely well researched. Sadly, this show was a casualty of the Leno-Obrien Late Night War, and was canceled after its first season to make room for the doomed "Jay Leno Show". The series was eventually rescued by TNT, and is about to conclude its second season. As of this posting, it has yet to be renewed for a third one. If there is any justice in the world of prime-time television, "SouthLAnd" should be pushing for a lengthy run.
I have seen heaps of similar series, The Wire which was fantastic, The Shield also very good, but Southland is something different, it's gritty, well written and well acted.The first episode had me thinking it was a bit simple, but something told me to stick with it. I'm glad I did because it's not run of the mill.Like other series, I got to feel something for the characters and unlike say Dexter or the Shield, I didn't feel like I was left hanging.Trust me, if you haven't seen Southland or thought it was same old, same old, give it a go and stick with the first few episodes, you will be pleasantly surprised.I hope they continue with the series, because I think there is a whole lot more than can cover. I will always love the Wire or Prime Suspect but this little gem is right up there.


                
Note: This will not contain spoilers. So I just finished watching the pilot episode and I actually was very intrigued to keep watching. This show has a lot of potential to go in a successful direction as long as the writing doesn't go to crap too quickly, like many shows have. Granted if it's top-notch writing (in terms of dialogue) that you're looking for then you may not be a fan of this show at all right off the bat, but I would definitely recommend giving this one a shot. I'm not saying it was a mind-blowing experience, but I am still left wanting to see more of how the plot develops. I won't talk about the characters and plot because you all can check the episode out for yourselves. Though one thing in particular which caught me off-guard was how gritty this show is compared to all others on NBC. The bleeped profanity and some disturbing plot reminded me of NYPD Blue. Granted this show has nothing on NYPD Blue, but I'll say it again.. keep an eye out for potential. A lot of shows go overlooked when they start out on an okay note.. but most shows get cancelled just when they're getting great.
We get so many cop shows these days that it becomes difficult to watch them all and so you will have to pick one out of the lot. Well to me Southland is by far the best cop series of them all. It feels all so real to me, every story grips you. It's like you are cruising through the streets of Los Angeles yourself trying to catch the bad guys. The characters are all top notch in this show. Cooper, Bryant, Adams and Sherman all have their own different personality that gives this show the necessary boost. I watched the complete five seasons of this series in less then two weeks. That's how good I thought it was. Too bad it's all over.


                
Yes, you have "The Shield", you have NYPD Blue etc etc but both those shows devolved into "suspension of belief" problems and narrative over realism issues. Southland does not, The only thing that comes close to this show is "The Wire", and that only wins out ONLY because of its wide Dickensian sweep of Urban America in the 21st century Everyone in SOUTHLAND knocks it out of the park. The writers directors, the crew, all of them deserve awards.I don't care for Thomas C Howell as an actor but here he is not only credible, he is exactly what a white knuckling alcoholic cop acts like in the line of duty. (I have met them) Lucy Liu is spot on as well. Cudlitz, Regina King, and Shawn Hatosy are just plain revelatory in their execution in these roles and are A List and first rate actors for the effort. There is no sentimentality with this great show, no hand wringing by the P.C. Brigade, it is what it is........ NO WONDER the LAPD cooperated with the making of this show. Finally someone painted them in real colors. An EFFING fabulous piece of work by all that participated. If you don't watch these 5 seasons you are depriving yourself on an epic scale.


                
This was one of the best cop TV shows ever.It was gritty,and edgy,but there was always that dark cop humour that would make you laugh out loud.They are doing a tough job,and they'd make a crack at each other,that some people would find racist or offencive,but they are cops,so it's how real cops would act.If someone was Hispanic,they'd make a crack,or if someone was black or white,they'd make a crack,or if someone was gay they'd make a crack.It was like real cop,terms of endearment stuff.The acting was brilliant,and shows that there are some excellent American actors out there.The good thing with this show,was there was no main character to focus on,as they were all given deep,interesting characters.I got tired of waiting for the fifth season to air on British TV,so I watched it online.What surprised me,though,was the swearing was bleeped out.On British TV,the profanities were kept in,and while having the swearing bleeped out was just a minor annoyance,I found it a bit daft.If a perp got out of a car and started shooting at me,or I'd found a dead child's body,I'd be swearing too! Also,I found the lack of any background music a really good thing.Some say music adds tension,but in this series,it would of detracted.Of course,It's been cancelled.All the best shows get cancelled! Anyway,I really enjoyed this series.Superiour to The Wire,and The Shield.(although I enjoyed both those shows)Great acting.Highly recommended.


                
I'm from Portugal, and i know Ben's work from a long time, and i decided to give it a shot. It was one of my best ideas ever.This show is simply amazing. Always full of surprises, very well written from the script writers, an amazing cast, great photography, and i just don't understand why they didn't received a lot of awards for this job! I'm watching the third season, and i just saw the death of one of the characters. Just like that, when anyone were predicting. But it made completely sense, that's the best part.Well, i'm so happy that the American TV can bring amazing shows to the rest of the world. Congrats to Ann Biderman. It really worked! To rest my case, the scripts are always getting better, the drama and the suspense is breath taking, the actors deserve all the best in their careers, because they do an AMAZING job. My only wish is for you to give the best attention to this piece of work. It's worth it.
Out of all the intolerable crime show drivel that is out there I found this one was the only one that is not only watchable but actually very good. The acting is excellent and there is a gritty reality to it that could be compared with the hit reality TV show COPS. I find it hard to believe that this show is having such trouble getting picked up and even dropped by NBC. I hope this show continues for many seasons because it really is the only crime TV show that has actual talent. As for the other crime shows out there I can't speak to much on them because I could never get into watching them religiously, weather they were just lacking in story, or the massive and overwhelming barrage of them just seemed to be a turn off for me, SouthLand is in a league of its own even though to many it is just another crime television show.


                
'Southland' is one of the finest American police dramas ever made for television. The casting, acting and momentum of the show is exemplary. Now in its fifth and final season, it follows the working and private lives of police officers and detectives as they work in one of the most challenging and dangerous places in America for cops, in the infamous Los Angeles Police Department. The show has a 'fly on the wall' feel about it, putting the viewer into the front seat of a patrol car and side by side with officers 'on the job'.The show's largely split between following characters whilst they work and exploring their private lives, sometimes in great detail. This is usually done alternately throughout each episode. It achieves a striking amount of realism in both regards, often demonstrating a loyalty to real life American policing and practice.Undeniably, 'Southland' is an entertainment show and picks out the 'juicy bits', but it's the subtleties that make it so brilliant. It is to the show's credit that the entire five series remain impressively consistent throughout, with some episodes offering more to the viewer than others. Overall, this remains my favourite television series of all time and a shame it didn't have the long life it deserved.


                
I rarely give any movie or show a perfect 10. And Southland will not be the exception. However Southland is that show that comes as close to a 10 without giving it a 10. This is one of the best shows on TV today. From what I know, NBC threw this show in the trash because they thought a certain comedy show would be perfect for a 10 pm slot. I also heard stuff from NBC saying Southland was too gritty for their own good. And ER is not? Thankfully this show was picked up by TNT and is able to show its true colors as one of the most intricate and engrossing series. It shows what I see to be a real authentic look into the lives of Los Angeles police officers and detectives. And that is only a small piece of how this show is so great. The way that each episode is shot, it has that SHIELD feel of a docudrama, and with cameras intimately placed to show the emotion of the characters. You see the crime being committed, or the crime has already happened. It is the raw emotion of the characters that you see afterwards that draws me in. One moment you feel a sort of gratitude when a police officer is about to arrest a criminal, and then the next minute you feel devastated because their actions might possibly lead to a heartbreaking moment. After watching season 3, I would be appalled if there is no Emmy consideration or nominations for the show, the writers, and for the powerful performances by Shawn Hatosy, Michael Cudlitz and Regina King to name a few. If you have never heard of Southland, you are doing yourself a huge injustice by not watching this show. It is the little show that can, saved by TNT, and NBC's grave mistake of letting go.


                
Southland is a great show, didn't know anything about it when i watched the first episode but i've been watching every episode since.Everything from the story, script, stunts and action is executed brilliantly.The acting from all the cast is great, especially since most of them are unheard of, most of the individual episodes are based on Officer Ben Sherman played by Ben McKenzie known from being in "the OC" he plays the character excellently, all the other cast perform well also.I'll continue watching this series until it ends and i'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys well made police dramas.9 out of 10


                
I, myself am not one for crime dramas. A lot of them seem to be very much the same, watered-down and sugar-coated a bit too much for my liking. But, last night SouthLAnd made it's premiere on UK TV to More4 and I have to say I really liked it. The pilot wasn't perfect, but it was real. The situations that happened were very believable and it seems like this TV show will get better as episodes go on. As a fan of Ben McKenzie, I think he does some good acting but hopefully will get better as the show progresses. Michael Cudlitz is also very good in this. As is Regina King. I have high hopes for this TV show. Judging by the good reviews here, I guess I have things to look forward to.


                
I'm a devour of TV series. So far i have never met something as good as Southland when it comes to drama. This TV series is the perfect example of unappreciated outside of the box thinking. Great cast, great characters, great turn of events, non-linear action. I really don't know why people didn't watch it. I guess cheap stuff like Teenwolf or other soap opera like movies are more audience catchy than this perfect mirrored Real Life action. If you have time Southland is a MUST SEE ! PS I think TNT should have targeted the audience outside USA so SOUTHLAND should have lived longer. I would have pay2view it online anytime.


                
I was an NYPD Blue fan from the start of it. That was a very good cop drama with a some what real feel to it for that time.. Ground breaking even. It had a very long run and I was sad to see it end. Then came The Shield . Again another ground breaking cop drama . I think it was ground breaking because of the grittiness of it. The Shield was great but was extremely raw and rough . I think that Southland is somewhere between the two. It has that realism without so much of the nastiness. The raw of it is not thrown in your face but it's there. I like that much better. There is a fine balance of real life and exciting to watch that is difficult for TV shows. I am not a pie in the face kind of girl and more subtle is fine with me. The actors are excellent. The characters are complex . They are not defined by good or bad. The show has a good base to bring in new characters and make you feel the loss of the ones you know just as you would expect in real life . The only reason I did not rate it a 10 was because the filming is just a bit jerky and that drives me a little crazy after a while. I hope that this show "Southland " has a long run like NYPD did.


                
If you liked shows like The Wire, Oz, Sopranos, The Killing, Breaking Bad, or any of the best shows in television history then you will like or love Southland. 
 If you are a fan of NCIS, CSI, and the like, then continue your soap opera world. This is not the show for you.


                
