The Lord of the Rings:The Two Towers, simply put, is a travesty of monumental proportions. This may sound like a tired cliche but so is the production of this movie. The sheer arrogance to mess around with the greatest story put to print is unbelievable. The changes in the story and characters go far beyond interpretation and seem to suggest that Mr Jackson simply feels that Tolkien got it wrong. Peter Jackson's movie embodies all the disdain that Tolkien had for Hollywood, but I guess the money makes it easy to live with, and he claims to be a fan. Read the book, miss the film. LONG LIVE THE REAL FARAMIR!


                
The problem with this movie is that Peter Jackson seem to believe that Middle- earth is somewhere in the Star Wars galaxy or on board James Camerons Titanic. Therefore he has re-written the story from the book in an attempt to make it "bigger and better". In the original text there where no fun side-kicks with good one-liners and there where not enough cool toys so Peter had to throw in some Orc wolf riders and dwarf jokes. Then he find Frodos meeting with Faramir to be a bit too boring in the book, so he "spice it up" with a "dramatic" scene where Frodo stands in front of a ring wraith trying to give it the ring. Yeah baby! There are also plenty of not good enough acting from the extras. Extremely theatrical lines like "Look it's the king!" are a bit too common. If you thought the books where boring then maybe this is a film for you. Now there are plenty of "fun" side-kicks in it to save you from embarrassing seconds of silence or non-action. If you actually liked the books, stay away from this movie.


                
Let me just say to the Tolkien fans out there that love Jackson's treatment, yet, with the same breath, blast Bakshi's version. What is wrong with you?? Yeah, Bakshi took SOME liberties but at least he kept to the story of FOTR and TT. Jackson, at points, seems to be telling a completely different tale and re-writing characters when it amuses him.I didn't think it was possible to make Tolkien boring but, unhappily, Jackson's TT proved me wrong. I wasn't the only one checking my watch many times during the film. I noticed several people in the audience doing the same.Now, I will say I did like the Director's Cut version of FOTR. However, I hated TT so much that I doubt I will even find the DC version appealing.Please, don't label me a purist, as that suggests unwillingness to accept different visions or interpretations of Mr. Tolkien's work. I do not mind changes being made to the story --- when they are good ones. However, Mr. Jackson and his gang of ink flinging scribes are not sophisticated enough writers to make these changes work or ring true.The wafer-thin melodrama he adds into TT, in order to build suspense, is laughable and obvious. Aragorn getting carried over the cliff edge was nothing more than another Hollywood cliche, already seen hundreds of times in other films, meant to keep the viewing masses on the edge of their seats. Come on!!! LOTR has not been so popular for all these long years for nothing. There is already enough suspense, drama and action in this epic. PLEASE, Mr. Jackson, don't add your muck.


                
I was greatly anticipating viewing this film after all the hype and enjoying the first one at the cinema. Unfortunatley I thought this was the biggest load of nonsense I had ever seen. I kept waiting and waiting for the story to get interesting ... and then the film finished. Gollum was rubbish, the scene when he was talking to himself was so bad I had to laugh out loud. Why did the Ork/Human hybrids have bad Cockney accents " I'm haangry, meats back on the menu" ??? and what was that tree all about. Am i the only person who gets bored by constant close ups and continued Aragon, son of Bagagon, King of Caragon, Ruler of Daragon etc... type dialogue.It made The Phantom Menace look like Seven Samurai


                
I didn't realize when I watched Fellowship of the Ring exactly to what degree the whole "men are weak" modification would snowball out of control. Faramir is the latest sad casualty to this overall change to the original story.Also the Ents could have been better handled.I could go on with this line of criticism but why bother.  If you haven't read the books (heck, even if you have...) and believe that the Lord of the Rings is your typical superficial, without a shred of subtelty Good vs. Evil story and that the upshot is that some short people need to throw a ring in a volcano, and that entertains you, then you may enjoy this film.If your looking for something more transcendent you will be disappointed. The screenwriters, which ones I don't know, have done a poor job of translating Tolkien to the screen (and no, capturing Tolkien's spirit is difficult but not impossible in a movie so don't throw out that straw man), and contrary to what Peter Jackson stated on the special edition DVD of FoTR, they have not stayed as close to the original story as possible and HAVE thrown their own spin in.  Why aren't they more up-front about this?Oh well.


                
After the wonderful realization of "The Fellowship of The Ring," I was greatly anticipating the next installment with "The Two Towers." As a writer I can understand that some changes need to be made to adapt a book to a film; however, I think the title given to this movie should have been "Peter Jackson's Two Towers." The plot changes and additional scenes with Arwen were absolutely unnecessary for translating the book to film. These changes simply represented how the director wanted the books to go and the heck with Tolkein.There was much to like about the movie in terms of art direction and special effects. Unfortunately, so much attention went to creating digital characters (and I'll say that Gollum was nicely done in large part to Andy Serkis' work) that the real actors were left to stand around and watch, or react to what the virtual characters were doing, which was the downfall of "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace." Thankfully Gollum was no Jar Jar Binks, but it still created a similar issue. The relationships between the characters in "Fellowship of the Ring" were beautiful and moving, and now all of a sudden everyone's emotionally disconnected with each other - except for Arwen and Strider, and Arwen never once set foot in the "Two Towers" book! Ugh.I'm no purist where Tolkein is concerned and I would have been able to live with small changes necessary to make a movie. For example, I can understand why the film didn't end at the same place that the book did and that didn't bother me too much. Nevertheless, there were some very rich scenes in Tolkein's novel (from the growing friendship between Legolas and Gimli, to some very moving moments between Frodo and Sam, one of which awakens the best out of Gollum for a moment) that were ignored and replaced by Mr. Jackson's own ideas. This I cannot live with and makes me very angry.  I hope he gets back to Tolkein's world when he finishes the last movie because I don't like Jackson's.


                
I am a LOTR fan, but I nearly walked out of this movie. The acting was good and the scenes were well choreographed, but the plot failed to flow. This move ignored the book it was supposed to be about. The timelines in the book were ignored; the character development for new characters (such as Faramir) was bastardised and ruined for 'dramatic purposes'; scenes were added that did not exist in the book. I can [barely] accept the whole 'Arwen as Frodo's saviour' from The Fellowship Of The Ring, but what Jackson has done this time made me feel nauseous - I actually felt the desire to vomit while watching this movie. The movie started and seemed to rush forward without any sense of coherency or sense of timing, and then they started on the action to blind the audience to the significant gaps in the plot. The action was good, but the gaps in the plot made it hard to follow. This WAS 3 hours of my life I will never be able to get back.


                
The only redeeming quality of this film was the epic battle sequences.  A pornography of violence is the only thing that saved this film from being terribly boring.The characters were very flat.  Interaction between them was predictable (predictable, even without having read the books).  For example, the undeveloped subplot between Aragorn and that princess was cliche.  From the moment a hint of her liking him came out, I could see what was going to happen.The only interesting character was Golum.  He symbolized the external battle for good and evil through an internal struggle.The dialogue in this movie offered nothing.  It was mostly about one group's plans, followed by the enemies plans.Well.  I don't want to think much more about this movie.  I think it was terrible.  The fighting scenes and animation were cool.  Perhaps the "acting" parts should be cut and the remaining scenes should be edited as cut scenes into a video game or something, because this definately doesn't stand as a film on its own.


                
This film isn't just missing small parts of the story; it's missing five plus chapters!!!The Fellowship of the Ring pleased me in that apart from small pieces it stayed, true to the original book. It was, I thought badly directed. I say this because I believe Jackson is at heart a producer. His organizational skills are amazing that at least is evident from the sheer amount of info LOTR holds within its pages. But he has no visual imagination whatsoever. Fellowship and The Two Towers are badly shot and badly edited. To put it in short I think Jackson is a second rate director who only got these films through blind enthusiasm, rather than ethical ability or quality of work.The two Towers is an insult to everything Tolkien wrote, Peter Jackson for some unexplained reason has gone from following the book of FOTR pretty well to just doing what he wants in TTT. The first half of the film is more or less true to the book and I was enjoying it. Gollum especially, but about half way through just after King Theoden and his people left for Helms deep in anticipation of the attack of Sarumans army, THE STORY WENT OFF THE RAILS LIKE A SPEEDING TRAIN!!!!!!!!!!!! With Aragorn falling over the cliff after the fight with the Wolf riding Orcs (WHICH WASN'T IN THE BOOK) as if that wasn't laughable enough, then the plot goes off into a dreamland about Aragorn and Aowhen's (sorry if her names wrong:) love affair and the choices they must make for the greater good. Well nice try in giving the story more depth BUT STICK TO THE BOOK!!!!!! I don't know about any of you but I went to see J.R.R Tolkiens The Lord of The Rings, not Peter Jacksons Lord of the Rings. Ok it's still an adaptation, but FOTR was more or less the same as the book, why ON EARTH insult Tolkein's fans and Tolkien himself by taking one of the greatest works of fiction ever and changing it in any way you want. I think it was an attempt to fool everyone who haven't got the sense to read the books and make more cash on the side.THERE'RE AT LEAST FIVE CHAPTERS MISSING AT THE END OF THIS FILM. Now the people who I was chatting to today about it said well you cant have it all in the film it would be about 9 hours long. GRRRRRR! I said the annoying thing is if Jackson had left out all the rubbish he made up and put in the parts of the story, which should be there, YOU COULD HAVE FITTED IT ALL IN. I am of course referring to Shelob the great spider, which bites Frodo and then Sam takes on the Ring himself and the bookends on a cliff-hanger. He's chucked that out and put it in the next film, The Return of the King, which is already the longest book anyway, without putting huge chunks of story in from the other films.If you ask me Jackson has quiet literally lost the plot and in some style, instead of creating a realistic and accurate film on Tolkein's book he's done what he wants with it and I'm sorry but I think he should be slapped for even having the nerve!!!!!The only people who will totally enjoy this film are the ones who haven't read the books AND SADLY THERE ARE A LOT OF THEM.BUT I'M DREADING WHAT HE'S GONNA CUT OUT AND EVEN MORE SO WHAT HE INVENTS TO STUFF INTO THE NEXT ONE....A YEAR OF DREAD IS AHEAD


                
The Riders of Rohan recover the body of the king's dead son and we spend fifteen minutes watching characters we don't care about bemoan the death of a character whose death we never witnessed. Then we watch Sam and Frodo have the same conversation over and over and over again: 'Oh, Sam, I can't go on.' 'It's the ring, Mr Frodo, I know!' Oh, and now they have this creepy character called Gollum that follows them around and is supposed to be entertaining, but comes across as irritating. For some reason Sam still calls Frodo 'Mr'. Oh, then some boring talking trees show up and bore to death even the characters themselves. What chance does the audience stand? Finally we get to the climax and the grand battle. Except Jackson doesn't know how to direct it. The tone wavers. It goes between terror (women and children expecting to be slaughtered) to comedy with Gimli and Legolas. And then he keeps interrupting the battle in order to cut to those boring bits with the talking trees. He even adds slow motion in the battle scenes for no good reason. The end result is that there is no rhythm to the battle and the emotion is dissipated. There you have it. Lots of noise and CGI, and no emotion - apart from boredom.
My least favorite Christmas treat for my family was the film Lord of the Rings-Two Towers, which I found excruciatingly too long...the fanny factor kicked in after the first two hours and except for the scenery and special effects, I found this just plain boring - the one with the most charisma in the film was that talking tree!


                
I first read the books in the 1950s as a teenager and was "blown away'.Over the years I recognised that there were many boring and irritating aspects to the writing,though not the story.When Peter Jackson said he was going to film L.O.T.R. I had such high hopes.Unfortunately Mr Jackson seems to have misunderstood the theme entirely:in altering the plot he has not just thrown the baby out with the bathwater,but also the bath.Christopher Lee thinks the film deserves an Oscar -that's sad.All in all I hated "the Two Towers"-and my teenage son didn't think much of it either.Apart from Gollum the C.G.I.was very overrated and character development was poor.Verdict:nul point


                
I wrote an epistle refuting the slavish adoration of "The Fellowship of the Extended Series of Fight Scenes (punctuated by occasional helicopter shots of people walking)", but frankly this second chapter isn't worth the effort.Why did I go see The Two Towers?  Hope springs eternal I suppose, and frankly I was interested in seeing what the gang at WETA would do with the ents (highly disappointing) and Gollum, (impressive work, though ill-conceived).Okay.  Down to business.1. Gratuitous plot changes.2. No respect for Tolkien, his story or his characters.3. There are no curse in Elvish, Dwarvish or the speech of Mordor fit for you, Herr Jackson.


                
Just read this "fun fact" from Philippa Boyens, some bimbo Peter Jackass picked up to hack a screenplay of one of the most intricately crafted pieces of literature ever written. She actually BELIEVES she can improve upon Tolkien...On changing Faramir in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) script: "If you're trying to up the tension, you don't have your main characters captured by someone who sort of interrogates them, but, not really, who then offers them a cup of tea and says, 'I'll do anything I can to help you.' It's death on film. And it's not just the effect that the character out of the book has on Frodo and Sam's journey, it's the effect that character has on the Ring. You've just been desperately trying to establish that this is the most evil thing ever created, it's tearing apart the mind of your main character, it's reduced this other character to this miserable creature Gollum, and now you come along someone who says, 'I would not touch this thing if it lay on the highway.' You've just stripped the Ring of all its power."Miserable, just miserable. Any wonder that this film is completely shapeless, dramatically?


                
I had high expectations when going to see this film so as you can guess my disapoinment was insurmountable. I watched as my expectations crumbled onto the theatre floor and nestled next to a box of half eaten popcorn and spilled soda. I tried in vain to put it back together but it slipped through my fingers like sand. I slumped back in the theatre seat and surpressed sleep. I watched Elijah Wood's strugle with his one expression and attept at Homersexual flirting with Sean Astin, the miscast fat American. The dialogue sounded like it was being excreted. The dwarf is now just comic relief in the tradition of jar jar binks. I had to shut my eyes every time Peter thrust the camera in Aragorn's face. Golumn was horribly unrealistic. Puppets look light years better when used properly. I want to believe what I see. The line to the effect of "I hope someday someone will write a book about us" had me cowering under my seat in embarrassment. The battle scenes tried to be too flashy and as a result you can't get a scope of the battle or see what's going on. The fact that its rating is almost nine says almost too much about todays generation (to which I am also part of). LOTR above Citizen Kane? come on! It is just Blockbuster drivel from the Hollywood machine. You can only take this film on face value, there is no depth. I say go back to Braindead.


                
This movie was a travesty!  Anyone who voted above a 4 for this movie ought to peel their eyes away from the TV, become literate, pick up a book (yes, the square things with pages), and READ IT!!!  Whereas "The Fellowship of the Rings" held almost as true to the book as it could have, "The Two Towers" was nothing at all like the book!!  I don't understand how Peter Jackson can consider himself a fan of the books and still put his name with this awful movie.  He has profaned everything he claims to stand for!  I feel very sorry for Tolkien and know that he is rolling over in his grave because his name is connected with this atrocity!


                
Oh, merciful heavens, what a horrid film!  I had serious problems with Fellowship, but I was able to overcome it eventually, and enjoy the movie on it's own terms.  But this...   this....!  To begin with, this should have had a disclaimer that the film was "Inspired by J.R.R. Tolkien's the Two Towers," so that geeks such as myself could've saved the $10.00 that I'll never see again, and preserved a fond childhood memory of spending time discovering a literary masterpiece.  I thought I had been scarred by the first film's brilliant dialogue, e.g.,"Let's hunt some Orc!"  (And many people who apparently love this film think George Lucas writes clunky lines!)  but this entire installment left me wanting to pluck out my eyes in a vain effort to cleanse myself.  Of course I see the need to condense a long novel to run within an alloted time, but that's not what happened here, they apparently felt that they could improve upon something that was already nearly perfect.  That was mistake number one.  Mistake number two was devoting a good portion of the film to Liv Tyler, for reasons unkown to me, since nowhere does her character appear in the book.  Other gripes: Turning the land of Rohan into a shanty hippie commune. Then feeling the need to show some hippie kids fleeing, in order to stir up some sympathy in the audience, is my only guess.  Suddenly finding myself in the middle wondering if the movie had stopped, and I was now watching a New Age music video (see Liv Tyler above), Enya, Enigma, something like that.  Half expecting Gandalf to turn into Max Von Sydow when King Theoden is "possessed" by Saruman, and begin bellowing, "The power of Christ compels you!"  Aragorn dying, to be healed by Arwen (more Liv Tyler), and then awakened when the horsey starts kissing him.  Then there's the time that... Ugh!  I give up!  It's a shame too, because I've really liked Peter Jackson's work before this.   I just can't fathom his need to turn Tolkien's work into his own.  Sheesh, even Kubrick wasn't this bad!


                
I went to this movie with an open mind, expecting to see something great, yet throughout the whole movie I was bored and uninterested. I've read Tolkien's books two times and greatly love them, but "The Two Towers" does not capture the beauty and sadness that is within the books. One does not want to leave the world of Middle Earth when reading the books yet I greatly appreciated seeing the ending of the movie.Peter Jackson's directing was very annoying and redundant. He sets up his 180's with no sense of space, at times completely breaking the over the shoulder shots between two characters causing the breakup in the space to occur when it should not. There were too many close-ups when there should have been medium shots and too many extreme long shots when there should have been only long shots. Landscape scenes were often framed with no characters or tiny specks of characters, it should have been filmed as many of the classic westerns were filmed, capturing landscape and characters within the same frame where we could at least feel as if we're there with them and a part of their adventure.Jackson does not create feeling through images in "The Two Towers," he relies more on dialogue to tell the audience what is happening. The scenes with Frodo, Sam, and Gollum I would have enjoyed better had they been shown with more images and facial expressions from the actors. You can't rely on words to describe the terrible power of the ring, it has to be displayed with images. "The Fellowship of the Ring" comes close to doing this.The screenplay should have had a major rewrite staying truer to the book with more natural dialogue. Many of the lines would be spoken and fall flat. There was no projection or passion in the lines, they were too stilted. Joking in the middle of a battle should have been crossed out by the director, and the entire love story should have been deleted. Doing this would have left room for the many scenes that were left out from the book. The ending of this movie lacks in drama and suspense, I deeply wanted to feel drawn into it and expect the next and last adventure, but the only thing I wanted was to get out of the room.What I greatly saw spelled over the entire movie was "TIRED." The actors were tired and the director was tired, and this was just another movie to crank out. With every scene saying "OK, that's done. Let's move on," with no care or artistic appreciation of the true art of filmmaking. I don't expect much from "The Return of the King" next year and I don't expect much from Peter Jackson as he's too soft of a director to show the true grittiness of Middle Earth. He is targetting this movie more towards females and those who haven't read the books and not true Tolkien fans like myself.
Overall it was a decent action film, with your typical fight choreography, one liners, Legolas and his unlimited arrows, and the good guys always coming out unscathed. "The Fellowship of the Ring" was excellent and this movie should have stayed more along the lines of that, with some improvements. On a scale of one to ten I give it a seven, because it wasn't all that bad and it wasn't all that good and at least they tried.
7/10


                
Two Towers would have been a very good picture, if not a great one, if not for a few needless ommissions and intrusions.  The Arwen sequence was included for no other reason than to give the highly overrated Liv Tyler screen time.  There just doesn't seem to be enough of a reason to beef up her role. Yeah, sure, the reason commonly given is that it's supposed to give the female viewers something to watch, but it's not like the gals are bored with everything else that's going on.  I'm not saying the romantic angle should go unplayed, just that it should be lavished with such loving detail.Aragorn's fake death was played for dramatic purposes, as if there wasn't enough drama in the story to go around and if there hasn't been enough fake deaths in the first film.  Both of these sequences/occurrences squandered screen time that could have been used to include the Huorns (basically the reason the Ents were called Treeherders) and Shelob, the giant spider.  The Huorns are instrumental in routing the Orcs at Helm's Deep; they are an important element in the story. In the film, the defeat of the Orcs wasn't terribly convincing since there were still hordes of them.  There didn't seem enough of a reason for them to just turn and flee.  A burst of sunlight wouldn't seem to be enough, especially since these Orcs were the Uruk-hai, specially bred to move about in sunlight.  In the book, the Orcs were crushed between Gandalf's contigent and the Huorns, which make a lot more sense and would have made a much better movie.  There was plenty of time to establish the Huorns if not for unnecessary dream sequences.Shelob, the spider, was also ommitted for no clearly good reason. Presumably, Shelob will be featured in the the third movie (won't there be enough to take care of in the third movie?).  In the book, Frodo seems to be mortally wounded by her and goes into a sort of coma, yet one more time the fake character death card will have to be played (making Aragorn's fake death seem all the more excessive) but at least with Shelob and Frodo, it's warranted and would have made an astounding finish to the film, as it did the second book of Lord of the Rings.  (It probably inspired the less-than-happy ending in The Empire Strikes Back and look how good a film that was).  It also would have given Samwise (and thus, the Hobbits, who have thus far been little other than "the little people) his moment to shine, as he takes on and defeats Shelob.  I disagree there wasn't enough time.  For one, as I said before, I don't think the time was spent wisely in telling the story; for another, an extra half an hour to 45 minutes would have been sufficient.  Judging from audience reaction to the film, very few would have minded an extended film.  Oh well, it will have to wait till the third film.  But imagine the anticipation for Return of the King that would have been created if Shelob was included in Towers.  Instead, it will just be something that happens in the third film that's quickly resolved (it will have to, I imagine, if the rest of the story is to be told with any sort of efficiency).Also, the whole Faramir plot was a total, total, hack job that I don't even have the heart to comment on right now.  Overall, a severe disappointment. The major bright spot was the performance of Andy Serkis/Gollum, truly an astonishing development in the world of CGI; he makes the severe disappointments of this film almost bearable.
Ok the effects were prety well done. But guys the plot... what plot? Comeon they were just going through the motions in this movie. Elijah Wood's acting took a turn for the worse. Sorry he can't do dark very well. Gimli is the new Jar Jar Binks. Those romance scenes with Liv Tyler were tedious and added nothing to the film at all. Some of the dialogue was dreadful. At one point Sam says somthing about "people reading stories about them".Argghh. Come on the first one was much better made and had a much stronger story then this. If this is what three is going to be like, count me out.


                
Yesterday, I saw "The Two Towers" and have to say that I am very disappointed. Even for someone who is not exactly a fan of Tolkien's world or the fantasy genre, the "Fellowship of the Ring" stood way beyond this sequel. A massive storyline and an excellent dramaturge concept made the first part appear smooth as silk. Chapters like "The Treason of Isengard" or "The Bridge of Khazad Dum" will always be remembered throughout the movie community and have set a new standard in this genre of film.Now, "The two Towers" has literally NO plot, it seems that director Peter Jackson didn't have a clue about how he should start, unfold and end the story of this second part of the trilogy. Somehow, it now seems hard to believe that he was in charge of the first part... The sequence of Frodo and his fellows crossing the Marches, the exaggerated focus on the creature Gollum and tons of splatter-UrukHai-sequences are all a strange reminder of his previous movies Braindead or The Frighteners. The film reveals its entire structural weakness just by the fact that Pippin and Merry appear throughout the movie in one Neverending Story-like sequence which was mainly used as editing material.The only impressive point so far is Howard Shore's incredible soundtrack on CD (even better than the first one!) and not so much in the film, where it was poorly used - amazing tracks like "The Forbidden Pool", "Breath of Life" or "Evenstar" are played in slapstick-like Gollum & Aragon scenes! Neither the old nor the newly introduced characters did have a chance to unfold properly. To put it in Bilbo's words: "Like butter stretched over too much bread".


                
What a disappointment compared to FOTR.Too much of the film focuses on King Theoden, in which he is misinterpreted through constantly driveling, mamsy-pamsy lines.Too much of the film focuses on Eowyn, in which she is misinterpreted as a wallflower.Faramir's character is completely misinterpreted.  In the movie, he resembles his brother, not the cool, contemplative scholar/soldier nor the shadow of Aragorn as he was well delineated as being in the book.Though Gimli provides some much enriching comic relief; by the end of the film, you get the feeling that he is used solely for comic relief.Sure, all the visual craft is there. (Yea!) And Gollum's script and dramatic posturing are even more impressive than the masterful CGI rendering of him. (Yea!) The Ents are wonderfully captured. (Yea!) (Though the rescripting of their activities was another disappointment.)I could rationalize the plot changes in LOTR, but as I watched this film, I was rationalizing a lot.  My rationalizations stopped when the misinterpretation of Faramir, (and to a lesser extend) Theoden, and Eowen overwhelmed me into bitterness.I was expecting this trilogy to be one for the ages.  My expectations are shattered.


                
Once there were two boys who liked sitting in walking trees. So, they decided to climb a tree and wait for it to walk somewhere. It starts walking and they say 'thank you' to the tree. The tree walks. The boys sit in it. Sitting in trees is nice. Especially when you have to watch it for three hours...Some time later, we see the boys sitting in a walking tree. Did I mention that they are sitting in a walking tree. Did I mention that I watched them sitting in a walking tree for three frigging hours? What a pile of pretentious, over-hyped crap. Dull, dull, dull.I would rather pickle my testicles than watch this English middle class audience garbage again.


                
How can anybody consider this or any of the other movies in the trilogy good? it's nothing but special effects, cheesy oneliners, flying eye balls, midgets with serious issues and other incredibly arousing stuff. ill give this movie 5.5 out of 10. I like the books, i'm not a fan but i think they are pretty good. Peter Jackson(stop idolizing this moron) just completely messed this up, he messed it up as bad as George Lucas did episode 1. Dudes, seriously, this blows.


                
While Fellowship was an excellent mix of drama and fantasy, as well as fantastic action sequences, this LOTR film falls flat on its face.  Most of the film is spent on boring talk of how the group is dealing with the situation with Sauromon(or whatever the guy Christopher Lee played's name is), and the film apparently doesn't remember that it's bad@$$ characters can also swing one nasty sword and lay a beatdown on those stupid Orcs until near the end of the picture.  According to my aunt, the book had tons of action sequences.  Either:  A., she got the title of the book mixed up with another one, or B., Two Towers the movie was changed A LOT from the book. Either way, after this atrocity, I am swearing off the LOTR films, and will in no way see Return of the King, even if the reviews dub it the best picture of the century.


                
