Seven decades have passed but the suspense and thrill of The Maltese Falcon still reign supreme. The movie, despite being in black & white, appears strikingly refreshing both to the eyes and the intellect. Primarily remembered as John Huston's directorial debut, the movie played a decisive role in giving Film-Noire its true identity as a genre. The Maltese Falcon also gave Humphrey Bogart his highly deserved super-stardom that had hitherto eluded him. Huston creates an environment of suspicion, doubt and uncertainty that is so convoluted that even Hitchcock would be proud of it. The movie has multiple layers of mystery and suspense that keeps the viewer engaged throughout. Sam Spade is a private detective who runs an agency with his partner Miles Archer. An ostensibly naive lady, Miss Wanderly offers them a task to pursue a man, Floyd Thursby, who has allegedly run off with her younger sister. The over-simplicity of task arouses Spade's suspicion, but Wanderly's lucrative offer makes the duo overlook it initially. Miles is killed during the pursuit and the police inform Spade of the mishap. Spade only discreetly tells the police that Miles was after a man named Thursby without disclosing anything about Miss Wandely. The police soon find Thursby dead as well and suspect Spade for killing him in an act of revenge. Soon Miles Archer's widow shows up at Spade's office and insinuates of her romantic involvement with Spade, who shuns her away after she tries to incriminate him for the murder. The police come across an anonymous lead and begin suspecting Spade for killing his partner, Miles. The plot thickens with the entry a couple of obscure characters including Joel Cairo, who happens be an acquaintance of Miss Wanderly. He is in pursuit of a highly precious, antique, gold statuette of Maltese Falcon and offers Spade five grands to help him find it. A game of cat and mouse soon ensues, between the various stake holders, which becomes deadlier as the stakes are raised. Humphrey Bogart perfectly fits into the shoes of Spade—a sleek and sharp sleuth—and makes it his own in a manner that only someone of his grit and caliber could. Bogart is in top form right from the inception to the finale, stealing the spotlight in almost every scene that is he is part of. Bogart could only demonstrate his prodigious talent and acting prowess in short bursts during his long "B movie" stint in which he was mostly type-casted as a gangster. The Maltese Falcon was Bogart's big break after years of anticipation and he didn't leave a single stone unturned to prove his mettle. Bogart shows his class and stamps his authority as a performer during the portrayal of Spade: he is ever so quick-witted thanks to his sublime articulacy and his prowess at repartee seems unparalleled; the inherent cynicism in Spade and the perspicacity with which he operates soon became Bogart's trademark and catapulted him to super-stardom. Many regard Bogart's performance in Casablanca as his absolute best, but I rate his portrayal of Spade second only to his supernal portrayal of Dobbs in The Treasure of Sierre Madre, where he took acting to hitherto unattainable and unforeseeable heights. John Huston uses the Midas touch he had as a screenwriter to strike all the right cords in his directorial debut. Almost everyone in the supporting cast gives a memorable performance with special mention of Peter Lorre as the deceptive Joel Cairo, Sydney Greenstreet as the witty yet dangerous Kasper Gutman and Mary Astor as the scheming Brigid O' Shaughnessy. The taut plot of the movie, which is masterfully adapted from the novel of the same name by Huston himself, is well complemented by the impressively written dialogs that are delivered with an equal prowess. Amidst the everlasting suspense the movie has an obvious undertone of dark humor that adds great value to the movie. The cinematography undoubtedly features amongst the best works of the time.The Maltese Falcon is not merely a Noire masterpiece but also a testament to the true spirit of cinema that has kept itself alive despite decades of relentless mutilation and sabotage in the name of commercial movie-making. Despite being devoid of modern-day gimmicks the movie is incredibly high on suspense and holds the viewer in a vice-like grip throughout its runtime. It's a real shame that movies like these are seldom made these days. The tone of the movie is such that it makes suspense thrillers of today appear like kids cartoon. PS. The movie is an ode to Bogart, Huston and all those who made it a reality. It's suspense cinema at its absolute best with a completely different treatment to themes propagated by the likes of Hitchcock. It's a must for all the Bogart fans worldwide, and absolutely essential for all those who have a penchant for Film-Noire as a genre. 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
Bogart. The coolest guy to ever live?Have you ever wondered what makes someone possess an essence that's defined as being "cool"? They seem to have that combination between imagery and soul that few people truly have. Is it in the style of clothes you wear or one's knowledge of independence? Is it the way you comb your hair or your unkempt humility for everything out there? It could be in your talk or how you walk, but maybe it's more about what you say and where you're going. In a sense it's an attitude that seeks to define character and break the mold of control. It's the fine line between knowing when to speak up and when saying less means more. So is Bogart the coolest guy to ever live? In a single word, absolutely.The Maltese Falcon is basically a showcase for Bogart. A role that seems to be made for him, even with two previous attempts at the film. He is and always was born to play Sam Spade. The tough guy private investigator, who always has the right things to say. More likely to fire a witty comeback than a gun. Able to fall in love, even if only for the moment, and then send her to the gallows. All in the name of doing the right thing. It's not an emotional business.The movie itself wrote the book of the crime and mystery drama story. Probably the best written plot in it's genre. No doubt that Bogart makes the character come alive, with that infectious voice and his uncompromising demeanor. But the movie itself is, to say the least, very good. The ending just does it for me. The last couple of lines are some of the best in film history.Although it took me a while to finally see this film, I realize that it's one of Bogart's triumphs and has all the main reasons why I love the guy so much. Please, see this film and remember Bogart as he was."Heavy. What is it? The, uh, stuff that dreams are made of."
The Maltese Falcon has a totally atypical Hollywood history. After two previous filmings of Dashiell Hammett's novel, the third time a classic film was achieved. Usually the original is best and the remakes are the inferior product.These characters that John Huston wrote and breathed life into with his direction are so vital and alive even 65 years after the premiere of The Maltese Falcon. You can watch this one fifty times and still be entertained by it.I'm not sure how the code let this one slip through. Humphrey Bogart as Sam Spade is partners with Jerome Cowan in a detective agency Spade and Archer. Client Mary Astor comes into their office requesting help in getting rid of a man who's intruding in on her life. Jerome Cowan as Miles Archer eagerly takes the assignment and gets himself bumped off for his troubles.Cowan is quite the skirt chaser and he certainly isn't the first or the last man to think with his hormones. That's OK because Bogart's been fooling around with his wife, Gladys George. That gives the police, Barton MacLane and Ward Bond, motive enough to suspect Bogart might have had a hand in Cowan's death.As fans of The Maltese Falcon are well aware, there's quite a bit more to the story than that. Bogart's investigation leads him to a crew of adventurous crooks, Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, and Elisha Cook, Jr. who are in pursuit of a statue of a Falcon that is said to be encrusted in gold and precious jewels. The Maltese Falcon is a milestone film role for Humphrey Bogart. It is the first time that Bogey was ever first billed in an A picture while he was at Warner Brothers. In fact this is also John Huston's first film as a director. He had previously just been a screenwriter and in fact got an Oscar nomination for the screenplay he wrote here. There are some who will argue that this first film is Huston's best work and I'd be hard up to dispute that.After a long career on stage The Maltese Falcon was the screen debut of Sydney Greenstreet. Greenstreet may be orally flatulent here, but there's no doubt to the menace he exudes while he's on screen. Greenstreet got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor, but lost to Donald Crisp for How Green Was My Valley. Greenstreet created quite a gallery of characters for the next ten years, mostly for Warner Brothers.A favorite character of mine in The Maltese Falcon has always been Lee Patrick as Effie, the secretary at Spade&Archer. She's loyal, efficient and crushing out on Bogey big time. This and the part of Mrs. Topper in the television series Topper are Lee Patrick's career roles. I never watch The Maltese Falcon without hoping that Bogey will recognize how really "precious" Effie is.The Maltese Falcon will be entertaining people hundreds of years from now. And please no more remakes of this one.


                
With a fine combination of cast, characters, story, and atmosphere, this classic is one of the most entertaining films of its kind, enjoyable even after several viewings.  It gets you right into the action and introduces you to a list of interesting personalities, who mesh together nicely and who are also matched well with the cast members.  Beyond that, it's also effective as a character study involving greed, trust and distrust, and conflicting ethics.  Sam Spade is an ideal role for Bogart, giving him plenty to work with and some very good dialogue as well.  Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet are very entertaining, providing suitable foils for Bogart, and they really take the film up a notch.  The rest of the cast also works well (worth mentioning is Elisha Cook, Jr., whose character doesn't do a lot, but who provides Bogart with some very amusing moments at his expense).  The story is nicely adapted from the novel, and each scene is constructed well, with everything moving along nicely from start to finish.If you are a fan of either film noir or mysteries, make this a must-see. There are very few films that work as well as "The Maltese Falcon".


                
While there are films that are considered classic for their technical achievements and classics that resound with audiences for a feel-good emotion, The Maltese Falcon stands in that group that is a classic for every aspect of its creative makeup. With a brilliant script, talented direction and some outstanding performances, The Maltese Falcon stands up today as well as it did upon release.When Sam Spade -- played brilliantly by Humphrey Bogart -- and his partner Archer are hired to tail a rich eccentric by a woman who claims her sister is being unwittingly kept separated from her by the rich eccentric, it seems like just another case. But when Archer and the eccentric are gunned down and all fingers point to Sam Spade for conflicting yet damning reasons, Spade is thrown into a whirlwind of deceptions that all point in one direction: a Maltese statue of a falcon.Bogart demonstrates clearly why he is one of the great classic actors of the 20th century, and indeed one of the most natural screen actors ever. His charisma, charm and intense masculine looks give him a presence that simply dominates the screen. With a host of other great talents to fill the screen, there is not a moment of wasted performance. The direction is tight and driving and the pacing never lets up. And the script demonstrates why there are less and less truly great films being released in present day: the writers and directors of the golden age of cinema knew that subtlety works ten times more effectively than the modern in-your-face all-the-time works.The Maltese Falcon is a timeless work that deserves its place in the list of greatest films ever made.
Movie Review: "The Maltese Falcon" (1941)Director John Huston (1906-1987), just 34 years old, adapts the classic "hard-boiled" mystery-novel by author Dashiell Hammett (1894-1961) on his own to present a shooting draft to Warner Bros. in the "Golden Hollywood" season of 1940/1941, when over-seas WW2 rages, which gets nevertheless put on the fast-track at Hollywood's major studio with a breakthrough role for leading man Humphrey Bogart (1899-1957) as legendary private-eye character Sam Spade, losing his detective partner in the opening sequence before he stands alone in ultra-atmospheric San Francisco office space to unfold a film-noir of excellence in twisted story-telling machinery, not without having high-end entertainment factors along the way due to splendid supporting cast Mary Astor (1906-1987) as the uneasy, demanding feminine, Peter Lorre (1904-1964) as Joel Cairo entering Spade's office in taking-charges moods of pride and show-stealing actor Sydney Greenstreet (1879-1954) to hold-your-breath showdowns in a tiny hotel-room-suit all surrounding the believed to be priceless title-given world-traveling statuette, before Bogart, Greenstreet and Lorre play together again in Michael Curtiz directed "Casablanca" the year after. "The Maltese Falcon" directed by set-ruling John Huston and shot to striking angles, shades and layers by black-and-white master cinematographer Arthur Edeson (1891-1970); together with the cast they deliver fabulous character signatures, Bogart becoming the star-actor from there on to his death, a plot twisting suspense with slides of easing-cool humor that even the dusty décor can not bring the picture down after 75 years out to be witnessed by any generation because its terrific and furthermore arguably "The Best Film-Noir in Motion Picture History".© 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
John Huston's adaptation of The Maltese is one of the earliest and best films noir. It may not have the prominent chiaroscuro or stylistic flourishes of later noir movies, but it is a gripping story told well, almost perfectly cast (I still cannot decide how I feel about Mary Astor's matronly though calculating femme fatale). The camera is almost always set at a subtle low angle, making the scenes take on a menacing feel, as though anything could happen and no one is to be trusted. Bogart is perfect in one of the two roles that made him an enduring Hollywood demigod, the patron saint of cinematic masculine toughness.Despite the 1940s setting, TMF's themes of greed and human failing remain relevant. Except for the most superficial details, I would say the film has hardly dated at all and remains the definitive cinematic telling of the classic detective novel.


                
The performance of a lifetime by Humphrey Bogart, the masterclass of acting from one of the greatest German actors of all time, Peter Lorre, yet sprinkled by some magnificent performances from Mary Astor, Lea Patrick, Sydney Greenstreet, Elisha Cook Jr. and others, couple that to the twists and turns, the drama and suspense, the movie "The Maltese Falcon" is indeed legendary so much so that it's legacy survives even today, The Maltese Falcon statuette being sold at a whooping $4 million at an auction. The Movie being referred to as one of the Hollywood classics. 
It takes you on a Roller-coaster ride entertaining you every single minute and by the time you finish watching it, it's already entrenched to the core of your grey matter forever.
In short, there are very few movies which stand the test of time. This movie has for several generations.
Miss it at your own risk! 
If ever there was movie to save the day, "This is It"


                
This has got to be one of the greatest movies ever made, why? Everything was about strategy, strategy which ultimately led to successfully walking away with the trophy (in a manner of speaking). Ultimately, everything turned out to be a false alarm, and it's back to the drawing board!! Seems as though this whole fiasco accomplished one thing however, it did serve as a tremendous test for everybody's morals, or, shall I say, the lack of them. You'll have to watch the movie to know what I am talking about!! This website ranks "Maltese Falcon" the 73rd best picture ever made. AFI (American Film Institute) rates "Maltese Falcon" 34th best American movie ever to be produced. Finally, the famous quote from "Maltese Falcon" "This is the stuff that dreams are made out of" is ranked the 14th most famous quote from any film made whatsoever!! What is so remarkable about this film is that it immediately establishes ground rules. These ground rules vicariously and unabashedly obviated all caitiff behavior for everybody involved! For purposes of survival, these wry mannerisms are instantaneously detected, and dealt with accordingly. The art of masquerading pretenses gets metaphorically and emphatically defenestrated with this film. Humphry Bogart (Who was on the head of the list as a desirable selection for numerous detective roles, and hence, Bogart was concurrently chosen with the advent of the "film noir") is absolutely sensational in this movie. His mercurial disposition establishes the premises which harbor his formidable awareness, this becomes his principle component for nourishing his yearning for survival. His chicanery is essential in terms of dealing with his predatory and nefarious adversaries. The disconcerting genre to "Maltese Falcon" cultivates an intrepid set of circumstances which makes the plot to this film plausibly entertaining. Interaction was predicated on going under the guise of a sordid collusion, as well as the clarification of euphemistic phraseology. The writing in the movie "Maltese Falcon" was very unique to the cinema in 1941!! Mary Astor plays the role of the spawn of a plutocratic offspring. Her inherent megalomaniac's nature seemingly accommodates her extra curricular activity of lying, it is just too bad that she is amongst a bevy of professional liars. These professional liars are boxed into a precarious situation whereby they must now tell the truth- This creates a very interesting paradigm!! The visceral affection between Astor and Bogart articulates both characters' struggle with a tenacious and lethal monotony. Sydney Greenstreet is virulently scruple-less beyond belief!! Peter Lorre and Elisha Cook are discarded in one way or the other, and, they become the newly ostracized guinea pigs for purposes of pecuniary expediency. It becomes a proverbial case of who is fit and trim for emerging victorious in an onslaught of sophisticated and conniving emotional game plans!! All film critics rate "Maltese Falcon" to be one of the most fascinating and well produced American films to ever hit the silver screen, I concur!! The plethora of prime quality acting performances in "Maltese Falcon" utterly astounds me!! Hal B Wallis is the executive producer of this movie (He is best known for "Casablanca"). John Huston directs this film, he is nationally renowned for other greats such as "Treasures of Sierra Madre" , "Key Largo", "African Queen" and copious others!! Huston also made an appearance in the all-time movie classic "Chinatown". The aggregate summation of this movie is that it possesses top notch talent from head to toe!! If you have not seen "Maltese Falcon", please make it a point to do so.... I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!!!!! THE FILM "MALTESE FALCON" IS A TOTALLY MARVELOUS MOVIE!! PLEASE SEE THIS FILM!!


                
This website has ranked this film 69th out of the top 250 films ever made, and AFI has put this movie in the top 100 American films ever made!! Such accolades are thoroughly justified, mostly on account of the fact that the innovative plot that this film purveys, simply astounds the movie audience!! Humphry Bogart is sensational in this flick.. his classic line of "This is the stuff dreams are made out of" is one of the classic lines of any movie made period!! The whole film is about a lot of dialog which encompasses the art of conversation through conniving chicanery and negotiations with the sordid underworld!! (Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre) There is an underlying premise of greed and undaunted avariciousness, not to mention, a widespread ego maniacal obsession with everyone about winning the prize!! Everyone wants to best everyone else... Mary Astor (Chicago Society) is remarkable in this film... Her feminine wiles camouflage her ulterior motives... Taking place in San Francisco, this film evokes a camaraderie with ancient Eastern World artifacts of irreplaceable value... Straddling both sides of the fence seems to be the prerequisite that makes one single individual emerge victorious throughout this entire film..Guess Who? Watch the movie to find out!! This movie is superb, and it exemplifies the term "Classic" when it comes to the all time movies in the cinematic history of fine film making!! I give it five stars and so does virtually anybody else who has seen this movie!! THIS MOVIE IS A MUST SEE FOR EVERYONE!!!


                
Sam Spade, a tough private detective gets involved in a murderous hunt for The Maltese Falcon, a legendary statuette thought to contain diamonds.What can I possibly say that hasn't been said, written and studied by the greatest film critics and industry members, about The Maltese Falcon before? Well nothing by way of new stuff or a differing slant on the plot, I can merely concur and hopefully jolt prospective first time viewers into believing the reputation afforded this stunning piece of cinema.First off I have to let it be known that The Maltese Falcon is far from being my favourite Bogart movie, in fact it's not even my favourite Bogart movie from 1941, it's well trumped in my affections by High Sierra, but few films ever get as close to being perfect as the Maltese Falcon clearly is. The source from Dashiell Hammett is first rate, yet it took someone like John Huston (director and screenwriter) to bring it triumphantly together. It had been adapted for the screen twice before with less than favourable results, but Huston, working tightly from Hammett's dialogue driven astuteness, molds a claustrophobic, shadowy classic amongst classics, that in the process laid the cornerstone for what became known as essential film noir.You will search in vain for faults here, every scene is as tight as a Duck's bottom, not one filler scene is in this picture. The cast are across the board perfect in performances, Bogart (Spade) is peerless, Mary Astor, Peter Lorre, Sydney Greenstreet (film debut) and Elisha Cook Jr. stand out, but every other member of this cast add something good to this picture. The plot (of which I'm "so" not going to summarise for you) is complex to a degree, but really it all makes sense, you do not need to be Albert Einstein to knit the twisters nicely together. Also don't be fooled into thinking this is a film devoid of humour either, it has deadly wry smirks popping up all over the place, OK ,so they may be the sort of smirks brought about by devilish unease of admiration, but rest assured they are valid and integral to The Maltese Falcon's classic standing.I could go on fawning but I really don't need too, the Academy may well have saw fit to not award this picture any awards for 1941, but time is an immeasurable force sometimes, and time now shows that The Maltese Falcon stands proud as not only a Titan of cinematic entertainment, but also of technical movie brilliance. 10/10


                
I make no secret of the fact that 1941 holds a three-way tie for my favorite cinematic year. I laugh when people complain that Citizen Kane was "robbed" of the Best Picture Oscar in a year that produced such classics as SUllivan's Travels, How Green Was My Valley (a film that was more than deserving of winning top prize), and The Maltese Falcon. John Huston, son of the great Walter Huston had never before made a film when he began his feature, The Maltese Falcon. Starring Humphrey Bogart, who I also make no secret of absolutely adoring, the story follows the pursuit of a priceless statue by a band of criminals and a private eye. Bogart and Huston would collaborate multiple times throughout their careers, always seeming to attempt to capitalize on the magic they made in The Maltese Falcon. It's incredible when a first-time director can make a film as good as The Maltese Falcon, which must go down as one of the best debuts of all time.Working as a private eye in a San Fransico detective agency, Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) and his partner Miles Archer (Jerome Cowan) are approached by a woman who calls herself Miss Wonderly (Mary Astor). Spade and Archer who have always shared a tempestuous relationship argue over how to handle the case, when Archer insists on providing the protection Miss Wonderly has requested. Things change pretty quickly as Archer is killed the night he is protecting Miss Wonderly, along with another man, and Spade quickly finds himself in the middle of an international mystery. It is soon revealed that Miss Wonderly is surrounded by dangerous people, all of whom Spade soon gets the chance to meet. Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) is a man after a mysterious take who uses scents to incapacitate his victims. She also has Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet) on her heels, a man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants ann under the guise of feigned civility. The only one seemingly able to provide her some protection is Sam Spade who has now been implicated in the murder of Archer or Floyd Thursby, the man that was also killed the same night at Archer. Finding the Maltese Falcon the criminals are hunting for may be the only way for Spade to help himself, or anyone else. Huston, a novice director made a brilliant decision to film a good deal of action over the shoulder of Bogart's shoulder. Allowing the audience to see a majority of the action from the point of view of the protagonist was an exceptionally innovative way to keep the audience engaged. Huston Not that innovative camera work is needed to keep one engaged during a Humphrey Bogart film. He truly was one of the best actors in the history of cinema to grace the screens. Peter Lorre, a consistently strong supporting actor, was also an absolute joy to watch. The symmetry achieved by Huston, especially in shots framing Humphrey Bogart, reveal an early expertise present in the filmmaker. an exceptional cast helmed by an excellent leading man Humphrey Bogart, a more than apt director, and a plot based on the work of the wonderful Dashiell Hammett produced an American classic that still persists nearly 80 years after its release.
I doubt there's much anyone can say about this that hasn't already been said. It's sharp, witty, intelligent and a classic! I watched it again while reading the novel in parallel and it's remarkable to see how closely the movie follows the novel. Even most of the dialogue is lifted straight from the book. There are a few omissions but, if anything, they make the movie just a little bit tighter. Hammett was a tight writer in any event and Huston just went with it.Of course, both book and movie have spawned much side chatter, such as whether the villains were homosexual. It's extremely nuanced in the book and only half directly referred to in the film when Brigid slaps Joel's face to cut off an explicit comment. But whether true or not, it has no bearing at all on the story and it seems odd even to mention it. But that's the way it goes when you dissect stories.And, yes, Brigid did sleep with Sam. In the 1940s it was more subtle than today - just a kiss and a fade out...The movie made a star out of Bogard. Greenstreet gives a superb performance and Lorre is on top form. It made me seek out other of these two's movies (Greenstreet was also in Casablanca) including The Mask of Dimitrios which features them both.In all - absolutely brilliant!
The classic 1941 version of THE MALTESE FALCON (TMF) was the third movie adaptation of Dashiell Hammett's seminal detective novel about cynical private eye Sam Spade's adventures with the alluring but treacherous Brigid O'Shaughnessy and other greedy no-goodniks vying for the titular falcon statue. It proves the old adage "The third time is the charm." No wonder John Huston's taut, wryly cynical take on Hammett's tale put him on the map as a writer/director. His version has the best of everything in one package: the best private eye thriller, the best Dashiell Hammett movie adaptation, the best remake, and the best nest-of-vipers cast, including the signature Humphrey Bogart role/performance.Huston's powerhouse cast was born to play these characters. Between the perfect performances (even the great Walter Huston is memorable in his brief cameo as the dying Captain Jacobi), Huston's lean, mean pacing and striking visuals (Arthur Edeson's expressionistic photography and Thomas Richards' editing work beautifully), and the overall faithfulness to the novel, it's as if Huston & Company just opened the book and shook it until the characters fell out, then started filming.Humphrey Bogart doesn't match Hammett's description of Sam Spade as a "blond Satan," but he's got Spade's attitude down perfectly, and besides, he's Bogart! What's not to like? Bogie deftly balances toughness, trickiness, and tenderness, but he never lets his tender side make a sap out of him. I find Bogart's Spade sexier than skirt-chasing Ricardo Cortez or Warren William in the previous films because the dames are drawn to Bogie because of his sheer charisma and strength of character, as opposed to him aggressively pitching woo at them until they give in from sheer exhaustion. In an early scene with Brigid, Spade has a line about how all he has to do is stand still and the cops will be swarming all over him; substitute "women" for "cops" and the line would still be accurate! :-) Mary Astor's real-life shady-lady past informs her spot-on performance as quicksilver Brigid O'Shaughnessy, but it's her watchful eyes, elegance, and that beseeching "throb in (her) voice" as she enlists Spade's aid that makes her so fascinating and believable as an avaricious adventuress with a prim, sweet facade<U+0097>a woman who'd kill a guy as soon as kiss him, and keep him guessing about her intentions until the bitter end. That's what made Astor and Bogart such a great team; in their capable hands, Brigid and Spade are two wily, street-smart people who are onto each other as well as into each other.Every actor in TMF shines, from Bogart and Astor to Ward Bond and Barton MacLane as Sgt. Polhaus and Lt. Dundy, to Jerome Cowan as Spade's doomed partner Miles Archer, to Gladys George as clingy, vindictive Iva Archer, to the only cast members who reprised their roles in the otherwise so-so 1975 sequel/spoof THE BLACK BIRD: Elisha Cook Jr. as gunsel Wilmer Cook and Lee Patrick as Spade's trusty secretary Effie Perine. After Spade's tomcatting with Effie and other babes in the early films, it was refreshing that Effie's interest in Spade here is more professional than personal. There's warmth between them, but it stops well short of neck-nuzzling and lap-sitting. :-) Cook has many memorable moments, particularly one brilliant scene where he's on the verge of shooting the cool, calm Spade, his eyes filling with tears of rage as he whispers, "Get on your feet. I've taken all the riding from you I'm gonna take." When Wilmer comes to after Spade punches him out, dread and horror spreads over his face as each of the conspirators stares at him coldly (another triumph of editing and photography), and he realizes he's being set up as their fall guy. You can almost hear Wilmer frantically thinking, "Oh, s***!!!" Still, Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre come closest to stealing the show. As Kasper Gutman, Greenstreet blends menace with avuncularity, his voice a cultured growl. Greenstreet's performance is so assured, it's hard to believe TMF was this veteran stage actor's first movie job, but it's easy to see why he earned a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination. TMF made Greenstreet an in-demand character actor and one of cinema's most memorable villains, especially in his team-ups with Peter Lorre. Lorre's witty, sly performance as the smoothly effeminate yet ruthless weasel Joel Cairo is a marvelous addition to the rogues' gallery of lowlifes Lorre played over the course of his long career. After TMF's success, the great cast worked together in various combinations in many movies, including CASABLANCA. I've always wondered what a TMF caper film sequel following Gutman and Cairo to Istanbul would've been like, considering Greenstreet and Cairo's antihero buddy chemistry.TMF has so much memorable dialogue, often laced with sardonic humor, that I'd be virtually transcribing the whole script if I quoted all my fave lines. In my family, "The cheaper the crook, the gaudier the patter" and "When you're slapped, you'll take it and like it" have often been jokingly quoted. Then there's Gutman's deliciously ironic toast with Spade: "Here's to plain speaking and clear understanding." Plain speaking and clear understanding with this band of greedy, duplicitous cutthroats?! Good luck! :-) But the talk's a joy to listen to; as Gutman says, "I distrust a closed-mouthed man. He generally picks the wrong time to talk and says all the wrong things. Talking is something you can't do judiciously unless you keep in practice." TMF has one of cinema's greatest last lines, Spade's answer when Polhaus asks what the statue is: "The stuff that dreams are made of." I also love the climactic scene with all the principal players, especially the dialogue between Spade and Gutman about how to go about getting what they want ("...If you kill me, how are you gonna get the bird? And if I know you can't afford to kill me, how are you gonna scare me into giving it to you?...") Truly, TMF is "The stuff that dreams are made of"!
This is the Hollywood film noir par excellence, because it is - well - so black, including of course the fabulous black bird. There is hardly an uncynical line in the movie, and you can be sure that if any character says anything remotely soft they're lying! The whole theme of the film is deceit and manipulation, Everybody is trying to chisel everybody else, so that you have no idea who's on who's side. Is Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) for or against Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet); what was the relationship between Brigid O'Shaughnessy (Mary Astor) and dead Thursby; and where does Captain Jacobi (Walter Huston, briefly) fit in?  You can't tell, and it doesn't matter, because the characters change their relationships as casually as they change their underwear. In fact, it could be argued that one of the only honest characters in the movie is the "gunsel" Wilmer Cook, played by his namesake Elisha Cook Jr, who is no more and no less than he seems to be - a cheap crook with gaudy patter. And what about Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade; is he the tough, but essentially moral, character, Bogart would play in Casablanca and The Big Sleep; does he behave ethically and honorably? Some postings on IMDb would have you believe so,  but I think that beneath a fairly thin veneer of charm Spade is as cold, venal and self-seeking as the rest. His treatment of ex-lover, Iva Archer (Gladys George), goes beyond hardboiled-ness, and is downright cruel; the alacrity with which he erases his dead partner's name from the office door  is cheap and mean; and does anyone believe him when he says that he will wait 20 years for O'Shaughnessy while she serves her time? (Though, with a good lawyer, she'll probably get off anyway.) In turning in the villains he seems to be acting as a good citizen, but is simply looking after his own interests, as he knows that otherwise the police will probably get him  - in any case, since when has grassing been an honorable profession? The dialogue and acting in the movie are impeccable, with of course Greenstreet as the standout; his achievement is even more impressive when you realise that - after a long stage career - this was his debut movie at the age of 62! As someone else has pointed out, it's a pity that we tend to remember Lorre as Greenstreet's sidekick in this and subsequent films, though Lorre was a major film actor well before this; but this was probably only one of many disappointments in Lorre's career.Perhaps the most successful and satisfying aspect of The Maltese Falcon is its consistency of mood, even if that mood is unremitting in its cynicism.


                
Private detective Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) finds himself with a murdered partner and a female client (Mary Astor) who is not who she says she is. Complicating matters is the arrival of two men, Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet) and Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre), seeking a priceless falcon statuette that Spade's client may know the whereabouts of.One of those classic films I can watch over and over. I'm a big fan of Dashiell Hammett's novel and this is by far the best version of it. The script by John Huston (also his directorial debut) is flawless with all of Hammett's best and punchiest lines included. The cast is extraordinary. Sam Spade is one of Humphrey Bogart's most iconic screen roles, perhaps second only to Rick Blaine. Despite two other actors playing the part before him (Ricardo Cortez and 'sort of' Warren William), it's a role Bogie made his own and now it's unimaginable to think of someone else as Sam Spade. Sydney Greenstreet makes his film debut as Kasper Gutman. Elisha Cook, Jr. is the tough-talking gunsel Wilmer. Signature roles for both. The great Peter Lorre is the effete Joel Cairo. Underrated Lee Patrick plays Spade's girl Friday Effie. Nice support from Ward Bond and Barton MacLane as cops who hassle Spade. If I could find any fault with the amazing cast, it would be Mary Astor simply because she's physically wrong for the part. Her character is supposed to be "a knockout." While physical beauty is in the eye of the beholder, I can't see anybody thinking moderately-attractive Astor fits the description. Still, she brings to life one of film noir's greatest femme fatales.Tough, smart, fast-talking, energetically-paced classic with many enduring characters, lines, and scenes. Other than that scourge of entertainment "the nitpicker," I can't see how anyone could not like this movie. It's the definitive private detective film. One of the all-time greats. The stuff that dreams are made of.


                
A great classic, a great film, a great Bogart (Samuel Spade) in it, a great adaptation of the book. The film is generally a very faithful adaptation of the novel, although some scenes from the novel are not in the movie. It is a tribute to the "macho" image of the detective we have lost the past years. The film has a sense of humor the book lacks and an atmosphere that's hard to describe. A treasure that you could die for. A manly, unpredictable private detective with his own morality code. A crook smelling lavender (In the book. In the movie they say gardenias), a fat man and a breathtaking red-head, no one should trust. Those are the ingredients to the Dashiell Hammett story, which has been characterized as the best mystery novel ever written. (by Otto Penzler)


                
Whenever I see this film I am always impressed with how good the story is.These days we are used to brilliant crime/mystery series and movies on TV and cable, but back in its day "The Maltese Falcon" was head and shoulders over just about every film in the genre, which often had unbelievable stories and lightweight characters.It not only had that great story, but crackling dialogue and a perfect cast. From Bogart as Sam Spade, Mary Astor as Brigid O'Shaughnessy to Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet as Joel Cairo and Kaspar Gutman, the cast almost seemed divinely inspired.When I finally read the book, I discovered that the great story and that crackling dialogue is in there: "When you're slapped, you'll take it and like it", "I distrust a man who says when", and all the others, they were author Dashiell Hammett's all along.But what director John Huston and the cast did was to bring the characters to life; they gave them shadings beyond Hammett's words. The film added to the book. That isn't always the case. How often has the indefinable magic in a book failed to come through in the film? But in this case the film added the magic.Although Hammett came up with the plot and just about every word we hear spoken, it's hard not to picture Bogart as Sam Spade even when Hammett describes him as a blonde Satan.No, something unique happened on that film, it was Huston's first directing job and he just laid out the pages, edited them a bit, and shot the whole thing pretty much in sequence - and he sharpened the ending.In his impressively researched "The Lost One: A Life of Peter Lorre", author Stephen D. Youngkin tells how Lorre regarded this as the most enjoyable filmmaking experience of his career. Huston created a family atmosphere among the cast and crew. That wasn't necessarily the atmosphere Huston always created - Ray Bradbury on "Moby Dick" probably didn't think so - but this was his first film as director and there was no shortage of enthusiasm.Although the film is nearly 80-years old, the story and the characters are so strong you soon forget that there isn't a smartphone or computer in sight. I love Bogart's tough, cynical Sam Spade, he's seen it all, but he is not without empathy.In fact it's those characteristics that are the secret to all the truly successful PI's and cops in movies and on TV ever since.


                
I'm a huge fan of this movie; loved it for many years. And it will always retain a huge place in my affections. Everything about it just clicks. Bogart, Astor, Greenstreet, Lorre etc. What a remarkable cast! I also own Dahshiell Hammett's novel, and Sam Spade is even darker in the book than he is on screen. This is still one of Bogart's finest showings, and will probably never be forgotten. Greenstreet became an overnight star thanks to his brilliant performance here, thoroughly deserved.Director John Huston does a marvellous job of bringing the book to the screen, and I think this is the THIRD version of the story to be filmed! Who says all remakes are bad? This is one of those remakes that ensures the earlier versions are pretty much forgotten today.The snappy dialogue is some of the best and most memorable ever put on screen, so I'm not going to repeat it here; but the film creates its own dark world full of shady characters always out to keep Spade from getting close to the truth. The film is so good you almost forget the murder of Spade's partner at the beginning that kicks off events.A truly superb movie, that I can watch over and over again with renewed pleasure. In Noir stakes I esteem only The Big Sleep and Farewell My Lovely (aka Murder My Sweet) as highly. The Maltese Falcon is the sort of movie that makes you a film fan for life.


                
There are movies that require more than one watch to fully enjoy or understand. The Matrix and Inception are two great examples of this. I still know some people that have seen Inception many times and still don't fully get it. 1941's Maltese Flacon was (from what I know) the first movie to ever do this. A seemingly regular murder leads to another which leads to a quest for a little statue of a bird. How that happens requires many watches. What I like about these kinds of thrillers and mysteries is that I feel really good about myself and smart whenever I finally figure out everything that's happening. I may have mentioned The Matrix and Inception earlier, but The Maltese Falcon is less comparable to those two and more to The Usual Suspects and LA Confidential. The Matrix and Inception are sci-fi/action movies that are much better pieces of film, using techniques and special effects that no movies at the time had strength to do. The Usual Suspects and LA Confidential, on the other hand, have just crazy scripts that really screw with your mind. It took me about four watches before fully understanding The Usual Suspects. I'm about half-way getting LA Confidential and almost fully getting The Maltese Flacon. The general premise is detective Sam Spade's (Bogart) partner and a criminal are murdered after being set up by a woman (Astor). More murders and quirky characters are yet to come as the whole thing revolves around a statue of a bird. This is all I can say without giving too much away. Bogart delivers his best role as the film's first cool cop. I honestly find him better than Rick Blaine in Casablanca. What makes this so complex is all of the confusing points are explained so quickly in a weird order. That is clever, as it makes the viewer want to see it again and again. Bogart is such a cool character and the noir feel is awesome, so it is one to see several times even if it was easy to follow.


                
This film marked the first successful film that star Humphrey Bogart did for writer,director John Huston. This is a riveting story of a private detective named Sam Spade (played by Bogart) whose partner gets murdered but at first no one even knows who did it. I have not seen a film in that genre from director John Huston since the Hitchcockian film Key Largo. In the end i kind of found it funny when i found that the falcon was priceless when i actually thought it was worth something. There is a lot of top notch performances especially from Humphrey Bogart,Peter Lorre,Sydney Greenstreet (in his film debut),and Mary Astor. Director John Huston's directorial genius aside from the great performances throughout the film is really what made the film absolutely entertaining. For some reason this kind of feels like a picture from Director Alfrred Hitchcock when it was not set up to be directed by him. But i had no problem with Huston's direction and i didn't find a false note anywhere or in any scene of the film.


                
John Huston's first film, The Maltese Falcon, from Dashell Hammiet's novel, makes itself a classic on the first watch with two things- great story development and a great lead/breakthrough.  Bogart, in his first role after a decade of B pictures, bursts with a range and scope comparable to Casablanca, and is as memorable as private investigator Sam Spade.  After Spade's partner is shot following taking a case involving a Mr. Miles, Spade gets thrown into an intrigue, a deal, involving a gold encrusted bird.  But there are indeed other parties as interested as him in finding it.  Along with Bogart, Peter Locke, Sydney Greenstreet, and his female counterpart Mary Astor, all shine and make the cold hearted and darkly funny moments last after over half a century.  As noteworthy as mystery films truly get. A++


                
If you love Noir the Maltese Falcon is THE MOVIE---A Perfect 10 in my book!!! From sinister bad guys, to black widows and "good guys" who fall more into the gray than the black and white and play on both sides of the law, the Maltese Falcon has it all!!! In terms of how the movie was filmed: Is there a better setting than foggy San Francisco to have as a backdrop for a dark crime movie? Most scenes are filmed at night and those filmed during the day are always filmed inside with particular attention paid to lighting and shadows. Even the sets are perfect; Scenes filmed indoors are almost always set in in hotels or stuffy apartments filled w/ over cushioned, ornate furniture. Throw the cast of characters into the mix and the sets somehow add to the sinister nature of the movie as a whole. From greed to lust the movie touches on quite a few of the "Seven Deadlies" and it delves into the darkest things people will do when they find themselves between a rock and a hard place. A fantastic film that is everything a movie from the film noir genre should be.


                
Sam Spade - played deftly by Bogart - is a no-nonsense detective who gets pulled into this thriller when a beautiful dame, Mary Astor, comes to his office seeking his services. Suddenly Spades partner gets killed, and the action takes off.The brilliant cast also stars two veteran giants, Sydney Greenstreet as the mysterious Fat Man, and Peter Lorre as the equally mysterious Joel Cairo. The gunsel, played to the T by Elisha Cook Jr, is a classic role of superb supporting acting. What is this falcon, who has it, why do they think Spade has it or can get it, will he get it, what will happen when he does, and who killed Miles Archer?My only small critique of this masterpiece is that some of the scenes waiting and waiting could be cut a teeny bit to help move along the pace. But John Huston knows how to direct, and The Maltese Falcon is a must-see masterpiece for the ages. Enjoy.


                
Why? (1) Within the constraints of the Production Code of 1934, it is the most faithful literary adaptation produced in Golden Age Hollywood. (For those of you who prefer the 1931 Warner's version because it includes the sexual and gay material, REMEMBER that Huston could not OVERTLY include this in 1941, because of the PCA. The Code forced artists to become MORE creative, not less.) (2) It was the great John Huston's first film as a director; and it's arguably his best (and that's saying a lot). (3) It was then unheard of for a major Hollywood studio let the same man write AND direct the same film, and take credit for it on-screen. Prior to Huston, independents like Charles Chaplin were the only filmmakers who regularly did this. (4) Much to Jack Warner's horror, Huston shot the film IN SEQUENCE, so the actors could actually build their parts, like stage actors. (5) Acting in sequence, Bogart becomes more intense--in his superbly controlled fashion--up until the final moment. The last scene, when he delivers his big speech to Mary Astor, is the best screen acting you'll ever see, and it crackles with enough electricity to light San Francisco itself. (6) The entire cast is perfect: from the leads, to Sydney Greenstreet in his film debut, down to Ward Bond, playing Tom Polhaus EXACTLY as written by Dashiell Hammett. (Prefer the 1931 version? Ricardo Cortez was a good supporting and B-actor, but a real one-noter. Come on, folks. He wasn't fit to shine Bogie's shoes.) For more on this film, and EVERY film Humphrey Bogart made, check out my forthcoming (from McFarland) mammoth tome (20 years in the making), WARNER BROS. WISEGUYS: Starring EDWARD G. ROBINSON, JAMES CAGNEY and HUMPHREY BOGART. --Scott Allen Nollen


                
