As "classic" as this '41 version is, Roy Del Ruth's underrated original '31 version beats it out in a number of ways.Spade's relationship to women is much better defined in the original. Bogart kissing Archer's wife at the start of the '41 version feels like a throwaway. It's easy to forget they even had an affair half way through the movie. In the original it's a defining moment for Spade - painting him as a true womanizer. The film shows that Archer knows what's going on and isn't happy about it. Spade's happy/sleazy persona in the original makes much better sense than Bogart's tough, smirky one. While it's lovable, it doesn't service the drama as well. In the original, when Spade is alone with Ruth Wonderly at his place you wonder who is exploiting who and there's a lion's share of real sexual tension. It feels dirtier and truer despite being shot ten years earlier. It's great to watch.In Huston's remake, Bogart's too smart to be gotten and there's so little actual attraction it's all cat-and-mouse with no real chance of romance.When Ruth finally comes over to Bogart's apartment, Houston puts Cairo in the scene before the cops arrive. This kills all the sexual tension, turning it into more increasingly convoluted cat-and-mouse writing rather than something relatable.There are elements Huston added to the '41 version that further convolute the story. The entire scene in which Bogart messes with the Wilmer character in the hotel while speaking to Joel Cairo about his night at the police station is unnecessary and confusing. It's a scene that is smartly not in the '31 version.Lastly, the ending is so much more profound in the original that the '41 version doesn't hold a candle to it. "The stuff that dreams are made of" is a famous Bogart line, but is a sad compensation for the power of the original conclusion in which Ruth actually does fall for Sam, but he realizes it after it's far too late. The final scene takes place between them when he comes to visit her in prison, after getting a promotion. It's astonishingly heartbreaking and extraordinarily well done.History be damned.Incidentally Houston was nominated for a screen writing Oscar for this script. If you look at how much of the structure and screenplay remain the same in his remake, it's an outrageous nomination. The things Houston added actually detract from and confuse the narrative rather than making it better in any way.See the original!


                
After having heard so much about this movie over the years I was surprised to find it so dull and so poorly executed. Of course there are good things about it: Peter Lorre's performance, aspects of the script, Sidney Greenstreet, and various amusing moments: but overall it's a poor example of the genre. First is the ludicrous plot. I don't expect this kind of movie to be realistic but it should at least be plausible. The movie begins well but as soon as Peter Lorre arrives the plot becomes so preposterous that it's almost impossible to believe anything that's going on. And what is that falcon prop supposed to be? It looks like something found at a fairground. It is supposed to be a work of the Renaissance after all even though disguised. The resolution of the plot is excruciatingly boring. Bogart was never much more than passable and this is not one of his best performances. At times he's called upon to act and fails miserably. The whole love story is so perfunctory that it has no reality whatsoever.


                
The Maltese Falcon is a 1941 detective/crime noir film, directed by John Huston and stars Humphrey Bogart, Mary Astor and Lee Patrick. Often considered a classic by many, a masterpiece by some and overrated by others one thing is certainly for sure...I have never been so disappointed and my expectations of a classic movie completely crushed like I was with The Maltese Falcon. While it does have a few saving grace moments overall The Maltese Falcon is a rushed, terribly written and at times a unnecessarily confusing film with unlikable characters and uninteresting plot. Lets however start with the few 'saving grace' moments in the film, first of all the initial murder of Miles Archer fantastically introduces us to this gritty world filled with lies, deceit and corruption. The scene itself was very well shot and gives the story a strong start ( which unfortunately later falls apart), the next is the very ending scene in which Sam Spade (our protagonist) utters that famous line 'The stuff that dreams are made of' which ends the film brilliantly and completes both the character of Spade and the movie's narrative in a conclusive and well rounded manner. The rest however is a huge mess, the dialogue is rushed, many scenes often feel either completely unnecessary or cut off too short, failing therefore to buildup tension or suspense. The characters communicate in a very unrealistic manner, one minute arguing the next siding with each other and then back to arguing without any real reason, all while completely hurrying through their lines and lacking any emotion. However, the script writing is by far the worst part, more than to often Sam Spade often seems to stumble over his lines, ramble on and moan and whine his way through, completely butchering any care or likability we feel for his character. The same can be said about Mary Astor's character, one minute playing the damsel in distress and love interest- the next being a traitorous coward. Overall, The Maltese Falcon is a huge disappointment with awful script writing, bland uninteresting characters, an over complex plot, subplots that seem to go nowhere or are abandoned entirely, a simple plot device that seems to drive all motivations to the characters (yet has a very little part to play in the overall story), horrendously forced and rushed dialogue and badly crafted scenes either consisting of nonsensical rambling, long drawn out conversations that progress nowhere or cut short destroying any emotion, tension, drama, suspense or interest. 3/10


                
I am a big fan of noir, classic Hollywood and Humphrey Bogart, so I was excited to see this movie after hearing so much about it. I was disappointed. The plot is messy, the acting is stilted and unnatural, and the writing is underwhelming. It isn't the worst thing in the world, it has some good scenes, but I don't think it's the best of classic Hollywood, nor of film noir, nor even of Humphrey bogart (see 'The Big Sleep', 'Treasure of the Sierra Madre' etc.)


                
