This one of the all-time grand films , a classic Noir Film with gritty interpretation , atmospheric settings and powerhouse filmmaking , at John Huston's first effort directorial . This is a story as explosive as his blazing automatics . Womanizer Sam Sapade is a two-fisted and cynical private detective operating in the big city . When his secretary tells him the new customer (Mary Astor) waiting outside his office is a knockout, he wastes no time before seeing her. It turns out she's a knockout with money. And she wants to spend it on his services as a private detective . This lovely dame with dangerous lies employs the services of the notorious private detective . She has some story about wanting to protect her sister. Neither he nor his partner, Miles Archer, believes it. But with the money she's paying, who cares? The job proves to be more dangerous than either of them expected. It involves not just the lovely dame with the dangerous lies, but also the sweaty Casper Gutman (Sidney Greenstreet) , the fey Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) , and the thuggish young Wilmer Cook (Elisha Cook Jr) . Three crooks, and all of them are looking for the statuette of a black bird they call the Maltese Falcon . Spade is quickly caught up in the mystery and intrigue of a statuette known as the Maltese Falcon . As Sam fights to get hold of a black bird ¨the stuff that dreams are made¨ (a line suggested by Humphrey Bogart was voted as the #14 movie quote by the American Film Institute) . This first-rate and entertaining picture draws its riveting tale and power from the interaction of finely drawn roles as well as drama , emotion and moody atmosphere . This classic mystery thriller follows Dashiell Hammett's book fairly closely otherwise , he also wrote ¨The thin man¨. Twisted film Noir about murders , troubled relationships , treason , dark secrets , including an unforgettable dialog ; being based on the novel ¨The Maltese Falcon¨¨and screen-written by the same Huston . Frustrated at seeing his script for Juárez (1939) rewritten by Paul Muni, the film's star, John Huston vowed that from then on he would direct his own screenplays and therefore not have to see them get meddled with. He was fortunate in that he had a staunch ally in the form of producer Henry Blanke who was happy to fulfill Huston's wish. Word-for-word and scene-for-scene virtually the same as the original novel. It packs a good realization , an original script , haunting atmosphere , intriguing events ; for that reason madness and murder prevail .The climactic confrontation scene lasts nearly 20 minutes, one-fifth of the entire running time of the film. It involves all five principal characters, and filming required over one full week . Here Bogart is extraordinary and as cool as ever ; he plays as the tough-talking P.I. Although George Raft was originally cast as Sam Spade , he allegedly turned it down because it was "not an important picture," taking advantage of a clause in his contract that said he did not have to work on remakes . For decades this film could not be legally shown on US television stations because of its underlying suggestions of "illicit" sexual activity among the characters (i.e., O'Shaughnessy's promiscuity, indications that Joel Cairo was a homosexual). Much of the movie is filmed over Humphrey Bogart's shoulder so that the audience can be in on his point of view. His scenes with Mary Astor are awesome and at their best compared to those he subsequently shared with Lauren Bacall in ¨Dark passage¨ , ¨Key Largo¨ , ¨The big sleep¨ and ¨To have and to have not¨ . The couple Bogart-Astor throws in enough sparks to ignite several lighters . This was the first pairing of cynical Humphrey Bogart and Femme Fatale Mary Astor . Mary Astor's off-screen notoriety was instrumental in her casting , she had been in several scandals concerning affairs she had been involved in during her marriage. And she was having an affair with John Huston during the making of the film. Magnificent support cast , here was the first pairing of Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre, who would go on to make nine more movies together. Exciting as well as complex film , possessing a mysterious and fascinating blend of gripping thriller , serenity , baroque suspense in which especially stands out the portentous performances , evocative cinematography in black and white by Arthur Edeson and magnificent musical score by the classic Adolph Deutsch . And also shown in horrible computer-colored version . The motion picture was masterfully directed by John Huston ; filming was completed in two months at a cost of less than $300,000. A former version in 1931 by Roy Del Ruth , it was also pretty good starred by Bebe Daniels as Ruth Wonderly , Ricardo Cortez as Sam Spade , Dudley Digges as Casper Gutman and Una Merkel as Effie Perine . In fact , Warner Bros. planned to change the name of the film to "The Gent from Frisco" because the novel's title had already been used for this The Maltese Falcon (1931) , the studio eventually agreed to keep the original title at John Huston's insistence.


                
A great film noir featuring the hugely talented and suave Humphrey Bogart. Bogart was a phenomenal character, playing the smooth detective. The story was very unpredictable and had several plot twists that kept my interest in the film. The action was very fast-paced and exciting. The lighting was very dramatic causing sharp shadows and low-lit streets which cause for an eerie and suspenseful style. The visual composition was very well done and the editing was flawless. Though the ending didn't provide all the information or tie up every single loose end, it was still satisfying and mysterious. Overall it was a great film for anyone who enjoys film noir.
Among the movies we not only love but treasure, "The Maltese Falcon" stands as one of those films. Consider what was true after its release in 1941 and was not true before:(1) The movie defined Humphrey Bogart's performances for the rest of his life; his hard-boiled Sam Spade rescued him from a decade of middling roles in B gangster movies and positioned him for "Casablanca," "Treasure of the Sierra Madre," "The African Queen" and his other classics. (2) It was the first film directed by John Huston, who for more than 40 years would be a prolific maker of movies that were muscular, stylish and daring. (3) It contained the first screen appearance of Sydney Greenstreet, who went on, in "Casablanca" and many other films, to become one of the most striking character actors in movie history. (4) It was the first pairing of Greenstreet and Peter Lorre, and so well did they work together that they made nine other movies, including "Casablanca" in 1942 and "The Mask of Dimitrios" (1944), in which they were not supporting actors but actually the stars. (5) And some film histories consider "The Maltese Falcon" the first film noir.The moment that sticks out for me comes near the end, when Brigid O'Shaughnessy (Mary Astor) has been collared for murdering Spade's partner. She says she loves Spade. She asks if Sam loves her. She pleads for him to spare her from the law. And he replies, in a speech some people can quote by heart, "I hope they don't hang you, precious, by that sweet neck. . . . The chances are you'll get off with life. That means if you're a good girl, you'll be out in 20 years. I'll be waiting for you. If they hang you, I'll always remember you."Spade is cold and hard, like his name. When he gets the news that his partner has been murdered, he doesn't blink an eye. Didn't like the guy. Kisses his widow the moment they're alone together. Beats up Joel Cairo (Lorre), loses patience with Greenstreet, throws his cigar into the fire, smashes his glass, barks out a threat, slams the door and then grins to himself in the hallway, amused by his own act.If he didn't like his partner, Spade nevertheless observes a sort of code involving his death. "When a man's partner is killed," he tells Brigid, "he's supposed to do something about it." He doesn't like the cops, either; the only person he really seems to like is his secretary, Effie (Lee Patrick), who sits on his desk, lights his cigarettes, knows his sins and accepts them. How does Bogart make a character get away with making such a dark guy the hero of a film? Because he does his job according to the rules he lives by, and because we sense (as we always would with Bogart after this role) that the toughness conceals old wounds and broken dreams.The plot is the last thing you think of about. The Maltese Falcon is a black bird (said to be made of gold and encrusted with jewels) has been stolen, men have been killed for it, and now Gutman (Greenstreet) has arrived with his lackeys (Lorre and Elisha Cook Jr.) to get it back. Spade gets involved because the Mary Astor character hires him to--but the plot goes around and around, and eventually we realize that the black bird is an example of Hitchcock's "MacGuffin"--it doesn't matter what it is, so long as everyone in the story wants or fears it.To describe the plot in a linear and logical fashion is almost impossible. That doesn't matter. The movie is essentially a series of conversations punctuated by brief, violent interludes. It's all style. It isn't violence or chases, but the way the actors look, move, speak and embody their characters. Under the style is attitude: Hard men, in a hard season, in a society emerging from Depression and heading for war, are motivated by greed and capable of murder. For an hourly fee, Sam Spade will negotiate this terrain. Everything there is to know about Sam Spade is contained in the scene where Bridget asks for his help and he criticizes her performance: "You're good. It's chiefly your eyes, I think--and that throb you get in your voice when you say things like, 'be generous, Mr. Spade.'"
"The Maltese Falcon" is the unforgettable, groundbreaking crime drama which is regarded by many as the first film noir of the classic period. Its significance in Hollywood history is enormous as it provided John Huston with his directorial debut and Humphrey Bogart with the role which made him into a major star. Huston's screenplay famously remained very faithful to the style of dialogue used in Dashiell Hammett's book and in so doing provided some wonderfully economic and incisive lines, particularly for Bogart's character.Bogart's role also had a broader significance because as Sam Spade, he brought to the screen a new type of hard boiled detective who was destined to become the template for a whole succession of others who would appear in numerous films noirs particularly in the 1940s and 1950s. These men would be morally ambiguous , fast talking tough guys who had a cynical attitude to the world and who lived by their own set of principles.Sam Spade is no one's idea of nice guy. He keeps his emotions armour plated and when his business partner is suddenly murdered shows no concern of any sort. He had also been having an affair with his partner's wife but in his dealings with her, he also seems rather cold and offhand. Despite these characteristics and his obviously jaundiced attitude to life and people, his character is redeemed to some extent by a subtle quality which Bogart's innate charisma brings to the part.In "The Maltese Falcon" Spade is hired by a Miss Wonderley (Mary Astor) to find her sister. This job leads to the death of his partner Miles Archer (Jerome Cowan) and shortly after, to the murder of the alleged seducer of Miss Wonderley's sister. Miss Wonderley then contacts Spade and tells him that her real name is Brigid O'Shaughnessy and that the story about her sister had been as false as the name she'd given him and she then pays him to find out who was responsible for the two murders.Spade's subsequent investigations bring him into contact with Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre), the "Fat Man" Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet) and his henchman Wilmer (Elisha Cook Jnr.) and it becomes apparent that they are all on a ruthless quest to locate the priceless statuette called "The Maltese Falcon". Furthermore, he discovers that O'Shaughnessy's earlier subterfuge had been linked to the fact that she also had been trying to find the "Falcon". Spade eventually identifies the murderer and informs the police who go on to arrest the culprit.Brigid O'Shaughnessy had acted naive, timid and vulnerable when she had first encountered Spade but his natural scepticism prevented him from being taken in by her. Joel Cairo was a small, nervy, effeminate man and Wlmer was generally a silent presence during Spade's conversations with the "Fat Man". Gutman was sophisticated, good humoured and friendly on the surface but was also extremely dangerous and untrustworthy. He also delivers some amusing and eccentric lines such as when speaking to Spade he says "Now Sir, we'll talk if you like and I'll tell you right out that I'm a man who likes talking to a man that likes to talk".Bogart and Huston worked well together and went on to collaborate on other major successes such as "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" (1948), "Key Largo" (1948) and "The African Queen" (1951). "The Maltese Falcon" was also a great box office success, was well received by the critics and was also nominated for Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor (Sydney Greenstreet) and Best Adapted Screenplay (John Huston).
This film is known for being the definitive film noir. Twists, capers, madmen, seduction, betrayal, and murder, and all for what? A desirable object that may or may not be what we all hope it to be. This film is a classic statement on the human race, as a creature, or a population of greedy, powerful men. Bogart is swift and smooth,doing what he does best in this crime/drama. Many films that capture, or try to capture the same essence that this film creates are such movies as "Entrapment" and "Wild Things". The latter movie turned out to be a rather different story, but the previous is a good example of a modern film noir. The statement made at the end of the film describes the falcon as "the stuff dreams are made of". Back in 1941, we as humans were not ready to have this kind of power, and now, that propositions still goes today. "Sphere" has a good way of telling the same story at the end as Dustin Hoffmann explains that the human race cannot handle having a power of manifestation. Even though that is a totally different movie, it is still the same message to be said. It's a shame the message has been muddied all over in the past 60+ years. Maybe we will realize this again, until then? We as creatures are evil, greedy beings. Will there ever be an end???
Private "dick" Sam Spade loses his partner to murder and finds himself surrounded by dubious characters searching for a precious antique.So much has been written about this film that it seems churlish and obvious to start repeating and paraphrasing. Certainly it delivers lightweight thrills, set pieces and sharp one-liners as well as any low budget film and is almost a template for the thousand laconic private-eye movies (serious and otherwise) that followed.It also set Humphrey Bogart on the road to being the ultimate (film) private detective: A wonderful invention in that they  can be both criminal and policeman as convenience dictates. However, at the risk of seeming negative too soon, there is plenty of things wrong with this movie, most notably the one-dimensional back-of-a-cigarette-packet plot. Where is the suspense when pointing a gun at our hero makes no difference to his demeanour? Do we really believe that the villains will outwit Spade and  actually carry off their quarry? Or that Spade will fall for the lame excuses and explanations given in the movie?Bogart is one of those actors that tries not to gesture or even blink. Variety comes by way of  talking in double time or wisecracking. It really reminds me of what Robert De Niro said about acting "people don't show emotions - they try to hide them." The death of his partner (one of the driving points of this movie) doesn't seem to upset him too much, his first thoughts are about removing his name from the door! However, despite his lack of height or conventional good looks, the camera loves him and that is all that matters. He is cooler than a snowman in a  North Pole blizzard.Lorre and Greenstreet are rolled in almost like a comedy double act, with all the menace of second-hand car salesmen (however many guns they pull out). We know that cheats don't prosper in this Warner Brothers film noir world, but they obviously haven't read the rules. They still seem to enjoy their moment of being "king of the castle" and chew the furniture to order, but these people are clearly not in our hero's league.While highly enjoyable, the Maltese Falcon hardly takes cinema to new levels. If Bogart had not made this movie, but everything else had stayed the same, it would be a totally forgotten work - like the prior version of this same film.Arm Bogie with a few one-liners, dress him in a dirty raincoat and plonk him on those cheap  hardboard-and-smoke Warner Brothers sets and you have solid gold. You just can't go wrong. We will never see his like again...


                
A delightful dedicated cast makes this movie stand-out and when you throw in a good story and a good director we have gold or better known as a classic. Once this movie begins, you are drawn in especially as it unfolds. The character of Sam Spade should have been repeated multiple times as Bogie made it so special. The mystery that surrounds the statuette is done so well that you can't wait for it to be revealed. Consider a snack while watching with a tasty drink. One of the greats and because it is....


                
This was a beautifully shot noir film, the picture itself was amazing to see. But on top of the aesthetics of the film the story was exciting from beginning to end with all of the twists and turns taken throughout. The audience slowly finds out who the main character really is after they are misled time and time again. It was a very exciting film to watch and a wonderful example of film-noir.


                
I really enjoyed this film. This film is an early noir film and I thought it really lived up to expectations. The film keeps you interested all the way through and is kind of fun being and early detective film as well. The acting is really superb and every character seem to have an actor perfect for their role. The lighting and camera work are good in this film but nothing special. I would highly recommend this film to detective movie fans or honestly movie fans in general. Overall a very good film.


                
I liked THE MALTESE FALCON and think it's a very good example of Warner Brothers Film Noir. However, for me, I can't see why this is among the very highest rated Bogart films on IMDb. Of course CASABLANCA is rated highest (this is no surprise), but I actually preferred a few of Bogart's less famous films over THE MALTESE FALCON (such as THE CAINE MUTINY). Instead of discussing all that has already been stated in many other reviews, I'll explain the one failing I noticed in this otherwise exceptional film. Despite the film being Noir, it had a surprisingly small amount of action and towards the end, it is way too talky as they explained the plot--sort of like they were filling in the missing pieces--most of which seemed like guesswork on Sam Spade's part. I really think the script could have been tightened up in this regard. Still, with exceptional supporting actors, a great cynical performance by Bogie AND the best last ten minutes you'll find in almost any film, it still is an exceptional film--well worth seeing.Also, I recently saw the 1931 MALTESE FALCON starring Ricardo Cortez. While Cortez was not as exciting in the lead as Bogart, the film was in many places word-for-word the same film. Dudley Diggs' version of the Fat Man was also essentially copied by Sidney Greenstreet a decade later.By the way, I have never seen an explanation for this, but I noticed one odd thing about the film. When Sidney Greenstreet is slashing at the statue and yelling, the voice does not appear to be his but was dubbed by another actor. I've seen the film several times and last time I even reviewed this scene and it just doesn't sound like him (actually, it sounds a little like Claude Rains). I assume it was inserted sloppily later but am surprised others didn't point this out as well. If you can help explain this, drop me a line.


                
This here, folks, is a classy movie. Sam Spade has got to be one of the coolest characters I've ever seen, played by the ever-slick Humphrey Bogart in his break-out role. The rest of the cast were great as well, especially Astor and Lorre. The plot kept me guessing until the final frame, and that last shot was phenomenal. I was very impressed by many of the shots in this movie, John Huston did a very good job directing this masterpiece. If you area fan of mystery films, don't put this one off any longer! It is one of the all-time classics, and deservedly so. Everything comes together perfectly, leading to a great ending, and a classic closing line.8/10


                
This is undeniably an excellent movie, a fun movie, and one of my personal favorites. But taking my umpteen-and-fourth look at it, I came to a few realizations. What they amount to is that Huston's directorial debut was not as sure-footed as is generally thought. There are several very strangely edited scenes that suggest the editor needed to re-work the storytelling considerably in several places.Spade's second scene with Iva Archer clearly has a big piece hacked out of it. The scene is just getting worked up to something when there's a bad cut, and Spade tells Iva to go home. It revolves around the question of where Iva was at the time her husband was murdered, but the way it's cut, the question is brought up and then dropped rather unceremoniously. My assumption is that the scene was a red herring about whether or not she might have killed him, and it was later deemed unnecessary.Simiarly, the scene when they examine the Falcon has one cut to a very peculiar angle of Gutman, the only time this angle appears in the scene. Since every other angle is used two or three times at least, it suggests that there was a big chunk cut out here, where Gutman talks to Cairo about whether or not they should undertake the quest to Istanbul. Immediately after this cut, Cairo is suddenly on his feet and his attitude has changed significantly.Also in this scene, Gutman has two short but key lines that are clearly dubbed after the fact, and probably not even by Sidney Greenstreet himself - the voice sounds like anoher actor. While I don't want to reveal the lines because they involve a spoiler, it's obvious that the story was not clear enough as shot. There's also a shot that appears to be a single frame step-printed to create a short shot that didn't exist in the footage. Finally, Spade's last big scene with Bridgit O'Shaugnessy is kind of rambling and, if examined closely, has a minor continuity break. It feels like this scene has been re-arranged, that the different beats of it came in another order, or perhaps they are two different versions of the scene cut together. Of course, this is a long scene, ant it may simply be that the pieces of it, shot on different days, weren't matched very well in terms of angles and lighting.I'm not suggesting that this kind of editing was anything unusual. I daresay that an examination of another Hollywood picture of the era, if done with the same level of scrutiny, would turn up just as much editorial reworking. But the "classic" status of the FALCON makes these small discoveries very interesting. I would add that this movie was probably made very quickly, which would easily account for small mistakes and reconsiderations that needed to be made in the cutting room. I say this because, from a production point of view, it was clearly a lower-budget film that the studio ground out. The director - John Huston, was a screenwriter who got the to direct by offering to script it for free. None of the cast were major stars when the film was made. Bogart had only made one film of any significance in which he had the lead - High Sierra - made the same year. Mary Astor's star had peaked years before and was already waning. It was Sidney Greenstreet's screen debut. Peter Lorre was best known (in the US) for his series of MR. MOTO programmers, all relatively low-budget affairs. There are only two or three large sets used in the entire film - the usual street set, the lobby of the Hotel Belvedere, and the docks where the La Paloma is burning. Everything else is shot in offices, apartments and lobbies. They're probably all standing sets easily re-dressed for different films. There are no action sequences; I think there's only one stunt-man in the film, where Miles Archer is shot and rolls down the embankment. There are no car chases; I'm not sure if there's even a shot of a car in motion. It's mostly people talking and giving each other looks. In other words, it was cheap, and lower-budget films were usually shot on a tight schedule, perhaps four weeks.What makes it a great film is lively performances, deep directorial insight into the characters, intense camera angles, and a well-conceived plot that keeps you interested. (BTW, most of the dialogue comes directly from Dashiell Hammett's novel. The art of writing this screenplay was choosing which pieces to use.) What makes it fascinating is that none of the characters is easy to define. They are all untrustworthy, all hard to read, all concealing their true natures.It's probably worth an umpteen-and-fifth look.


                
Excellent, fun, and full of suspense! The Maltese Falcon is a fantastic film that grabs the audiences attention with suspenseful drama and such. Humphrey Bogart is amazing in this film and his character is extremely unique. Director John Huston is also a great guy and he makes this film really stand out. The Cinematography is brilliant and really defines the film. This film is most definitely a classic and recommending this to all would be a smart thing to do. Despite this film coming out in 1941 it still is a must watch because its a classic that must be appreciated. Everything in this film works so well and its a down right masterpiece.


                
"When a man's partner is killed, a man's expected to do something about it." So says HUMPHREY BOGART in his star-making role under John Huston's direction in this taut thriller from a Raymond Chandler novel.Bogart handles all of his crisp, tough guy dialog in fine form, very expressive in the way he gazes suspiciously at the lying MARY ASTOR as the story's femme fatale--or in the sly way he deals with SYDNEY GREENSTREET, PETER LORRE or ELISHA COOK, JR. He actually becomes Sam Spade, as if he understands the character inside out.And contrary to others, I have to say that Astor (while looking a little matronly with that unbecoming '40s hair-do), does an equally fine job as the conniving woman who's at the bottom of a greedy plot. Astor has some great scenes where the camera looks into her eyes and sees all the complexities beneath the surface as she deals with others in a very nervous manner while she spins a web of lies that are making her uneasy. She's brilliant in the role.The cast does a tremendous job of bringing the story to life--and so, of course, does John Huston, who has firm control over the style of this extraordinary film noir. Interesting that he gave a bit role to his famous father, Walter Huston, who has a brief part as Captain Jacoby, clutching the sought after icon before he dies from a gunshot wound.Elisha Cook, Jr. does a standout job as Wilmer, tears streaking down his face when he has to take verbal abuse from Sam Spade. And, of course, Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet were so impressive that they were paired in many a Warner film after this.By all means, well worth seeing and enjoying, fully deserving its reputation as a classic film noir.


                
I don't think I've ever seen such a faithful, pitch-perfect film adaptation of a novel.  True, Hammett's "Maltese Falcon" does feature a nude scene and more explicit references to homosexuality, but aside from that, this film is missing nothing (and, arguably, it's all the better for avoiding the "direct" approach to certain issues).  All you need to do is look at the other film versions of the same book to see that only this one is a classic; only this one really captures the right tone.Of course, that tone is somewhat unpleasant; Spade is not the nicest character, and everyone else is worse.  It's perhaps hard to swallow that Spade would deceive and cheat his partner in so many ways, but then get worked up about the man's death.  But I can buy it; aren't we all fallible and inconsistent?  Certainly, Philip Marlowe presents a more likable figure in "The Big Sleep," but Spade is clearly a more well-defined character.The trouble is, "The Big Sleep" is noticeably more modern than this movie, and more entertaining.  By comparison, "The Maltese Falcon" is not terribly sexy (I'm not sure that Astor works as a seductress) and rather slow-paced. However, these two sins don't detract (much) from the film's success.  The supporting cast is so perfect (aren't Greenstreet and Lorre just the greatest character actors of all time?) and the music is so evocative that I can forgive the odd slip or slowdown.A perhaps pointless aside: Susan Sontag calls this a "camp" film, probably because it tries very hard to be serious but is, in fact, exaggerated and a bit silly.  But exaggeration is exactly what the detective genre, and the original novel, are all about.  "The Maltese Falcon" has no cause to be embarrassed by its camp label, then.  It accomplishes what it sets out to do - it entertains while telling a rather lurid, over-the-top cautionary tale about greed and deception.


                
The Maltese Falcon is probably the best of the hard boiled detective films ever to be produced by Hollywood.  Start off with a great story, and throw in a great actor to play Sam Spade.  Bogart is crafty as Spade.  He plays both sides in his hunt to find out who killed his partner.  It all adds up to a mysterious black bird that men will pay handsomely for.  An odd assortment of characters drifts into Sam's life.  Brigid O'Shaunessy, a mysterious woman who may know more than she knows.  A strange little man named Cairo who wants the bird.  Mr. Gutman, also known as the Fatman who is willing to pay Spade an exorbant amount of money for the bird.  The great fun in the film is watching the scenes of double crossing and outsmarting. Spade doesn't have the bird, but he plays his hand like he has it and in doing so, learns more about the bird, and to what means people will do to get it.  In the end, when all is said and done, Spade sums up what the bird is, the stuff dreams are made of.  Great entertainment that has rarely been copied.


                
The Maltese Falcon isn't about the treasure of legend. Its about Private Detective Sam Spade's undertaking to find it. Humphrey Bogart play the part of aloof detective perfectly. Yet even though Sam doesn't personally care about anything in the mystery he still controls the scenes. The rest of the cast's performance don't match his but do perform considerably well. Although Mary Astor's performance as Brigid O'Shaughnessy is lacking. She never gives the impression she has any sort of plan or purpose, that she is weaving things behind the scenes, even though the script tells us she does. This stands out starkly when Sam and Brigid are alone together. The mystery is quite intricate as well, never once confusing the viewer but still not letting on any concrete clues. One flaw is that the score does not match the tone of the film. Whenever Sam successfully tricks another character in the film dainty lighthearted music plays. Supposedly this is to inform the viewer this is a clever "I gotcha" moment but it is unnecessary and lasts too long. Dainty music does not fit well in a dark crime mystery. Bogart's great performance holds this film together despite some immersion breaking flaws.


                
I really enjoyed watching The Maltese Falcon. Film Noirs are always exciting to watch to me. It takes place in San Francisco and is about two partners, Sam Spade and Miles Archer, who are both detectives. A woman by the name of Miss Ruth Wonderly entered their office one night in hopes of hiring them to help her find her sister that is missing. Chaos breaks out the night Mrs. Wonderly came and asked them for help. Archer was killed while he was tailing a man. Nobody is who they say they are and Sam didn't realize what he had gotten himself into when he agreed to help Mrs. Wonderly. People are dying all over the place and people are put in danger all because they were in search of a golden statue of a falcon. Sam confronts "Mrs Wonderly" who was now known as Brigid O'Shaughnessy at the end of the movie about killing Archer where she admits that she did but begged him to not turn her in. Sam ended up turning her in and ending her life of crime and destruction that she was living. The lighting changes a lot throughout the movie as well as the lengths of long and short takes. They both change a lot throughout the film. The Maltese Falcon was entertaining to watch!
John Huston (director of The Maltese Falcon) did an amazing job by keeping the viewers on their feet. By the two murders, the guy who follows Sam everywhere, and how Joel Cairo and Sam have their problems. For example, when Cairo comes into Sam's office and threatens him, I thought that scene was great for keeping the viewers interested. Also, another scene like that is when Sam sets up a meeting for Cairo and Brigid and the cops intrude. I loved the drama in the film. Huston used some close-up shots to display the items or scenes that you needed to be focused on. He also uses low-angle shots looking up at Gutman when Sam and Gutman have their meeting and a "drink" about the falcon. I also love how everything ends up in the end, you never know what's going to happen.


                
The Maltese Falcon was another great film that included Humphrey Bogart. Bogart's character in the film keeps the suspense going until the end when he states who killed Miles Archer, his partner in a San Francisco detective agency.A lot of long takes are used in this film during scenes of conversation on matters of trying to solve a murder mystery. There are also some scenes that include short fast takes of being zoomed in on individual faces to help us connect with each to see how they are reacting to the investigation.The dialogue of the film was creatively done to keep my interest as the film went on. The lighting on the movie was a lot of shadow and dim lighting to portray a setting of despair and unknown.The majority of the film is based on speech rather than physical action. Which in return the audience must pay close attention to so not to miss important details. This kind of directing and writing by John Huston creates a different type of film for audience to enjoy while along with the characters trying to solve the mystery.The search for the Maltese Falcon Bogart is able to solve the crime while keeping the Maltese Falcon. Ending of the movie is the best part for me with the conversation between Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) and Brigid O'Shaughnessy (Mary Astor) and him expressing his true feelings for her but that he must do the right thing for what she has done. His dedication to his job takes over his feelings. Money being the root of evil is the main reason for all this fuss over a Falcon that had no real significance all along. The Stuff that Dreams are Made of.... can turn out to be nothing but a nightmare.
This is supposedly one of the first of the film noir genre, but I ask, what's the big fuss here?Humphrey Bogart is Sam Spade and his partner, played by Jerome Cowan who briefly appears, is murdered.Before the murder, both guys are visited by Mary Astor, who in reality, steals the film. A very complex woman, Astor first comes across as sympathetic and vulnerable, but as the film goes on, she is shown to be in the thick of murder and intrigue. For sure, she is certainly the femme fatale here. Lee Patrick is convincing as the widow of Cowan, who really loved Spade. Peter Laurie is up to his old cynicism as ever and Sydney Greenstreet again proves that he shall do whatever is possible to gain his objective, no matter how sinister he has to be.The plot of trying to retrieve a valuable falcon statue from the crusade period is rather average at best.
A main focus of this film was the relationship between the characters, more so how they interacted with each other, not necessarily how they changed in the end. Sort of like a chain reaction? Spade takes on a case, his partner ends up killed and that sets off the entire movie. Though Spade seemed indifferent towards the death of his partner, and was rather a little intimate with his wife, his motives were clear if you ask me. He was going to get revenge, but Spade isn't the kind of person to just go about and spill his true feelings to anyone. I find that the movie did its job with the interactions and relationships. The script was well done and it helped you along the way. Who really did kill who? What's the real motive and why? The Maltese Falcon was well done Crime Drama considering it's based off a novel.
Structurally speaking, John Huston's film is rooted very much in the quota-quickie tradition. It is mostly shot in the studio, with some stock footage at the beginning of San Francisco; and the action zips by at a cracking pace in a series of sequences shot mostly in close- ups and two-shots, with the occasional zoom in on the characters' faces to signal some dramatic moment. Lighting effects are straightforward yet meaningful, such as the mirror-image of the sign outside Sam Spade's (Humphrey Bogart's) reflected on one of the interior walls, making us aware of the cramped environment in which the private detective operates.On the other hand, THE MALTESE FALCON remains a classic of its kind, due in so small part to the quality of John Huston's script and the memorable individual performances. As Spade, Bogart comes across as a tough, no-nonsense personality; but at the same time blessed with a sense of humor. After having lost his temper with Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet), we see him leaving Gutman's apartment and grinning to himself as he makes for the elevator. What we've just seen is a deliberate performance from Spade, designed to intimidate Gutman in spite of Gutman's bulk. On other occasions Spade registers his increasing strain with a grimace; after he wakes up from being drugged by Gutman, and kicked in the head by Gutman's sidekick Wilmer (Elisha Cook jnr.), he grimaces twice and totters towards the washstand, in an attempt to recover his sang-froid. The fact that he manages to do so is evidence of his tough, uncompromising nature. Bogart's characterization contrasts with that of Mary Astor as Brigid O'Shaughnessy - an actress par excellence, she possesses the ability to turn on vulnerability at will in order to persuade men to 'protect' her. The fact that she doesn't need protection explains why she is so dangerous; no one, it seems, can get to the bottom of her character, not even Spade. When, at the end of the film, she declares her love for the detective, we cannot quite believe her; and therefore we sympathize with Spade's eventual course of action.Peter Lorre turns in a memorable cameo as Joel Cairo - a fastidious, bespoke-suited person with white gloves and an elegant top hat. He seems the kind of person who should be capable of avoiding conflict, yet he keeps encountering it with unerring regularity, and coming off second best. His first confrontation with Space is especially memorable, as he holds up the detective with a shotgun, yet finds himself rapidly frisked of his possessions. Lorre's diminutive figure contrasts with that of the gargantuan Greenstreet as the master-criminal in search of the eponymous falcon. He manages to keep his cool even during the most stressful situations - aware, perhaps, that he holds most of the financial and muscular aces.The plot is a complicated one, but really does not matter in a film that is nothing less than a feast of great acting, with the entire cast at their best.


                
Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) and Miles Archer run a private detective agency in San Francisco. The Maltese Falcon is a golden jewel encrusted statue that the Knight Templars of Malta sent to Charles V of Spain in 1539 that was stolen by pirates. Miss Wanderly comes in to hire Sam to help recover her missing sister for $200. She is to meet Floyd Thursby that night with Miles following her. However Miles is shot dead that night and so is Thursby. Sam had been having an affair with Miles' wife Iva (Gladys George) and is a suspect for everybody. Miss Wanderly is actually Brigid O'Shaughnessy (Mary Astor) and she tells Sam that Thursby was her partner coming from HongKong. She begs him for his help but he doesn't trust her. Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre), with gardenia scented calling cards, offers to pay $5000 for the Maltese Falcon but also held a gun on him. Sam gathers Brigid and Joel Cairo together. She reveals that the 'Fat Man' is around who turns out to be Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet).The crackling dialog comes fast and furious. It's a tough thing to get all at once. It's a great noir hard-boiled film. The character are hardnosed and classic. It's a complicated story with a lot of exposition to follow. That's its biggest weakness and its most enduring fascination. It's a story where everybody is a liar and nobody reveals the truth easily. Peter Lorre is absolutely devilishly creepy in his memorable role. He is part of what makes this a true classic.


                
The film had a great mystery (Which I wasn't spoiled on!) and a really diverse and interesting set of characters. Usually movies of this variety use their main character as a moral center; I really enjoyed that the Maltese Falcon didn't quite do that. Sure, Sam was our protagonist, but he was rough around the ages and put his feelings before those around him. That being said, my favorite relationship in the film was between him and his girl Friday, Effie. They worked against each other seamlessly and I would have gladly watched an entire movie about them. As film noir goes, this is up there for me in favorites.


                
