The Forties were the years when Hollywood decided that the mystery thriller deserved big-budget, big-star treatment, threw up a new kind of hero who was exactly right for his time: they were the fabulous years which established the private eye adventure as the irremovable all-time favorite in the whole field of suspense<U+0085> The field was so rich, the choice so lavish in that decade, that it was difficult to know where memory should stop and call "Encore".As the author of the screenplay, Huston made every effort to do justice, and remain faithful, to Dashiell Hammett's novel<U+0085> But in remaining faithful, the newest version asked audiences to accept the complicated plot at its full strength and that is where the film's main flaw occurs<U+0085> Names, murders, and intrigues turn up so quickly that it is extremely difficult to understand exactly what is happening in this tale of an assortment of characters in search of a fabulous jewel-encrusted statue<U+0085> Probably in no other film will a viewer find a gallery of such diverse human beings whose perfect1y constructed portrayals remain permanently locked in one's memory<U+0085> Mary Astor's Brigid O'Shaughnessy is a striking picture of feminine deceit and betrayal<U+0085> Able to shed tears on command, she is a confirmed liar who can be as deadly as she is beautiful; she can make passionate love to Bogart, but wouldn't hesitate a moment to kill him if it suited her plan<U+0085> Her performance is surely one of the screen's most brilliant portrayals of duplicity masked with fascination<U+0085> Sydney Greenstreet, in his movie debut, was equally memorable as the menacingly mountainous man behind the search for the elusive black bird, and almost stole the picture<U+0085> Cunning, determined, appreciative of the fine arts, Greenstreet<U+0097>who seemed to get more dangerous as he got more imperturbably polite<U+0097>is a man who would devote his entire life to a single quest if need be<U+0085> Peter Lorre's Joel Cairo was a resolute picture of classic villainy<U+0085> With curled hair and impeccably clean dress, he is an unpredictable accomplice of Greenstreet, difficult to deal with<U+0085> But it is Bogart's portrayal of Sam Spade that remains classic in its construction<U+0085> Obviously cynical, he still maintains his own code of ethics which he adheres to faithfully<U+0085> He is doubtful, but not foolhardy<U+0085> He is courageous, but not without fear<U+0085> Spade uses everyone he comes in contact with<U+0085> He wins not because he's smarter than his enemies, but because he is the only character in a central position<U+0085> Spade is every bit as ruthless as the crooks who try to use him<U+0085> His tactics in dealing with them, however, are necessary for his survival...His treatment of the two women in the film seems equally as harsh, but neither is a wide eyed innocent and both attempt to deceive him in one manner or another<U+0085> His exchanges with Brigid O'Shaughnessy are electric... Their mutual attraction is undeniable... But Spade will play the fool for no woman<U+0085> He is a loner, but he has contacts, and knows where to go for what he wants<U+0085> Even with very little money, he is totally incorruptible<U+0085> He has no apparent friends<U+0085> He is laconic, but he can throw a wisecrack as fast as he can throw a punch..."The Maltese Falcon" molded the image we remember of Bogart all through the early years of the Forties<U+0097>an image elaborated upon and reinforced in "Casablanca," and the one which all Bogart fans remember with great affection and admiration<U+0085>
"The Maltese Falcon" would be nothing without the muscular, cynical, and very entertaining lead performance from Humphrey Bogart. Well, 'nothing' maybe a bit of an overstatement- the film is inventive and interesting otherwise but Bogart's performance makes the film. This film established his career, helping him escape the dozens of cheap crime films he was in prior to this film. It's easy to see why audiences were impressed with his charismatic portrayal of no-nonsense tough guy Sam Spade. I wasn't overly impressed with Mary Astor's performance in the film; she wasn't a compelling love interest and failed to live up to the script's strong characterization. Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre, however, completely make up for Astor's performance.This film was John Huston's debut film, and it doesn't really feel like a debut film. It's quite accomplished, actually. The film is heavily stylized, perhaps more than any other film before it. It is also unflinching in its moral ambiguity (it was named the first film in the 'film-noir' genre by French critic Nino Frank, though I think other films qualify such as Howard Hawks' "Scarface") portraying harsh, cruel, cold individuals. Sam Spade is a realistic character, stylized perhaps, but realistic. He is not the perfect John Wayne all-American hero; he is harsh, cold, and even capable of murder. When his partner is killed Spade does not feel much of anything, reacting indifferently to the death and even kissing his widow during their first meeting after he hears the news. John Huston wanted this film to be more character-based and less plot-based than the two previous adaptations of the novel (which he called 'wretched pictures'). The care taken to provide good characterization in the script is clear to the audience. Indeed, "The Maltese Falcon" has a fairly complicated plot and it's easy to understand how a film can get bogged down in the plot and fail to entertain the audience or even tell a good story. Huston made a wise choice in reducing the plot to the background and focusing on the characters and dialogue.Huston also pays close attention to visual composition of shots, painstakingly recreating the sleazy underbelly of San Francisco. San Francisco is traditionally used in film as a romantic setting, and it is remarkable how drastically different Huston's portrayal of the city is from the norm and how effective it is. Huston, after writing the very fun and smart script, storyboarded every scene in the film and the attention to detail is clear to those viewing the film. Often such meticulous planning carries over to the screen and interrupts the dramatic flow, but not in this case. The film flows exceptionally well and feels much shorter than its 100 minute running time. The result of all the care that went into the film is, by all accounts, excellent entertainment. It's smart, stylish, generally well-acted, and always captivating. "The Maltese Falcon" is surely one of the most promising debut films in history, promise and potential which Huston most certainly delivered on later in his career.****/4


                
The Maltese Falcon (1941)What makes Bogart so cool? And what makes The Maltese Falcon with its ludicrous plot and foamcore characters so untouchable? Three things, in, uh, spades: pace, script, and archetype. All of these make for a stylized film--no gritty realism, no method acting, no penetration. No social commentary. No innovation. Nothing really but a beautiful sprint that leaves you breathless, but not tired. The film is about style, and coolness (not to be mistaken for hipness--cool as in chilled, unflappable). It has aura, and clever detachment. Even the characters are detached. They are pulled by the events but never, except when the fat man gets out his pocket knife at the end, swept away. One by one, these really great actors get to sharpen the edges of their two- dimensional selves, and it's really amazing to watch.This is John Huston's first film, and like that little first film by Orson Welles released just six months earlier, it has a scary mastery to it. But if Huston, like Welles, rode the talents of many studio professionals at their peak, he pulled the film away from cinematic excess into what almost feels almost like a fast, and highly distilled, adaptation of a theater production. (It's based, of course, on the detective novel by Dashiell Hammett.) The movie talks a lot because there isn't much to show--nothing physical really happens beyond a couple of fisticuffs--but such talk! When Sydney Greenstreet as Kasper Gutman first meets Bogart's Sam Spade and they share a drink, sit, and light up cigars, Greenstreet (also in his first film) bobs and feints through some fabulous wordplay, ending, with the camera low to make his size only larger: "I'll tell you right out, I'm a man who likes talking to a man who likes to talk."Bogart says, "Swell," and he talks without giving an inch. He really is "cool" in that way Bogart, through most of his movie roles, still defines for us decades later. Huston must have felt the transcendent power of the still rising star (Casablanca was still a year away) because, ultimately, the film is a vehicle for Bogart being Bogart, in the face of three or four counterparts who are each at their archetypal best. And gosh, Bogie sure knows how to take a gun away from hapless bodyguard played by Elisha Cook, Jr.The film is no empty exercise in expertise. It creates a fictional world we can understand top to bottom because it's so simple. We enjoy all the principals so much, we happily tag along on the unfolding trail of this improbable "black bird" and its sudden arrival toward the end for the sake of soaking up the characters, as characters. And look how even Bogart at one point looks jittery compared to Greenstreet, whose ponderous ease and guffaws in the face of trauma won him an Oscar nomination. Peter Lorre, plausibly uncertain and almost tender (and who's to say whether homosexual, too, in an wan, period stereotype) in his attempt at badness, is a marvel, someone you talk about later, someone who can parody himself in Capra's 1944 Arsenic and Old Lace (which shares a screenwriter with another Lorre film, Casablanca).Spade's cynicism, his wariness, his occasional up-and-up certitude (he gives the money back!), and his willingness to laugh at it all, above all, overcome weakness like his so-called romance with the Mary Astor femme fatale. The end actually falls a little flat because we don't believe in their love, but we're not sure he did either. And did we ever believe her? In fact, isn't that part of the trick here, not believing anyone, ever?
Spoilers herein.There are films which shuffle the vocabulary of past films, and then there are the few films which add to that vocabulary. This is one such, and all the more remarkable because it was Huston's first.His vision was shocking and established a new genre. The conventional filmmaking skills are pretty poor on this. The photography is soso, the editing poor, the women's acting atrocious. But the manipulation of the narrative in this way was new to film.Until this point in Hollywood product, the camera was the surrogate of the theater audience-goer. You could trust it. The convention was that you (the camera) would know more than the characters you see. And everything would make sense.Here, some new things are introduced:-- the world is against the characters; everyone's life is bleak; no happy ending is in sightMany people think this defines noir. (Later, the photography would be bleak as well.) but there is another innovation here:-- the world is against you the viewer to the same extent as the characters. You get no special breaks.This was a big deal. The same year, Orson Welles would break the position of the camera. No longer would it be bound to where a human would be naturally placed. But here, the very soul of the viewer was compromised: you are swept up in the rules of the created world.That created world itself wasn't so novel to the book writers, but the notion of a mystery gave a special scaffold. The whole game there is to establish a detective in the world. Then there is a game among you, the detective and the author to see who can outguess whom. It was a great invention in narrative.Here, you still have three players, all trying to trick one another, but the author gets in the first trick -- declaring that you do not have the safety of your seat, your perspective, your own world: you have to live in the created world, the same as Spade.The Malta business was built into the book to add some notion of the ancient supernatural as an excuse to disrupt the reader. They got it all historically wrong (they meant the Knights Templar, the same folks who hid Indiana Jones' ark), and in any case glossed over that element in the translation from book to film. I think Huston was smart enough to know what he was doing. I don't think the actors were. Fortunately, Bogart was effectively mean. But for my money Sidney Greenstreet is the genius here. He is the one around whom this noir world is created, so with Huston can be considered the co-inventors of the genre.As with Huston, this was Greenstreet's first film. Imagine that.
In this case, the term "director's debut of" falling into the water. This beginning of a career for me is incomprehensibly good. I am aware that this is a film adaptation of the novel. However, this directorial beginning is rarely seen.The story revolves around a private investigator, who gets involved with three greedy, reckless and murderous adventurers who compete with each other to get the famous statue of the falcon encrusted jewels worth millions. The story is formidable circled, accompanied by excellent <U+0084>detective dialogues" and I have nothing to add. Layered story full of plot provides a true pleasure and unusual experience for film buffs, regardless of taste. The atmosphere is mesmerizing. Light, darkness and shadows cast in this film as much as those of flesh and blood. The term of Maltese Falcon is certainly mystical, but the mysteries of the statue is in relation to other elements of the film fell into the background. Humphrey Bogart (Sam Spade) with his left hand epitomized detective of all time. Ambiguous hero who is both honorable and greedy. Mary Astor as Brigid O'Shaughnessy is femme fatale. Damsel in distress or rather trouble in the girl. I think that Astor is not up to Bogart. Although I'm not sure in my statement given to the scene at the end of the film. Peter Lorre as Joel Cairo just shines. Slimy, polished and professional. He's hard to find fault with. Every phenomenon requires slap in the face, shifty is sleek and evil. Perfect. Sidney Greenstreet as extremely eloquent Kasper Gutman, the nicest character. The villain which is pleasant to look at. The dramatic declines other characters are great too.Spade is the heart of the story. The central figure around which everything revolves. A lone wolf who knows very well for himself, has his principles, but the game is only his, but others are just assistants, agents and sources. Masterfully complicated by the action in which the dark complications transform into each other. Houston with visible ease skipped by frame to frame, draws our attention to what he wants, no matter where the rich and multifaceted actions, scenario comes to the fore, while like lightning striking quick, witty and memorable dialogues. Elegant film, such as the waltz, and in places like the fast train, leaving more than enough room for nuances, good, evil and funny The camera is a precise and captures exactly what we need to see.THE MALTESE FALCON is a film about morality, justice, human imperfection, preferences vices from the perspective of the main character who is also a certain version of the anti-hero.
The film has a strong and great script. Sam Spade's character is written so well showing how he is clever, greedy, bold, and a good talker. The performers were perfect especially (Mary Astor) as (Brigid O'Shaughnessy) and (Peter Lorre) as (Joel Cairo). Of course i didn't mention (Humphrey Bogart) with them because i can't find the right words to describe his performance, but the way he talked in the movie was brilliant. The direction was good. The narrative was unbelievable There were nice clothes and suitable decor for a private detective's office The Soundtrack was very appropriate for a noir film. it was an interesting movie that i didn't want to end10/10


                
The Bible forbids us from murder, adultery, and theft, but the characters in "The Maltese Falcon" do not have the time to think about their eternal fates in the fiery pits of Hell. They do have time, though, to worship a little black bird statuette encrusted with the finest jewels in the world — and if they have to act against one of The Ten Commandments to get their paws on its onyx beak, so be it. Just thinking about The Maltese Falcon causes their eyes to glaze over, their mouths to water for the thirst of wealth.As Roger Ebert points out in his glowing review of 1941's "The Maltese Falcon", the film isn't just a classic audiences have come to fawn over over the years. Consider film noir didn't exist before "The Maltese Falcon" was released. That Humphrey Bogart was still a character actor hiding in the shadows of James Cagney and George Raft. That Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet were not yet the supporting player dream team doomed to live on the exaggerated pencils of caricaturists then and now. That John Huston had never directed a film before.I saw "The Maltese Falcon" for the first time five years ago, sitting in the pitch-black room of my grandfather's study with his dinosaur laptop on a Saturday night. Then, I was just becoming acquainted with black-and-white films, only familiar with the likes of "The Big Sleep" and "The Major and the Minor". All too young then, I found "The Maltese Falcon" to be too talky, to not have enough action. In my original review (my second, to be exact), I cited it as an overrated classic. How times have changed.It's talky, but not too talky; it's a classic, but not an overrated one. It's a cynical character study, the characters greedy, self-indulgent liars on the prowl for unfathomable riches. Instead of liking them, we're fascinated by their methodical actions. We don't connect with them on a human level; we feel the need to unravel their stacked façades, pulling apart the rambling lies and accidental truths spat out in an attempt to double-cross an obstacle. In his (arguably) career-defining role, Humphrey Bogart portrays Sam Spade, a smug private eye hired by the beguiling Miss Wonderly (Mary Astor). Wonderly claims that she is being hounded by a man named Floyd Thursby, needing immediate protection. Sam, nor his partner, Miles Archer (Jerome Cowan), believe her shaky story, but money talks, and she happens to have a lot of it. Later that night, while shadowing Thursby, Archer is shot to death in an alleyway. Thursby, as it turns out, was murdered that night too.Like all great film noir films, things are much more complicated than they first appear. Miss Wonderly's real name is actually Brigid O'Shaughnessy, and O'Shaughnessy isn't just a sexy dame gliding into detective agencies with falsely dramatic stories. She is actually a sinner desperately trying to get her hands on an international treasure otherwise known as The Maltese Falcon. Encrusted with gleaming gems, it is worth thousands. Also frantic for the treasure is Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre), a mysterious European who walks around with a cane and flowery handkerchiefs, Kasper Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet), a cackling, walrus- sized socialite, and his sidekick, the mousy Wilmer Cook (Elisha Cook Jr.).As the MacGuffin of the jeweled falcon hangs over the heads over the characters, all we can manage is a sense of bewilderment; they are so caught up in their lies, their temptations, that gone is their moral compass, their common sense. The masquerades they put on for Spade, who acts as both a potential fellow shareholder and an outsider, cross the line, in their own psyches, that is, between the real and the fake.Though "The Maltese Falcon" was adapted twice before, once in 1931 and again in 1936 as "Satan Was A Lady", the 1941 version bears the most distinct personality. In a world of detective agencies, trench coats, cigarette holders, and femme fatales, it is a carnival of film noir tropes before film noir tropes were even a thing. The dialogue is fiendishly clever, all characters putting on an act for the other at all possible times; Huston's direction is equally intelligent, complementing the auras of the characters with subtle camera tricks while keeping a sense of humor hanging above the dark motives of the plot.Just as unmistakable in memorability are the actors. Bogart's sniveling but tough persona is put to good use — in other films, he's a sort of grizzled good guy; in "The Maltese Falcon", he's an anti-hero perhaps as greedy as the men he's trying to dig dirt on. Astor is the ultimate femme fatale, always seductive, always untrustworthy; Lee Patrick, as Spade's faithful secretary, leaves an impression with her adept tactics. Greenstreet and Lorre completely subvert the pitfalls most character actors face, immediately so large in their presences that Bogart and Astor frequently feel like supporting actors.Still more witty, unforgettable, and clever to me is "The Big Sleep" — "The Maltese Falcon" comes at a close second. While it isn't as labyrinthine as the former, it is much more sordid and embracing of its corrupt patina. There isn't anything like it — few crime films are as convincingly acidic.


                
The Maltese Falcon is a film beyond it's years, being recognized as one of the first film noirs of a detective genre. John Hustson broke the records with his directorial debut and impressed audiences with his use of camera shots and editing. The camera told us a story beyond the lines put into the screenplay; it showed us who the characters are, what they are feeling, and what the force of their actions have taken on their souls. Many tracking shots following Bogart through his journey of the unsolved case. One camera shot I enjoyed most was when they slipped Bogart a drug in his drink and the camera went out of focus, pulling us all in into his hallucinogenic state. When awakened clips of Bogart looking around the room for an address kept us still at a daze but with enough awareness to make the next move. This film is a masterpiece in being a breakthrough in not only the director's experience, but in camera works as well.
Copyright and released 18 October 1941 by Warner Brothers Pictures. New York opening at the Strand: 3 October 1941. Australian release: 5 November 1942 (sic). 9,030 feet. 100 minutes. (Warner DVD is a 10/10).COMMENT: Although both film versions received rave reviews in The New York Times, only the Del Ruth version could be counted as a box- office success on its first release. The Huston film was lucky to earn back its comparatively high negative cost of $381,000. Warner's big successes of 1941-42 were Sergeant York, which returned a colossal $6.1 million in gross domestic rentals, and Yankee Doodle Dandy with $4.8 million. The Man Who Came to Dinner, King's Row, Captains of the Clouds, In This Our Life, The Bride Came C.O.D., Dive Bomber, The Sea Wolf and The Strawberry Blonde were also enormous, multi-million dollar box-office winners for the studio.The Maltese Falcon didn't figure at all and would be forgotten today were it not for the cult status of Humphrey Bogart and — to a lesser degree — John Huston. All the same, it comes a surprise to find that among film lovers, sixty times more people have seen this version than have enjoyed the original, even though both films are equally entertaining. While few would contend that Digges, Mattiesen and Frye outclass Greenstreet, Lorre and Cook, the decision is close. On the other hand, as for Long versus Cowan, Merkel v. Patrick, Todd v. George, and Elliott v. MacLane, the winners are plainly Del Ruth's. Yet Bond is certainly more forceful than MacDonald, and Walter Huston has it all over Borgato, simply because he has dialogue. So we come down to the principals. Which set you prefer here is simply a matter of taste. I prefer the Cortez-Daniels combination. The 1931 movie still has a gripping noir atmosphere despite the fact that Cortez's impeccably suave, super-pleased with himself, egotistical private eye runs somewhat against type. There is no self-agonizing here. The Cortez character is solely concerned with looking out for number one. The ruthless heroine is also far more stridently hard-boiled, whereas Mary Astor turns her into a lady- like, high society type. As for directorial finesse and production values, the Huston movie is definitely the winner. All the same, despite his smaller budget, Del Ruth gives Huston a good run for his money.
Great noirs tend to offer complex labyrinths in which we enjoy getting lost; conspiratorial worlds in which invisible forces push and pull us around like puppets on a string.What made "The Maltese Falcon" influential, though, is the way it communicates this conspiracy. Director John Huston fires his dialogue rapidly, his sets are resolutely claustrophobic, his plot impenetrable and his characters all existing within a mass of hazy motivations, unspoken schemes and sinister intentions. The very cinematic language of Huston's film was oppressive, every detail, word and object actively working against the viewer.And of course it is up to our intrepid avatar, Humphrey Bogart, to cutlass his way through this conspiratorial web. Through him we hack and we slash, peeling back the layers, trying to get at some truth. Whether we get there or not is unimportant. Noir's joy is this: getting tangled within a spider web of fate. And maybe even asserting a little control and pulling ourselves back out.Regardless, Humphrey Bogart is always a joy to watch. Whether he's playing Sam Spade in "The Maltese Falcon" or Philip Marlowe in "The Big Sleep", Bogart always brings the right mixture of cynicism, wit and toughness. He also always manages to look effortlessly cool.A great film noir is an almost tactile thing. Like reading a good Chandler, Thompson or Connelly novel, noir immerses you in a world that is as thick as it is black. "The Maltese Falcon" may not have the technical wizardry or scope of later film noirs, but it has a purity and immediacy that most of those films lack. It's also filled with little details that would immediately prove archetypal. The clothes, the cigarettes, the villains, the staccato dialogue, would all help shape the genre for future films. Even the film's final shot would be aped in Ridley Scott's "Blade Runner", both films ending with an elevator door abruptly shutting.What's also interesting is observing how noir has expanded as the decades have rolled by. In the 40s and 50s directors like Hawks and Huston gave us noirs confined to tiny rooms, their characters battling their way from one small sound-stage to the next. Nowadays noirs have the expansiveness of "The X Files" or "The Wire", their characters at the mercy of a far wider-range of forces (politics, science, sex, religion, money, mysticism, Hollywood, genetics, technology, screenwriters, family, fate, bureaucracy etc). The best modern noirs take place in a forever un-mappable universe, their heroes increasingly lost, set adrift in a world of conspiratorial influences so vast that the human mind can do nothing but succumb. True noirs of today can be thus "found" in films as widely divergent as "Ran", "Inland Empire", "Mulholland Drive", "The Wire", "Code 46", "Boarding Gate", "Eyes Wide Shut", etc etc. Of course nobody thinks of these films as "film noirs". They much rather champion self consciously emulative fare like "Blood Simple", "Fargo", "Brick", "LA Confidential" or "Red Rock West". But these are all retrograde noirs, nostalgic, content to ape convention rather than explore the world as better directors do. They reduce noir to a aesthetic choice, a kind of chic, designer existentialism, rather than anything more socially, psychologically or philosophically meaningful.Noirs almost always end with a downbeat ending, but "The Maltese Falcon's" is remarkably relentless. The "falcon" turns out to be fake, the bad guys realise they've wasted half their lives tracking it down, everyone loses money, Marlowe isn't paid and the femme fatale is subjected to a searing monologue in which Marlowe weighs the pros and cons of turning her in. It's all very harsh.10/10 – A great film, every bit as juicy today as it was over half a century ago. Worth multiple viewings.
Humphrey Bogart absolutely steals the show. His character, Sam, is called "too slick for his own good" and "a most headstrong individual," so it's a role that requires a very specific type of actor. In other words, it's a role that requires Bogart! He smoothness is James Bond-esque, as he outsmarts and outwits all of his peers. And there are a whole lot of peers in this movie. From the start, the viewer is exposed to many different intricate sides of the story. You are quickly pulled into this wonderful mess of a plot, and even though it follows Sam the whole time, it can be slightly hard to follow. Regardless, it's a classic, and the ending is awesome.


                
An iconic example of film noir, this is a film whose serpentine plot need not be followed. Its mood and characterizations drive the story and create interest.Humphrey Bogart is Sam Spade, a no-nonsense private eye who is hired by a woman (Mary Astor) to find her sister. At least that's where the story begins.Actually the story begins in the daytime, accompanied by upbeat music, but that dummy beginning quickly gives way to the shadowy cynicism that is the hallmark of film noir. It is a world where Sam Spade feels comfortable, making strategic moves in a game with ever-changing rules.Two other actors grace this film with their classic portrayals: Sydney Greenstreet as Kasper Gutman, and Peter Lorre as Joel Cairo. This is character acting at its best. They are perfect foils for the twitchy pragmatism of Spade, for whom monetary reward may or may not be his highest motive.


                
Film noir was a boon to Humphrey Bogart. Essentially he could play the same roles as the cold, low down types he made supporting roles of in the 30s, but now these characters were in lead roles. Here he in his defining role, in a key film noir and debut of director John Huston.Film critics rarely agree on what was the first film noir. There are arguments for there being noirs before it, and there are arguments for it not being a true noir at all, but the Maltese Falcon is a convenient candidate for the primal film noir in the way that it seems constructed to announce itself and smash conventions. Conscience and cosiness are thrown out right from the start <U+0096> in scene one we are introduced to the cheerful and innocent Miles Archer; in scene two he is shot dead. As the plot bowls along there is nothing but greed, deception and double-dealing. When Spade does the decent thing it is only because, in his own words, "you're supposed to". Even the long dead crusaders aren't exempt from accusations. And, one of the least often cited film noir conventions, the women are the untrustworthiest of all.Also appropriate for the Maltese Falcon's status as a key early noir is the history of the novel it's based on. Cinema has always been some way behind literature in terms of what it can say and get away with, and Dashiell Hammett's novel had already been filmed twice, once as a heavily sanitised thriller and then again as a comedy, of all things. By the time Huston came along, cinema was acquiring a brutal honesty and his version is far closer to the original story than the previous two adaptations.Whatever its noir credentials, the Maltese Falcon also works as a great piece of entertainment. It's incredibly fast moving, with absolutely no excess baggage to the script. It is constantly engaging, which is strange since it is virtually all talking, with very little action. The answer to this is that the story is full of enough revelations and plot twists to keep the audience constantly engrossed. By the final scene <U+0096> a half-hour long tour-de-force <U+0096> your heart will be racing. The only downside to this spellbinding mystery structure is that the film will never be as exciting as the first time you see it.As for Huston, it's well known that he began his Hollywood career as a screenwriter. What's not so often acknowledged is that he was also a keen painter, and always considered this more important than his film career. His painterly influence isn't entirely obvious in the Maltese Falcon, it's not a pretty film as such <U+0096> although there is one very eye-catching shot of the burning Paloma <U+0096> but you can see he pays great attention to the set up of a shot. He has a real awareness of background and foreground, as well a knack for getting the perfect angle. He makes the already plump Sidney Greenstreet look like a small mountain.If following a director's themes and obsessions is your thing, the Maltese Falcon also provides a perfect example of Huston's cynicism for material goods (as embodied by the falcon itself) and his continual focus on failed quests and unachievable ends.The Maltese Falcon was bound to be considered a landmark film, marking as it does the debut of one of the greatest American directors of his era, the transition of a well-known character actor into Hollywood's top leading men, and in retrospect the beginnings of a whole genre. Aside from it's historical importance, it also happens to be one of Huston's best, one of Bogart's best, and one of film noir's best.


                
This was the tightest film Huston ever made. Its better than the book because Huston ripped out all the worthless pages and boiled it down to its essence. But without the book there would have been no film, so good ole Dash gets the proper nod too, however the ultimate laurel has to go to good ole John. And Bogart. His best performance, his Spade is much better than his Philip Marlowe. However it is odd how virtually misread this movie has been. Everybody thinks it is about the Maltese Falcon. But if you stop and think a moment you see that that is impossible. The Falcon is not even mentioned until about a third of the way through. Yet Archer is shot within the first few minutes, and Spade is suspected nearly from the start. So the plot is fairly simple. But notice nobody here, or in Cinema mags, or Leonard Maltin, Roger Eb...well you get the idea. Nobody has ever mentioned what is obvious: the whole thing from start to finish is Sam Spade trying to CLEAR himself of the murder. Even the cops say so, and in the bargain he has that long great speech to the D.A. telling that particular guardian of the law either to book him or lay off and leave him alone. The Falcon is merely a device to keep things rolling along, like the Cherry Orchard getting chopped down by Chekhov, so he can let his characters talk. Spade was never remotely interested in the Falcon, and only marginally interested in Brigit. Notice in every scene, and he is IN every scene, all he is really doing is listening to lies, trying to figure out who killed Miles Archer: even that business at the end which everyone attaches so much attention, when a mans partner is killed he is supposed to do something about it, has nothing much to do with him. At bottom he is waiting out all the liars, until somebody tumbles with the truth and he can turn them in. Of course in the process he gets to listen to some of the most entertaining liars in the history of cinema. A great movie, horribly misread because of the wonderful slight of hand trick of hiding something huge in plain sight. If any film ever deserved a nine out of ten, it's this one. Can be seen and re-seen just from its rhythms and simplicity, from the sheer relentlessness of Spade trying to clear himself. Only the original Invasion of the Body Snatchers is its equal in tightness. And that's pretty fair company.


                
History's first film noir, characterized by cynicism and "immoral" sexual attraction, The Maltese Falcon is a masterpiece of the crime drama genre. The opening theme music is ominous with lots of brass and strings. The cinematography throughout is nothing less than cool, with lots of low key lighting and sharp contrasts. The protagonist, Sam Spade, is a classic Bogart character. He is extremely intuitive, intelligent, and charismatic. Though he is weary of trusting law enforcement as a private detective, his independent case work yields great success and collaboration between himself and the police. Spade's counterpart is a woman named Ruth who goes by Brigid for the majority of the film, due to her ties to criminal activity. The viewer can sense that Spade knows Brigid is a liar and guilty of murder, but his affection for her jeopardizes the viewer's certainty about Brigid being brought to justice. However, Spade values his work more and eventually turns Brigid in to the cops. Overall, this film is extremely well written and expertly paced. There are no slow scenes and from the first scene the viewer is drawn intensely into the narrative.
The Maltese Falcon The plot of the Maltese Falcon, is this, Humphry Bogart plays a private investigator at the detective agency called Spade and Archer. Bogie's character is named Sam Spade, who works with a man named archer. One day a women comes in telling Bogie that she is looking for he sister but that she needs help. Spade sends Archer to go find her and he gets shot. This is when Sam realizes that all of this kerfuffle was not over some girls' sister, but over something else. Bogie finds out that it is a granite bird that is called the Maltese Falcon. Bogie then tricks all of the criminals including the one that he is now in love with, and they all go to jail leaving Sam alone. The theme of The Maltese Falcon is that sometimes the person the person that you have feelings for does not work out. Another example that of a movie that has this theme is the more famous cousin of The Maltese Falcon, Casablanca. The formula for the two movies are the same, the situation that the cast was in in the beginning of the film is different. A man and a women meet, there is all of this chaos all over the place, then the man realizes that their love would not last and tricks her so that they would likely never see each other again. One example of this theme is at the very end of the film, when Brigid O'Shaughnessy is being taken away in hand cuffs, they take an elevator and they get on and it is bars going across, like prison bars. The elevator then went down, like hell. This elevator, is just like the plane on the film Casablanca, is representative of leaving. In the Maltese Falcon, the leaving was to jail, while in the film Casablanca it was to help the Allies in World War II. The angles in this scene really brought the whole film together. Another example of this is the way that in the beginning of the film in the office the scenes color was bright, however during the more intense scenes of the film it gets darker and darker. By the time that we are at the end of the film we are in a dark scene. This is representative of losing, losing time, losing light, or in this case losing love.
This is by far my favorite American film noirs of the 30s/40s. And kind of light on the "noir" aspect at that, as agreed my many. But in narrative and style, it is definitely dark. Based off of a Dashiell Hammett short-story, this is the account of a surly private-eye, who stumbles onto circumstance and characters he really doesn't need in his life. The camera use, lighting (and lack thereof) are all supremely done in this film. Sydney Greenstreet is forever evil this story, and makes his "Ferrari" character in Casablanca look like a small-time street thug. There are really no characters with redeeming qualities in this film. For a while you might think Spade's secretary is above the scam, but in the narrative, she really ends up getting in on the action and following the boss's orders. Peter Lorre, like Greenstreet, is evil, too, and like many of his rolls as an unsavory type, you still might find yourself cheering him on. You will find new elements in the film each time you watch it, and if you're a real buff for the hard- boiled pulp of the era, watch it soon for your first time, then start it all over again, and identify what you missed the first time!
This film was very well done. The main actor was fantastic. He was always what seemed like 5 steps ahead of everyone. Even when it looked like he was getting one pulled over on him, he would make a fool out of that person. This film was wonderfully done and had get characters that would balance and contrast each other. The main actor and his secretary had a funny little relationship where she was obviously in love with him and would do everything he asked of her and his character was intelligent and could explain away everything in a drop of a hat. The way the camera moved to capture the scenes was done well. It didn't move so fast that you were dizzy but when the cops and Spade were talking in the doorway it moved back and forth between the sides of the door to capture the person who was currently speaking. I liked how for certain parts and characters the camera would look up at them. It did that with the more criminal characters. The scene where Spade leaned down to almost kiss the girl and you see him see the man who was following him in the doorway in the building across the street the camera moved with his eye line so you could see what Spade was seeing. The camera work and characters were well done and it was an enjoyable film to watch and I definitely recommend watching this film.
This movie was great, as well as the plot and the production of it all. Everything had this feel of smoothness and boldness... The images that was placed in front of me was amazing. I was just very appealing to the eyes. Definitely one of those go to the theatre type of movie. Meaning I would spend money to see it haha. The over all quality of the film was nice, the scenes flowed well and the acting from all of the characters was flawless. When watching I wanted to see this Maltese Falcon that everyone wanted, I wanted to see what the big idea was. And to find out that the one they had was a fake was a bit upsetting but blood pumping as well. I felt like I would go on the hunt to find what was desired by many. The film was also sad too. I say this because it turned out to be a action/ love story. I was really rooting for the romance that was but in place, it was sad to see that the main character had to give up his love for the justice of a fallen friend. Honorable. The facial expression Brigid O'Shaughnessy had while being arrested is and will be forever remembered in my head. You could see the heartbreak in her eyes and all over her face. It was so depressing...I wish she was a good guy but without her facade we would have lost some vital conflicts within herself and as well with the Samuel Spade. It seems as though her betrayal made the climax/story.
This is the greatest detective movie I've ever seen. Bogart's performance was fantastic and his character mislead me throughout the whole film. During the ending of the film, I really believed that Sam was corrupt and was going to let everyone walk. I was especially surprised he arrested Brigid at the end.My favorite scene of the film was the scene when Joel and Sam first met. The performances by both Bogart and Peter Lorre were great. The way Sam toyed with Joel, even though Joel had a gun on him, was both funny and a perfect look into the cunning and wit of Sam. Throughout the film things Sam was doing to mislead everyone and I feel that everyone could benefit from watching this film more than once.
There is just something about a dark and gritty film that I love. When I was finally able to watch this film, it all made sense to me. Humphrey Bogart had gained my respect after I had seen Casablanca, so when I saw this, I had high expectations. Thankfully, he lived up to them, as his role of Sam Spade was excellent. I was hooked from the opening sequence, and the use of the low key lighting really sets the tone for this film. It is in the lighting where I found that grittiness that I love in a film. This film is one of the best when it comes to telling a compelling story, and especially in leaving an impact on society. That being said, how could you not want to go watch this film? It will be one of the best decisions of your day when you do.


                
Another film I've wanted to see for ages! And it didn't disappoint. I will definitely be watching this again, as it was difficult to focus on the plot and pay attention to camera and lighting work at the same time. Both of which were really lovely. There's probably some debate about this being film noir, but I think it qualifies—the lighting was just great. I love dark photography so of course film noir is a favorite. The camera angles and some of the tracking shots were particularly nice. I really love the characters in this. Although there is a "good guy" and a "bad guy" in the usual sense, all of the characters have their flaws. I especially like the scene between Brigid and Sam near the ending. Bogart was perfect for Spade, and his performance made the film.


                
Ward Bond plays a cop in The Maltese Falcon. The actor with the most appearances in American Film Institute Top 100 movies (7 in all) is electric in this picture His charisma catches your eye and his final line "huh?" should've been on the AFI's list of Top 100 Quotes. Bond's performance is...I'm just jerkin' your chain! Yeah, Ward Bond acts in the most AFI films and he does play a cop here, but Humphrey Bogart is the story. This was Bogie's big breakout (along with High Sierra that same year) and he lights it up. The man paid his dues for a while and played the heavy in 1930s films before they finally gave him the chance to be a leading man. Interesting that he often played shady "heroes"---including in The Maltese Falcon---rather than being straight-up nice-nice.Bogie's Sam Spade sees his partner get killed and he gains (and then loses) a love interest all in what seems like a few days. He also comes one phony statue shy of being a rich man. They all want that bird. Crooks all. Each of the villains in this piece is memorable: Sydney Greenstreet (debutting as Kasper Gutman), Peter Lorre (slimy and fey), Elisha Cook (weird, as always) and Mary Astor (constantly on the verge of hysteria or passing out).The last half-hour is tense, yet it's just 5 people waiting around in a room. Writer/director John Huston (in his own breakout) didn't change much from Dashiell Hammett's novel, making him a smart writer/director. Apparently, the AFI agreed. They had it at 23rd and then 31st on their 2 Top 100 lists. They're correct. This one is a honey. And Bogart is outstanding. He still had Casablanca and Treasure Of The Sierra Madre in his future, but his work in Falcon is...corny alert...the stuff that dreams are made of. And then Ward Bond follows with "huh?" See? Great follow-up line. Attaboy, Wardo!If you dug this snapshot review, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 38-minute Maltese Falcon 'cast...and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "Top 100 Project".
John Huston directed this all-time classic detective picture that stars Humphrey Bogart as San Francisco private detective Sam Spade, who takes the case of a mysterious woman named Brigid O'Shaughnessy(played by Mary Astor) Things quickly turn violent when his partner Miles Archer is murdered, and Sam finds himself in trouble with the law,and soon meets up with two more suspicious characters called Kasper Gutman(played by Sydney Greenstreet) & Joel Cairo(played by Peter Lorre) who are in search of a valuable statue called the Maltese Falcon, which is worth a fortune, but has proved elusive to obtain. Elisha Cook Jr. costars as inexperienced gunman Wilmer Cook. Superbly written, directed, and acted picture is a treat from start to finish, with witty dialogue and atmosphere to burn, leading to unforgettable finale. Not to be missed.


                
This is one of the most famous movies ever made. Based on a book the movie was first made in 1931 and later remade in 1941 with Humphrey Bogart playing the detective Sam Spade. Most critics, including Bill Collins, directs us to focus on the characters in the movie because it is the characterization that makes this such a great movie. I agree to a point, but I think the whole issue of the Maltese Falcon makes this such a dark movie.The book upon which this movie is based is considered to be a change in direction with the way detective stories are made. Edgar Allen Poe was the creator of the detective story and it was developed by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, but their detectives were intelligent, honourable men. Sam Spade could be seen as one of the first "Down and Out detectives." The author of The Maltese Falcons describes private detectives as police officers who do not like to work with people but rather go it alone. These characters are more crooked and ruthless than police officers. It is no wonder that the police in The Maltese Falcon are somewhat cold towards Sam Spade. Spade works with fellow Detective Miles Archer and the movie opens with a young lady, O'Shannahey, hiring Spade and Archer to trail some guy who has stolen her sister from her. Suddenly Archer is shot and the movie starts into motion.The Maltese Falcon was a statuette that was stolen by pirates as it was being delivered to the King of Spain and it has supposedly surfaced in San-Fransisco. The movie is not a search for the falcon but rather people all wanting a piece of it. The fat man, who is the villain of the movie, wants the falcon and pays Spade a lot of money to get it. He doesn't want to part with his money and has his gunsel Wilma to dispose of Captain Jacobi and get the falcon.The harsh parts of the characters are revealed with the Fat Man willing to sell out Wilma, whom he claims to consider a son, to get the Falcon off of Sam Spade. And then there is O'Shannahey, a beautiful young lady who grabs Spade's heart, yet we know that Spade does not truly love this woman as we learn that he is having an affair with Archer's wife. O'Shannahey is not what we expect. At first she comes as an innocent woman who is looking for her sister but we find a web of lies and deceit surrounding her and the more we get entangled in the lies the more sinister O'Shannahey becomes.Spade is not a hero either, rather he is an anti-hero. He his selfish and cold, ready to betray his partner for a woman, and ready to betray his lover for his reputation. He slaps around Wilma and Cairo, treating them like little children. Spade is an arrogant, self-centered person and would rather look after himself than others.I think the ending of the Maltese Falcon is brilliant. I am one who looks more at the ending of a movie than the content because it is the ending that we are left with when we leave. The ending of the Maltese Falcon is not happy, nor is it sad. Rather we are just left knowing that life will go on.
