Vittorio De Sica's ground/heartbreaking motion picture, The Bicycle Thief, is based on a very simple ideal for a story- man against the elements. In this case the elements are of a society that is often cruel and unforgiving, and that a job in post-war Rome is looked on as the luckiest of good luck charms.Such a man as presented by De Sica is Maggiorani (an actor who really is the type of actor right off the street), a father of a little boy who gets a job putting up movie posters along some walls in Rome. To do this he needs a bicycle, or the job will be lost, and he gets one following a pawning of linen sheets. Very soon though, the bicycle is stolen, and from there a sad downward spiral unravels for the man and his son as they scour the streets for the bicycle. While the score adds basic dramatic tension, everything else on the screen is done to such a pitch of neo-realism it's at times shattering, joyful (scene in the pizzeria the most note-worthy), and with a feeling of day-to-day resonance to those who may have not even felt at or below the poverty level in their lives. Credit due to all parties involved, though I don't think the boy Bruno, played by Staiola, gets nearly enough considering his role as a minor coming of age (that moment after the father and son leave the church nearly brought tears to my eyes). A++


                
Some films try to explain multiple aspects of a story or a character by showing several episodes from the character's life. Vittorio De Sica's masterful The Bicycle Thief relies on the power of simplicity to drive home its point. It is a very simple film, relying on film making at its basics. There are no professional actors for us to identify with, but there are plot lines, emotions, and thoughts that no one can help but relate to. Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) has been waiting for a job, but when one finally arrives, he must obtain a bicycle in order to be able to accept the position. His loving and caring wife, Maria (Lianella Carell), hocks the bed sheets in order to be able to afford a bicycle for Antonio. He reports to work as a poster hanger, but while on the job for only a short time, the bike is stolen by a young thief (Vittorio Antonucci). Desperate to get the vehicle back, Antonio seeks the aid of his friend, Baiocco (Gino Saltamerenda), and also receives the help of his devoted son, Bruno (Enzo Staiola). Bruno stays by Antonio's side, no matter what, determined to help his father get back the stolen property. It is a frustrating journey for the father and son, as they receive no help, except that of Baiocco. It seems that no matter what they do, Antonio is left with a fateful decision (shown in one of the most brutally honest scenes in any movie I've ever seen). He must ask himself just how far would he go to put food on the table for his family that he loves so much? There has been controversy over the ending of the film, which I am not going to go into, because it would be cheating you out of a brilliant ending to an extraordinary picture. However, I will say this much - When viewing The Bicycle Thief, ask yourself what you would do in Antonio's situation. What choices would you make? Some of the questions that rise from this film are some of the questions that help us to define ourselves as people, and the fact that this film provides such a clear and honest representation of so many facts of life is what makes it an undeniable masterpiece! This is a film to be cherished!
Even if you are merely a moderate fan of cinema you will have at least heard of this film. It has been hailed as a masterpiece for just short of sixty years and has been routinely studied in film classes everywhere. In a sense, it is one of the recognized masterpieces of cinema. And yet, this is not a film in which to pick up obviously great shots like the 360 degree shot in the hotel room in "Vertigo" or cuts as good as the jump cut in "2001: A Space Odyssey" with which Kubrick transports you from prehistoric ages to an age in which space travel is common in barely a second. This is a subtle, realistic film, and though it looks terrific, it is not flashy. It exists not to excel technically or tell the story of humanity, but simply to tell a story. A simple story which may say more about human nature than any other film in existence."Bicycle Thieves" is about a man in economically depressed post-World War II Italy who is lucky enough to find a job which requires him to use a bicycle as transportation while putting up posters around the city. It's relatively well-paying and almost too good to believe for his family. While on the job his bicycle is stolen, and the rest of the movie tells the story of him and his son attempting to recover the bicycle. In the magnificent final scene Antonio Ricci (the lead character) finds himself tempted to steal a bicycle in order to be able to perform his job. Here we have our 'hero' thinking about doing to someone else what was done to him. There is no black and white in the world, no good and evil. This film does a great job of stating that fact without moralizing and preaching like so many modern films do. This film does not insult your intelligence and I pity those who wanted a third act, or those who wanted more explanation. This film is beautiful and brilliant because it is completely understated. It's realistic. We feel Ricci's desperation and are transported into 1940's Rome as he makes his way through the city's crowded streets, alleyways, churches and brothels.I have no idea how much this film cost to make, but I would be surprised if it was made on a low budget. The location shooting throughout the city is impressive, as is the (again) understated cinematography. De Sica cast non-actors in the lead roles, and I find their performances to be among the most realistic and effective I've ever seen. Alessandro Cigognini's score is a highlight of the film, and I consider the melancholy main theme one of the greatest musical cues I've heard in any film.I enjoy theatricality as much as anyone and I certainly don't dislike Hollywood gloss, but "Bicycle Thieves" serves as a jarring reminder of how great a medium film can be. The jarring effect the film had on audiences upon its release (in particular American audiences) is easy to understand viewing the film in 2007 and it escapes my comprehension how anyone can't be completely captivated and enthralled by this masterwork.****/4
There's not much that can be said about "The Bicycle Thief" that hasn't already been expressed. It is considered a great work of the Italian cinema, and looking at it in its 1999 release version, one can see why.
Structurally, it's a theme and variations, with such a simple, clearly stated main motif that one can identify and follow its mutations with no effort.  DeSica is clearly the fine craftsman here, directing every scene with a beautiful sense of control and balance. His work with young Enzo Staiola (as Bruno) is especially commendable, and he allows then nonprofessionals Lamberto Maggiorani (as Antonio) and Lianella Carell (as Marie) to act in a model of naturalism. 
Carlo Montuori's photography is brilliant, and Antonio Traverso's production design is pungent and atmospheric. Like most "masterpieces," a film-classic score provides emotional depth in a subliminal way: here it's a romantic, Italianesque original composition by Aessandro Cicognini wraps up the entire production.DeSica's career is most impressive, being involved in nealy 200 films, 165 of them as an actor. This film remains one of his greatest achievements.  It seems to be standing the test of time very nicely, too.  It's been criticized, sometimes quite severely, and just continues to bounce back, winning new admirers with each reissue.  The public just won't let "The Bicycle Thief" fade away. That alone tends to override any negative factors. It looks like this film is going to be around for quite a while. ###


                
In the post-war Rome, after more than two-year unemployment, the family man Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) finally finds a disputed job position putting up posters that requires having a bicycle. However, he needs to retrieve his bicycle in the pawn shop but he does not have money. His wife Maria (Lianella Carell) pawns their bed sheets and uses the money to recover the precious bicycle. Antonio envisions a better life for his family with his salary, overtime and benefits. Unfortunately, his bicycle is stolen on the first working day. Antonio and his son Bruno (Enzo Staiola) spend the Sunday chasing the bicycle and the thief on the streets of Rome."Ladri di Biciclette" is a heartbreaking masterpiece of the Italian Neo- Realism and one of the best movies of cinema history ever. This is the third time that I watch this unforgettable film that makes me sad with the desperation of Antonio and his lack of perspective in the end. There are memorable touching scenes, like Bruno eating pizza in the restaurant wearing a torn coat and contrasting with the wealthy family; or the happiness of the clumsy Antonio putting up the poster of Rita Hayworth in "Gilda"; or the indecision of Bruno between a dish of soup in the church or chasing the old man with his father; or the shame of Antonio in the end. The DVD released in Brazil by Spectra Nova has good quality of image, subtitles in yellow but no Extras. The DVD released by Versátil uses the same matrix of Spectra Nova but with subtitles in white, and it is difficult the reading by the viewer. However, there are many Extras. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Ladrões de Bicicleta" ("Thieves of Bicycle")


                
Semantically speaking, self-realization is a probable prelude to catharsis, but at a much higher echelon of cognition the two become virtually inseparable as attaining the former would automatically yield the latter. At this threshold of enlightenment, human spirit attains a sense of ephemeral divinity that would either drive the human crazy or would lead him to salvation. This enlightenment can seldom be attained through vicarious means. Even cinema, with its unparalleled potential to stimulate and satiate, mostly falls short of being cathartic, and only in the rarest of the rare cases does it manage to accomplish the incredible and the extraordinary. Undoubtedly, Bicycle Thieves is one such rare moment of triumph, wherein cinema becomes not only the tool but also the medium for the viewer to attain eternal salvation. Bicycle Thieves is an Italian neo-realist film by Vittorio De Sica. Neo- realism, a naturalistic movement in Italian cinema of the 1940s, aimed at giving cinema a new degree of realism, which promoted the use of an amateur cast vis-à-vis a professionally trained one and advocated shooting at real locations instead of the custom-built sets & studios. Keeping up with the spirit of the movement, Vittorio De Sica chose a factory fitter who had brought his son along for an audition as his male lead. His lead actress was a journalist who had approached him for an interview, while the young boy was filled by a child spotted in the crowd watching the filming. Bicycle Thieves tells the story of a poor worker searching the streets of Rome for his stolen bicycle, which he needs to keep his job intact. The movie is an amalgam of contrasting human feelings of hope & despair, sacrifice & gratification, euphoria & melancholy, love & detestation, and malice & benevolence. Bicycle Thieves performs the central function of art, which is to discover the meaning of life. The movie brilliantly handles with utmost care and precision the tender and often painful relationship that universally exists between a father and a son. The later half of the movie presents cinema at its most vivid, vituperative and volatile culminating in one of the most impactful, melancholic and brutally humanistic finales ever filmed in cinematic history, the agony of which would keep the viewer contemplating for weeks, months, or even years. The screenplay is simplistic, thought-provoking and at times nakedly brutal, while the cinematography is so effortless and magnificently beautiful that it appears as though a soul of a man has been filmed, and its true essence has been captured and preserved. The poignancy of the background score casts such a sustained spell that the movie experience is enhanced beyond imagination. American playwright Arthur Miller called it a lyrical masterpiece as it examines openly the destructive and draconian world man has made for himself. Marlon Brando once said, "Bicycle Thieves is the perfect example of what can be done in front of the motion picture camera and is so rarely done". Academy winner, Henry Fonda was so moved by the movie that he was tempted to write Vittorio De Sica a fan letter. The film is frequently on critics' and directors' lists of the best films ever made. It has captured every honor that the world of film can bestow including an Academy Honorary Award in 1950.All these accolades and the ubiquitous acclaim cannot describe the actual experience of seeing this film and becoming a part of its emotional impact. It makes the viewer laugh, cry and experience a rainbow of emotions. Bicycle Thieves has withstood the test of time for over six decades, and is a film for anyone and everyone.PS. It is a cinematic magnum opus, which accentuates the true might of cinema, and is a must for everyone, irrespective of cast, color, creed or gender. It's an ageless cinema for people of all age groups. 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
When I first saw "Ladri di Biciclette" I was still infatuated with the idea that all the known movie masterpieces must be regarded as untouchable ideals, that the film is definitely "good" ->end of story! But while I was watching the movie("Ladri di Biciclette") the true sensibility of the characters and of the shooting technique astonished me! The plot is simple but touching, the actors react naturally. Although the times they are living are awful, Antonio and Bruno lift themselves over the daily cares (they do have strong characters) and the father and son relationship is more than believable!!! I've never seen actors understanding each other better, and I don't mean it on a stage level! The looks on their faces when they should cry, but they don't, the famous take when father and son are standing on the sidewalk one thinking about the other, and what is left to be done! But what is most touching is the scene from the end, when Bruno's look actually saves his father from prison. The man who's bike was stolen shows that some people are human even in the darkest of times.This is movie to be seen, a movie that will make you wonder about the boundaries of humanity, the power of a character and even dare you to think of the mistakes that society makes you commit in order to survive!!!
Italian Neorealism has always been one of my favorite film movements, and The Bicycle Thief appears to be one the finest examples of this medium. While people today might not understand the power in the story, one has to understand the nature state of Italy after World War II. The country was in ruins, and finding a good job was difficult. Desperation took over more often than reason, and this leads to the eventual climax of self pity and remorse. Quite a powerful film, for it is the only foreign film I have on my personal Top 25 list.


                
I wish I was a brilliant film critic so that I could write something monumental to this monumental film. It is absolutely one of the best films ever made. Perhaps the best film ever made. Thank God for TCM and Robert Osbourn. Together they have brought obscure masterpieces right into our living rooms so that we can discover the global genius that is film making around the world. The Bicycle Thief is about desperation in post WWII Italy. After a man wins the job lottery putting up posters of Rita Hayworth around Rome, on his first day at work his only essential tool of trade, his bicycle, is stolen. What ensues to the end of the movie is a desperate, tension filled, search for the thief who stole it, and ultimately the recovery of his bicycle. He is accompanied on his search by his 7 year old son. The two actors who play these roles are not professional actors and yet they turn in performances of the century. The plot points, direction, writing, and cinematography, of this masterpiece are without equal. The portrayal of the misery and desperation of those who survived WWII leaves a pit in your stomach. Most profound is the relationship between the father and son and their journey together to find his stolen bicycle so that he can make money and feed his family again. This is a movie without a climax. And that's a big part of what makes it great. The ending is something you could never imagine, and will never forget once you've experienced it. I will only say one more thing about it's conclusion. There are some things more heartbreaking than the tragic loss of life. In this movie, that "something more heartbreaking than the tragic loss of life", is the tragedy of continuing to live after you've lost everything. This is the saddest film I have ever seen and that includes Old Yeller and Where the Red Fern Grows. But it is a magnificent film and should be seen by everyone. It has left a mark on me that will never go away. And in every respect, it very well could be one of the greatest film ever made.
Vittorio De Sica's Ladri di Biciclette (1948) touches us deeply in the spirit as if its moving images on the screen were made of the same material of our soul. We connect and relate; this movie tells us what we are and what we truly care among human things. The loss of the bicycle is for Antonio and his family an immense tragedy, their dreams of a better life are stolen; like every time we lose something or is taken away which could prevent from poverty and sufferance. It is in these magnificent films that we best see and know ourselves and feel relate to other people beyond the simple psychology of social provenience – it's just a film, but by watching it we look up on the most beautiful reflector of excellence and come close a little more to the understanding on how to become better persons; in both the arts and reality, it is an act of love. The musical score by Alessandro Cicognini is beautiful.


                
This powerful film must be viewed in the original version (with subtitles) to capture the essence of the feeling. Post WWII Italy, seen from the view of the "have nots", where everyone struggles and there are few laughs. A family man at last is offered a job, but to keep it, he must show up for work with a bicycle. He had pawned his bicycle, but by giving up the family linens, he gets it back, only to have it stolen on the first day at work. He, his son, and several friends go to great lengths to help the man find his stolen bicycle, without results. Eventually the man resorts to becoming a bicycle thief himself.I have never seen anyone so ashamed, as this man was, when his son witnesses the humiliation of seeing his father caught stealing and mobbed for his offense. I was also stunned by seeing the size of the pawnshop (it looked like an Amazon warehouse!), as well as a "bicycle fence yard" that was enormous. During poor economic times pawnshops and "fences" seem to be the only ones flourishing.This is a stunning motion picture achievement. The poor film quality (suffering considerably after some 50 years) only adds to the authenticity. "The Bicycle Thief" is one of the finest films I have viewed. It rivals "La Strada" for my favorite foreign film. This film receives my highest recommendation.
The bicycle thief is the story of a poor Italian who can't get a job. Finally he stumbles upon one that he can have if he had a bicycle. So his wife sells their bed sheets for this bike so he can work. His first day on the job the bike gets stolen and this could mean devastation for his families economy. Not wanting this to happen he sets out with his son Bruno as they search Rome looking for the bike.This amazing film is masterly directed and is one of the greatest foreign films in history. De Sica directs this film to incredible levels of creativity and intrigue. The thing that really ties this film together is an incredible story and screenplay. Also a remarkably great performance by Lamberto Maggiorani even pushed this film father along the way to greatness. Along with him the greatest child performance in movies was done by Enzo Staiola playing Bruno.There is nothing I can say that can lower this films phenomenal standings. The film is almost like a lovely painting, and finishes with a shot that sends chills up your spine.


                
Spoilers ahead..There are many different aspects portrayed in the movie. Most of these can be personally related to by a person who has lived a low/middle class life. The first aspect is the frustration arising from loss of something petty in the view of the world, but essential for one's life. The father and son seem to be alone in the world looking for their bicycle. Initially, they did have friends, but gradually as this movie beautifully shows, they are all alone. The whole world is indifferent to them or against them in their search for the bicycle. The movie is successful in developing pity and sympathy for the protagonist in the minds of all that watch the movie.The second aspect of the movie, which made me judge the movie as a masterpiece, is the father-son relationship. This relation has been picturized in a natural manner, but it magnificently captures many subtle emotions in the fathers-son relation. In an attempt to be explicit, I have listed these various emotions below:Son to father::1) How well the son understands his father's troubles and silently faces his problems (not complaining when he falls, resting himself without any complaints when tired)2) How the son tries to keep up with the expectations of his father (Trying to run as fast as he can, crossing streets hurriedly)3) How the son observes his father's problems and frustration (when he cleans himself after he falls with his father's handkerchief, and then the father uses it to wipe his face).4) How the son breaks when things seem completely out of control (Slap, Public beating of his father)Father to son::1) How father wishes to see a manly companion in his son (In all his search for bicycle, he assumes his son will follow him and help him. He takes his son for wine)2) How he is sandwiched between his long term problems (job etc) and his son's immediate problems of tiredness (he notices his son's tiredness time to time, but can't do anything abt it)
Lamartine, a French writer and poet said once : "Sometimes, when one person is missing, the whole world seems depopulated", I guess in the case of "Bicycle Thieves", Vittorio De Sica's gripping masterpiece of neo-realism, one can say that sometimes, when one object is missing, the whole world seems totally unlivable.The story is simple, as it often is for the greatest films. It's about a man named Ricci, who just got a job in a post-War unemployment-stricken Roma. The community's hopelessness weakened its fraternal spirit as illustrated by these human queues protesting when only one's got a job. And that day seems to be Ricci's day : he will start working as a hanger-poster, all he needs is a bicycle. Having just pawned his, Ricci's reaction quickly betrays him, but from the crowd's opportunistic cries, he realizes he'd better shut his mouth and do the best to get his bicycle back.The film relevantly alternates between social commentary and family drama, through a powerful depiction of the solidarity that could only prevail within the family in these times. The wife, Maria, without hesitation strips the sheets from the marital bed : they would replace the bicycle in the pawn shop. The never ending shot of the man climbing the ladder full of other used sheets, is a strong reminder of the hardship endured in these days where even sheets were secondary.In another interesting scene, Ricci waits for Maria who visits a Wise Woman. Impatiently enthusiastic, he joins her upstairs while asking two kids to watch the bicycle. Maria came to pay for the prediction that Ricci would get a job, but he prevents her from 'wasting her money', as a practical man. However, when you measure the length of the human queue that visits the Wise woman, you understand how far from practicality people could be pushed by despair, while superstition was the only guidance one could seek. Ricci didn't need that, he had a job. On many levels, the scene is interesting, as we wonder if Ricci's intervention could have foreshadowed the theft, expecting from the title and the misleading cheerful mood, that the bicycle would be stolen when he'll come downstairs. But this would have been too predictable.The following day, Ricci rides his bicycle, carrying a ladder. Every time we get to see him on a bicycle, there's a sensation of freedom, driven by an exhilarating fast motion. But fate chose Ricci as the unfortunate victim of a meticulously set-up stealing. We only have a quick glance on the thief, but Ricci's reaction sweeps it off, and sets up the dramatic element that will never desert the film. Ricci knows what this terrible loss means. He comes back by bus, ignoring the queue, and peoples' protests. The next day, starts a long quest for the stolen bicycle with Ricci and his son, Bruno, a plucky funny-looking little boy, who makes the duo look like a dramatic reminiscence of Chaplin and his Kid, with a new father-and-son dimension that will be the heart of the film.And in this journey that immortalized the Roma that was just healing its War hounds, queues take a particular significance as an allegory of Ricci's condition: a man isolated in his own despair struggling against a system that makes an outcast of him, or worse, an agitator. In a church, Ricci 'harasses' the only man he previously flashed with the stealer, unluckily frail and old. After a long unsuccessful search, Ricci almost wisely resigns and takes Bruno to the restaurant. For a brief moment, Ricci smiles again and lets Bruno drink a few wine. The restaurant scene represents a pivotal moment when Bruno realizes his personal contrast with the richer kid who can eat spaghetti, and Ricci reconsiders with a mathematical precision how providential and indispensable were the job and the bicycle.Ricci's only chance is superstition, an euphemism for luck. "Find it now, or it'll be lost forever" the Wise Woman implacably says. And in an unpredictable twist, Ricci meets the thief, right after the visit and he's the one, as his defensive reaction shows. Ricci violently gets him off a brothel, with the fierceness of a man who won't let his prey escape. De Sica's direction is masterful as it makes Ricci, following the tragic irony that governed his journey, look like a bully to the people of the neighborhood and the epileptic stroke of the suspected kid made Ricci even more detestable.Ricci endured hostility, he lost his bicycle and his pride, he faces a situation where his heart is full of hatred and where he has nothing to lose. If a thief can get through this, so be it. Tortured by his conscience, he finally asks Bruno to take the tram and steals a bicycle parked in a cleared place. But this is not Ricci's day at all, and the climactic sequence after making my heart pound, literally melted it when the by-standers stopped Ricci and started treating him like a bug, with the sad and tear-jerking cries of poor Bruno that saved him from jail, but not from the insults.De Sica deliberately hired non-professionals as to amplify the film's neo-realistic aspect. I couldn't believe it as Lamberto Maggiorani's face embodies to perfection the raw and brutal condition of an average man facing an unfair hostility. And as he walked hand in hand with poor Bruno into the sunset, with Alessandro Cicognini's penetrating score, two things cuts straight into my heart : first, I had just watched one of the saddest but greatest dramas ever. Secondly, considering the father-and-son relationship, Bruno learned in one day what it took to be a man with responsibilities, and how cruel the world could be, so maybe the only light of hope is that despite everything, Bruno still loved and respected his father <U+0085>
"Bicycle Thieves" is a tragedy of everyday life. The storyline has no secret or mystery to reveal. It is just a man in a desperate struggle for the right to have a better life. And it is a note about the crushing helplessness and anonymity with which the poorer classes struggle in modern society. This is exactly what excites me most in the movie: disoriented and wandering aimlessly through the streets of Rome, the man intersects with crowds of other men like him, each trapped in its day-to-day, ignorant and uninterested in the problems other. Interaction with others is invariably characterized by conflict - there is no time or resources to listen to matters that are not ours. And, in the face of the man, there is constantly drawing the dread of disaster "God, what do I do now? how can I support my family?".


                
This is a masterwork. After years I can still see the images. Once I had children, it became even more to me. This is a microcosm of what it must have been like in postwar Axis countries. There is widespread unemployment, everyone trying to scrape a living. This man and his wife try to find a way to keep going; they have so little. Even though things are hard, the little boy, Bruno, idolizes his father. The final scene is about as gut wrenching as anything ever put on film. It is not sentimental as some say; it is painful. We have a man of great morals driven by forces over which he has no control, but that isn't going to matter. The options are starvation and abandonment. It's interesting how the crowds that judge this man counter the efforts he has made. The film is grueling and despairing. The thing is that it is so human. The bad guys seem to be winning all the time. The universe is indifferent and harsh. This movie is extremely well acted and there are great scenes that can be analyzed over and over. It is visually striking with great symbolic references. Ultimately it is just so human.


                
To call this simply a movie is not enough; I will call it the materialization of perfection. I'm waiting for the day when someone will overstep the limit this film has signed, but I don't think that day will come, because you can't surpass perfection. Obviously 10 out of 10, like I gave it to other films, but I think that Ladri Di Biciclette is out of the competition.


                
Saw this when i was a kid. Revisited it recently on a blu ray.
In post-war Rome, Antonio (Lamberto Maggiorani) is offered a job of putting posters up in the city but that job requires a bicycle. Antonio hails from a poverty stricken class n he cannot afford to miss this job as unemployment is very high. Trouble is he had already pawned the bicycle to put food on the table for his family.
His resourceful wife sells the bed linens in order to get the money to get his bicycle back.
One of the most touching scene is when Antonio and his small son Bruno goes to work carrying their egg sandwiches. Antonio drops the kid at the gas station n so its implied that the kid works there, while he goes in the city to paste the posters n on the very first day his bicycle is robbed by a thief who manages to get away.
Director Vittorio De Sica captured the working class lifestyle to perfection by avoiding professional actors and going for real, everyday people n real locations with the everyday hustle and bustle.
The film succeeded in capturing the grim realities of regular working people and the everyday struggle.
Lamberto Maggiorani being a non professional actor did a terrific job.
We as audience empathize with him n his struggles n in the final act in spite of him doing a wrong thing, we want him to succeed.
Another noteworthy thing is the small kid.
The hotel lunch scene was also very touching. The dialogues before the lunch scene, lets go down in style & everything has a cure except death by Antonio to his son is really encouraging.
This film is relevant today due to people living in ghettos.


                
This movie has no loopholes and is the father of neorealist cinema. The story is simple and an honest depiction of the helplessness of a poor family. A jobless man (Antonio Ricci) finds a job of sticking posters in the post second world war Italy. With great difficulty he arranges for a bicycle which gets stolen on the very first day at work. Antonio knows he can't find it but still he has no choice so he sets out with his son to look for his bicycle. Audiences along with father and son contemplate every aspect of bicycle i.e. number plates, careers, pedals etc while searching for it. The desperation of the protagonist is heart-breaking.I was avoiding this flick because a friend of mine told me an Indian classic called 'Do Beega Zameen' is loosely based on 'Bicycle thief'. I love this Indian flick but I didn't want to see any thing in the same line. After a long time I happened to see 'Bicycle thief' and realized that this movie is just incomparable. All the main characters in the film are non actors. Enzo Staiola who played Bruno (son) was literally picked from the street. He has done a fantastic job. Lamberto Maggiorani as 'Ricci' was also employed in a similar way. It seems they were picked up because of the way they walked. 'Sica' must be a great man. Lamberto Maggiorani is just too real. I don't know if it's his non-actor background or something 'Sica' did. It looks as if he is really looking for a bicycle. One scene after other is like a collage of postwar Italy told through two characters. The whole church sequence is a satire on the double standards of the roman society. In one of the scenes, Ricci decides to eat in a restaurant on the grounds that if we have to die of hungers why not eat good food before that; Bruno is ogling at people who are eating expensive food and Ricci in the middle of the food starts calculating what he could have earned if his cycle was not stolen. It's a very powerful scene if you have equated hunger, food and money ever in your life. The film is so real that you forget that its film. The last few scenes gets you totally. 'Sica' has used a cycle to expose poor post war Italy how cool is that? If cinema is not doomed and survives in the next century it's because of films like these.
This is the prime classic of Italian neorealism, and no matter how many times you watch it, you will always find new elements in it to surprise you, especially since it is so much more than just a social-realistic document.It is in fact a Kafka situation. Francesco Ricci gets a job for which he must have a bicycle, his bicycle is pawned, so his wife has to pawn all their sheets (6) to get money to get out the bicycle. One of the most impressing scenes in the film is about these sheets: the six sheets are bundled up in a parcel which is stored together with other parcels of sheets, but the shelves of these stored parcels stretch higher and higher, and her sheets have to be placed on top, for which the clerk must climb a ladder of considerable height - you get the impression of her sheets geeting lost in a crowd of other pawned sheets, and that's also what the main characters are doing in this film - they get lost in an unfathomable Kafka process of hopelessness and impossibilities.Vittorio de Sica was perhaps the most human of all cinema directors, in every film he focuses on humanity, the human factor and its problems with a world of inhumanity, and this tendency is especially clear in this film, where the centre of attention is on the small boy, who without being the leading character nevertheless is the chief communicator of this film's message - a maze of destiny with no way out, marked by a constantly increasing degree of tragedy and despair. The film answers no questions, there is no end and least of all any solution to the problem, it just leads you there and shows the case and leaves to the audience to remain upset forever.


                
Vittorio De Sica's masterpiece of small creations and grand results has made this movie something that really needs as much viewing as 'Citizen Kane' and 'It's a Wonderful Life'. It was not the first film of Italian Neo-realism nor the last, but its survival and timelessness must say something.Two things caused the Italian Neo-realism movement. First was all the big scale films getting silly and stale, so something more serious and relatable was needed. Second was at the end of the second World War, much of Europe was left in poverty, so films of such degrees as before were unable to be done. So De Sica shot on location with minimal tools and cast blue-collar people (not actual actors) to play the people needed. The protagonist named Lamberto Maggiorani had a hard-job that paid little and recently got laid off and had been trying to find work ever since. Following this movie, he was occasionally cast in De Sica's future works. His son in the movie played by Enzo Staiola was cast after De Sica saw him helpings father. The rest is history.Italy was hit pretty hard after World War II since they were under the command of Mussolini. What we see is a worn-down Rome and 90% of its population trying to get jobs. Lamberto Maggiorani plays protagonist and hero Antonio Ricci who out of luck gets a well-paying job putting up posters along Rome. The only catch is he needs to supply a bicycle. That is in his job description or else he cannot be employed by them. He sells some fabrics at home and finally gets it. We, the audience feel so relieved. First day on the job, some punk youth steals it. The rest of the film is Antonio and his son Bruno trying their hardest to find it and put their lives back on track.Part adventure and mystery, Antonio seeking his possession is pretty thrilling. We know exactly who he is and exactly what's on the line. And not knowing who took it or where it is makes the movie very exciting. But this is best remembered for its serious side. This is a movie about the bonds between father and son. Bruno is a child who should not have to worry about his dad's hardships. But together, they travel all around Rome searching for the one thing that his father needs: a bicycle. Should Antonio steal another one or fraudulently claim one? See what happens.These characters are as real now as they were then. Many people these days struggle to make ends meet and get screwed over. 'Bicycle Thieves' shows how labour was back in the days and place where it was almost obsolete. Anything different to this perfect picture (apparently they were thinking about casting Cary Grant as Antonio) and the realism would have been lost and the knockout power would be gone. Watch this timeless picture and never forget what it does to you.


                
Bicycle Thieves is a 90 minute depiction of Grief, Poverty, Frustration, Bad luck and Hope. Set in post WW2 Italy at a time of massive unemployment and poverty a man called Antonio who hits a jackpot which comes with challenges and with the help of his wife he is able to solve them. Just when he thought his life is set, tragedy strikes in the name of theft and how he tries to get back what he lost is the rest of the movie. Almost of the every shot in this movie is picturesque and the background score is like a symbiotic relationship to the movie. Bicycle Thieves is everywhere, both in your life and around you. The performances are very impressive and the editing is flawless. A must watch movie for everyone and especially working class men.
The Italian masters working in the cinema of those years that followed WWII changed the way movies were done in their country. After the defeat, years of hardship and penury befell their land. Despair was everywhere because much was in ruin, or there didn't seem to be an end in sight. Thus, the work of the directors of the stature of Roberto Rosellini, Vittorio DeSica, and Luchino Visconti, and the early works of Federico Fellini, went to create the movement we know today as the neorealism. "Ladri di biciclette" was perhaps the best exponent of the trend started by these men. The action in the streets of Italy's major cities, mainly Rome, became the natural backdrop for the stories they wanted to narrate. Little was done in studios. Unlike Hollywood, the Italians had one advantage in that recent history could be brought to the screen right from the original locations.The story of Antonio Ricci, a poor unemployed worker, in the days following the end of the conflict, is a gripping tale in which the agony of every day life conspired against him and his family. When his name comes up for a job pasting posters all over Rome, he encounters a big problem. The basis of his employment requires him to have a bicycle in order to move around the city. Alas, Antonio and Maria have pawned it in order to satisfy more pressing needs. Maria has a solution, she will sell her dowry's linen. In exchange, they receive money which will be used to reclaim the precious bicycle.Before going home, Maria decides to go see La Santona, a sort of female seer, that predicted Antonio would get a job. She feels she has to give this woman something as a token of her gratitude. Little is left over for them to live on, but with Antonio's new job, things look better for them. Antonio and Maria have two other sons, Bruno and a newly born baby. Even Bruno has a job, to help ends meet.As Antonio begins to work pasting posters advertising "Gilda" all over the city, his precious bicycle is stolen. Antonio must act quickly if he wants to keep working. He goes to find a friend, the head of a cleaning crew. The next day they meet in a square where all kinds of stolen property end up to be sold. Nothing is found, adding to the foul mood Antonio is feeling.Next day is Sunday. Antonio takes Bruno to help him in his search. When they see an old man speaking to the man who stole Antonio's bicycle, they follow him. This old man refuses to tell them anything. Being hungry, he takes Bruno to a trattoria where they can only order the cheapest items on the menu. There is a family sitting nearby with a son about Bruno's age who is enjoying dishes that Bruno cannot have.When they meet by chance the man who took the bicycle, Antonio and Bruno find themselves surrounded by a neighborhood crowd that will not help them at all. The house is searched, but nothing is found. Even the policeman that have tried to help abandons them because of lack of evidence. The solution for Antonio is to try to steal a bicycle because it is the only way for him to keep on working, or so it seems. Unfortunately, when he does get the lonely bike, he is not prepared for the mob that assaults him, leaving him beaten and helpless.This work is one of Vittorio DeSica's masterpieces. The other ones were "Umberto D", "L'oro di Napoli", and "La Ciociara". This film was also written by DeSica and his usual collaborators, among them Cesare Savattini, a genius himself. In Lamberto Maggioriani, the director found the perfect actor to portray Antonio Ricci. Bruno was played by Enzo Staiola, a natural boy actor who had only about eight years at the time. Lianella Carell appears as Maria, although the film belong to Mr. Maggioriani and Mr. Staiola and the great direction by DeSica.
In this third world the majority of us inhabit, we live in a society in which it has become almost normal to be a single mother with the overwhelming responsibility of children. It is a world in which a mother has become associated with the false ideas of having an unsurpassable bond with her child<U+0085> a bond that is untouched<U+0085> a bond that is envied. This is a shame, but luckily it is only an idea that has been perpetuated by the media, disillusioned government recognitions and poor cliché ridden films <U+0096> often with a strong Class undertone. Ladri Di Biciclette tells of another side of this contemporary notion, it tells of a fathers bond with his child and how this bond is called upon to uphold the family.The film really is beautiful and I would go so far as to call it a true work of art. Ladri Di Biciclette manages to deconstruct what some would see as chauvinist values - and in such a way that we really appreciate the male prerequisite of fatherhood. The plot incorporates the male lead with such precision that we, the audience, feel his every dilemma<U+0085> his every decision<U+0085> his every emotion. We also bond with the child to such an extent that we really share his tears. But then anyone really interested in viewing this film will at least be familiar with the pictures of the neo-realist genre and its attributes, so all these experiences are to be expected and this picture does not fail to deliver. I would even be bold enough to say that this film is the best film of the genre (although if interest in neo-realism you should also see Umberto D & Stromboli)<U+0085> to further that<U+0085> this is the best film I've ever seen! Ladri Di Biclette touched a cord with me and if it doesn't with you then pay a visit to the circus because you must be made of stone.


                
This film was one of the greatest films to come out of the Italian "neo-realist" movement.An unemployed man is given a job putting up posters, however a condition of his employment is that he needs a bicycle, eventually he manages to buy one from a pawn shop, but on his first day at work it's stolen and thus the man and his young son begin a desperate search through the back streets of Rome to find the missing bicycle.The film (shot entirely on location with non-professional actors) highlights the grim economic realities of post-war Rome. However the film is profoundly human, in it's portrayal of people struggling to live and maintain some dignity in the harsh environment. This is one of the deservedly acknowledged classics of film-making.


                
