Utterly predictable.One "gets" what is going to happen right away, and although you do want to root for the guy, too much of the movie is his running around to not much effect, such as the long scene in the church looking for the old guy. Why not simply go back to the plaza where he thought he had originally seen the thief?Once it became clear that he would not be able to recover his bicycle, he should have moved on. According to his own calculations, having the delivery job should have given him sufficient funds to "rent" another bicycle until he could buy another one. At least make an effort that does not involve stealing someone else's bicycle.
In Rome, Italy in 1948, the economy is depressed and jobs are very few. A former bricklayer manages to get a job putting up posters, but he needs his bicycle back from a pawn shop, and trades in his bedding for it. On the first day of his job, a young man finds his bicycle and steals it. The man, who has a wife, son, and baby, desperately searches for it.The man goes to the police, but can do no more than file a complaint, and they won't waste valuable time looking for a stolen bicycle. His young son helps him, along with some dopey friends of his, but no luck. They go to a church, to a clairvoyant, and get no results. Even finding the thief fails-they cannot prove he did it. The movie ends with the man broken by his sufferings.The movie is said to be Marxist, but it is difficult to understand why. The implied message is that the law, elected politicians, the church, even a group of political agitators, give this poor man no relief. The movie tells what doesn't help the protagonist, but does not say what would. The movie may attack religion, democracy, and capitalism, but that is all it does. A relic rather than a classic.
This is another one of those "Top 100 Films" (or top 250, whatever) that is very overrated and will always be overrated because critics don't have the guts to ever change their lifelong opinions of anything, or go against their peers. In other words, it's the "thing to do," meaning rate some films higher than they deserve. It's almost an elitist-type of attitude among critics. Maybe it makes them feel smart. It's always been "in," too, among North American critics to overrate these European films. That, too, somehow makes this Liberal morons feel intelligent. They do this with Kurosawa, Bergman, Tarkovsky, Truffaut and others. In this case, it's director Vittorio De Sica.The fact is this is a grimy, unappealing, boring movie. The story is a simple one (not that there's anything wrong with that!): a man needs a bicycle to get a job. His wife pawns some things to help him buy a bike. After he gets it, it's stolen and the rest of the film is the man trying to find it. It was NOT fascinating; it was boring.Sometimes great camera-work elevates a film way above the story, or great acting will do that, but there is nothing extraordinary about anything in this movie. The actors are literally amateurs and look and sound the part.Yes, this movie can bring emotion and frustration as the feeble man and his son search desperately for the bike. Yes, I can see where this would be a "touching" film for some. Some parts are nicely filmed, too, It isn't all bad, but it's nowhere near its reputation as one of the top classic movies of all time. Come on! Get real!


                
This film just dragged on and on interminably. Even the simplest scenes, for example, when the father and son get caught in the rain while looking for the bicycle, are dragged out to longer than could be believed. What is the point, anyway? That bicycles get stolen and can't be found, sometimes? I could have told you that. Well, this is my first review, and apparently I have to write at least ten lines. That's a shame, actually -- I think that's probably why there aren't very many negative reviews here. Who wants to write a long review of a movie they hated? A lot of the reviews I've glanced at here, for "The Bicycle Thief", make a big deal about the amateur actors. Who cares if the actors are amateurs or not? As long as the acting is good, I think, I don't care if they are big names or not. BTW, the acting in this movie isn't one of my complaints.
