The Italian neo-realist film movement began around the end of WWII with Roberto Rossellini's OPEN CITY in 1946.  It is defined and encapsulated by this striking film directed by Vittorio De Sica.  THE BICYCLE THIEF is the best of a group of films that depicted the hardship and despair that Europeans, specifically Italians, went through after the death and destruction of the war.  The economy was horrible, and the towns and cities were half-destroyed and decaying.  Rome is the location for THE BICYCLE THIEF and De Sica shoots the city in grainy black and white with non-professional actors to get a simple, yet unbearingly emotional point across.  A simple thing such as a bike can be someone's entire world at that time and losing it means doing something irrational or perhaps necessary.The lead in the film is played by Lamberto Maggiorani who seems to be a very good actor.  He is not an actor, however, and maybe this is why the film hits its mark so well and comes across so realistically.  Maggiorani is of this difficult world and his brooding face is a clear indication of this. His job is to plaster film posters up on the walls of buildings all over Rome.  He even hangs a picture that symbolizes the absolute opposite of the misery surrounding him.  Rita Hayworth from GILDA is on the walls all over the city, a sign of joy to some, a representation of their own lowly status to others.When the bicycle is actually stolen, the "title" character is sought after by Maggiorani and his young son (Enzo Staiola), a little kid with so much acting ability, you swear this must be a documentary.  A grueling search throughout Rome has the essential parts of the movie, because we see up close the actual people and places the neo-realist film movement came to represent.  It is a small, sad world they live in and the bike has to be found so that they can live.  The father is put to the ultimate test in front of his son.  Will he do the honorable thing or will he do what his mind and heart know is only possible? These are the tense moments of the film's climax.There is a lot of THE BICYCLE THIEF in Benigni's LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL and some obvious comparisons have been drawn because of the father-son relationship. They are worthy of comparison and have equal artistic prowess.  What is different about THIEF is the level of intensity maintained throughout.  I felt the key element was the music by Alessandro Cicognini, a simple horn that plays so tragically that it is a main character in the picture.  What De Sica does here, as well as other neo-realist directors (Rossellini, Fellini), is create for American audiences a powerful counterpoint to what we are used to.  An honest, non-corporate portrait of the struggle for life and self-respect.  THE BICYCLE THIEF is one of the finest films ever made.RATING: 10 of 10


                
It is post-war Rome and much of the city's residents are impoverished and desperate for work.  One man named Ricci who haunts the job lines day after day to provide for his wife and two children, when suddenly his name is called for a well-paying city job.  The only catch is that he needs a bicycle for the job, and he has just pawned his bicycle in order to feed his family.  Thus begins `The Bicycle Thief', Vittorio de Sica's gritty study in realism.  Ricci and his wife sell the sheets off of their beds to get the bicycle back, only to have the bicycle stolen on his first day on the job. In order to keep the job, he and his young son walk around Rome, desperate to find the thief, and more importantly, the bicycle before his next day of work.  de Sica chose non-actors to portray the characters in the film, favoring a further realistic vision by casting amateurs.  The result is remarkable, because the pain and emotions conveyed are so true.  The relationship between father and son is also compelling and endearing, in that for the most part, Ricci treats his son as an equal, letting him in on his innermost thoughts and fears, until the end, when a particular event causes him to be ashamed, and the roles become defined once again.  `The Bicycle Thief' personifies the refreshing fact that European cinema was more daring and also true in their reaction to post-war life.  While America was trying to paint a heavy coat of rosy paint on the times by churning out the saccharine MGM musicals by the dozen, Europe was showing that the effects of a war fought on their home turf did not inspire moments of spontaneously breaking into song, or a choreographed dance number, rather life pretty much sucked, but survival, as difficult and ugly as it can be, is most important.  `The Bicycle Thief' has been a critical favorite for decades, and for good reason.  It is a must-see film for any cinephile.--Shelly


                
Perhaps I shouldn't listen quite so much to critical opinions. I had heard for years that this was the best film ever made. I heard this mostly from film critics and would-be film critics. When I found that my local arthouse cinema was showing the film on my birthday, I thought it would be a nice present to myself. I wanted desperately to love this film, but all the rabid praise heaped upon it over the years was just too much for this (or any) film to live up to. It wasn't bad at all, but certainly not the greatest film I've ever seen. I found that it dragged on for at least half an hour longer than it should have. I thought De Sica took too long to get around to what I interpreted as his eventual point. A slow pace and a dawdling plot don't usually bother me, as long as the characters themselves are interesting. Unfortunately, I found the father to be thoroughly unlikeable, and I pitied the poor kid (Enzo Staiola, whose performance was perhaps the best thing about the film). I find it hard to believe that this is considered by so many to be the best film ever.


                
It amazes me that even after nearly 70 years, there remain movies you can come across that become truly seasoned with the passage of time. That perceived immortality may lie in the continued relevance in subject matter, it's true to life story telling or its compelling characters. Many of these older films capture the smaller joys or moments with its subtle yet beautiful cinematography. They elicit an acute nostalgia that stays with you long after the credits have rolled. Bicycle Thieves (Ladri di biciclette) gives us a seemingly straightforward plot. A poor father struggles to get a job post-WWII Italy. He is given a great job opportunity, one that is contingent on having a bike. He buys one and, well, you could put the rest together based on the title. One thing I love about Bicycle Thieves is that, from beginning to end, it steers away (no pun intended) from the conventional storytelling and plot development we've come to expect from movies nowadays. In doing so, it is also a perceptive exploration of how times have changed.A film ostensibly about a bike hunt delves much deeper into universal themes, at its core, that many can relate to. The story focuses on Antonio Ricci, the story's protagonist who begins as a kind-hearted soul, and chronicles his gradual devolution. It would appear that losing the bike is emblematic of his dwindling dignity; as the idea of re-entering poverty becomes more of a reality, Antonio's goodwill gradually begins to crumble. The film is, above all else, evocative of a simpler time where things like bikes were considered this prized commodity. As I experienced their journey running around Rome, I couldn't help but smile witnessing the functioning of a technology-less society. In the version I streamed it with online, there were several editing errors, presumably from the film being the victim of a re-uploaded version. This is likely unintentional. The grey shades from the palette of black and white colors appear to change and become darker as the film progresses, accompanying the shift in mood of the film. This is likely intentional. The film's long shots give us beautiful snippets into Rome and immerse us right in the middle of the landscape. The black and white is particularly useful here lending a historical feel to the film and a stark realism I'm certain director Vittorio De Sica was going for. Overall, it is an indisputable classic and an unmissable experience.


                
Masterfully done. So simple and so intriguing. So real and natural. Beginning = very well done. from the music to casting , we see in the first 20 minutes, this movie is done right.Middle = very well done. Again! How do they get to us care so deeply about a character!? .. then some little boring/slow moments.. but not really.1+ extra point just for the scene where the father takes his kid to the restaurant to forget about the bike and all the problems. Such a real experience. This is totally how people would react in the real world. Even though there are cares deep within us, we must have some outlet, release, fun from time to time.Ending = Unexpected. Yet, very very very powerful!!! The main role (Ricci) , he made this movie what it is. This movie really is very good. Why not rate it higher.. well, I don't know, probably just not spectacular enough for my picky taste.Still! It deserves to be a classic. And I also like to see Italian culture , people in that time. It does show how Italians act in a way. That is of course nothing special since it is an Italian movie, but still I liked it.Bonus 0.2 points for the ending and how it was acted. Ricci made this movie!Real rating: 8.15
There are other (Italian) movies that make me bawl more while watching them, but Vittorio De Sica's supremely downbeat Bicycle Thieves can hold its own in a "I'll never laugh again" kind of way. Telling the simple story of a man losing his bike and subsequently trying to find it, and sort of extrapolating it into society at large, De Sica provides a social commentary of a country either not working or working against you. I'm not going to pretend that I'm an Italian expert after three months here but I do think it captures the feel of Italy pretty well, and sadly, given the current state of affairs here the commentary still rings quite true on both a micro and macro level; comments about "nothing has changed" abounded in my company, like everyone I watched it with had had their bikes stolen or bought a stolen bike, and the unemployment is through the roof.Either way you don't really have to read too much into it, it's first and foremost a solid (melo)drama, and as such, De Sica does lay it on pretty thick, but it feels like such a humane work that I'm willing to let most of the overwroughtness slide.


                
This is considered to be a classic of Italian cinema. So far my look into Italian cinema has been awful to say the least (The Titanic Animated movies and Troll 2 were the only Italian films I have seen before this) I wanted to know what the best of their cinema is like because I have clearly seen the worst.The plot is that a man named Antonio Ricci found a job that was very difficult to get in those times. The job seems to get him a decent pay and might probably change his financial situation. The one condition of the job is that he must get a bike. They pawn their bedsheets to get the bike and on the first day of work, it is stolen. He can't do the job without it and the police can't help him find it. Antonio starts looking for it with his son, Bruno. He slowly starts to become more and more desperate to find the bike and it becomes more and more hopeless.I can see the emotional impact this may have had on some people. The movie is a very sad movie to try and slowly create and build on a feeling of hopelessness. This movie does do that very well and if you are looking at movies for escapism, then don't watch this movie. If however what you are looking for is a look into what life was like after WWII for Italians then this is definitely worth a look.


                
Firstly, a word of warning: Once again, as it's obviously what I do best, I will play the devil's advocate and lambast another great movie. The reason I feel I can do this is that it's already praised so highly by just about everyone else one this site and elsewhere, so that more positive reviews would be pretty much redundant. Yes, I know I'll probably burn in the pits of cinema's hell for this, if there is one. Or, I'll be sentenced to spend eternity watching endless reruns of Mel Gibson movies. When it's all said and done, though, I'll try to make some amends by rating it... well, maybe not a 10 this time, but at least an 8. So please, try to forgive me.Well, to the point, and it's actually a brief one. There will be no attempts of armchair philosophy this time. The reason why I could not stomach this movie is a simple one: it's a movie for kids. Make sure you take your children along to see it, or if you don't have any, bring along some of the juvenile punks in your neighborhood. They will probably enjoy it more than you, even if it's for all the wrong reasons. By this I mean something more than the obvious fact the the plot and the ideas of the movie are simple and dumbed down enough for a four-year old to understand. From beginning to end, "Ladri di biciclette" is marked by a profound infantilism, and a bad sort. It's not the wonderful and honest infantilism of, say, Fellini, where you'll find a real and often very painful account of the reality of being a child, as well as showing the child that still is inside us when we're long since grown up (especially the experience of being an Italian male child with all the traumas of dealing with authority, with the church, with the mothers and fathers of that place and time). That kind of child is shown as a true human being, not least (and we can of course thank psychoanalysis for this, in Fellinis case mostly the theories of Carl Jung) with a true will to power and an extremely powerful sexuality. It's a childhood that is no longer innocent.The childhood of "Ladri de biciclette" is more of the Disney variety. For all its highly praised "social realism", the movie doesn't have much psychological realism, and the social critique actually suffers profoundly as a result. This is because its social "theories", if that's not too strong a word, are based on an idea of "a fall from paradise", the paradise of childhood or childishness. As I said, Fellini's children, like the children of Freud or Jung, are no longer thought of as innocent. The very notion of innocence itself is revealed as a myth. De Sica, however, seems to think of childhood as something profoundly innocent and pure, "uncontaminated" by those "evil" social forces that corrupt people and turn them into egoists, make them violent - and make them bicycle thieves. This state of childhood extends into adulthood as well, until it's "ruined" by society. When I say it's a movie for kids, I should add that it's mostly a movie for little boys - "good" little boys. The protagonist Antonio is nothing more than a big kid, just as childlike as his son Bruno. The other male "good guys" are either kind and friendly uncles, or also, again, children themselves. The one, at least partly, adult character in the movie is, of course, the mother, Maria. Good grief, of course she could not have been known by any other name. She is a virgin mother if ever there was one, asexual or perhaps pre-sexual, profoundly kind and caring, the kind of mother any good little boy could want - or the kind of mother-substitute any good infantile Italian husband could want for a wife. Even so, even she does not escape being treated as a little girl for a good part of the story.Sexuality is more or less completely censored from the film. Even in the scene in the bordello, where the focalization changes to the kid Bruno - and he can, of course, not come in. The camera, and we along with it, is left waiting on the outside.I had not seen much, if any, mention of this profoundly infantile stance in articles and reviews of the movie, and it honestly caught me by surprise. Still, it's the impression that stays with me. This is a tale of the corrupting forces of society, that ruins our original purity, and if not for those forces, we would still all be little boys and girls, playing our games, lacking nothing and never having to grow up. Well... it simple beyond belief, and just doesn't ring all that realistic to me.The fact that the whole thing was rehashed in the dreadful "La Vita è bella" by Benigni (bicycle and all), is another sad chapter, but I won't get into that, as that, at least, it's obviously not De Sica's fault directly.


                
THE BICYCLE THIEVES is an Italian "Neo-realist" film--so called because it used real people in rather ordinary situations. Some see these as anti-Hollywood but the actual reason for them was that after the war, the Italian film industry was in ruin and they were practically broke, so making these simple films about simple people was a natural outgrowth, though some of the groundwork for this style began during the war.The story itself is about a poor man who is out of work but is finally able to secure a job using his bicycle. The problem is that soon after starting back to work, the bike is stolen so he spends the rest of the film searching for the bike (sort of like PEEWEE'S GREAT ADVENTURE, but not a comedy). Later in the film, the focus is not just on the bike but on the relationship between the man and his young son. There really is nothing more to this very simple plot, but it is a fascinating time capsule into the desperate state of Italy until its rebirth in the mid-1950s.The fact that THE BICYCLE THIEVES is so well known and respected is a testament to the fact that many "in the know" aren't really that smart after all. What they actually didn't realize is that the director (DeSica) did several other films that were at least as good, if not better. I have heard and read much fawning praise for this film while at the same time wondering how these critics can discuss THE BICYCLE THIEVES without mentioning his other great works. It wasn't like THE BICYCLE THIEVES was his one crowning achievement as director--it's just that this one was discovered abroad and by the Oscar people (AMPAS). I challenge you to watch MIRACLE IN MILAN, UMBERTO D or especially THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US and then tell me that THE BICYCLE THIEVES is THE great masterpiece. These films (particularly THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US) have a great depth of emotion that THE BICYCLE THIEVES lacks and the connection to the audience is greater (provided you ever see these other films).I am not cursing THE BICYCLE THIEVES--it is a very good and simple film. But as far as its being a "masterpiece", I just think it's a bit overrated. Before marking this review "not helpful", please first have integrity and see these other films to see what I mean--they are indeed great films and DeSica was an amazing director.


                
A fantastic look into postwar Italy. This Italian Neorealist film is well made and groundbreaking in it's field.It follows a man who is part of the mass unemployed, finally he is offered a job as a poster hanger a job that requires a bicycle. His family is forced to pawn sheets to buy the bicycle. On the first day of the job his bicycle is stolen, the rest of the film follows as Antonio and his son Bruno search the streets and interact with many sects of the Italian public shining a light onto the life of Italians.The film is not grandiose and is often simple and understated, the acting feels natural. The relationship between man and country, and father and son are the core of the film and are well written and performed.Worth watching if you have the interest and time to put towards a well constructed and thought provoking look at Italian life post-war.


                
World War II caused immense pain, suffering, and misery to millions of people all over the globe. In a very odd way, it also served as an inspiration for many of the greatest films of the twentieth century. Some of the films depicted events as they occurred during the war. Others, such as this exceptional film, portrayed the very tragic consequences of the aftermath of the war on the people who were most impacted by it, in this instance the people of Italy's capital city, Rome. This is among three of my favorite films directed by Vittorio De Sica. The other two are "Umberto D" and "Two Women". Although these other films are centered upon certain events during the war ("Two Women") and the devastating effect of the war's aftermath ("Umberto D"), this film, having been produced only three, short years after the event, is the one that is the most immediately connected to the disaster created by this enormous conflict.The fact that the three leading characters are played so ably by amateur actors is yet one more confirmation of De Sica's outstanding directing talent. Lamberto Maggiorani as Antonio, the father, Enzo Staiola as Bruno, his eight year old son, and Lianella Carell as Maria, his wife, are very believable and natural from start to finish.The story is a very simple one about a man who depends upon a bicycle for the very livelihood of his family in a post-war Rome that is plagued by rampant unemployment and poverty. On the very first day of his new job, he becomes distracted for a few moments by his new responsibilities, and the bicycle is stolen with no hope of replacing it. Behind the search by the father and son for the stolen bicycle through the devastated stress of Rome is the constant, dramatic backdrop of the people of the city as they struggle to survive in an environment of severe economic hardship. While the crowds and the rickety city busses, packed with riders, appear to create an authentic scene, once again it is De Sica's amazing directorial skills and hard work that enable the ruinous atmosphere to be so real to us. The haunting music of Alessandro Cicognini, who also partnered with De Sica for "Umberto D", significantly contributes to the overall atmosphere of sorrow and desperation.As a side note, in 1974 when I was a low level federal employee in Washington DC, my only means of transportation, a bicycle, was stolen when the thieves sawed off the wooden railing of the porch to which it was chained. At a time of frequent, violent crime that plagued our own nation's capitol city, the DC police couldn't be bothered any more than the police of Rome in this film. As if they cared that I lost my only means of transportation and couldn't afford a new one. At least I did not suffer the humiliation that Antonio was forced to endure in front of his young son at the end of this movie. Be sure to see it for yourselves.


                
I am very bored with Hollywood and have been trying to check out more art films, classics, foreign films etc. I saw this is sometimes touted as the greatest film ever made. I thought it was good but the greatest? Not too sure about that. This review is going to ramble.In post WWII Italy, poverty abounds. I really think this movie was made to speak to the common man and inspire sympathy in those of a wealthier class. Our protagonist, Antonio, is out of work when he gets a job posting from the unemployment office. The job requires a bicycle which Antonio has to retrieve from the pawn store. His first day on the job, the bike is stolen. He then goes on a quest to find this bicycle with his son Bruno.As for how the movie aged, I think it's done just OK. The very poor quality looks like it was made in the 1920's and not the '40's - Gone With the Wind is 9 years older. Also, some of the son's expressions were slapsticky which I hate slapstick humor but OK, it was a common form of comic relief at the time. The constant background chatter was annoying.As for my impressions, you can certainly draw lot of meaning from the movie. Some, I'm not sure if it was intended to be there. (My point is I learned in 3 different classes (2 in college) that Miller used the name Loman (low man) in Death of a Salesman to describe his character. Miller, himself, said it wasn't intentional.) Yes, you can see that the government, the police, and the church (who lock in the impoverished so they have to stay for the mass to receive charity) offer little relief. Also, the poor are constantly at odds with each other instead of uniting and challenging the rest of society that blissfully ignores them.This is how I saw the movie and why I think it was to inspire sympathy in the lesser fortuned. Antonio is a good man, his circumstances lead him to do something you thought he would never do, steal. I love when movies create a moral gray area. As much as I didn't want him to steal the bike, I also wanted him to get away with it. Don't judge so harshly, who knows what one will do when they are completely desperate.The other main meaning I took from the movie is what the soothsayer said. She tells the "ugly" boy don't continue to sow a field you can't harvest. Then she tells Antonio that he will find the bicycle immediately or not all and to open his eyes. The open your eyes line leads Antonio to confront the boy on the street, though, I'm not sure if that boy is supposed to actually be the thief (I hope he isn't). You assume that the open your eyes line was saying that the bike is under his nose, if he would just look harder, he'd find it. What she really means is to see the truth, the bicycle is gone. Don't keep sowing a field that won't harvest, let go. Granted, there are few other fields out there for him to harvest... but maybe there are, maybe he can rent a bike? Unfortunately, Antonio doesn't let go and this is what leads him to steal.This is me "Loman-ing" this movie (putting my own meaning into it). I see the bicycle as representing Antonio (or any man's) dignity which is tied to being able to support his family (less so now but it's 1948). Society has taken his dignity from him but it is returned when he gets a job. However, it is again stolen from him. This is why he goes on a relentless pursuit. In the end, you can't steal dignity and this leaves him even lower than before.The relationship with the son is also a nice element in the movie. I thought the smacking scene was great, you felt the sting Antonio felt (remember, dignity stolen) when the son mentioned the soup (though he shouldn't have hit him). Also, Bruno's reaction was fantastic, you really felt how wrong the slap was. The son seeing the father steal was also heartbreaking. There is probably more that can be drawn from here but it's not what I focused on.Lastly, I thought the movie was good but not quite great. It's more of a quiet and simple film, though, it does punch you in the gut in the end. You feel sadness and kudos to any movie that can make you care about the characters and evoke that strong of an emotion.
This is a classic example of neorealism and that's a scary idea because many "classics" are so dull. God save me from having to sit through "Ivan the Terrible, Part II" again. And "Pickpocket!" This one was shot on the cheap by Vittorio De Sica -- no professional actors, no fancy gimmicks, no back projection, no money, no nothing. Sid Caesar did a parody on his TV show. Yet De Sica's pulled it off. An unpromising story about a poor man and his little son searching all of Rome for their stolen bicycle on which their livelihood depends is truly engaging.It's post-war Italy and almost everyone is broke. People pawn their used linens to add a little to their pitiful government allowance. Nobody drives a car. There are a few crowded old buses and trolleys but the streets are full of bicycles. Antonio Ricci is lucky to have a bicycle. He's just found a job putting up posters and he's proud of it. His wife has sewn a military cap for him as part of a shabby jump-suit uniform. He needs the bicycle to get back and forth to work.But while he's slapping up a poster advertising a Rita Hayworth movie on the wall of the Hotel Florida, a young thief jumps on the bicycle and pedals quickly away.The rest of the movie follows Ricci and his son as they roam the city looking for the bicycle and the thief. They don't find it, not even with the help of sympathetic friends and the police. Finally, out of desperation, Ricci spots another bicycle leaning lazily against a wall, cases the situation, and takes off on the bike. He's caught by a crowd of pedestrians and released -- defeated, filled with remorse and shame.Two things leave an indelible impression on the viewer. One is the faces. Where did De Sica find these features? All of them are distinctive in one way or another. One, a musician, has a head like a chubby balloon and eyes that extrude from their sockets, as in a cartoon.The second thing is the tour of the seedier parts of Rome that we're subjected to while Ricci searches the streets. There's a tiny, shabby theater in which a handful of untalented performers are doing a clumsy song and dance number. There is a soup kitchen preceded by a prayer, and one of the bums complains, "I sat through the service; I'm entitled to the soup." A Thieve's Market, a neighborhood full of toughs, a decrepit police station out of Kafka, overflowing with piles of paper.In the context of all this local color, the plight of Ricci and his young son sometimes recedes into the background although it's never forgotten. By the end, you ache for Ricci to find that damned bicycle but, as with so many other of our visions, his wish is never realized.
"The Bicycle Thief" is a movie which represents the old times in Italy where the bicycle thieves ruled the place and the corruption and the crime rate was high. In this movie we have a man with his little son who is trying really hard to get his bicycle back from the thief that he stole it but in his path he finds many difficulties.I really liked this movie because of the emotions that it gave and because I believe it represents something that is true. I also liked it because of the plot which shows us a man who fights against all in order to get back what he lost. The success in this I believe that it came from the direction of Vittorio De Sica who did a really good job. About the interpretations I have to say that I was amazed from the interpretation of Lamberto Maggiorani who was played as Antonio Ricci and he was simply outstanding and I also liked the interpretation of the little one Enzo Staiola who played as Bruno Ricci his son.Finally I have to say that "The Bicycle Thief" is a great movie and is a must see movie because it shows us and give us to understand that we have to fight for a better life. It shows us also that when we lose something that is "vital" for us then we have to fight even harder for this and never stop until we succeed.


                
even before consuming that sweet caraffe of vino, this inspiring powerful quip prepares the young son for what lies ahead despite the all encompassing grimy, dog-eat-dog world and this is ROME! was so shocked to see the depths of poverty, destitution, filth and overall desperation of a nation... despite all the rave reviews prior to viewing I still expected a fellini-esque circus display, however, I was overwhelmed with how easily I became engaged and totally immersed in each scene... so many deep emotions were explored with limited dialog and one would think the constant movement would become annoying but never felt like giving up on the evermost important search for freedom, vindication, and glory... was surprised to see the mass in Italian in 1948, Latin only in the USA??? the gentle slip of a childs hand into his fathers overcame the agony of defeat in such a superb manner I was taken aback and admired the director's ability to portray a significant life event almost as important as the child's birth... that love just never ends and how it gives you life, high recommend!
Plot: In the times of great depression--post WWII--a poor man searches for his stolen bicycle without which he won't be able to retain his new job.It is an economically unstable time and an average family is barely scraping a living. The movie focuses on one such family – Husband, wife, their son and infant daughter.The father-son duo takes the movie forward. Their interactions and simple day-to-day things have been presented artistically. There are obviously no wide-angle or high-flying shots, or anything grand in terms of camera work. The strong point of this classic is showing life on screen as it in reality is. Everyone is aware of their hardships and has accepted poverty as being a way of life. Even in want there is hope, there is love, and family bonding strong as ever. No scenes have been pictured with "glumness" as such, but watching these scenes; the melancholy that surrounds you is a testimony to director class.It is not a movie with fairy tale ending rather a perfect ending. In the end the protagonist resorts to desperate measures and repents, leaving us all with a sad thought, a bit of pondering and harsh realities.8.3/10


                
This Italian film I was determined to watch because I had heard the title somewhere before, not just being listed in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically, set after the end of World War II in Rome, Italy, unemployed and poor father Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) has finally found a job, sticking up posters of Rita Hayworth around town. Part of the job is that he must have a bicycle, but on the first day of working he is devastated to have it stolen, and there is little the police can do about it. The only way he can see finding his transport is for him and his young son Bruno (Enzo Staiola) to walk the streets of the city in hope of finding either The Thief (Vittorio Antonucci) or of course the bicycle. After so many useful and not so useful sources for finding the man responsible for the theft or the location of the bicycle, Ricci does finally catch The Thief, but with no evidence of his crime. In the end Ricci was not able to get his own bicycle back, and there was a point when he tried to steal one himself, but the man who it belongs to sees Bruno and does not press charges, all they can do is walk home in despair. Also starring Lianella Carell as Maria Ricci, Elena Altieri as The Charitable Lady, Gino Saltamerenda as Baiocco and Fausto Guerzoni as Amateur Actor. Maggiorani is not a professional leading actor, but he makes a nice and sympathetic character, and Staiola is cute as his son, it is a near enough simple story mixing the urban environment and humanism, and there are some good moments of camera-work, it is a most watchable social drama. It won the Oscar Honorary Award, and it was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay, and it won the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Very good!
Every foray of mine into a different realm of cinema brings an education and an experience. "Bicycle Thieves" is considered a neo-realist film, made with 'real' people (not actors) in ordinary situations and filmed on 'real' locations and not on movie sets. This story takes us to the ravaged city of Rome following World War II, with impoverished citizens desperately seeking work to provide for their families. The casual viewer will not be prepared for the desperation Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) will eventually face in attempting to recover the bicycle he needs to perform the job he has just been hired for, that of putting up posters throughout the city. Ricci is accompanied by his son Bruno (Enzo Staiola), hopeful and naive enough to believe that the family's fortunes are about to improve.Complaints that the film is slow in getting started and depressing as it relates to the search for the stolen bike probably misses the point. This is a story of the human condition, certainly rooted in circumstance of time and place, yet capturing the essence of what a person must do to forge ahead to be a productive person, at least for himself if not for the greater society. Antonio's prospects are tempered by the grim scale of his mission, the search for a single bike in a massive city, almost on the scale of looking for a needle in a haystack. The son appears to symbolize the hope and trust he places in a father to do right by his family, who will be rewarded with a successful outcome.I was intrigued by director De Sica's infrequent use of humorous moments to lighten the film's burden - Bruno's interrupted attempt to relieve himself, his disturbance of the priest in the confessional, eating the mozzarella sandwich. These small moments temporarily distract us from the father's daunting task.It will eventually become clear to the perceptive viewer that because the title is plural, there will eventually be more than one perpetrator. One senses the father's shame and humiliation when he resorts to the same tactic that caused his desperation in the first place. The film's redemptive moment occurs when the son takes the father by the hand with love and understanding, a moment of compassion and forgiveness that closes out the film on a more hopeful note than a depressing one.
Antonio Ricci is an unemployed man in the depressed post-World War II economy of Italy. With a wife and two children to support, he is desperate for work. He is delighted to at last get a good job pasting up posters, but he has to have a bicycle. He is told unequivocally, "No bicycle, no job." His wife Maria pawns their bedsheets in order to get money to redeem his bicycle from the pawnbroker. On his first day of work, Antonio's bicycle is stolen by a young thief.This film is listed by just about everyone as one of the greatest films of all time. It has influenced everyone, and pushed the "realist" style of film, especially with the use of non-professional actors. It even inspired the film "Pee Wee's Big Adventure".For me, I have an interest in Italian film, but a fairly small knowledge of it beyond the horror realm (Bava, Fulci, Argento, etc.). This film was quite possibly more influential in Italy than America, and it is interesting that Sergio Leone appears in an uncredited role... he could debatably be said to be the most successful Italian director of all time.Does this film deserve all its praises? In short, yes. I am not going to add much here just because you will universally find positive reviews, and I am not going to disagree with those whom I agree with and whom have said their pieces better than I could.


                
There are many different theories as to what makes a good film, what makes a film memorable. Every single person will you give you a different set of guidelines as to what separates the masterpieces from your typical, everyday film. In my opinion, one of the strongest necessities towards a really good movie is a fantastic ending. Good, even great movies can be ruined or not as appreciated because of a mediocre or terrible ending. Some of the best films of all-time (in my opinion) finishes on an extremely high note, finishes in a way that allows discussion, allows added praise, builds tears in your eyes, and/or continues providing laughter long after the credits start rolling.Movies like Shawshank Redemption, Finding Nemo, Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, Princess Bride, Rain Man, Empire Strikes Back, among others, are all movies I deem masterpieces. What separates all these from the typical film is that the movie remains consistently good, and then ends on the top of the quality scale. But, there have been great films with bad endings that reduce it to a lower level; Cast Away, Sideways, and Legend of Drunken Master are examples of good movies that could have been even better if they had figured out a decent way to end the flick. This classic suffers from this fate as well; Bicycle Thief is a grand look at post-World War II Italy that ends very abruptly. While on many people's minds its one of the best films of all-time, in my opinion it's just 10 minutes away from perfection, it was oh so close. However, one really can marvel at the cinematography, the realism, and the impact it's delivered to modern film-making.The Bicycle Thief (a.k.a Ladri di biciclette) follows a down-and-out man by the name of Antonio trying to recover his bike, which was stolen during a day at work. Taking his son Bruno, he goes on a long journey through the highs and lows of Italy as he tries to find his bike and the thief who took it. The movie runs deeper than a simple story of a man searching for a bike, this is also a look into the lives of citizens in a post World War II world, in which poverty is widespread, and times are tough. People aren't very nice towards each other, there is hostility throughout, and nobody is willing to stick out their neck for anybody. There is no hero in this tale, just a string of flawed characters trying to survive. Even when the sympathy is aimed towards the main character, it quickly gets snatched away in certain instances when we see his dark side.The quality of this film can be largely and almost wholly attributed to the director, Vittorio De Sica. Using long shots of the city, long shots of the events occurring, the viewer is thrown into the world of injustice, poverty, and hardship. Sica also uses inexperienced actors that can relate to the situation taking place in the film. This decision not only adds a dosage of realism to the piece, but would also influence the later nitty-gritty street films of later decades like The Godfather, Goodfellas, Do the Right Thing, and City of God. He doesn't toy much with the camera, which makes it less Hollywood and more documentary. The hand-held camera look that the movie delivers turns you not into an observer, but more as a witness. The dialogue is also realistic, as the words used throughout the movie remained short, simple, and sweet.There are two things that prevent this from being a golden masterpiece in my standards. First off, the film is just overly depressing from the beginning to the very end. While yes the subject matter is anything but happy, the movie piles sad moment after sad moment after sad moment at you. Sometimes, the sad moments weren't even necessary and come out of left field. If you are going to make a drama, at least throw in a few moments of temporary nirvana, to allow the viewer time to breathe out the negativity. Plus, there's no need to add more drama and tension coming from other, minor characters that serve little importance into the plot. The second and major drawback is the ending. Few people criticize the ending here, but after following depression and unfortunate incidents for 90 minutes, one would hope for an ending that doesn't come out of nowhere. The ending not only abruptly happens, but also doesn't tie up all loose ends, and just leaves you with a bitter taste in your mouth. Don't want to dwell into details, but the climax and conclusion is supposed to flow like the end of a hill, not like a straight nosebleed dive, which is what happens in The Bicycle Thief. When spending a whole film looking for light at the end of the dark tunnel, you don't want to end the car ride still stuck in the tunnel. Okay, enough comparisons, allusions, and metaphors.Bottom Line: The Bicycle Thief is yet another "classic" film that's forgiven for its flaws and setbacks and is considered leagues and mountains above the modern-day film. While yes this movie is good, influential, and a good cultural look at a certain time period in Italy, it's nowhere near perfect. Superb acting, directing, cinematography, editing, and dialogue is all slightly (oh so slightly)marred because the director and screenwriters couldn't come up with a better way to finish this motion picture; it felt like they filmed a bit more of this and just sent an ax towards a random scene during the editing process. A good movie needs a strong ending, and this one couldn't finish on a strong note. It is worth a viewing, but it is not one you are going to keep on the shelves for years to come.


                
I saw this movie some days ago, I expected it to be sad; and it definitely lived up to my expectations. I am no movie expert but I saw it because I have read it's one of the greatest films ever. I really don't get the feeling of what it is that makes it great, but I'd like to say that say that despite being sad it's not bitter, and that what impressed me most about it was the boy's performance. These two points remain in me, and maybe that is where the power and magic of this movie resides: what could be deemed by an ordinary mind like mine an ordinary film, turns out to leave an profound mark in your mind. It surprised me too to see that the film was made just three years after WW II was over and how a now rich country could once be so poor and needy and today be at the same level countries that were in better shape then.


                
I imagine most of the comments that praise this film endlessly are film buffs and film students.  The Bicycle Thief is seen as the flagship representative of Italian neo-realism, and it is more "important" than it is entertaining.  This film drags and drags and drags, but that's the point. This is "realism."  You are taken on the man's quest to find his stolen bicycle.  The scenes are long, mostly dead-ends, and many times you are unsure of where he is going or what he is doing (as he is).  The Bicycle Thief and Italian Neo-Realism is an interesting experiment in film, but nothing more than that.My critique of neo-realism is that we already have something like it, and they're called documentaries.  What this genre does is it essentially takes the worst of doc and non-doc films.  In a documentary, when something gets long you can look past it because IT IS REAL... and the very nature of it being real makes it engaging (if done well).  In a non-documentary, the director can do whatever he pleases to add exciting elements and twists to a story (which neo-realism does not take advantage of).  This movement had to happen sooner or later, but it is no surprise to me that it didn't last. 
This film is a must see for any student or buff, but if you wanna be entertained there are hundreds upon hundreds of better films out there. Nevertheless, The Bicycle Thief had a great "feel" to it that cannot be described, likely attributable to its realism.  Quite frankly though, The Bicycle Thief got very slow.  If I wanted realism, I'd rent a doc or look out the window.  8/10.


                
On the surface Vittorio de Sica's Bicycle Thieves doesn't appear to have a story worth filming about, since it is about a poor man whose bicycle gets stolen while on the job, but de Sica has somehow given this neorealistic motion picture such depth and such emotion that it has turned into such a great and personal film which is loved by many.It has to be noted that this is a neorealism picture, meaning that none of the actors in the film were really actors, but random people who are usually associated with their respective role. I did not find out about this until after i watched it, and i was not beginning to doubt it since the actors in this film are just as good as professional ones. Lamberto Maggiorani, who was a steel worker, captures the inner struggles and desperation of his character perfectly with his exceptional facial acting and his true energetic relentlessness in searching for his stolen bicycle.One has to ofcourse understand the struggles of post WWII italy in order to relate to the financial situation of this film, since there were a lot of poor struggling families like the one we follow in the film, and their tale of forlorn attempts to improve. We also have some great black and white cinematography which visually also creates a narrative of its own of how poverty seems to reign in Rome, with many shots of poor homes. The screenplay is as simple as the movie but still consists of so many morally questionable and realistic dialogue such as 'There's a cure for everything, except death'. Also worth a mention is the incredible score by Alessandro Cicognini, whose violins accurately enhance the sad story that is being played out on screen.Especially the final thirty minutes are absolute world class, and the final climax ( Without spoiling anything ) shows its inevitable ending so greatly. The events that unfold in the film might be simple, but it's the kind of film that will make a great emotional impact on you even when the simplest things happen due to the truly realistic depressing feeling and the great connection with the characters.


                
I watched this movie many times, this film is not described in Italian history however, I have a idea of Italy.I watch movie and I understand that an Italian film. Italian men and women of the difficulties experienced at that time, I saw the beauty of the living conditions of women and found that the Italians in Italy.I think, it is a very good director Vittorio De Sica. The director who seems to understand differently interpret five different screenwriter and shooting scenes in the film shows us the back streets of Italy.Do you know? we can be write to bring into the street culture scenarios, the director has supported scenario and scenes.


                
Revered as one of the foundation stones of Italian neorealism, it is a simple, powerful film about a man who needs a job.This story is so direct it plays more like a parable than a drama.True, Ricci is a character entirely driven by class and economic need. There isn't a lot else to him, although he comes alive in the pizzeria scene. True, the movie doesn't make a point of contrasting his poverty with high-living millionaires (wealth is illustrated as the ability to buy a plate of spaghetti). But if the film is allowed to wait long enough--until the filmmakers are dead, until neorealism is less an inspiration than a memory--"The Bicycle Thief" escapes from its critics and becomes, once again, a story. It is happiest that way.Such films stand outside time. A man loves his family and wants to protect and support them. Society makes it difficult. Who cannot identify with that?
