I was really expecting something legendary when i first saw the ratings and reviews that you people make and write. I downloaded a 100 gb folder that contains all episodes in blu ray FHD and you cannot believe how excited I was, I literally "tried" to enjoy this show but I just couldn't so I'm very disappointed.


                
For many Brotherhood is one of the best anime series ever made. But I'm not one of those. I watched the whole 64 episodes thing and I never cried, never laughed and never felt engaged. I can't believe Brotherhood has all 10 on IMDb. This series has to many unnecessary characters. Some of them highly over powered, immortal but still affected by death. Some of them are really useless and are nothing more than a hindrance for the protagonist (I hated Winry and Lan Fan with all my heart). Sound was clear, the openings were amazing, except for the fifth. Soundtrack during main parts was nothing special. The animation was also nothing special. The plot, in the end gets nonsense. Ed does nothing for around 50 episodes, walking around whith no real intention, killing the final (immortal) enemy with a punch(?). And what was that Al and Ed thing at the end? If it was enough to give up alchemy to save his brother, why Ed didn't do it immediately? What was all that about equivalent exchange, if they get everything they want without losing anything?? Final mention, some aspects were taken by other series. Just look at Pride being like Zebra in the C.B."Symphaty for the damn" episode (same aspect, same non aging capacity, same relationship with the father). I thought some parts where similar to Berserk (Ed and Lee in the belly of Gluttony) and the final sequence was taken by the last airbender( the promised day, the eclipse, Homounculus flying on fire just like the fire Emperor...). Not to mention the nonsense in the meaning content. You think is enough to nominate God, put without a order high meaning definitions to make an anime "mature"? Brotherhood has nothing more than tokyo ghoul, attack on titan and even digimon tri in the depth. Full Metal Alchemist Brotherood is a NON masterpiece. Definitely overrated for me, almost like fairy tail.
I don't know why this show has a 9/10 rating on imdb. I haven't watched any of the other fullmetal alchemist shows before. So this opinion is from someone who is totally new to this universe.First of all this is a very childish show, I mean the joke about how small is the protagonist was used is almost in every episode, it's wasn't even that funny for the first time but after the 4th, it was annoying as hell. All the other jokes are just weird to me, not funny. (this might be different for you)The story was actually good, really good. But overall this doesn't effect my point of view because of the other facts.The charachters.... Yeah.. They were childish, that's not necessary bad for the brothers because they were childs, but can someone explain me how can you design a character which 2 meter high, 200kg of pure musce, menly mustage and yeah a crybaby, I mean WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU?"People cannot gain anything without sacrificing something. You must present something of equal value in order to gain something." That's the main law of alchemy. So... Can anyone explain me how resurrecting human corps costs 1 whole body and a leg, and to bring back someone's soul only cost an arm. Am I the only one who think that a human's soul is more important than a body?


                
Not a worth watching. Totally kiddish. This does not deserve a 9.


                
This anime is an obvious ripoff of the best anime ever created, school days. And a bad one at that. This anime's only purpose is to sell toys to 2-year-old girls.Story 0/10There was literally no story. Random sexy hot guys and woman just get together and fight. There were NO underlying tension or character depth.Animation 0/10The animation is so putrid that it looks like something a kindergartener could draw. Truly a low-budget series.Music 1/10The only good thing is the first opening and other than that it goes downhill very fast.Characters 0/10There was NEVER any real motivation for ANY of these characters. They are just lifeless creatures made for money.Overall: 1/10 Don't WATCH THIS HORRID FILM


                
