Full Metal Alchemist: Brotherhood, I think is the best anime ever made.First of all the the voice cast were chosen to perfection every voice portrays the character as who the were meant to be.Secondly The Storyline was so well written compared to the first series. story flows wonderfully as we witness the journey the characters take and the many twists and turns that occur.Characterization was also excellent. once again I will mention the voices but also the way characters interact with the complex guidelines of the world they inhabit.And lastly the animation is very fluid no cheap faraway shots where the characters are talking but not moving which is used commonly(see Neon Genesis Evangalion).I will finish by saying that if you are going to watch one anime in the entirety of your life time Choose Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood.


                
I have seen both versions of Fullmetal Alchemist (Brotherhood) and both are good. In the first version (Fullmetal Alchemist), the first half of the series is really good. The fight between Edward Elric & Roy Mustang and the State Alchemist test taken by Edward Elric are notable ones. In second half, the story takes lots of twists and turns and I find it's not as impressive as the first half.The second version (Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood) is stick to manga and has the soul of the original story. It is an all rounded anime with tightly knit fantastic storyline, dark at times, humorous, action packed and entertaining. In first half, character introduction, funny moments, action sequence, ends with almost no hope situation for our heroes. In second half, the story takes it's fast pace with more action and nail biting moments.The decisions/resolutions taken by the Elric brothers at each step of their journey are clearly justified. All characters had their importance in the series, even the cute little panda and Yogi had their importance in moving the story forward. Usually when a character is introduced in the middle of a series, it stay far too superior/inferior to rest of the characters. But I like the way Olivier Mira Armstrong and Lin Yao gang introduced in the series. Sometimes when I think of watching something, I start with any one particular scene in this series and end up watching the whole series until the very end. I don't remember how many times I watched it.I have seen many anime in all genre (comedy, drama, action, adventure, thriller, bloody ones, etc.) and in my opinion, Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood is the best in overall. So I give 10 out of 10. When people asks me to suggest something to watch, I recommend this series without blinking. Either they say Animation is for kids or series are lengthy to watch without knowing how Japanese anime differs from Western animation. I would say one thing, watch at least couple of episodes and then you will understand why I recommend this series.Suggestion: The first episode is more of an quick introduction of main casts. The actual story starts in episode 2. So it is OK to skip episode 1. Japanese audio is better than English audio.Other suggested Animes: Cowboy Bebop, Death Note, Code Geass, Steins Gate, Hunter X Hunter, Attack on Titans, Samurai Champloo, Great Teacher Onizuka, Parasyte, Ghost in the shell (both movies & series, have complex plot), Shigurui (only adults, watch only if you are OK with violence & sex)


                
I really loved the original FMA series and was really skeptical about watching this series. I just fell that the original series was so good that a new one was unnecessary. When I read that Brotherhood was all based on the Manga, I decided to give it a try, because the FMA began as a manga after all, I felt that I should watch the "real" story. In the beginning I felt like I was watching the same story, but things were happening at a much faster pace. Then the whole story just went to a place that I could not imagine (which was good), and after awhile, I just realized that this series was so much better than the original series. That is a huge statement for me, because I have seen a decent amount of anime, and felt that the original FMA was second only to DeathNote.I loved how there were new characters (along with old ones that I loved)in this series and felt that because the series was not simply based on getting a philosophers stone, but really thwarting the evil plot of the villains it was a better story. Everything meshed so great and the back stories on Van Hoenhiem were excellent. The one bad thing about the story was they never said how the Dwarf in the Flask was created. I really liked this little villain and was interested in his origins a lot.With that being said, if you are looking for superb animation and story line, with drama, action, comedy, and a little bit of everything else, then I urge you to watch this series and the original FMA series. I think that this version is better than the original and DeathNote. It's really because of the way the story ends, which I will not spoil, but I will say that it is a true ending and we don't have to wait for Bones to make a movie to really wrap things up. Watch it and fall in love with FMA all over again.
IF YOU SEE A LOW RATING, IT IS OBVIOUS THAT THE PERSON HAS NOT WATCHED THE SERIES YET. IT IS OUTRAGEOUS. Don't BOTHER READING THEM.This is a bit of a spoiler.Hey, my names Ron and i'll be talking a bit about FMA: brotherhood. I don't usually watch animes because I have grown out of them. Out of boredom, I decided to watch both FMA and FMA: Brotherhood and I must say, it was a pleasure. FMA(original) had an unique storyline and ending. The story did not follow the manga towards the later part of the series. I felt the story mainly focused on finding the philosopher stone. Along the way, viewers get to see a stronger connection between Al and Ed. There was also more emphasis on Scar and the Homunculi's life and experiences. They barely touch upon Hohenheim (Ed and Al's dad) which I thought had a large role in the story. I got a bit bored of the story towards the end because it got confusing and didn't seem to flow properly. The ending was unique and good, but it did not satisfy viewers and it was kind of a cliff hanger even if you watched the movie. 8/10FMA: Brotherhood followed the manga, and it seemed to aim more towards "mainstream" animes. FMA: Brotherhood had several reoccurring voices, like Edward, Winry, and Roy Mustang, but it also lost some old voices such as Alphonse and Scar. It took some time to get over Al, but eventually it was fine. With the award-winning cast and some new additions, they improved from the original a lot. The relationship between Ed and Al was implied, so they focused on their relationship between other characters. They also didn't focus on Edward 100% of the time (IMO, Ed was in like every scene in original). Instead, they gave Alphonse a lot of solo missions (and a bigger role), developed a new character named Greed/Lin, developed many other characters and had LESS EMPHASIS on the philosopher stone. Winry and Ed, Xing and Ling, Mai Chang and Al, Roy and Riza had they're moments, if you know what I mean. Hohenheim(Elric) had a MUCH BIGGER role in this than the original which was definitely nice to see. Given six years and a manga to follow, they cut out a lot of fillers and improved from the original. The ending was very satisfying compared to the original even though it was more cliché. 11/10Episodes 0-30 Original was better imo. It was more detailed and darker.Episodes 30-64 Brotherhood no doubt was better. Even though, brotherhood didn't have a great start, it definitely picked it up towards the end. A huge variety of new characters, better character development and a stronger plot to follow.Characters - Original VS BrotherhoodEd - Brotherhood. Winry and Ed = GG Al - Brotherhood. More independent and interesting Winry - Brotherhood. In a lot more episodes...too bad they didn't kiss Scar - Brotherhood. Glad he helped. Didn't like him rebellious. Greed/Ling - Brotherhood. He was BA Roy - Brotherhood. Even more BA than before. Riza - Brotherhood. More involved.Roy's Team - Brotherhood. Sad and Happy things happen. Hohenheim - Brotherhood. HAD IMPORTANCE IN THE STORY. Fuhrer Bradley - Brotherhood. ACTUALLY FOUGHTPinako - Brotherhood.Shou Tucker - Brotherhood. Glad hes gone. Yoki(mustache dude) - Brotherhood. He was like Hercule in DBZ Lust - Original. I missed her. Envy - Original. Hated both charactersGluttony - Original. Showed more emotion, rather than go maniacal.Louis Armstong - Original. He was annoying, but he got owned in FMA:BHughes - Original. Izumi Curtis - Original. Was a lot darker and sadder. Marcoh - Original. I hated him. Should've gotten rid of him in FMA:B. Rose - Original. She was brown.Bigger roles were played better in Brotherhood.Viewers should definitely watch both because they are great. I found brotherhood to be better because of its stronger plot, improved and vast character development, and definitive ending. FMA offered a darker, more linear sort of story and brotherhood offered colorful and satisfying story.FMA:Brotherhood has a movie that out in Japan so far. It isn't a sequel unfortunately and it would probably be better than the originals. Make sure to vote on FMA:Brotherhood to show people how amazing it is.Thanks for reading, Ron.
Let's make one thing clear before I start this review, I have no experience with the previous incarnation of Fullmetal Alchemist. This series was my first foray into the world of FMA, & I must say, it is VERY excellent.First off, the series has a huge cast of interesting & unique characters. They are each quite different from each other, and act in different ways. The way the series elegantly manages all the character's developments and story lines is a feat in itself. The series also has a fantastically crafted plot, filled with action, humor, & tragedy. Despite its mainstream appeal, it still maintains a mature tone that really grabs you.The animation & art is top notch. You won't be getting any poorly edited sequences or grotesque looking art. The production values are great. I watched the series with the English voice track, and the dub did quite a good job. No complaints there. The soundtrack is excellent as well, particularly the opening & closing sequences that accompany each episode.It goes on for some 64 episodes, & maintains your attention the entire time. It even manages to close everything up in a satisfying manner. A fantastic series. This show will make you laugh, cry, and even get angry a few times.Loved it.


                
Cartoon Network isn't what it used to be. As a kid, I watched CN because it had shows that appealed to tons of people, shows that had meaning, and shows that deserved to be labeled classics. Those shows are gone. Teen Titans, Samurai Jack, The Batman, Chowder, Kids Next Door, and more have been dismissed for garbage cartoons like Teen Titans Go! , Adventure Time, Ninjago, and Uncle Grandpa (No comment on those new Pokémon incarnations). With the exception of Clarence and Steven Universe, Cartoon Network is a joke. CN's lone redeeming factor is Toonami, a late-night segment form Saturday evening to Sunday morning where various anime are featured, and one of them used to be Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood.I never liked Brotherhood; I love it. An avid reader of the FMA manga, I stumbled upon Brotherhood on Toonami and, from there, I was hooked. Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is about two brothers, Edward and Alphonse Elric, who lose possession of their bodies as a result of breaking the most important rule in alchemy, attempting to resurrect the dead, and they journey across the country of Amestria as they attempt to reclaim their former selves. Edward Elric is this anime's protagonist, the famed "Fullmetal Alchemist" whose legendary reputation is rivaled by his alchemical skills, the wise cracking prodigy with an unpredictable personality and a strong distaste for milk, and the height-conscious adolescent with a constant inner conflict about morality, a massive amount of confidence, and an unwavering dedication to his loved ones. If I were to make a list of the greatest anime characters, Edward Elric would be in at least the top ten. Alphonse Elric is the younger of the two brothers, a gentle and likable young boy trapped in a suit of armor that serves as Edward's mediator during Ed's explosive episodes (Al is often assumed to be the older of the two due to his height). Brotherhood ventures into a variety of places throughout Amestria, from the bustling business environment in Central City to the fear-inducing tunnels underneath the city, from the wind-driven snowflakes covering the Drachma region to the primal adobes in dust-consumed Ishval, and, in all of them, this anime crafts the setting with a razor-sharp eye for detail and an amazingly artistic flair.The majority of FMA Brotherhood doesn't focus on the Elric brothers but instead on the people surrounding them. Colonel Roy Mustang is my favorite character, an easygoing alchemist with the coolest power ever (He can unleash fire by – get this! – snapping his fingers!), and an ambitious leader that alternates between cracking jokes and being dangerously serious. There's Winry Rockbell, a childhood friend of the Elric brothers and a gifted mechanic. There's Scar, a sunglasses-wearing Ishvalan with a reputation as a malicious murderer and a mission to destroy alchemists of the military via alchemy. Brotherhood also contains a great group of villains in the Homunculi, the seven nearly-unstoppable immortal-like beings each with their own unique personality, and their Father. The two Homunculi that stood out to me were Greed (The Homunculi are named after the seven deadly sins), a rebellious man with steel-like skin, and Pride. Born from Nightmare Fuel, Pride is this anime's most important villain excluding the main antagonist Father who I will remember most for that frightening scene with Lieutenant Riza Hawkeye. Excluding the emotionless Father, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood has characters with great acting, emotion, complexity, and (above all) likability (Is this even a word?)There are five main themes in Brotherhood; the final opening is by far the most emotional, but my favorite is the first, a fast-paced theme song that slowly intensifies at a pace with the opening's singer. Plotwise, there isn't a big difference in Brotherhood from the Fullmetal manga (although Isaac the Freezer never graced the FMA pages nor did Father Cornello evolve into a hulking beast), but the anime is still just as good, with more twists than a Twizzler stick and more energy than a kid on a sugar rush.Perhaps the greatest thing about Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is its appeal to all genres. If you want tons of action, if you want a show with martial arts, if you want a military-themed anime, if you want some mystery to your show, if you want some sci-fi in your show, if you want a huge focus on adventure in your show, if you want some slice-of-life aspects to your anime, if you want to see buckets of blood, if you want to watch a show with fantasy elements in it, if you want to watch a dystopia-themed show, if you want to check out an anime with depth, then Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood is the series for you.


                
Summary/Spoilers: FMAB is the story of two brothers; Alphonse and Edward Elric. The boys lose their mother to illness, and they try to use alchemy to bring her back. This goes horribly wrong because they neglected the basic rule of alchemy, the principal of equal exchange. To gain something from alchemy you must give something of equal value. The brothers' disastrous experiment costs Edward his left leg and Alphonse his entire body. Ed manages to affix Al's soul to a suit of armour, at the cost of his right arm and the two maimed boys are left alone to study alchemy in the hope of restoring themselves to normality.A little while later a colonel in the military, another alchemist named Roy Mustang, invites the brothers to become State Alchemists, an offer only Edward accepts, giving them access to the enormous resources of the military that brothers hope will help them to recover their lost body parts. The brothers set off in search of the Philosopher's Stone as a means to restore their bodies. Throughout their journey, they meet allies and enemies and discover the true nature of the Philosopher's Stone, and an awful secret plan that they must fight to prevent.Review: FMAB contains that wonderful thing, a totally original, self-consistent universe different from ours, but familiar enough not to be off-putting. The characters are all distinct, fully-formed and convincing; you will love most, hate a few and not care much one way or the other about others. The story is brilliant. It begins in a relatively small way with the brothers travails, and expands into something magnificent I will not go into.It's mood is finely judged. There's some light comedy, some tragedy, a lot of action and something to think about, and all the while the character development is gripping. The relationships between the characters are complex and changing, and the brothers grow up during the series, adding more levels. There are those wonderful moments when you see one of the enemy attacking the wrong person and you think "That was a mistake", because the relationships are clearly enough defined that you know retribution is on its way. A lovely example is Roy Mustang, the Flame Alchemist, explaining to a homunculus that has just attacked his 'dearest subordinate' how he uses one hand for macro effects like burning an entire room and the other for pinpoint attacks, like evaporating the fluid in the hapless homunculus' eyeballs. It is the minute attention to detail, all detail, that makes this anime so special.The graphics are excellent. I really like them for both technical quality and art. I have recently seen 'better', but that was because the goalposts moved, and techniques improved. FMAB still has 10/10 graphics.I recommend watching in Japanese with subtitles. It's just better. The American voice actors did a good job, but it's just more characterful with Japanese voices. The voice acting is truly excellent; it's taken very seriously in Japan, and they do it very well.As I said in the title, I think that this is probably the greatest animated entertainment ever made. If you only ever watch one anime make it this one. If you watch anime anyway and haven't seen FMAB, do so. It would be a complete waste of your life if you were hit by a meteorite before you saw it. When was the last time you saw a cartoon 25 hours long and couldn't stop watching, despite the fact that life would be somehow empty after it was over? Do yourself a favour, buy this. It's not a lot of money for the epic adventure you are about to experience. It may well be the best money you ever spent.
OK,seeing as this is my favorite anime, I'll try not to be subjective, but OMG, this is the best anime ever!!!Just kidding, but still this is absolutely one of the greats. It has profound characters, an awesome and unpredictable story and has some of the best anime scenes I ever saw.As for watching the subbed or the dubbed version, my opinion is that in almost all cases the subbed is better and in one the dubbed( Dbz). I guess the dubbed is also watchable, but it won't catch nearly the same feeling the Japanese version gives.Now that thats discussed the only problem is the new vs old issue. I watched brotherhood first and as a result I found incomparable in quality and story to the old version. Again this may be only me, or others who watched the old version first may have different opinions (which I won't ever understand), but nonetheless you should still watch this version even if you watched the first one or not because even if you don't find it as good as the old one you will still find it a great anime, and this I can guarantee.


                
For those that had watched The 2003 version of Full Metal Alchemist, you would have known by now that this is going to be somewhat like the old version since this is a reboot and more based of the manga (since at the time the manga wasn't complete). With all the remakes in Hollywood, this series was taken into what could be good about and what definitely good be bad about it.This series was perfect. In fact, the best reboot of anything I have ever seen. A remake is supposed to take something and bring new content towards it while keeping the same effect it already has. This serious had a completely different plot but with many of the characters the same. This serious had focused a lot less on getting their bodies back and more rather of saving the country, which in the later part of the series when many people find out what actually happens it gets very interesting.The original series seemed more of a drag rather then a plot that progresses through the series. It was more "Hey lets get our bodies back" and learn about the Elric brothers and how their characters develop. In this series, we actually get to look forward to the ending because as the series progresses, we assume that there's going to be a big finale that will completely decide the plot of the story. This is pretty much what made the series different from the original series.It was very good actually, the characters had all remained themselves so nothing appeared to be "different" or what we had all loved about that character lost. I was surprised though they added many major characters to the plot and they did not turn out to be failed comic relief characters. They ended up being very funny and important to the story. I was glad to be able to follow them without worrying about what bad jokes or bad back-story they had.Overall, this series was perfect. It took what i thought was incredible and made it completely different but have the same good taste the original series had. I definitely would watch it to those that liked the Original series that wants to see the same characters again in what actually is a whole new adventure.
I've seen this show recommended by many sources. Finally I decided to watch it.At first I was kinda disappointed. The first few episodes didn't make a huge impression on me. But as the story progressed and I got to know more and more fantastically written characters, the backstory started to unfold and alchemy expanded, it just got better and better.At a point I suddenly found myself addicted to the show. When one episode finished, I immediately started playing the next. The story deals with morally heavy themes. There is some seriously dark stuff in there. But there is also light. Once you experience terrible things in this show, it is truly cathartic to see some hearthwarmingly good things unfold as well.This show will make you feel very deep feelings. I have to admit to be crying at some points. It is a true roller-coaster.You will get so attached to the characters that after the series is over you will seriously miss them. That is a quality of a great show.The scope of the story is bigger than anything I have ever seen before (no joking, the stakes are bigger than in any other fantasy / sci-fi). You will find yourself truly rooting for the good guys, worrying about them, and cheering when they seem to succeed in combat against a foe.If you want to be amazed, addicted, emotionally lifted, press the start button on this show.


                
Review for Dubbed version.I tend not to write reviews, just leave ratings, but I had to write something about this after finishing it. I'm not a big anime nerd. I don't have anything against it but I'm simply not interested in many of them. Most of the ones I am interested in or have watched are pretty mainstream and critically acclaimed (e.g Watched: Attack on Titan, Naruto; Want to watch: Cowboy Bebop, Naruto: Shippuden) and FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood was no exception. I was expecting a good show when I began as I had heard nothing but good things... but I was not ready for the sheer quality.As I say in my summary, it simply does nothing wrong. You usually have at least a couple of complaints with TV shows, no matter how good they are, there is usually something that annoyed you; but not in FMAB. Everything is so well done. The characters, the plot, the lore, the world-building, the comedy, the tragedy, the music, the acting, the visuals, the pacing (not one episode of filler, every singe episode has some impact on the series), the ending (they dedicate a whole episode to epilogue); I simply cannot stress this enough, everything is done so damn well. I could write a paragraph about each of these points on how well this show did them, but I won't to save you and I some time.Essentially, this is a story of the two Elric brothers, on a quest to get their bodies back after paying heavy consequences for attempting to bring their mother back to life. On the way, they will travel all across the country, meet new friends, meet new enemies, and all of these characters will play some part in plot; they will strengthen their already strong bond as brothers, and they will be drawn into a, slowly revealed, sinister plot on a gigantic scale.There will be hilarious moments and I mean hilarious, they utilise comic timing, funny writing and sudden changes in art styles to create some truly laugh out loud moments. There will also be emotional moments that will leave you in tears, inspiring moments that will give you chills of anticipation, and even dark and sinister moments that will keep you awake at night.This show has it all and there is so much more I want to write about, but I need to keep this somewhat concise. I'll simply end this with a note that, should you choose to watch this, you will be watching 64 episodes of some of the greatest TV ever created.This show is one of those shows that is so good that you binge watch your way through half of it at rapid pace, and then force yourself to slow down because you don't want it to end. I'm sad that I will never get to see more FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood, but at the same time I know they ended it in the best possible way. They didn't drag it down so it would suffer a drop in quality, they ended it when they wanted to, and that is how all TV show creators should strive to end their shows.Thank you for FullMetal Alchemist Brotherhood. It was an experience I shall never forget and one I already wish I could watch for the first time all over again.


                
Music 10/10 Animation 9/10 Intro 10/10 Story 11/10 Characters 12/10 (Mustang FTW)A near Perfect Show and my favourite of them all.I don't watch many anime. But This has gotten me into anime, and none have beaten it. a ten out of ten. The Story Is a perfect mix of comedy and drama. The fight scenes are superb and well animated. The Voice acting is amazing English and Japanese, And the twists in the story can really hook you. There is never a time where the story drags on except maybe the beginning which kind of expects you to have seen the first anime (which i have) so it is a little rushed. But the rest makes up for it. 10/10 Without a doubt A few problems but amazing over all.
the original series was amazing and yet this i found even better, i haven't seen a better series of anything ever i don't think.its set in a world where some people can change their surrounds into objects of the same size or mass, with only a few rules such as humans cannot be brought back to life.it follows two brothers and a collection of friends throughout the series with unexpected allies and friendships and characters you love.fight scenes throughout are amazing aesthetically and with these powers just makes you wish it was real, and the overall story goes on throughout and is a real mystery at points yet not once gets boring, i have watched it through several times never once being bored, must see it


                
I would rate this TV series as easily one of the best ever made. Period. Character development is unsurpassed and rivaled by few. Given the size of the series, clocking at 64 episodes, it's a great achievement. The artistic quality is also way above average with very good animation and moderate level of detail.This series is also more entertaining and easier to understand than other masterpieces of serial animation (such as Puella Magi Madoka Magica, Serial Experiments Lain and Haibane Renmei), hence I recommend this series to a wider spectrum than the specialists in Japanese animation. A must watch for everybody.


                
Ever since I've watched Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood I have loved it. I have watched many animes after and I still love it. Still my number one, it is probably the best anime ever. Amazing if a understatement when talking about the characters. They are beyond compare to any other characters and same goes for the story. This series is part of my soul and I'm a anime critic, I don't say that about a lot of animes, not even Cowboy Bebop and that is one of my 10s. Everything about this anime is amazing, the soundtrack, both Japanese and English dub; for the first time ever an otaku will state that FUNimation did a better job with the dub than the original Japanese one. Also we cannot forget those action scenes, great and keeps you on the edge of your seat, the romance is also so shippable (<---that's a word now) my favorite is a tie between RoyxRiza and LingxLanFan. But anyway, go away FMAB fangirl. Time to talk about this anime's flaws. First of all, it is very long and the first episodes are very rushed. It is rather long and does end making you want more. Not a 'great way to end', you REALLY WANT MORE. Sadly, it has been 4 years since it has ended and still, no FMAB sequel or spin off or video game or light novel in sight. There was a OVA but that's all we've seen.But maybe we should accept that it is over, but do we want to? Nope. Are you kidding? I can accept if any other anime, or game series, or TV show was over and never seen again. But FMAB, I pray we'll hear from you again one day. (Maybe even a little Easter egg in Silver Spoon, Hiromu Arakawa. You can make one of cow's face in the background look like Ed.)


                
Fhfdddfdddddrrrrrrrffffffrrrrrrrrreeeeeeeeeeeerrrrreeeddeeefhikkk
I must say that I'm the type who really appreciates good series. I was, by all means, much better than the original. All the characters were much more involved and their development is wonderfully seen in the series. Also I liked the plot better, it had more meat to it. I am quite disappointed of two things though:1. WHY ON EARTH DID YOU PICK A 5 YEAR OLD GIRL FOR AL'S VOICE. UH? UH? Come on, the kid was a year younger than Ed. . . Give him a break. 2. I really missed the background music of the violin. It was presented in the original and I thought it was suitable. Anyway I recommend everybody to watch it. 10/10


                
First of all, I really liked this anime and I believe it is at least 2 times better than the "original" FMA. To clear things up with some people, Brotherhood is not a sequel to the original. The first FMA that aired on 2003-2004 is not original since it is not manga based. FMA is taken straight for the manga so doubting its humor, action and animation being worse than the first FMA that aired, makes no sense since the manga started both. That is my opinion of course. Now on to the Review..Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood is a must watch for all shounen fans. The series are about two brothers who attempted to do a Human Transmutation (bring someone back to life) but failed to do so. In order for the Transmutation to "succeed" , the one brother , Alphonse Elric gave his body and the second brother, Edward Elric, gave his arm, leg and some limbs. Edward sealed Al's soul into an armor before losing consciousness so he could find a way to save Al later. The brothers go on a journey to find a way to take their bodies back. Throughout the story, there is lots of action, comedy and this develops in a nice plot. I recommend watching the first FMA too, but it is not manga based so it will have a different story. That means you can watch the same action in another plot. I also recommend reading the Manga but it is not as good as the anime version in my opinion.
The first 10-12 episodes plays same as the original show with a few changes in it including the difference in Shou Tucker incident... After
episode 13-14 things drastically change and oh my god I dig it...
The story is set in a fictional post world War one era in which the world War is here given the name ishvallan war... Later on you will know what I mean... So there is a thing called alchemy which works on the law of equivalence exchange.. Basically you can do anything with it except you have to give something of equal value to gain something through it... The actual plot is about two brothers trying to revive their mother, which is btw a taboo in their world.. NO BRINGING BACK THE DEAD... so things go wrong and we got ourselves an awesome anime...
Let's first talk about characters, every character in the show does something for a reason even the bad guys, you where they are coming from. My favorite character Hohenheim, just saying... Watch the whole 64 episodes you will understand.
The animation is great it is not mesmerizing but it came in 2009 so we will give that a pass,
But the fight scenes my god there aren't many but even the few ones there are, are just awesome. Last 13 episodes are badass non stop action.
The biggest merit that this show has is the writing... This show had the advantage of a finished manga which the previous show didn't
And they use that headsup to its full extent...
Adding little tit bits make you go ohhhh...
Seriously just check it out


                
It's one of the greatest shows ever. Captivating, thrills and lots of action.


                
Best anime out there. I've seen a lot of series, but this one beats them all by far.


                
Worth watching, interesting plot line, diverse character.BEST. SHOW. EVER.


                
I wasnt an anime sort of guy but this is just phenomenal. This made it for me and really got me into the genre. A MUST WATCH.


                
I grew up watching anime and the great messages that each one of them have to offer teaching us how to be better and selfless and I though I saw all the great ones. An then this one, the wonderful story of this brothers made me think again about how many good emotions I am feeling during watching this reminding me the important things in life. As an adult I this it was a great experience to watch this. I strongly recomand it.


                
I love everything about this. The plot, the characters, the visuals, the humor, the soundtrack, heck even the villains.
This anime explores so many important themes; science and the ethics behind it, war and how to cope with it, brotherhood and family, death, love, hope, philosophy and so much more. This is the first and only anime that made me cry because of a villain. This anime hits you with so many feelings. I love the world, love the characters and the diversity in them. Unlike the original FMA 03, this explores most characters very thoroughly. And man can I say the voice acting is insanely AWESOME! And yes I'm talking about the dubbed version (I admit I'll never watch this subbed).
The conclusion is, if you're an anime fan, this is a must to watch. This anime is just beyond amazing and I never get tired of this.


                
