The idea is great where there are rules and limits of the force and the story of Edward and Alfons was influential all this in the first 30 episodes where there was an escalation but the anime began to decline from the middle and the repetition and the end is very bad and does not respect the mind of the viewer.


                
'Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood' is a remake of it's older counterpart 'Fullmetal Alchemist', succeeding where the other did not perform as well. That is not to say that Fullmetal Alchemist wasn't good, rather that Brotherhood has a few more things going for it.One of the things that I was really impressed by is how loyal Brotherhood was to the original Manga in comparison to the first one. All of the nuances of the original books are at the very least addressed in this new version, whilst the old one somehow struggled to cover all ground.Another of the factors that should draw you in is the clear and crisp animation style. Though it hasn't got a particular style or tone in a sense, the drawings are all fully realised and a variety of styles are used to set the mood for the segments (e.g. flashbacks from Ishval darker and grittier with less stylised violence to show atrocities).As in the first, the actual story is the major attraction to this piece, and is like an intricate pocket watch, where each and every action of a character) can be seen to directly or indirectly affect the other characters, as well as the amazingly presented world that is so easily immersed into. Having said this, the heavy story in no way gets in the way of the action, rather the action serves the story with a satisfying balance.If there is some complaints to be had, they are noting compared to the achievement of this show. To me - who isn't a major anime fan - the humour sometimes felt a little forced (e.g. someone will be fighting for there life, only to start complaining about petty details whilst in chibi, but this is a typical method of many anime's and is a personal criticism more than anything else. Not to say that it the humour doesn't work is isn't funny at times, it's just that sometimes it feels a bit out of place and detracts me from the story and emotions of the battles.Another thing that did seem to bother me a little was the ending. Not spoiling anything, the build up to the ending felt a bit overdone and could have been cut into fewer episodes, making it feel exhausting toward the end.Overall the series is well worth a watch. You find yourself easily immersed into the fully realised world the creators have constructed, as well as genuinely caring for most of the characters along the way. Watching the show without getting addicted is near impossible and is merit to the passing efforts of the team behind it. After watching the first three episodes I was so drawn to the show, that it was hard for me to stop watching at least three every night. Though it does seem a little cheesy at parts, it is a massive undertaking that cannot go un- missed whether you are a fan of anime or not.


                
I don't even know where to start. The "original" series, the one that does not follow the manga was brilliant; it was a story of human fallibility with actual twists; it was dark, thick of the sadness of constant wars and it had something to teach.Brotherhood on the other hand is a weak, flashy animation with a cheesy happy end and tonnes of already seen ideas - even the final boss is a cliché of anime antagonists both for ideology and for look.There are no real surprises in this series. It's shrill, it's annoying, it keeps repeating the exact same "lessons", forcing it down on your throat instead of making impressions the great old animes used to do, lacking all the unspoken depths of the previous series. Most of the time is mindless action and fighting.The music is annoying and too much for most of the scenes.There are tiny bits of good parts, but this doesn't worth watching 64 episodes.
