Where to begin? MGM's elaborate adaptation of L. Frank Baum's 1900 fantasy classic THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ not only became an institution among itself (and practically defined the concept of modern popular culture), but is reported to be the most viewed film ever made. A sharp screenplay effectively condenses the novel's text into a workable film, and director Victor Fleming (along with countless other behind-the-scenes technicians) craft a visually stimulating fantasy world that surpasses the expectations of even the most imaginative viewers. Brimming with stunning visual effects (the film's fierce tornado is an FX feat that has yet to be surpassed by CGI), witty dialogue, and eye-popping Technicolor, THE WIZARD OF OZ truly lives up to it's reputation as a once-in-a-lifetime film where every element comes together flawlessly.The cast could not be improved upon. The quivery-voiced, solemn-faced Judy Garland will always be Dorothy, the little lost farm girl on the road to Oz, clutching her beloved Toto (impressively portrayed himself by the female canine performer Terry, the terrier). It seems inconceivable that MGM had originally wished to cast Shirley Temple in the role, as Temple's doe-eyed, cutesy-voiced shtick would have been a catastrophic ill-fit for the tone of this picture. Conversely, Garland is perhaps the screen's quintessential woman/child; always seemingly just one step away from reaching full emotional maturity. It is her sadness that transfixes viewers to the screen, the exact same quality that made the film's most memorable Harold Arlen/E. Y. Harburg number "Over the Rainbow" into one of the most exquisite marriages between artist and song ever to be recorded.The remainder of the cast is similarly exceptional, many of whom perform perfectly even under the most debilitating make-up and costumes. Frank Morgan is marvelously versatile in no less than five roles, the insanely energetic Bert Lahr mugs brilliantly, the handsome Jack Haley swoons sweetly, Billie Burke lends the film an ornate ethereality, and Ray Bolger's gravity-defying physical presence nearly steals the entire picture on several occasions. Perhaps most notable is former schoolteacher Margaret Hamilton's transformation into the wickedest of wicked witches, which certainly remains among the vilest and most terrifying portrayals of full-throttle evil ever to be seen. No matter how it is analyzed, scrutinized, or satirized, the 1939 production of THE WIZARD OF OZ is a top-notch example of how to turn a great story into a fabulous, milestone of a film.


                
Dorothy's trip, as we follow her from her Kansas farm down the Yellow Brick Road to the Emerald City and back home again, is depicted with rare cinematic imagination and skill<U+0085> At the beginning, we may wonder at the obvious falseness of the black-and-white Kansas setting, although the monotonous, arid landscape ultimately makes an effective contrast to the later scenes in Oz<U+0085> But rationality disappears the moment Judy Garland strikes at the heart with her trembling singing of "Over the Rainbow." And when Frank Morgan appears as Professor Marvel, we are captivated by his familiar bumbling charm<U+0085>Dorothy's entrance into the land of Oz remains one of the screen's most memorable moments, as the black-and-white scene give way to glowing color photography<U+0085> "I have a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore!" is her understated response as she enters Munchkinland<U+0085> The sequence in Munchkinland, though beautifully designed, is actually, a mixed blessing<U+0085> Billie Burke is exactly right as the Good Witch of the North, and Margaret Hamilton is wonderfully shrill and repulsive as the Wicked Witch of the West<U+0085> But the Munchkins themselves, midgets gathered from all over the world for the occasion, are all wonderful with their prematurely old faces and chipmunk voices<U+0085>The talents of Dorothy's friends<U+0097>Jack Haley as the Tin Man, Ray Bolger as the Scarecrow, Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion<U+0097>have been frequently celebrated, but their good humor and their shining humanity behind the grotesque makeup remain fresh eternally<U+0085>"The Wizard of Oz" is a joy forever<U+0085> Why does it still glow, while other films of the period grow dimmer every year? It is unquestionably due to more than the sum of its sterling cast, winning songs, and lovely special effects, although the absence of these virtues has turned more than one "musical fantasy" into failures<U+0085> It may be that Dorothy steps from black-and-white Kansas into the bright colors of Munchkinland, she is taking everyone's first voyage of discovery<U+0085> With the universality of the best fables, "The Wizard of Oz" has her learning about evil (the Wicked Witch), friendship (her companions on the road to Oz), and fallibility (the Wizard). And somehow children<U+0097>and the child in all of us<U+0097>like to see this voyage made repeatedly<U+0085> Children as adults, today as in 1939, "The Wizard of Oz" will remain for us the beloved movie ever made!
Even with the advance of special effects there will never be a movie as honest and as true to its heart as THE WIZARD OF OZ, with the exception of THE LORD OF THE RINGS TRILOGY. But since the latter is too new, it can't be compared to the former. Everyone at one point of their lives, especially as children, has seen this film and has experienced the emotions that Dorothy experienced, the terror of entering the Wicked Witch's lair, her transition from little girl to wise young woman, and this incredible world that L. Frank Baum created and Hollywood perfected.What makes a great movie? The experience that you are watching it for the very first time, whether you were seven years old or an adult living in an adult world. This film is one of those. Even when as an adult I can see some of the cracks peeking through and some lapses in continuity, who cares? The tornado ripping through the cornfields is as real as the real ones I have seen even though is was really muslin. The moment that the sepia-tones from the Kansas segment peel away and Dorothy opens the door of her house and I saw the bright colors of Oz I knew I was there. The story had enveloped me now, as it had did back then. In my world, this is an utterly, fantastic film.And what is Oz, by the way? Well, from a little girl (and the child in all of us), it's that place where our imagination runs wild, where everything is perfect, where there is no tomorrow and a yellow brick road will take us to that perfect place filled with song. It's that place where we feel we will belong, and who as a child didn't feel like we were out of place? Notice I repeat the word 'place' because this is so much about placement, places, our place and therefore, our own self-expression, our own sense of self. Who hasn't wanted to "seek a place of one's own' where light and love prevailed only to return back to where we came from, stronger and wiser? Its message is so universal. Truly, there is no place like home.Timing is crucial for the symbolic success of this movie as well. Still in the middle of the Depression years, when unemployment was at an all time high, it focuses not just on the harshness of keeping a farm, but then throwing a parent-less girl into a strange land who finds a foster mother of sorts who would tell her that the way back home would not be an easy one. Glinda the Good represents this character, the same way, the Wicked Witch of the West represents the darker forces that watch her every move and aggressively try to trip her up. This is quite a lot on the shoulders of a little girl, and having Judy Garland -- not yet the major star but just on the brink of becoming one -- play Dorothy Gale has become casting history. In 1939 she was about seventeen, fresh-faced, innocent and vulnerable: she is Dorothy, and we can't imagine anyone else, not even nearly 70 years later.And speaking of casting, it was genius to have the actors playing Dorothy's friends and enemies in Kansas also show up in Oz. Since the movie is so much like a dream, it's more than logical: many people in our lives sometimes show up in dreams -- it's even in books about dreams. That they also represent that which not only they, but Dorothy most of all, lacks -- courage, love, and wisdom -- makes their appearances even more intrinsic to the story, so when they grow as characters, so do we, and of course, so does Dorothy.THE WIZARD OF OZ is timeless. So simple, so honest, but so deep in its messages about love and self-discovery. All of the actors including the veteran Billie Burke would be remembered the most for their roles here more than any other movie. The set direction is made to look as close to a storybook; all that is missing are the page frames. There isn't a false move here, and all those back-stories... well, their okay to read but for the cinema lover looking for magic, it's all here, in about two hours of pure entertainment.
Dorothy is a young girl living on a Kansas farm, during a tornado, she, along with her dog Toto, is swept up and plonked down in a magical and mysterious land known as Oz. Desperate to get back home and under threat from a wicked witch, she is advised to seek out a great wizard who should be able to help her get back home. As she sets off and on her way, she meets and befriends a wonderful array of characters whom also have something to ask of the fabled wizard, it's a journey that will prove to be both magical and fraught with danger.The Wizard Of Oz is a film that has been pored over and dissected from almost everyone involved in the wonderful world of film. One thing that strikes me every time I view it is that there not only is no place like home, there is also no film like The Wizard Of Oz, and really, when all is said and done, there is unlikely to be another film of its ilk to ever grace the silver screen. Upon multiple viewings only the most biased of film fan could say that it is a technically perfect picture, it clearly isn't. At times it's a wee bit creaky and when scrutinised, some of the performances in the piece are far from an excellent standard, but crucially any misgivings are quickly erased due to the wonder of it all, this is because the film has an ability to transport everybody who is watching into OZ alongside Dorothy.The Wizard Of Oz appeals (and caters) to every demographic and pretty much any age group, we have adventure, the meeting of new friends, fears and trepidations, booming colour, songs to singalong with, and of course the total point of homely values. The Wizard Of Oz stands up well 70 years later because it taps into all the emotions available to the human being, be it a young child spellbound on a first viewing, or an octogenarian couple of grandparents wistfully humming along to the tunes, it's a film that shouldn't be dissected looking for faults and hidden meanings, it's a film that should be loved and praised for the ode to fantastical whimsy that it so obviously is.The film of course will forever be associated with its darling star, Judy Garland. Viewing now, and knowing what a sad life she would eventually lead, The Wizard Of Oz is a fitting picture on which to remember what a magical and wonderful performer she was. Myself as a lump of waning machismo, I have no shame in saying that as Judy sings Somewhere Over The Rainbow I melt and feel as though I'm being sent spinning into another world, that's the power of the piece, as a sepia Kansas becomes the glorious colour of Oz, nothing else in my world matters, I'm in hook line and sinker.There are many interesting back stories to the picture, with books galore available to anyone interested. Some notes that might interest you being the original castings to be W.C. Fields, Shirley Temple and Deanna Durbin, munchkins running riot, drunken cast members, sadness and suicides, and grizzled old pros fighting hard not to let Garland steal the picture. Well it makes for a great read, for sure, but what remains to this day is one of the most beloved pictures to have ever been made, for once in the pantheon of great cinema we have a film that is termed a classic, that actually deserves to have that tag!One of the great things about the advent of technology is that it can benefit old classic movies to make them better, for now we can view remastered editions of The Wizard Of Oz and appreciate even more what a great job the makers did. Keep your eyes on Dorothy's Ruby Slippers during the film and see how they are the sparkling important character that they should be, or take in the brilliant work of the make up crew, the tiniest of rivets on The Tin Man a testament to the brilliant work that goes into bringing magic to our lives. Get the newest copy you can and then also see it on the biggest screen available to you because The Wizard Of Oz is a 10/10 movie. And then some.


                
When I was a very little boy, I saw that movie on The Bulgarian National Television and I really fell in love with it:)). It was a kind of magic that took my heart to eternity and from there it saw all the world in a very amusing way:)). I will probably never forget the first time I saw that movie...I really hope that everybody will continue watching it and it won't be among the forgotten movies... If you're very very young and you haven't seen it yet, then see it, you will feel the greatest force of the white magic:)))).Judy Garland is THE PERFECT DOROTHY!!!:)))See it, OK??:)))))


                
It's often been said that this is a simple tale, a story of the coming of age for Dorothy. It's not that simple. It's also a story of the coming of age of America as seen through Dorothy's eyes.Dorothy is a familiar American teen who grew up on a farm, a bit naive, never been to a city, but heard about them. Is family focused, but starting to open her eyes to a bigger world around her and looking for familiar structures through which she can understand that world.The scarecrow, who thinks he's lacking a brain, is the American farmer. Usually minimally educated, often thought (at that time) of as stupid or ignorant, but it's proved through the movie that farmers in fact have a brain. Farmers are often known for their strong common sense and wisdom which is often undervalued by city folk or college types.The cowardly lion represents the elected politicians. Afraid to do anything - especially preemptive - and shirks facing any controversy until it bites him on the rear. Only later to find that the problem was impotent all along. Politicians haven't changed in some ways.The tin man represents industry, which is often seen as heartless machine. But when run by people who have compassion, companies have proved to "have a heart". This generosity is often seen in the form of philanthropy, but sometimes exists right in the corporate culture itself. Industry isn't always as heartless as a robot (or computer, to use a more modern metaphor).Poppies, which represented the opium drug from China that can distract us from our goals and our responsibilities, like the more modern cocaine, marijuana, or even liquor, etc.The "wizard" turns out to be only a mere human, as all of our heroes turn out to be in the end. We can strive to be like them, but it's only when others place us on a pedestal that our daily acts of heroism seem larger than life. It's those daily acts when added together that are truly the heroic in us all.The wicked witch, the "enemy" of America, requires more than just an army to be overcome, it also requires brains, courage and a heart to be overcome. By "heart" understand that compassion, sympathy and empathy are vital weapons in the battle, which is why America invests so much in foreign aid.It's this depth of storytelling that keeps us captivated by this movie as adults. There are many other reviews that better articulate the other great features to this film, such as the visual appeal, the music, the singing, the dancing, and...
One of the most cherished fantasy films to ever grace the screen, "The Wizard of Oz" stands as a crowning achievement in 1930's film making. The special effects are highly impressive considering the limited technology available at the time, not to mention they are infinitely more endearing than most CGI effects present in today's films. The lavish sets, impeccable costume design, and glowing Technicolor help to create a convincing and enchanting Land of Oz. And though obviously filmed on a soundstage, the sets never seem confining; thanks largely in part to the meticulous backdrop paintings used to add depth to the foreground. The musical numbers are quite lively & catchy -- never slowing the pace of the film -- except perhaps for the Lion singing "King of the Jungle". Judy Garland truly shines in her portrayal of Dorothy, perfectly capturing the wide-eyed innocence of her character. She definitely deserved the special Oscar she was awarded for her performance. Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch of the West, Ray Bolger as the Scarecrow, and Frank Morgan as the Wizard also turn in praiseworthy characterizations. Definitely timeless in every sense of the word, this film is recommended to those of all ages <U+0096> a 10/10!


                
Probably the world's most-watched film (GONE WITH THE WIND running a close second), THE WIZARD OF OZ is an enduring, magical piece of fantasy that has permeated popular culture like no other film before or since. There are hundreds of unforgettable, instant-classic moments in the film, with the Yellow Brick Road, Dorothy and Toto, the songs, Garland's dazzling ruby red slippers, sepia-toned Kansas and the closing line "There's no place like a home!" just a few of the wondrous delights that THE WIZARD OF OZ offers.It is hard to believe that the filing of "Oz" was so fraught with problems when you view the finished product. It seems a thing of absolute perfection, with Garland's casting a stroke of genius. Her wistful interpretation of "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" is the stuff of legend. The spellbinding Technicolour photography is still a massive achievement, as is Oz, the utopia land of dreams and magic.Most audiences discover the film in childhood, and they will be pleased to find out that the film is just as magical when viewed as an adult, perhaps many years later, if not more.
I am 51 years old and can remember watching this as a child. It was a major event in our house. Staying up late to watch the whole movie was a treat. It is still a treat to watch it now. As I sit here watching it on TBS while typing this posting, you can't help but sing along with the songs. I can remember being scared to death by the witch. Her laugh gave me the heebie-jeebies. Movies from this era were so well made. To attempt to make this kind of production today would cost much more than any film made. Today computers make special effects so easy. Back then you had to very ingenious to have believable special effects. This is one of my top 10 movies off all time. It makes you feel like a kid again, and isn't that what a movie is suppose to do, take you to another time and place. Those that don't understand are entitled to their opinions, but they really don't understand the real world. The more advanced the mind, the more need for play (or fun and escape). Just my humble opinion and something to think about.
It's hard to overstate the true significance of this film. The Library of Congress informs us that it is the most watched film ever made. Its signature song, "Over The Rainbow", written for the film, didn't merely win the Oscar for best original song of 1939. More significantly, decades later the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Endowment for the Arts both voted this song as the number 1 song of the twentieth century. The American Film Institute ranked it as the greatest movie song of all time.But the film's accolades go on and on. It is one of only a few films listed in UNESCO's "Memory Of The World" Registry. Even in a supporting role, actress Margaret Hamilton turned her Wicked Witch into American Film Institute's 4th-greatest villain of all time, behind Hannibal Lecter, Norman Bates, and Darth Vader. All of the main actors and many people responsible for the film's technical achievements have received and continue to receive innumerable awards and honors seventy years after the film was released.From its inception as a children's book in 1900 by author L. Frank Baum, the simple story was retold countless times in novels, stage presentations, and other forms, in many subsequent years, including: 1908, 1910, 1914, 1925, 1933, and 1938. But it was the film of 1939, directed by Victor Fleming, that propelled the story into immortality.With its perfect 3-Act structure, the script creates iconic characters and iconic dialogue. Some lines have morphed into cultural clichés, they are so often repeated. How many times has the line "Toto, I've a feeling we're not in Kansas any more" been borrowed by hack writers to use in their hack scripts? I think it was Oscar Wilde who said: "imitation is the sincerest form of flattery that mediocrity can pay to greatness".At a deeper level than the well-known story, the film's many allegories have been and will continue to be debated by scholars. Many of these allegories are so subtle they may never be appreciated by viewers, especially in an age when subtlety has been rendered a forgotten art. Is the naïve Dorothy really the American people? Does the yellow brick road symbolize the gold standard? Is the Emerald City a symbol of materialism that we in the early 21st century might equate to Wall Street?A deep, intellectual script it may be, but the film would be merely great without its underlying emotional appeal to the heart. It's the visuals and music that render the film so beloved by the world.And when you join the simple, yet intellectual, story with the power of great visuals and great music, you create a timeless expression of the human experience. The summary message is thus conveyed that no matter where or how far you may roam, and no matter what joys and friendships you may experience along the way, after all and in the end, there's no place like home.It's almost impossible to view this film objectively, critically, so magical, mythical, and powerful has it become. It's a film that does not require a plot summary; it's too well known for that, too burned into our collective consciousness.Academy Award films, well-made classic films linger with us. But "The Wizard Of Oz" isn't just another Oscar winner or classic film. It is unique, its own category, a one-of-a-kind artistic expression. There will never be another film quite like it. If humans are still around a thousand years from now, someone, somewhere, using some form of futuristic technology, will be watching it, enthralled by its universality, its timelessness.


                
The greatest movie of all time is the wizard of oz. It's fun for everyone and if you don't like this you had a horrible childhood The movie is my favorite movie I can't get over how good it is. This is definitely a good one if you haven't seen it you have issues and better see it. toto i don't think we're in kansas anymore. Great acting and singing, the song over the rainbow it was great It has a sad ending and its so good the have made many different movies set in oz that has to mean something i feel this should have a higher rating than 8.1 it should have a 10 this is so good and everyone can and should see it. You will want to get it on DVD


                
The Wizard of Oz was my all time favorite movie when I was younger! After giving this movie a fresh look, after not watching it for a few years, I still noticed that there were those few parts that I absolutely loved! I think the special effects in this movie are great! I loveeeed when I was younger, and still do, the color changing horse! I also liked the entrances/exits of the Wicked Witch with the smoke/fire! Another great special effect is in the very beginning when the tornado hits and the lady is riding by on her bike, and as she passes the window, she gradually gets closer to it; at the closest point she turns into a witch. I love the fact that Dorothy's uncles in the beginning are the same characters or representative of the same characters as she finds down the yellow brick road (scare crow, tin man, and the lion). I also like the whole general meaning of the movie. I think that it is a great children movie because of this. It teaches you that you have to look within yourself to find the parts of you that you are missing; you can't just expect someone to give it to you. Overall, I love this movie!!!!!!!!!
The Wizard of Oz is possibly one of the greatest movies ever made. It's full of life, energy and heart. This is probably what defines the term: movie-magic. There are so many classic moments here, after all this movie is still heavily quoted in pop-culture, 75 years after it was first released! The story is basically about a girl who longs for somewhere over the rainbow, and then gets what she wants... or is it really what she wants? The movie starts (as most people know) in plain sepia color, but when we first enter Oz, it switches to full color. This is truly amazing to see, especially in the 3D-bluray release! I must admit that I was a bit skeptic towards the 3D version, but when I watched it I was blown away! I felt suck in to the movie in a way that I had never been before! So I recommend everyone to watch this movie, no matter how old you are! And if you have the opportunity, then watch it in 3D, it's totally worth it!


                
Everyone knows the story. Our thoughts on 3-D IMAX.Russell & Cissy, the Two Movie Critics rate movies based on Entertainment Value only. Follow and LIKE us at facebook.com/TwoMovieCriticsA remake and remaster of the great classic movie in 3-D IMAX with stunning detail.It was an amazing transformation as Cissy and I were taken back in time before we both were born, August 15th, 1939 when The Wizard Of Oz opened at the Grauman's Chinese Theater.Immediately when the movie started and the title began in eye-popping 3-D fonts with the great sound track, Cissy and I got misty eyed. Now we were seeing this movie as it was meant to be seen and that we had only seen on T.V. sets all of our lives. Seeing it on the large IMAX screen, and in 3-D was an overwhelming experience.You see and hear things you missed all those years on TV. The detail of Glinda's ( The Good Witch's ) costume and many other costumes was amazing. The rust marks on the Tin Man's ( Jack Haley's ) body was very detailed, and later very shinny after their visit to Oz.We also heard several adults explaining to their children some of the story line before the movie started. A new generation was being introduced to the Wizard Of Oz just as if they were at the opening in 1939.I suggest all lovers of The Wizard Of Oz relive this classic again with their children, and grandchildren the way it was meant to be seen on the big screen.
The following is a quote from another review on here, complete with spelling errors..."Hello friends. To many of you, these claims may be outrages but i hope and pray that you will take this into your heart. As many of you may know, The wizard of Oz is the classic tale of a small Kansas girl named Dorthy and her adventures in the magical land of Oz all to find a wizard who can take her home. But when you can look past all of that you can see the storys real, dark, meaning. It may shock you to know that the wicked witch of the west is actually a parody of Christianity, out cast and feared. Glenda, The good witch represents Satan, who may seem nice on the outside, but is actually out to get your soul. And of course, sweet innocent Dorthey is the modern heathen who is pulled away from Christianity by Satan. Also there is the Lion, the Tin man, and the Scare Crow an obvious mockery of the Trinity! But friends, it dose't end there, if you look closely enogh in one scene, You will see some munchkins sacrifice a virgin on an alter! I am appauld that they show this movie in schools to CHILDREN! So I urge you to throw out any Wizard of Oz related items you may have and instead READ THE BIBLE. It is a great book written by the best aurthor ever!"End of quote. Whew!I believe in the Bible as much as anyone, but why oh why do so many "thumpers" insist on ramming it down peoples throats? I suppose they don't realize they're doing the exact opposite of what they're attempting to accomplish. Good Lord, get a life.The Wizard of Oz is a timeless classic. Period. End of story. Did you notice I said, story? It's a fairytale. A delightful fantasy. Nothing more, nothing less.


                
With trepidation I decided to watch The Wizard Of Oz, for I have memories of it from when I was five, 32 years ago. My memory was of a flying house, and of a laughing witch, who didn't quite look like the witch I saw yesterday, but that is false memory for you! Of course yesterday I saw the movie as a hardened adult, as opposed to a pure innocent, so philosophically I am a different person. Even if there were no nostalgia in memory, there would have been, I feel sure, a sense that the morals of this movie would never be repeated today. We live in a world where even infants' dolls have been sexualised with makeup. Of course no time in history was innocent, but here we had a media that put warmth above "cool", charm above cynicism. There is something of a relatively European feel about Oz, a sensation I rarely see with Hollywood, with the magical The Lord Of The Rings trilogy being another example. The movie was an absolute joy to watch, such pleasure from movies is rare to be had, and I cannot recommend this enough, not just as an antidote to MTV-generation philistinism, but as a genuine work of art. No doubt much has been written on the skill and joyousness of the acting , the amazing sets, the imagination, the witty songs, the metaphors and the songs, all of which are perfect. I recommend showing this to all kids, it has so much more depth than the tacky, merchandising-driven modern stuff they ingest! And equally I recommend it to grown-ups, for we need this therapy more than the kids :)


                
I have seen The Wizard of Oz lots of times and never tire of it. It has to be the best fantasy movie ever made.A twister sends Dorothy, her dog Toto and their home to the magical land of Oz. When there, she first discovers her home has crushed the Wicked Witch of the East to death and the area of Oz she has landed in is Munchkin Land. After a visit from the Good Witch of the North, some songs with the munchkins and an unpleasant visit from the Wicked Witch of the West, she starts to make her way along the Yellow Brick Road to the Emarald City to visit the Wizard himself who can get her back home to Kansas. On the way, she meets up with the Scarecrow, Tin Man and Cowardly Lion and they eventually end up at the Emarald City. Before eventually meeting the Wizard, she is kidnapped by the Wicked Witch of the West's strange monkey-bat creature slaves and locked up in her castle but is rescued and the Witch disintegrates when some water is thrown over her. Dorothy then gets to see the Wizard, who gives the Scarecrow his brain, the Tin Man his heart and the Cowardly Lion his courage. The Wizard turns out to be a Kansas person as well but his balloon is accidentally released and Dorothy misses out on returning home with him. She returns home by saying "There's No Place Like Home" but all this turns out to be a dream at the end.The best song in the movie has to be "Somewhere Over the Rainbow", which Dorothy sings before she gets to Oz.Now to the excellent cast. Judy Garland plays her best role as Dorothy and is joined by Frank Morgan who has five roles, Burt Lahr, Ray Bolger, Jack Haley and an excellent performance from Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch of the West.This movie is an excellent way to spend part of an afternoon, not just at Christmas when most TV channels screen it. The VHS copy I own also features some extras, including one on the making of the move.Rating: 5 stars out of 5.
The Wizard of Oz, based on the children's book by Frank Baum, was released in 1939. The screen play was written by Noel Langley and the film was directed by Victor Flemming. Judy Garland stars as the main character Dorothy Gale. Billie Burke plays Glinda the Good Witch of the North, Ray Bolger the Scarecrow, Jack Haley the Tin Woodman, Bert Lahr the Cowardly Lion, Margaret Hamilton the Wicked Witch of the West, and Frank Morgan the Wizard of Oz.The story begins when Dorothy's house gets swept up in a tornado in Kansas and then lands in the magical world of Oz. When she steps outside of her house after the storm, Dorothy finds that her house has landed on the Wicked Witch of the East, and she acquires the witch's ruby slippers after she encounters the munchkins, Glinda the Good Witch, and the Wicked Witch of the West. To find her way back home to Kansas, Dorothy must travel to the Emerald City to see the Wizard of Oz. Along her way down the yellow brick road, she meets three new friends: Scarecrow, Tin Woodman, and Cowardly Lion. Together, the group reaches the Wizard and, after killing the Wicked Witch of the West, the Wizard grants the Scarecrow a brain, the Tin Woodman a heart, the Cowardly Lion courage and Dorothy a ride home to Kansas in his hot air balloon. Unfortunately, the Wizard accidentally takes off before Dorothy can get on board. Then the Good Witch of the North enters and informs Dorothy she can go home by clicking the ruby slippers together and saying "there's no place like home." When Dorothy returns home, she realizes she was dreaming and many of the people from her life in Kansas were the characters she met in Oz.I think because the story was first adapted to the stage as a musical, the directors of the film used a combination of theatrical and cinematic effects to create the movie. I think the combination of these effects helped create the child-like whimsy of the story.Many theatrical effects can be seen throughout the movie. The characters' costumes and make up, especially that of the Munchkins, the Scarecrow, the Tin man, the Lion, the trees in the forest, the witches and the flying monkeys, would also be suitable for the stage. Much of the depth in the scenes and shots that take place in Oz, such as the field of flowers leading toward the Emerald City, is created by painted backdrops and panels similar to what you would see in on-stage productions. For many scenes, the camera was also positioned to give an audience member's point of view and much of the blocking is set up similar to an on-stage production. Many of the special effects are also theatrical in nature. The melting of the wicked witch was accomplished with dry ice and a hydraulic lift that lowered the actress into the set floor, much like a trap door on a stage. The Wizard's lair was accomplished with dry ice, lighting and fire. They also created the Wizard's hot air balloon with a painted backdrop and the basket was lifted with a pulley system to give the effect that he had taken off.However, many effects in the movie could only be accomplished by using cinematic techniques. Special effects such as the horse of a different color, the wicked witch's crystal ball, the good witch's pink bubble, and certain scenes with the flying monkeys could only have been created in the cinema. The director used the camera in a variation of shot angles, durations, sizes and movements to emphasize different actions and ideas that could not be highlighted as well in a stage production. The directors also used the camera to add to the mise en scène of certain sequences such as the shots when Dorothy is clicking the ruby slippers together and saying, "there's no place like home." The shot is long in duration and is a close up on Dorothy. The lens slightly blurs the focus and then eventually overlays three images together: Dorothy's face, her ruby slippers, and a starburst-like pattern. This helps add to the idea that Dorothy is crossing back into the real world from the dream world. Another major effect that was only possible in film was the switch from sepia tone to color when Dorothy leaves Kansas and enters Oz and when she returns to Kansas from Oz. This effect helps creates a distinct separation between Dorothy's real world and fantasy world.Another effect that added to the whimsy of the story was the audio. The movie combines diegetic sound and non-diegetic sound to help tell the story. Diegetic sound such as the singing of the actors, ambient sound such as farm animal noises, the wind from the tornado and the Wizard's voice, and the character's dialogue were sources of sound found on the screen. Non-diegetic sound such as the musical score and some sound effects was sound that came from an off screen source.A combination of theatrical, cinematic and audio effects helped make The Wizard of Oz a movie masterpiece. The costumes, blocking, special effects, camera effects and sound all play important roles in tying the story together.
Wizard of Oz, is it even possible for anyone to not see this film? It's such a huge part of our pop culture, the picture, the sounds, the songs, the characters, the story. When you see the movie, you absolutely fall in love with it instantly, just because of it's magical charm. It makes you laugh, cry, and just realize maybe those little moments you realize you didn't mean what you said in anger. This is also such a beautifully made film, the colors were just so elegant, not to mention for 1939, how incredibly vibrant it was. The characters are just so lovable, how could you not fall for them? Dorothy, Scarecrow, the Cowardly Lion, and the Tin Man along with a great supporting cast made this the most memorable and cherished classic.Dorothy is just a young girl in Kansas with her dog, Toto, and she lives with her Aunt and Uncle on the farm. When she learns that the nasty next door neighbor wants to get rid of Toto because of his barking, she runs away with him, but when she realizes she must come back home, there is a nasty tornado. The tornado lifts the house up with her in it and lands her in the world of Oz, but she learns that her house landed on the wicked witch of the east, the munchkins that she is greeted by worship her. Glenda, the good witch of the north, welcomes her as well, but the celebration is stopped when the wicked witch of the west wants Dorothy dead, but since Dorothy is wearing her sister's ruby red slippers(a gift from Glenda), she cannot harm Dorothy. But Dorothy knows she must go home, Glenda sends her to meet the wizard who will help her. On her journey to the Emerald City, she meets a scarecrow who is scared to death of fire and doesn't have a brain, he wants to come too to get a brain from the wizard. They meet the Tin Man next who has no heart, he wishes to go to the wizard to get a heart. Then they meet the Cowardly Lion who wishes to have some courage and asks if he could ask the wizard for it. Together they are on a journey to get what they want, but it won't be easy with an evil witch on their tale.This movie has practically every memorable line that you can imagine, memorable songs, just all in all, I know in some way or another if you haven't seen this film, you just know about it. It's such a magical film that will always bring back pleasant memories for me, I just love this movie. I will always recommend it, not just because of what it is, but seriously, it's just hard not to love the film. Everyone could relate to it in some way and it just touches your heart. It's a great movie that will remain a treasured classic for years and years to come.10/10


                
The Wizard of Oz defined musicals for the rest of cinematic history. The perfect balance of song and story set the standard for the perfect musical movie after years of Hollywood attempts in the late 1920's. Each song is unique in its approach without becoming out of place, and each song fits the mise-en-scene perfectly. Its transition from sepia tone to full color is charming and appropriate, and the each character is lovable in their own way. The Wizard of Oz is not a movie that could be forgotten.


                
In my personal opinion, 'The Wizard of Oz' (1939) is the greatest movie ever made.I don't think another version of this story should ever have been made. It's so perfect. The only thing I hear people talk badly about when it comes to this movie is the special effects., but if you think about it, considering the movie was made in 1939, the graphics are pretty amazing. It's a great example of where the movie-making industry was at the time.Judy Garland blows you away with her stunning portrayal of Dorothy but my favourite performance is definitely that of Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch of the West. She may have scared the life out of me but she really was amazing.


                
This is the one of my best childhood memories about movies that I'll remember forever.I don't remember when exactly I watch it, but I do remember that time, when I was a child, I imagining myself as Dorothy, in Munchkinland in the Land of Oz, Glinda tells me to follow the yellow brick road to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz might be able to help to get back home. Then on the trip, meets and befriends with a Scarecrow (who wants a brain), a Tin Man (who desires a heart), and a Cowardly Lion (who is in need of courage).Yeah. When I was younger, though I still do this until today, I often used to put myself as a character inside of a story, either in the books or in the movie. Well not all, depends on the character itself. If I can relate to the character, even the slightest, then I do. If I can't, I separate myself from the character and look at it from an outside source, or I'll be the side character (not main character) if I'm more relate to them.I'm pretty sure this ever happened to you too. Am I right? So if you haven't watched this movie, go watch it!! especially for classics movie lovers.P.S: what I do remember too is that I'm freaking happy when I finally found this movie these days. and I'm watching it again and relive my childhood memories all over again.
This is one of those movies that will last forever. Our grandmothers were watching it while they were just little girls and our grandchildren will enjoy it as much. Its values will never be outdated. One of those that define expression "classic". Only a shallow viewer could consider it to be just a fairy-tale for children, because this masterpiece is much more than that and its depth covers all generations. Although it's almost 80 years old it still resists the teeth of time, even visually. Its costumes and special effects are extremely outdated but still effective. I admit, it would be very interesting to see how it would all look like with today's technology, but I think this is one of those shrines that should not be touched.10/10


                
In order to coincide with the upcoming "Oz, the Great and Powerful", I'm going to make my own review of this 1939 classic that will be celebrating it's 75th anniversary next year (not to mention the fact that it will be in IMAX 3D this year in September). I watched it when I was a little kid and loved it as much as anyone else in the film industry. Sure, it's not actually faithful to the book, but it doesn't matter.It did what it had set out to do and defined the meaning of a true Hollywood classic that inspired other acclaimed directors and filmmakers to do the same. The story is very original in the overall light-hearted tone, although it does have some moments that would make you feel scared(especially the Wicked Witch of the West who scared me as a little child). The scenery is beautiful and realistic and the look of the Emerald City is a sight to behold. The characters are charming and likable too. Judy Garland is a beautiful Dorothy, Ray Bolger is a terrific Scarecrow, Jack Haley is a wonderful Tin Man, Bert Lahr is a hilarious and cowardly Lion, and Margaret Hamilton is a scary Wicked Witch of the West.The pacing moves along very nicely, but the best part would have to go to the musical numbers written by Harold Arlen and E.Y. Yip Harbug including "Somewhere Over The Rainbow", "Ding! Dong! The Wicked Witch Is Dead", "If I Only Had A Brain", "If I Only Had A Heart", "If I Only Had The Nerve", "We're Off To See The Wizard", and more.Overall, The Wizard of Oz is, and always will be, a classic to those who are young and old. Recommended!


                
Dorothy is played by Judy Garland, and her portrayal has lost little of its charm over the years. I honestly believe somebody watching this film for the first time would enjoy it just as much as its original audience.Dorothy is a simple innocent girl and that's what warms us to her, and this helps us to identify with her. In addition the additional characters in the film have their own unique charms. But each one of them has enough quality for us to believe in them.The conversion from the original book to this film is done excellently the actors that were chosen to play each part were just amazing. Maybe for people today the visual adaptation does show its age, but I for one don't care it shows thought about set design maybe missing in today's blue screen studios.There are more recent adaptations of this film but in all honesty this one is still my favourite.


                
