It is psychotic that so many people think it is the best movie ever, but this shows what's going on in the world. People go crazy on that mass hypnosis. Combine glamor to cult and make believe it has some real value. Not that this picture is very glamorous, granted. It's merely insane and "predictable" is not even the word. This is bad. But you like it because you have been successfully brainwashed. Some say the acting of the bad witch was the only thing that possessed some quality, but I thought she was merely failing to act. Interesting phenomenon this cult movie propelling "Oz" into Technicolor. It's very disappointing. Very bad for children. Forgettable for grown-ups. An unsuccessful attempt at defining anything. Cheers!


                
Yes Wizard of Oz is a classic ,however it is only a classic if you have never read the books, and yes Judy Garland made an okay Dorothy except she was the wrong age,the problem with this movie is that if you have never read the books one would think that the story ends after Dorothy's friends get their "gifts" so to speak and she taps her heels three times . Except it doesn't because Oz was not a fantasy dream world Dorothy dreamed up .The movie leaves out a whole lot and gives it the cookie cutter Hollywood ending . So if you want a good version of Wizard of Oz watch one of the cartoons most particularly one of the anime versions since they seem to go by the book. The other thing that is wrong with this movie is how Dorothy's character was butchered in the book Dorothy is this spunky resourceful little girl who doesn't need rescuing but Judy Garland plays her like this helpless damsel in distress and that's not who Dorothy is . The girl who played her in " Return to Oz" did a much better job
Why oh why oh why does this film keep getting good reviews? Ignore everything you've heard from your friends, its not 'timeless' its not 'classic', its not 'a gem', its not 'perfect film making' its not even average. Its sick in a bin, sick that no one has put any effort into hurling, sick that is now worshipped by legions of morons. A plot that your racist two year old thought up in a dream, a cast that would make Vin Diesel vomit in fear, a soundtrack that has you slicing your ears off and salting the wounds, direction reminiscent of Eastenders and a dog that, lets face it just needs putting down.There is a common misconception that all pre 1950 films are in the least watchable; this just isn't the case. It's fans, blinded by the fact that this was the first colour film, the fact that Judy Garland is 'acting' and the fact that it has the happiest of happy endings stoically worship, with unrelenting and unquestioning faith, not even stopping for a second to think that maybe their favourite film is worse than being kicked in the face.So watch The Wizard of Oz, but please keep your mind open. Remember the conventions of a 'good' film and observe how they apply to this one. They don't. We ask don't listen to the hype, the myth or the legend, form your own opinion on this piece of dog mess.The film's only saving grace was the stroke of genius that led them to casting real midgets as the Munchkins which subsequently led to the hilarious tragedy of one the diminutive stars hanging themselves. Go for the midgets leave for the tripe.


                
Packed with songs that aren't catchy at all, filled with characters that are way more annoying than one would care to admit & challenging my patience with its cartoonish visuals & childish character interactions, The Wizard of Oz may be the staple of the American pop culture, and is undoubtedly legendary for its influence & cultural impact but it is also a film that belongs to its era, for it looks awfully dated today.The story of The Wizard of Oz follows Dorothy who's swept away by a tornado but ends up in the magical land of Oz where she's greeted by a bunch of midgets after inadvertently killing the witch who tormented them. The plot covers the journey she embarks on to find the person who can help her return home and the memorable friends she makes along the way but the only one in her way is a wicked witch who wants something from her.Directed by Victor Fleming, there are a few things to admire about The Wizard of Oz, most notable of all being its use of Technicolor. Using sepia tone for Kansas segments and bright colour palette for scenes set in Oz, the film creates a sharp contrast between reality & dream world but it's in the moments when it switches from one colour composition to another that its added weight is deeply felt. Its set design is just as admirable & brims with vibrancy.Having no nostalgic attachment whatsoever, the film turned out to be an insufferable experience that made me question my sanity and I wondered what exactly prompted my decision to give it a try in the first place. While I do admire the imagination, creativity & passion that went behind its production, I'm also certain that I probably would've liked it way more had I encountered it during my childhood, possibly within the first ten years, but that didn't happen.Anyway, coming back to this fantasy musical, it's commendable what the filmmaking crew was able to put together from the available resources back then and for the viewers of that era, it must have been a magical ride. However, more than what happens in the wonderland, I was mostly in awe with how they shot the whole scene with the approaching tornado in the background. There were times when it was genuinely amusing but for the most part, it was simply laughable.On a technical scale, given the year it was made, The Wizard of Oz is nothing short of a marvel. It was unique in a lot of ways, and the behind-the-scenes wizardry puts it in a league of its own. Be it the camera-work, staging, shot composition, lighting, special effects, art direction etc, The Wizard of Oz excels in most departments but its musical numbers aren't appealing at all, plus the slew of characters that showed up as plot progresses only added to my misery of sitting through this bore.Coming to the performances, the cast consists of Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley, Billy Burke, Margaret Hamilton & one ugly dog named Toto. While there isn't any individual work that leaves a lasting impression, Hamilton did come close with her rendition of the Wicked Witch though, the sum of their inputs yields a slightly better result. The chemistry shared between Garland, Bolger, Haley & Lahr has a natural vibe to it, and they manage to lift each other's performance up by a little.On an overall scale, The Wizard of Oz is often cited as one of the greatest achievements in cinema history and it very well may be but its dated visual encapsulation, cartoonish characters, juvenile humour, forgettable songs & my own low tolerance for films like these never allowed me to just sit back, relax & enjoy it for what it is. It happened with Star Wars for similar reasons and no, I'm not sorry for that. For me, regardless of its celebrated status, The Wizard of Oz is nothing more than a mere tick mark on a checklist and I have no plans of returning to it ever again.


                
