Calling a film the wizard of oz when he's not even a wizard is crazy. I really didn't enjoy this film. I was expecting it to be a lot better but it was quite boring


                
I rewatched "The Wizard of Oz" (1939) this week for the first time in ages, and was emphatically reminded about how much it sucked. It's basically a feature length episode of "Barney and Friends", with better production values. Performances are extremely exaggerated, which is intentional, but they are also insufferably awful and nauseating. This is the most obnoxious band of protagonists I've seen in a long time. So much so that it makes the film impossible to enjoy. Some of the songs are good, but some are garbage. Don't even get me started on the castle sequence. Good production isn't enough to elevate a film that is pathetic in nearly every other category."Return To Oz" (1985) is a far better film; and it's not even close. Better performances, better conflicts, better resolutions . . . better everything. This is much darker in tone and has some very creepy sequences too. It's also very creative and somewhat bizarre. The special effects are damn cool, especially the rock monsters. "Return To Oz" was a box office failure that was cast into the dust bin of forgotten films, while the vomit-inducing original is placed on a pedestal.


                
I realize that this film was the first influentially shot in technicolor and everything and that it revolutionized the cinema and drama media, but to be honest, I've been drilled with this movie at school and at home to the extent I am not flattered by this film anymore. It's been shown way too many times and honestly, it gets old. Not to mention the fairy tale and "Oz" environment, which, as a child scared me a little, and I couldn't see how any children could find this film entertaining.One of the few definitive moments of film, however, was Margaret Hamilton's portrayal of the Wicked Witch of the West. A genuine performance fueled upon stereotypes never ceases to be entertaining. Sadly, I think they blew it when they made me watch it every year in art class during middle school.


                
OK the reason I gave this film 3/10 is because its not as good as the original books. Personally I like Return to Oz a lot better than this film. I can't stand musicals personally and this is full of musicals. I have an 8 month old daughter and when she gets older I am going to introduce her to Return to Oz instead of this film. I think she would relate and like the 2nd one a lot better than this. Honestly if it was not for the musicals this movie would get an 8 or 9 easily! The actors/actresses are great in this film which make it the classic it is. I do enjoy the story of the film and the characters but it just isn't up to par with the sequel in terms of fantasy. The 2nd one is so much darker than this which makes it much different in terms of what I like to watch. If you have not seen this movie you have to watch it but go rent or buy both films. I am sure your kids would like Return to Oz better than this one.j.d. & the dark empire


                
