"You have no power here! Begone, before somebody drops a house on you, too!" It seems a little silly to be writing a review of The Wizard of Oz. It's the movie that's been seen by more people than any other in history. Most of us have seen it 10 times by the time we're seven. But I'll put my two cents in anyway, from an adult's point of view.As a kid, I thought the munchkins were slightly creepy and the winged monkeys much more so, but I loved Dorothy and I loved the songs, and the entire movie was just so bright and colorful that I find it hard to believe that any kid could dislike it. Now, at the age of 25, I can still recognize the merit of it, without being influenced much by a lasting nostalgia. The Wizard of Oz is a lot like Alice in Wonderland (my all-time favorite children's novel), it treats children like they're smart and clever and capable of understanding and handling ideas that sometimes we adults forget they can get a handle on. The danger and excitement of The Wizard of Oz is a true adventure, be it a candy-coated one.I can also better appreciate now the staggering amount of work and creativity that went into bringing this novel to life. It's just remarkable, really. The choreography, the classic songs, the sets, the costumes, the special effects, they're all still impressive today. More so, really, because many of the tools used to make modern movie magic weren't available back then. And Judy Garland...really, what needs to be said about her that isn't blindingly and extraordinarily obvious? No one else could have been Dorothy Gale.It was nice to revisit this once again, and while some of my childhood adoration for The Wizard of Oz may be gone, my admiration for it still remains.


                
1st time I watched this movie as a kid, it scared me to death. Over the years I am really amazed on how great of a movie this is!!!!


                
Victor Fleming made two movies in 1939, Gone With The Wind and The Wizard Of Oz. This may be the most played movie of all time and left children of all ages a classic, quoted as much as that other movie. We all know Judy Garland and the dreamlike story, but it continues to work for me due to it's altruist quartet together on their journey for personal completion. As they often meet up with the terrifying Margaret Hamilton and her army of flying monkeys, the struggle to find their way home is rewarded by the self help revelations which seemingly grant each their wish. There's movie theaters where we can escape, AA meetings and their like where we can seek self improvement, and there's home, of course. But there's no place like Oz that puts them all together


                
'The Wizard of Oz' is a very old movie and looks awfully dated, but still has its magic and charm. To this day it still has many fans, which is a surprise for a movie this old.The sceneries/backgrounds and special effects don't impress by today's standards, but they must have caused great impact back in 1939. Plus, some of the special effects are astonishing for the time. Look at that tornado, for example! It just seems so real! Amazing that they could do something like that in such primitive times.Speaking of the sceneries, they are full of creative and details which create this childish world of fantasy (the land of Oz). Looking at all those sceneries and to what people dress, it almost reminds me about those childish theater plays I used to see during my childhood. The yellow brick road and the Emerald City are just two among many creative and imaginative details of this movie.The characters are as original as much as they are odd and unusual. The most bizarre characters are the army of flying monkeys, the Winkie Guards, the Wicked Witch of the East, the Munchkins, the talking trees and the Gatekeeper. The Scarecrow, the Tin Man and the Cowardly Lion are less weird, but still unusual. Dorothy and her cute dog Toto, Professor Marvel, Hunk, Zeke, Hickory, Auntie Em, Uncle Henry and the Wizard of Oz are normal characters.Of all the 3 strange friends of Dorothy, the Scarecrow is my favorite. He is the funniest of them, even though the silly Cowardly Lion is hilarious.To a degree, I can see why this movie is considered a classic. It consistently appears in the lists of the greatest movies ever. It is much praised and regarded by many people. It gets generally high ratings. Does it really deserve to be as venerated as it is? Well, it's all a matter of tastes. But despite its charm and magic, there are things of discussable taste in this movie, such as the bizarre characters which become tiring after many viewings. Certain scenes are also somewhat dark and sinister for a kids's movie.The songs are simple but jolly and charming, such as "Somewhere Over the Rainbow", "We're Off to See the Wizard", "If I Only Had a Brain" (in this last case, including its related songs) and my favorite: the wonderful opening music. I don't like the songs sung by the Munchkins because of their weird voices.Although the movie is beyond dated and obsolete nowadays, it was nevertheless advanced for its time, thanks to the special effects and the fact that it is a sepia-toned black-and-white film in the Kansas sequences and a fully colored one (Technicolor) in the Oz sequences.The actors are generally good in their roles. The best are Frank Morgan (who portrays a total of 5 roles in the film), Ray Bolger (as the Scarecrow and Hunk) and Judy Garland (as Dorothy Gale).Filming was a nightmare. And yet the movie would become a lasting legacy, even though that was uncertain at the time.


                
If you watch the TV version, you are truly missing out on one of the most important connections to be made. We all know why the farm hands played the Scarecrow, the Tin Man, and the Cowardly Lion, but do you know why DOrothy sees MIss Gulch as the Wicked Witch of the West? In the version broadcast in the 50's the movie opened with Dorothy walking home from school as the current version hints at. What viewers don't see today is that Toto wondered off into Miss Gulch's garden and was chased out by MIss Gulch with a broom. She threatens to take the dog or at least report Dorothy and Toto to the Sheriff, which she eventually does. DOrothy runs from Miss Gulch toward the farm and when she reaches the entrance road to the farm, the new broadcast version picks up the story. I understand or was led to believe that this portion of the film was edited for TV broadcast and lost in a fire forever. I consider it to be one of the most important parts of the movie.


                
First of all i want to say sorry for my English! For a few days ago I watch Victor Flemmings "Gone With the Wind". I was so impressed over the film so i went to watch "The Wizard From Oz". And what a movie. You should never believe that this film is from the late 30's. The effects and music fit in the film. It deserve the 2 Academy Awards it has won for Best Music, Original Song and Best Music, Original Score. I found the film pretty funny with all the different character. This is one of the best films from the 30's. You can say many things about "The Wizard from Oz" but this film will never die.


                
It took almost 50 years for me to finally watch this movie, and I can see why it was so popular with a nice, tearful ending to a sweet - and colorful - story. The color in here must have the knocked the socks off the audience in 1939, although there were some others in the period that were spectacular color films, too, such as Gone With The Wind and The Adventures Of Robin Hood. Nonetheless, they didn't have a "yellow brick road" like this one!This film would undoubtedly be regarded by kids of the last 30 years as being way, way too corny, but that's just how times have changed. This is one of the "kids movies" with an adult message: there's no place like home.After three viewings, however, I had enough of Judy Garland's whining, almost hysterical voice throughout this movie and the yellow brick road DVD wound its way out of my collection, traded in for something else that starred someone else with a less-abrasive speaking voice.


                
Rating-7/10The Wizard of Oz is a classic and many consider it to be one of the best movies ever made, I have to disagree. Now don't mistake me here it isn't bad at all, it is pretty good in my opinion but I just can't say I absolutely loved it. It has it's charm and for a child then maybe they would love it but I couldn't help feel I needed to be younger to view it with such a magical view. The story is however well timed and a good length for it's kind of film and felt the ending is one of the best parts of the movie.Now Judy Garland is great in this, and I'm not just saying that because it's her and because it's Wizard Of Oz, she is a great talent here and back in the day people must have been blown away by seeing her on the big screen. One element I absolutely loved about this was the music because that really is the highlight and produces such memorable songs you forgot were even from this film, just great great fun. It feels a bit strange at times the plot, maybe a bit too random to be properly assembled but maybe an hour after watching I personally felt joyous and filled with a happy like memory from watching the movie.The numerous directing changes don't help and although the finished product with Victor Fleming at the helm is strong, it can at parts feel messy. I didn't like the script and that is one the major reasons I can't see this as perfection, the lines are delivered well by most but the choices of wording are poor and anything like that done today would be classed as conventional and much seen before in musicals. I can't doubt the sheer mass of the cast for putting on a good show and even though the Munchkins are barely hear able with such high pitch voices, it is people like that who make this film what it is today.I think one big reason this is classed as so good is because of the big technological things seen in this and a new type of film that hadn't been seen before, and in such vivid colour. The sets are horrible and I mean nothing can be done about that for the times and although they are kind of sweet looking, nothing more positive can be said about the walls seen to create the backgrounds. One big thing technology wise that does work for me is the cinematography, beautifully shot and crafted well by Harold Rosson and you can see why he received an Academy Award nomination, just marvellous.When we come on to the songs things like "Somewhere over the Rainbow" come to mind but that isn't the only song that sticks in your head for a time after. "Ding-Dong the Witch is Dead" is another song famous for being a Munchkin dance and is a great song as well. "We're off the see the Wizard" is another absolute classic in the songbook and I can't think of any musical with so much goodness but also so many known songs, This film is lovingly crafted and so well written in the music department.Overall I felt it to be Solidly kind of good and although as you can see I don't agree with maybe most who see it, I still very much enjoyed it. If you haven't seen it then I couldn't recommend it more to you but I will say this, although loads and loads of film fans rate this number one and critics alike, don't expect to love this as much as some do, but then again you may fall in complete fantasy like love with it.


                
In my opinion, you can't deny that this is a classic movie. i don't know many people who haven't at least heard of it, and don't know many people who don't like it. I used to watch it every now and then when I was young, and I knew the words to quite a few of the songs. I hadn't seen it in a while, but, I still knew what I liked about it. When I was little, I used to be absolutely horrified of the Wicked Witch, and the Tin Man was my absolute favorite character. Since then, I am no longer afraid of the Wicked Witch at all; if anything, I just sort of hate her, because she's mean. I think that it is just a good movie through and through. It's very charming and colorful, has a good deal of humor, and you can sort of get sucked in to the story easily. Of course, they changed it a bit from the book, which only a few years ago, I didn't know about, but I much prefer the movie to the book. In conclusion, I think it's a great movie, that was a pretty big deal when it first came out, with the beauty of tis Technicolor, and that everyone should watch it.


                
As a film based on a book it is very inaccurate. As a film that is an escape from the bleak greys of real life, the Wizard of Oz shines. It is both a coming of age story about responsibility and being true to oneself and a whimsical adventure. Utilizing the use of Technicolor in contrast to black and white, we see Dorothy come into her own in the world of Oz, a place where trees are offended if you take their fruit, and anything can happen. In the end Dorothy learns that she always had the ability to get home, but had to learn and grow from her adventure to reach that point. When she returns home she is reunited with her family. Sadly Toto's fate probably remains unchanged.
The Wizard of Oz is a story of a woman who discovers that there is no place like home. Granted, it is a musical, and I am not a big fan of musicals, but this film is a classic if there ever was one, and it truly is a film for all the family.Dorothy is a teenager whose best friend is her dog Toto and she lives in Kansas during the dust bowl. To say that life was hard is an understatement, and Dorothy dreams of a better place. It is not helped that a neighbour hates her dog and wants to put it down, so she runs away from home, only to be convinced by a magician that her auntie wants her to come back. However she never gets there as she is caught up in a tornado and taken 'over the rainbow'.Granted, this is all a dream, but to her the dream is real. Each of the characters that she meets in Oz is a reflection of one of the characters back home, and further the wicked witch is the horrid neighbour. Back home, she was told to use her brains and to have courage, two of the qualities that her travelling companions are seeking.The Wizard of Oz is a story about a girl growing up and becoming an adult. Learning that there is truly no place like home, and that those whom she lives with love her dearly and are worried about her. Of course Toto, her faithful companion, is by her side all the time. Further, in Oz she is a hero, but this pales in comparison to her desire to return home, and that is the purpose of the quest.True, the Wizard turns out to be a fraud, and it is interesting that Toto jumps out of the balloon that the wizard is using to get home, but it turns out that it is much easier to get home than travelling in a balloon, and we all know how she does it.As for the music, or more so, the singing. Many movies these days have music, but it is rare indeed for the characters to burst out into song, unless the song is a part of the film. However, songs play an important role in this film, and in a way bring out the character's emotions in a way that dialogue is unable to do. Long gone are the plays with lengthy discourses, however these seem to be replaced by songs in the musicals, though the discourses are nowhere near as deep or as thought provoking as they are in Shakespeare. Still, they add much to the characters that, as I have said previously, simply cannot be done with dialogue.
The epitome of easy viewing and quite possibly the most colourful film ever made: THE WIZARD OF OZ is one of those old-time films that never seem to age, and indeed become more and more loved as the years go by.I'm not a huge fan of musicals, but the tunes in OZ are outstanding: from the jaunty ('Follow the Yellow Brick Road') to the moving '(Somewhere Over the Rainbow') and everything in between. Judy Garland is excellent as Dorothy, as are the rest of the supporting cast - including the ever-loyal and ever-lovable Toto.If there's a complaint, it may be that the Wicked Witch of the West wasn't quite wicked enough for this viewer, at least not enough to make her deserve her quite horrible fate!


                
People have described this film as captivating, the best, most charming film they have ever seen. For some people there are a great deal many films they would prefer, but with no doubt it is likely every person will like this a wee bit in some wee way! One thing to congratulate is the special effects, which a lot of people do not seem to go on about. For the film's time, the special effects were probably the most special since films were invented (to some people anyway). Of course some of the ways they made illusions were easy, but very clever. Others were harder to make, such as the tornado and the flying monkeys.Other good points on the quality of the film are the superb acting, the way it was filmed, the scenes and the way the script was written - despite some points being not completely similar to the book. The characters of the film are very likable, especially the main four: Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Man and the Cowardly Lion. Toto the dog is a delight too. The songs are very beautiful and entertaining - so is the fun dancing - avid young dancers may feel they want to get up and dance along with Dorothy, the Scarecrow and the Tin Man as they move their feet! One thing that just about everyone who watches this film will like, is the charm of the story and the characters, which is probably why this film has (sort of) gone down in history. Indeed this film is very likable and pretty captivating, a good job!The film starts in sepia to capture the mood of the setting - an old farm in Kansas and the rather dreary mood. The girl called Dorothy wishes to go to some other place and to help save her beloved dog from the stubborn Miss Gulch - who wants the dog after he annoyed her. When Toto is taken away and then escapes to return to Dorothy, it is the last straw for the girl, she is going to run away... That isn't all that happens, the plot twists and turns in a dramatic way.Enjoy "The Wizard Of Oz"!7 and a half out of ten.


                
But I don't feel like it's great cinematic masterpiece that deserves a 100 on meta critic. Sure, it was revolutionary for the time and sure the songs are timeless and catchy, but in this age, the movie is extremely cheesy and sometimes it is so distracting that you forget that the scene you were smiling at was suppose to be serious one. I mean yes, the story is well written, and yes it does have it's great songs and colorful visuals, but this movie (looking back on it now) has a lot of aspects that make it unable to take it seriously. You might be thinking, "But that's what Wizard of Oz is suppose to be!" Well, I'm gonna have to stop you there and point to where this all began. The original source.In my opinion, the original book is closer to what the wizard of oz really is than the film ever did. Yes, they didn't have the technology at the time, but a lot of people are now so hypnotized by the film's magic that they forget that the book was never meant to be like that. It was dark, brutal, and every character has to earn what they wanted from the wizard. In the film, the wizard just gives them their courage, heart, and brain. But in the book, they actually try to earn it and it feels way more powerful then the film gave us. Not to mention, when Oz the Great and Powerful came out, everyone panned that movie mostly because they were trying to compare it to the original film when that was clearly not what they wanted. That film was suppose to be a prequel to the book. Because if this movie was all a dream, why would there be a prequel to it that explains someone else point of view of this world? Oh wait, that's because IT'S NOT TRYONG TO BE LIKE THE MOVIE! Again. I loved this film, hell I watched it over and over when I was younger. But as soon as I read the book and rewatched the wizard of oz today, I realized that the film in actaulloty was not as great as I thought. You can crucify me all you want, but I thought that Oz the Great and Powerful was much better than this book. This film gets a 7/10.


                
I suggest this movie is good for kids or teenager, even though it contains alot of educational stuff for you. I found this movie okay. I enjoyed the movie quite well.


                
I finally watched "Wizard of Oz" last night, mostly motivated by the fact that I had just read the first two Oz books by L Frank Baum. I am always leery of anything made by Disney as they have a really annoying habit of changing the plot to suit themselves and this movie was no exception.For example, the first 20 minutes of the movie is NOT in the book at all! The book starts with the house getting swept away by the tornado - so how come we have Judy Garland singing "Over the Rainbow" to her pet rat (sorry, dog)? Then we have that pointless steal the dog, Dorothy running away, Professor Marvel telling her her mother is ill....blah, blah. Get on with the story for Gods sake. Baum is probably turning in his grave by now.And all the characters in Kansas appearing as characters in Oz! That is pure Disney invention! Again, NOT in the book! Sorry but I am a purist when it comes to book adaptations. I strongly feel that movie studios do not have the right to re-write books. Either follow the book or don't follow it at all.When Dorothy finally gets to Oz, the movie starts to improve a great deal and things more or less follow the book (except all the singing which was obviously inserted for Garland's benefit).Considering that this movie was made in 1939, you've got to accept in 2007 that things in the movie (such as special effects) are going to look very dated (I mean, it's obvious the witch is climbing down through a hole in the floor!!). Plus the backgrounds are so obviously fake (painted pieces of wood!). However, if you can get past all that, this is still an excellent movie to watch.But nothing beats reading the original book.
So they all make it back to the wizard having defeated the Wicked Witch of the West. Thanks to Toto they find out the Wizard's just an ordinary man. He bestows open the Tin Man, Scarecrow, and Cowardly Lion their respective trophies to show them they had what they were searching for all along and offers to bring Dorthy home in his hot air balloon. As they are taking off Toto jumps out and Dorthy cases after him so they miss the ride but the good which appears and said she could go home all along by clicking her heels together and wishing to go home. I don't know why the bitch, excuse me witch didn't tell her sooner. I mean it's like she's having Dorthy be her hit-man, killing all the other witches so she can rule Oz with a cotton-candy fist. Anyways Dorthy awakes at home in her bed and realizes that the only place she ever wants to be is with her family at home. What a happy ending... wait a minute I feel like we're forgetting something... that's right Toto is still going to die! Everything that happened here is because Toto bit Miss Gulch and she's going to have the sheriff put him down! To me this is just to big of a plot hole to have. Did they think no one would really notice so they just left the issue unresolved? It seems like Miss Gulch isn't the type of person who'd let this go either. So for me this happy ending was soured by the fact that relatively soon Toto's going to be brought out back and shot. The last thought I had during the film was, "I hope you've had a fun last day in Oz Toto because your about to take one final trip to the great beyond."
A whirlwind hits Kansas and carries a young girl in to a strange and mystical world.One of those products that you feel slightly stupid reviewing, but I guess a new audience for it is born every minute. Also it a good example of a book and film that, while joined at the hip, are also very different products. The book is light, throwaway and fun while the film gets very heavy and morose almost like a horror movie. Very strange for a film aimed at children.Judy Garland's life was one big rollercoaster ride from beginning to end and seemed to  involve an unfruitful search for happiness through people, produce and drugs. How apt that her most famous film should also feature a similar journey and how sad that while reading the script she could not take on the moral: That happiness comes from within and that life is what you make of it. Garland's talent was (and remains through film) immense. What a pair of lungs and what vocal control. A freak of nature that was plucked from nowhere, exploited and then thrown away by the studio system. She died young, but she had lived her show business life already and had no role left to play other than sing to ever dwindling gay audiences. Oz maybe a cruel place at times, but it is no more cruel than the real world it apes.Here we have main characters that are in search of change, but they are living in a "cast" society in which function seems given by the state. Maybe I am thinking too literally, but how does Oz go round? Who paints the road yellow - and why? A road doesn't have to be completely painted to be followed and why brick, very expensive way to pave a road! Maybe examples of how nonsense stands out more in films.Maybe they thought that making this a musical would make it lighter and more fun. But it doesn't really work that way. Fun song and dance is one thing, but this hardly taking away the sense of danger and threat. Wicked witches are killers (or at least potential killers) so how can they be taken lightly or in jest? What is being demonstrated is that making the written page literal goes beyond the original intent. Children are meant to be slightly scared - not petrified as they would be watch this film.Legends have grown up around this film in production. From colour difficulty to the parties that the "little people" threw after filming was done for the day. I am sure most of them are myths and besides, I am sure there is partying and sex after the end of most day's filming on most films.
In the Wizard of Oz we are transported to a strange world with great performances from all the leads, especially Garland who has to carry the weight of this giant production on her shoulders. I feel for her, where else is a child (or near child) expected to carry such responsibility but in show business? I guess the only world stranger than Oz is the world of show business. PS Do I get a cookie for not mentioning Over The Rainbow once in the main review?


                
The Wizard of Oz is without a doubt one of the most iconic movies in cinema history, a tale about Dorothy Gale being swept away by a tornado to a magical land, where she is joined by the Cowardly Lion, the Tin Man and the Scarecrow. Together they seek the Wizard to help Dorothy find her way home, going down the famous yellow brick road. Along the way, Dorothy and her friends encounter the famous Good Witch Glinda and the lovable munchkins. They are thwarted by villains, which became some of cinema's most recognizable characters, including the Wicked Witch of the West and the flying monkeys. It's a film full of music and songs, including the famous "Over the Rainbow," magic, vibrant color, adventure and whimsical scenes. I watched this movie for its iconic status and the good vs. evil scenes, which I thought were pretty entertaining. The characters were memorable, some if a bit whiny and annoying, and the plot makes you suspend reality and lets your imagination run wild. The special effects were great for its time and the lavishness in the sets, costume design and cinematography helped create a convincing Land of Oz. Some might be taken-back by the overly-sung musical numbers, over-hyped sappiness and whimsicalness, and the slowness of the plot at some points, but it's still a fun adventurous movie to enjoy.Grade B-


                
I remember The wizard of Oz rather disappointed and with some fright. The voice of the Wizard impressed me. I saw it as a ten year old or even younger, on a big screen theater. Spoiler. I was disappointed that the Wizard of Oz was a humbug. I think I had great hopes of watching a wizard doing marvelous things. Spoiler He does not help Dorothy. And he occupies the Title above the marquee. Watching Angela Lansbury on the 70 Anniversary Bluray, it was not surprise to me that she said that the film showed losings. Maybe not many kids could stand the above facts. Angela Lansbury also states that 85 million Americans go in 1939 to the movies every week, and that it was the 65 percent of the whole population, but this was not a favorite. Maybe the above statements were influential. regards
This is the classic children's film. I starred as the Cowardly Lion in a nearby theatre production and it was very, very inspirational. There have been so many different translations and opinions of this film, but honestly, it is one of the greatest films of all time. From the start, you are immediately "sucked" into the storyline, relating to Dorothy in those times in which you were neglected by people. THen as you are transported into this technicolor world, surrounded by short people and talking objects and creatures, you imagine a world that is perfect (except for the wicked witch of course) After seeing the movie, you are captivated by the imaginative world that has been created inside your mind. That is what a good movie is about, it's about being more than just a kid, but the most important person to a group of people. This makes up for the neglected childhood. :D


                
For such an old film, it's a classic everyone has to see, and probably already has.  Very few flaws, and a great story line in which Dorothy is put in a magical land with witches, animate scarecrows, talking tin-men, and cowardly lions. Each of the four journey together, each needing something from the Wizard. All dorothy needs is to go home.


                
I had put off seeing this until recently, when some friends forced me to watch it, refusing to believe that I had not seen it in over fifty years of movie watching. I figured it would be pretty sappy, but I found that there is some substance to it after all.Traveling to a magic and colorful land might be exciting, fun, and interesting, but for most of us I think it's the daily experiences that give us our stability and satisfactions. Turning to an all-powerful being to solve our problems is a misguided effort--that god will be exposed as a sham. We had best turn to ourselves to make our way in this world.


                
This is the second musical i have watched since "Evita". What i have to say is the story is very well written although some of the effects might be poor if seen by audience who have watched 20th century effects setting.Judy was a wonderful teenager at that time and her ability to sing and dance make this movie very exciting.Nice costumes and setting, very imaginative props.


                
Some of the criteria here that people use to rip this movie are a hoot. i.e. "It's not realistic." (! well... it IS a child's fantasy) "They changed the book" is an argument rooted in the deeply absurd idea that movies are best when they strictly adhere to decisions made for the benefit of a completely different media. Come to think of it the book didn't have songs in it... Admittedly the films weird cult (as in Christianity) creates the biggest barrier to getting anything from the object of devotion.While the decision to write off the land of Oz as a dream is a creative writing teachers nightmare, it probably saved the culture from fifty years of garbage sequels that would have sullied this film. That the book was "changed" is a strange complaint, because the larger point of contention is that they only filmed 3/4ths of it. The last portion of the book is completely missing. (the quadlings, the dainty china country, green glasses) The exclusion of these bits without their being missed, is indicative of how arbitrary Baums inclusions are. Most of the altered elements are technically motivated. How do you have a swarm of field mice carry a lion out a poppy field in 1939? The slippers were changed to the more vibrant red color because the original silver slippers offered nothing that couldn't have been shown in the black and white world Dorothy has left. etc.As it is, it offers an abundance for a child to digest and the inclusion of the missing elements would have compressed the rest and perhaps triggered exhaustion in the audience. My patience grows thin at the "If I were King" interlude and the movie mercifully omits the late developments. Any book would do well to have such a hack job done on it. Baums simplistic, chirpy books might be out of print by now if not for this movie. Furthermore Baum restlessly throws away populations and characters over the course of each book before they're even developed. There's a spoof of Baum's books just waiting to be written, called "The United Nations of Oz," in which Oz diplomacy is explained to suggest how all these nations, regions & peoples get along... it might be useful in our world.You could complain about what it doesn't achieve but the movie is so packed with iconographic elements (the yellow brick road, munchkins, witches, malevolent trees) all entering the tableaux in breathless maximization (the way children prefer their stimulation) that the movie becomes powerfully vivid. The window has probably closed on the era in which you could intentionally produce a movie that plays as this does on the naivete and complexity of the American psyche.My only complaint about this is that it is perfectly scaled to the venue which popularized it (TV). On the big screen the tiresome use of vaudeville shtick & cop-outs cheapens and trivializes plot points and grates on a viewer. Next time you watch it, try cataloging which gender holds all the power in the movie. Margaret Hamilton terrifies kids, and her witch is iconographic. Can anyone show me a green witch before 1939? Some goofy lines are hysterically inappropriate seventy years later (only bad witches are ugly... toto too!) There's a moment as the Munchkins entreat her to "Follow the Yellow Brick Road" where Dorothy's rhythmic walk transforms into her happy dance-skip. It's a wonderful moment that for it's triviality shouldn't be as joyful and touching as it is. Dorothy's unacknowledged kiss from Glinda is also sweet.


                
