Judy Garland's portrayal of Dorothy, Dorothy's oddball Oz friends, "Somewhere Over the Rainbow", and the rest of this fine production of "The Wizard of Oz" have lost little of their magic over the years. While it has become oddly fashionable in recent years to deride this kind of classic, innocent fantasy, the movie itself has aged very well, and it is likely to retain an appreciative audience for some time to come.There's no doubt that part of the appeal of the story and the characters comes from them being such old friends to so many cinema fans, but there are also good reasons why they have endured for so long, and have been able to hold up even after becoming so familiar. Although Dorothy is not a particularly complex character, she represents an innocent but deep yearning that is easy to identify with. Likewise, the 'Oz' characters are bizarre enough to remain interesting, but there is a core of substance that again is easy to believe in. Who does not feel that he or she could use at least one of the things that Dorothy's friends want?The adaptation from the original story is done quite well, making fine choices for the characters and episodes that would work on film. The settings and visual effects may not impress the devotees of today's computer imagery, but in their time they certainly demonstrated a great deal of skill and planning, and even now, in their own way they are more believable than are most of the computer tricks that have become so overused.The popular story has also been used for a number of more recent adaptations, and some of them have had some good points of their own. But this Wizard remains by far the most wonderful of the versions of the classic tale.


                
Marvelous tale in which Dorothy Gale (Judy Garland , she had to wear a painful corset-style device around her torso so that she would appear younger and flat-chested) is swept away to a magical location in a tornado and being transported on the land of Oz she embarks on a quest to see the Wizard (Frank Morgan , he plays various characters) who can help her return home . The film opens in sepia-tone academy ratio for the Kansas scenes, before widening out and blooming into full color in Oz . There appears Dorothy and her dog when she is hurled away from dusty Kansas to the vibrant Land of Oz. She's helped by the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke) , but she's also in trouble with the Wicked Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton, many of her scenes were either trimmed or deleted entirely, her performance was thought too frightening for audiences) . Reluctantly drawn into the problems facing the Land of Oz and its inhabitants, Dorothy must find out who is good and who is evil before it is too late. On her way she meets the Munchkins (they are portrayed by the Singer Midgets, named not for their musical abilities ,the troupe came from Europe to immigrate and escape the Nazis) , a Scarecrow (Ray Bolger , face makeup wore consisted, in part, of a rubber prosthetic with a woven pattern to suggest cloth) who needs a brain, a Tin Man (Jack Haley who wrote additional dialogue) who wants a heart, and a Cowardly Lion (Bet Lahr , he wrote additional dialogue , too) who desperately needs courage . Putting their arts to use through illusion, ingenuity-and even a bit of wizardry they transform themselves not only into the great and powerful helpers of Oz but into the better friends as well . This is an agreeable film for children of all ages based on the all-time classic by Frank Baum . This engrossing picture contains powerful ,haunting images and immortal songs ,in fact the song "Over the Rainbow" was ranked #1 by the American Film Institute in 2004 on the 100 Greatest Songs in American Films list . Beautiful scenery , colorful cinematography by Harold Rosson , spirited adventure and a stirring climax lift this story . It is a genuine as well as imaginative tale written and directed with great sensibility , fairness and imagination. It's plenty of scenes that stay in the mind as when Dorothy/Judy Garland appears at the 'other side' that results to be the fantastic as well as glowing world of OZ . There's something for everyone here ; fans of fantasy , fans of magic and necromancy , fans of incredible adventures , should all find something to enjoy about this film . A perfect cast and enjoyable secondaries in the perfect fantasy . As a likable acting by Judy Garland as an adorable girl who is swept away to an enchanted land . Sympathetic support cast such as Ray Bolger , Billy Burke , Charles Grapewin , Jack Haley , Frank Morgan and Margaret Hamilton as witch ; among others . Spectacular and glamorous sets , production designer Cedric Gibbons studied the films of Walt Disney classic films to achieve the appropriate Art Deco design for the Emerald City of Oz . The film was completely shot in studio , the only location footage in the entire film are the clouds over the opening titles . The director opted to use practical sets in conjunction with matte painting . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Victor Fleming , though supported by other notorious as well as uncredited filmmakers such as George Cukor , Norman Taurog , King Vidor and Mervyn LeRoy , also producer . However , Richard Thorpe, the original director of the film, had shot around two weeks of footage before he was fired . A recent study claimed that this is the most watched movie in film history, largely due to the number of television screenings each year as well as video which has enabled children of every generation to see it. This story about OZ has been adapted several times such as : An old and mute version (1925) , this classic and the best rendition , the MGM release ¨The wizard of Oz¨ (1939) by Victor Fleming with Judy Garland , remade in 1978 as ¨The Wiz¨ by Sidney Lumet with Diana Ross , Richard Pryor and Michael Jackson and ¨Return to Oz¨ (1985) by Walter Murch with Fauriza Falk ,Nicol Williamson, Matt Clark and Piper Laurie . And recent prequel (2013) by Sam Raimi titled ¨Oz the Great and Powerful¨ with James Franco as Oz , Mila Kunis as Theodora , Rachel Weisz as Evanora and Michelle Williams as Annie .


                
So many years has passed and i still love this! completely timeless and a beautiful story, Ms. Garland was perfect and even on that time every character was created to perfection, not CGI or many special effects and is just a perfect story for a Sunday night and a movie night with my friends, every layer from the characters is beautifully created and thanks to Hollywood that hasn't had the need to remake this beautiful master piece.


                
The Wizard of Oz is a musical fantasy film which is a 1939 movie adaptation of the 1900 book, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, written by Lyman Frank Baum. Baum also wrote 13 further stories set in Oz, as well as many other children's novels.Firstly, I'll start off this review by saying that I'm not a big fan of musicals. While I can appreciate the amount of effort that goes into writing lyrics and incorporating the songs into the film, I've never really understood or enjoyed the genre. Just the idea of having a film where people burst out singing for no good reason doesn't sit too well for me.That being said, this is one of the few musical films that not only I find enjoyable, but it's also one of the most memorable films I've ever seen. The songs in this film, apart from being catchy, are incorporated very well into the film and, most of the time, are actually important to the plot, and not just for entertainment. One of the biggest pet peeves of mine is the fact that in most musicals, generally they just sing about something that's completely irrelevant to what's going on. Anyway, onto the review! The plot revolves around Dorothy Gale, a farm girl from Kansas, her dog Toto, a scarecrow, a tin man and a cowardly lion, among other characters. Starting off in Kansas, when Toto bites the irritable Almira Gulch, she obtains a sheriff's order to take away and put Toto down. Dorothy and Toto flee back home, and find that a gigantic twister is fast approaching. Seeking shelter inside the house, Dorothy is knocked unconscious. She and Toto wind up in the strange, very colourful land of Oz (still in the house). Wishing to return home, she is informed by Glinda, the Good Witch of the North, that the Wizard of Oz is her only option, and the only way to get Emerald City, where he is situated, is by following the famous Yellow Brick Road. Along the way, she meets a Scarecrow who seeks a brain, a Tin Man who seeks a heart, and a Cowardly Lion who seeks courage, and they all decide to go to the Emerald City together. But their journey is hindered by the Wicked Witch of the West, who wishes to seek revenge against Dorothy for killing the Wicked Witch of the East. Coincidentally, Dorothy's house accidentally lands on the Wicked Witch of the East. I won't reveal the ending, but I will say that it is a surprising one, and by far one of the best I've ever seen.So, what makes this film "memorable and enjoyable"? Being a musical, the songs play the largest role in the film, and they are among the most catchiest, most original and happiest I've ever heard. The voice of the beautiful Judy Garland make the songs really stand out and shine. Of course, you can't forget the other characters, such as the munchkins, who sing the ever-so-catchy "Ding Dong The Witch is Dead", and the Scarecrow's wishful ballad "If I Only Had a Brain". Not only are the songs amazingly well written, but they really do fit in with the story, and turn what would be boring dialogue scenes into joyous and remarkable melodies.And it's not just the songs which make this film a masterpiece. While the acting isn't realistic, the lines are delivered extremely well by every actor in the film, and there are a lot of lines in the film which people still use today, such as "There's no place like home" and the more hilarious "I'm melting! Melting!". Another thing that's well done in this film is the visual aspect. The farm sequences in Kansas are filmed in Sepia, in order to create drab, mundane effect, while in Oz, it's filmed in colour, to create a wonderland type effect. The sets are also very attractive and original. The Emerald City glows the brightest lime green, but the Wicked Witch's castle, in contrast, is dim and dark, with lot's of grey, black and brown.There are a few things which drag the film down, such as the duration. Some scenes, I feel, are stretched out and are a lot longer than they should be. And, sometimes the film can get a bit boring in the non-musical scenes, but I suppose that just proves how good the songs are! With amazing audio, visual and dialogue components, it's no wonder that The Wizard of Oz is the most watched film of all time, and some, including me, would go as far to say that it is the most enjoyed film of all time. I give the film an 8 out of 10 because, while I enjoy the film, I just don't like musicals. However, I will say that if this film was done in any other form than a musical, it would've been horrible.
"The Wizard of Oz" is a fantastic effort at making a movie. I have to wonder if it was possible to create a movie any better back in 1939. However, I am curious on the size of the budget allowed for production. The difference between todays big budget movies and those from sixty years ago, are today the scripts and plots are pathetic. This movie can be enjoyed by all ages, and perhaps led the way for musicals to be made into films.8 out of 10


                
THE WIZARD OF OZ came out in 1939, captivating the hearts of thousands of children (and adults). The simple story of a young Kansas girl landing in the land of Oz with it's favourable characters like Scarecrow, Cowardly Lion, Tinman with Dorothy of to Emerald City to meet the great Oz himself.For a film this old, the Wizard Of Oz is stunning. Not classified as a mere child's movie but a movie classic. It's beauty and magic the sentiment of the soul. Judy Garland, gave her signature performance as Dorothy, Jack Haley for Tinman and Bert Lahr for Lion.The story is simple, the film is quite childish and the movie is dated; all the ingredients of such an enjoyable and memorable classic from the pen of L. Frank Baum.The DVD is great as we get to see a missing number from the film by Scarecrow. It is brilliant. Unleash the child within you and watch the movie for the classic it is.


                
The Wizard of Oz is the best you could ask of a movie made at the end of the 1930s. It boasts pleasent musical numbers and a production desing that could challenge most of the movies made today, sustained by engaging performances and a creative mind behind the camera. It is widely regarded as a masterpiece or even a perfect movie, and I do see why some would say that. I do not dislike the movie and I won't deny its achievements and sense of wonder: it is, at the end of the day, a great adaptation that changed cinema forever and helped broadcast the wonderful message within its source material to countless generations. But it does have flaws, like all movies do, and I end up thinking of films I personally consider better than this one. That won't stop me from popping this one to the Blu-ray player on a rainy day to relieve the fabulous journey awaiting Dorothy in the yellow brick road.


                
It's probably a shame for me to have watched this movie too late, but since it's a classic, I don't feel bad about that.The setting, the costumes, the scene, the music, the effects are so beautiful that you can ignore the movie was shot in 1939.The movie is a classic and it has been referenced in so many movies and TV series that I watched so that it brought me to the point of I must watch it -- and it indeed was worth the watch.Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley, Billie Burke and all the other cast of the film are so great and talented that you'll be amazed by their performances.I also read a speculation that half the movie was shot colorless, and the other half with color on purpose, but there are other speculations that the movie was began to be shot in 1925 and done in 1939 because of the unavailable color film.Anyways, such a good film with a great imagination. Worth to watch!


                
I was born the same year the movie came out, but only caught up with it the other night, mainly because musicals are not my usual movie fare. So what's left to say after 500+ reviews. I was most impressed by the art and set direction. Too bad they didn't win Oscars. The sets were so imaginative and well done, from poppy fields to enchanted woods to yellow brick road. For once, MGM's habit of over-producing what's on screen really paid off with an appropriately lavish scale. The effects are simply breathtaking, but I can also detect the nightmarish visuals that go beyond the demonic Witch of the West. So I can see why kids would be both mesmerized and unsettled by the fantastic adventures.I also have to say that Garland was wonderful as Dorothy, though I've never been a particular fan. Plus, her captivating rendition of Rainbow deserves to top the all-time movie charts. All in all, I'm sorry it took me so long to catch up. It's really hard to believe that so many cooks (writers & directors) didn't spoil the outcome. Somehow, the sumptuous production with its sturdy moral all came together, and remains aptly a movie for the ages.


                
The Wizard Of Oz (TWOO) is probably one of the most famous Hollywood films of the late-1930s and, maybe, even the early-1940s.As I understand it, when TWOO was first released back in 1939 it really wasn't a colossal hit. It wasn't until the coming of TV when it was first aired in the 1950s that it attracted a humongous fan-base and from there it became one of the most popular films of all-time.Filmed at MGM Studios, TWOO was made at a time when MGM was, without question, the wealthiest, most impressive, and most successful Hollywood studio in the USA.Back in 1939 TWOO was made simply as a showpiece. This was MGM showing the world just how much power they wielded, that they could make an expensive film like this one and not care, one bit, whether it earned them a profit, or not.Little did the MGM big-wigs realize at the time that TWOO would go on to become one of the most beloved Fantasy/Adventure films of all time.So - "Tap your heels together 3 times and repeat after me - There's no place like home. There's no place like home."


                
Still one of the best children's fantasy adventure films ever - with songs! The use of colour in a film has never been surpassed in my view, making the contrast from dusty, grey Kansas to perfect, day-glo Oz all the more telling, and making you realise what an inspired cinematic idea it was! The point has been well made before, but you do have to wonder why Dorothy would ever want to leave the fairy-tale world, until you consider the moral point of the movie which is to celebrate family and home life, even if the grass is literally greener on the other side.The special effects are remarkable for the time, from the devastation of the tornado, the monumental city of Oz and even the comings and goings of Glinda the good witch. Probably the only sub-standard scenes of this type are those of the wicked witch flying on her broomstick, but perhaps I'm being too post-modern in my judgement. The characterisations are mostly delightful, my only carps being that Glinda is just too glutinous to be true, plus I never really cared much for the Munchkins.. Outstanding in the cast naturally is Judy Garland as Dorothy, displaying childish insecurity on the one hand but feisty perseverance on the other. She interacts beautifully and naturally with her three new friends and even Toto! The songs are unforgettable too, "Over The Rainbow" and "We're Off To See The Wizard" especially being songs for the ages . I've seen the film many times, naturally, but it's still a remarkable feat of artistic creativity and to mind hasn't been matched never mind surpassed by any number of real-life Disney or Pixar films since.


                
I don't know what is the main genre for this movie: musical, family or fantasy movie. It has a bit of everything and succeeds in every aspect. Yes the story is simple and there isn't that much action but I don't think a movie needs to be scary or have violence to be entertaining. Despite being made pre World War II this movie is magical. What makes the movie really enjoyable are its colorful characters who take you onto a journey with catchy songs. Although Judy Garland was story-wise too old to play Dorothy, I don't think anyone else could have done it better here. Her song "Somewhere over the rainbow" is still a very recognizable and loved song today. That this movie still stands strong without CGI or expensive decor is an amazing feat. Maybe not a movie I would watch that often but when I do I will love every minute of it.


                
Most of us remember seeing the film at an early age on television, when the bleak black and white of Kansas is magically transformed into the rainbow colors of the Land of Oz. The special effects were by Arnold Gillespie, and to this day the horse of a different color that switches from purple to red to yellow is an inspiration to young audiences. For a film shot on MGM sound stages, the picture has amazing depth, and this is thanks to George Gibson's painted backdrops with blue mountains and white peaks that evoked the aura of the Emerald City.This is pure escapism and Dorothy (Judy Garland) literally escapes from Kansas to take her journey to see the Wizard. In the journey she meets a few friends. These friends are the Wizard of Oz played by Frank Morgan, the Scarecrow played by Ray Bolger, the Cowardly lion played by Bert Lehr, the tin man played by Jack Haley, and the princess played by Billie Burke. Everyone could always enjoy a nice story that takes them on a crazy ride through fantasy world and then snaps back to the real world at the end. The appeal of the film may have something to do with the fact that it symbolizes Dorothy's last childhood experience and it is her loss of innocence that is portrayed. At the end of the movie, Dorothy returns to Kansas, back to her old life with her family. Dorothy wore a corset-like dress to make sure that her filling-out figure was not revealed this made the look of an eleven-year old is preserved. The film ends with the moral that there is no place like home, no matter how exotic and fantastic. Far from being depressing and anti-fantasy, the film encourages young people to be creative with their minds. There is no reason that Bert Lahrs Zeke cannot be transformed into The Cowardly Lion though creative day-dreaming. I know when I saw it as a small child I liked to day dream and try to go to the Land of Oz myself. From then on out as a child if I were having a bad day I would just lay in bed and try to go away. It was very relaxing to try and use my imagination to visit the tin man, the lion, the scarecrow and the Wizard.


                
"The Wizard of Oz" is a delightful movie for children. Adults can enjoy it too, provided they don't spend any time thinking about it.The first problem that many critics have called attention to is the no-place-like-home theme. Back home, Dorothy is basically ignored and neglected, while she has great friends in Oz, which is a pretty nice place once the Witch has been eliminated. Like many Hollywood movies made in those days, this movie says we should just accept our lot in life, however drab and dreary it may be.This is made all the more outrageous by the reason Dorothy ran away from home in the first place. It's not that she thought the grass would be greener elsewhere, or something frivolous like that. She wanted to save the life of her dog Toto, whom Miss Gulch was determined to have destroyed, and had an order from the sheriff to back her up. Toto is the only friend she has, and saving his life is not only a good reason for her to leave, but also a good reason for her not to come back. As Dorothy lies there in bed at the end of the movie, I cannot help but think to myself that Miss Gulch will be back the next morning with that same order from the sheriff and take Toto away.Some people argue that Miss Gulch died during what the movie calls a cyclone but is really a tornado, because she corresponds to the Wicked Witch of the East, who died when the farm house landed on her. Well, Dorothy may have killed off Miss Gulch as a witch in her wish-fulfilling dream, but there is no reason to think that the real Miss Gulch is dead, especially since in the dream, the farm house landed on the Witch and crushed her, but nothing happened to the farm house in the real world. So there may be no place like home for Dorothy, but it is the dog pound for Toto, at least for a few days until he is destroyed.The sister of the Wicked Witch of the East, the Wicked Witch of the West, threatens Dorothy and her friends until Dorothy accidentally throws water on her, causing her to melt. Once the Witch is gone, her minions, the winged monkeys, are quite happy about the situation. It turns out that they were not evil themselves, but only did the Witch's bidding because they were afraid of her. Now that she is dead, they can be good winged monkeys.Condensing all the evil into a single person, the Wicked Witch, and then eliminating that person is all right for a fantasy movie, but it is simplistic thinking like that that has serious consequences in the real world. I suspect that George W. Bush and his advisers believed that Saddam Hussein was a "Great Man" like the Wicked Witch, and that all they had to do was get rid of him, and the citizens of Iraq would start singing "Ding Dong! The Witch Is Dead," as they established a Jeffersonian democracy.Oddly enough, though the movie seems to subscribe to the Great Man theory in its treatment of the Witch as the sole source of evil in Oz, yet it takes the opposite tack in the scene that follows, in which the message seems to be that no one is better than anyone else. The Scarecrow needs a brain; the Tin Man needs a heart; and the Cowardly Lion needs some courage. They hope to get these things from the Wizard of Oz, which is why they have been accompanying Dorothy to the Emerald City. In the end, however, the Wizard of Oz is just a fraud with no special powers, so he cannot give the Scarecrow a brain, the Tin Man a heart, or the Cowardly Lion some courage. Being a fraud, however, the Wizard knows that the people who supposedly are intelligent, philanthropic, or brave are also frauds themselves. College professors are no smarter than anyone else; they just have a diploma. Philanthropists are no more generous than anyone else; they just have testimonials. Heroes are no braver than anyone else; they just have medals. So he gives the Scarecrow a diploma, the Tin Man a testimonial, and the Lion a medal. And now they are just as smart, generous, or brave as any of those so-called professors, philanthropists, or heroes.Once the Scarecrow gets his diploma, he believes the Wizard and thinks he is just as smart as all those college professors. Suddenly inspired, he enunciates what he takes to be the Pythagorean Theorem: "The sum of the square roots of any two sides of an isosceles triangle is equal to the square root of the remaining side. Oh joy, rapture! I've got a brain!"Alas, this is neither the Pythagorean Theorem nor any other theorem of geometry. First of all, the Pythagorean Theorem applies to right-angled triangles, not to isosceles triangles. But even if we allow for that correction, substituting "right-angled" where he says "isosceles," it is still wrong. It is not the square roots of the sides that are related in that way, but the squares, to wit: The square of the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides. As this is something known by most high-school graduates, let alone by college professors, maybe a diploma counts for something after all.Fortunately, even if you do have a brain, you can still enjoy "The Wizard of Oz," provided you don't use it too much while watching the movie.
Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley and Margaret Hamilton star in this 1939 fantasy musical based on the novel. This tell the story of Kansas girl, Dorothy Gale (Garland) who sometimes wishes she could leave. She gets her wish when a tornado heads towards her home and is taken to a magical place, Oz. Soon, she sees strange things and meets new friends, a scarecrow (Bolger), lion (Lahr) and Tin man (Haley) along the way while trying to get back home. She also faces a wicked witch (Hamilton) who wants her ruby red slippers. Dorothy and her friends head to the Emerald City seeking help from a powerful wizard (Morgan) to grant their wishes. I grew up watching this and always enjoyed it. Garland & the cast were great and Hamilton was a terrific villain. I recommend this classic fantasy.
Don't touch me.  I'm a hideous, hideous freak.  Somehow, I managed to live for twenty-two years without seeing The Wizard of Oz.Don't hate me.  I'm not a complete freak; I'd seen bits and pieces over the years, but I'd hated most of them.  I hated Judy Garland's tobacco-chewing voice, I hated the gaudy colours of Oz, I hated the simplistic story and the childish morals, I hated the songs, I hated the pantomime feel of it all, I hated the Munchkins' singing voices, I hated pretty much everything about it, and thought of it as just another over-rated classic.Sitting down to watch this properly for the first time, I was looking forward to writing a bad review, because they're more fun to write.  My plan was scuppered when I realised I loved this movie from start to finish. Damn!Judy Garland is great as Dorothy, managing to be feisty and helpless at the same time, the cowardly lion is always funny, and the tinman and the scarecrow are both charming.  The story is still simplistic, but now I see it as childlike, not childish.  There was a more cynical voice inside my head telling me I shouldn't be liking it, but I managed to ignore it <U+0096> that voice should learn to shut up every once in a while.It's far from perfect, and even now I think most people over-rate it.  The black and white opening is a little strained as the farm hands are forced to throw in words like `courage', `heart' and `brain' to drop hints about who they'll be when they reappear in Oz.  The wicked witch is a bit hammy, her make-up is unconvincing, and you can see the trap door open before she disappears from Munchkinland.  The did-it-all-really-happen ending is too familiar a twist to be effective or surprising, but these are only points of pedantry.It gets boring reading the clichéd professional reviews that say how this movie captures your heart, but my heart was captured, and for a few days after seeing it I felt happier than I had before.  Like Mary Poppins, Oz is a genuinely innocent, childlike story with great songs, loveable characters and heart-warming morals.  It's such a shame I couldn't hate it.
This movie is a notorious classic and I finally got the chance to see it. Although the main reason is because "Oz The Great and Power" came out which I am sorta ashamed of. For a movie that came out in 1939 this is a great accomplishment. The musical numbers really stand out and even when the movie is over some of the tunes, actually just about all of the tunes was stuck in my head. The musical numbers all just really stick and although the adventure is simple it's memorable. Some of the virtues and morals in this movie can be questionable to some, but it's well blended into the story. In fact the musical numbers and the journey in this is more memorable than "Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory". Especially since it has musical numbers like "Over the Rainbow". There is a reason why just about everyone has at least heard of or somewhat know about "The Wizard of Oz". This is a fantastic musical journey that I highly recommend.8.3/10


                
The wizard of Oz is a colorful classic, that is filled with thrills and it is a straight shooter right from the start to the very end. From following the yellow brick road to finally meeting the wizard himself, it was a bumpy ride that I always look forward to going again.Filmed mostly in Technicolor, except the opening scenes which was shot in sepia-tinted black and white, The Wizard of Oz has stood the test of time as a top fantasy movie, with highly unusual characters. The movie is based on a book titled The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum, and although it did differ a lot from the book, this movie is the best adaptation that is near to its original book story.The movie plot is about Dorothy (Judy Garland) and her dog Toto who got caught in a tornado's path and somehow end up in the land of Oz. At Oz she mistakenly killed the wicked witch of the East, who was a sister to the Wicked Witch of the west, who was now after her. Now Dorothy must find her way home and the only person who could help her is the Wizard of Oz.On her to see the wizard she meets along the way a Scarecrow with no Brains, a Tin Man with no Heart and a Lion without Courage. Together this team head off to see the wizard with the hope that the Wizard will meet all their needs.The movie production had its twists and turns, with Ray Bolger who was originally cast as the Tin Man and Buddy Ebsen was to play the Scarecrow had their roles switched later on. This switch was to the detriment of Ebsen who had an allergic reaction to the makeup of the Tin Man and Jack Haley was called to take his place.Another thing to note about this classic is how it deviated from its original book story, up to 40 differences can be sited; from the merging of characters to the overall theme of the movie, this 1939 fantasy film carved out its own theme: in the book Oz is real and Dorothy did get to return in Baum's later books, but in the movie Oz is just a dream that Dorothy had.The movies popular song, "Over the Rainbow" won best original song in the Oscars. Over the Rainbow has been re done by many artist notably Kyle Minogue during her treatment and recovery from breast cancer.Wizard of Oz is a classic that you must see, a nice fantasy film for you and the kids. Disney will be making a prequel to this classic, named Oz: The Great and Powerful the movie is set to be released in 2013 and it will star James Franco as the Wizard of Oz.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Michael Crichton wrote in his 1987 novel Sphere that whereas Greek mythology was "common knowledge" in ancient times, today there are educated people who do not know it. Is it that we have abandoned myth altogether? Maybe not- he goes on to write "Perhaps these are our new myths. Dorothy and Toto and the Wicked Witch..." The Wizard of Oz, the classic 1939 movie, attempts to bring a modern-day, American-made mythology to life. And there's no doubt it succeeded. The film has reached legendary status, to the point where others have referenced it- Oz references appear in various places in my DVD collection, from Arrested Development to Futurama, and from The Simpsons to Gremlins 2.What gives the movie its power? There is some emotion in the movie, thanks in part to Judy Garland who played Dorothy. I felt sad for her when her dog Toto was taken away to be put down. The dog escaped and went back to her, and she ran away to keep the dog safe. Then a tornado hits- and she's lost in a fantastic land. First off, I'll note Oz has great colour- better colour than some movies made decades later. The things we see there are a triumph of imagination: talking trees, a horse of a different colour, flying monkeys. Some of it is twisted- the munchkins celebrate the death of a witch, complete with a munchkin coroner. That's a little morbid, and later the wizard sends Dorothy and her friends to kill the other evil witch. If this is a little dark, well, so was Greek myth.The underlying message of the movie is that "There's no place like home"- don't leave home. Of course, we often do have to leave home when we grow up. And what about Toto? When they go back to Kansas, the dog still might be put down, right? This is a point that may have been too bleak to say outright in the movie- the dog probably will be put down, but that's not a reason to run away. So the "don't leave home" message is aimed primarily at kids, it seems. Maybe there's stuff of interest to adults too- maybe the scarecrow and the tin man represent the common people, farmers and woodsmen, subject to powerful people who can be either good or wicked (the witches- the Wicked Witch's Kansas counterpart is said to be a major land or business owner). Either way, the movie is a landmark in the history of fantasy fiction.
"The Wizard of Oz" is probably one of the five most popular movies ever, along with "Gone with the wind", "Casablanca", etc. It was a technical revolution (one of the first color movies) and everyone agrees that it's sickly sweet and sentimental and that there is not a character more affected than Dorothy Gale... Whatever, the colours, all those mythical scenes, "Over the rainbow"... It's a classic and that's that! I don't like musicals, I've never understood those movies in which the characters begin to sing with no reason, but "Wizard of Oz" is an exception, as well as "Willy Wonka" or "The Rocky Horror Picture ShoW"WE'RE Going' TO SEE THE WIZARD!!!PD: Can anyone tell me which one was the very first color movie??+My rate: 8/10


                
This movie is one of the only movies to be rated 100 on the metacritic score. And it shouldn't be. It could be 80, or even 90. But not 100. 
Anyway, the movie as so many memorable scenes. From the "I'm melting!" scene to the tornado scene, those are just a few of them. Good music and great color toning. Great story too.
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is going back to 10 nominations for Best Picture next year. They had that in 1939, and I am sure that is the only way this film got a nomination. It's a great film, but not in the same league as the winner, Gone With the Wind, and even runners-up like Goodbye, Mr. Chips, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, Ninotchka, Stagecoach, or Wuthering Heights.It did, however, win two Oscars for the music. To hear Judy Garland sing "Over the Rainbow" is worth the time spent. I love that song, and can never hear it enough.It is a colorful, exciting fantasy trip with great music and some fine actors.


                
"The Wizard of Oz" is a powerful and enjoyable allegory of the United States under right-wing Republican government at the beginning of the Twentieth century. But it is also a complex fantasy that works very strongly as an adventure. It is a dream Dorothy Gale has; she is a twelve-year-old girl in Kansas, being raised by her Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, poor chicken farmers. There are three kindly workmen also, but her dog Toto is being sought by mean Miss Alma Gulch, who has been bitten by the little terrier. Unable to get anyone to help, Dorothy runs away just as a tornado is coming. She meets kindly Professor Marvel who gazes into a crystal ball and advises her to go home. She does so but as she arrives, the family is in the cyclone cellar; hit by a shutter, Dorothy is knocked unconscious. When she wakes, she is dreaming, and the house has been carried off by the tornado. Objects whirl by, including Miss Gulch on her bicycle from whose basket Toto escaped earlier; only she turns into a witch on a broomstick. But the house lands safely; and a strange land greets her eyes; female voices sing, garish-hued flowers sprout, and amid ponds there is a yellow brick road and a central plaza. A rainbow-colored bubble approaches; from it steps Glinda, Good Witch of the North. Dorothy finds out her house has killed the Wicked Witch of the Munchkins' land. She has to admit she is no sort of witch; but she becomes the little people's heroine for her deed anyhow. Then out of smoke the Wicked Witch of the West, the other witch's sister, appears and threatens Dorothy. Glinda transfers the dead witch's ruby slippers to Dorothy, warning her to keep them on always. Wanting to get home, Dorothy is advised to follow the yellow brick road to the Emerald City where the Wizard can perhaps help. Along her way, as she goes on with Toto, she picks up three companions--a Scarecrow, a Tin Woodman, and a Cowardly Lion. They all need help too--one lacks a brain, the second a heart, the third courage; so they accompany her, hoping to get help also. The Wicked Witch writes, "Surrender Dorothy" on the sky after trying to steal the slippers when poppy fumes fell the quartet; Glinda wakes them by causing a snowstorm whose chill revives the quartet. In the Emerald City, they gain admittance to the palace. The Wizard, a great talking head, knows why they've come and demands they fulfill a mission first--fetch the Wicked Witch's broomstick from her mountaintop castle. With no choice, the quartet heads for Winkieland and their battle. Flying monkeys kidnap Dorothy and Toto; the others follow to rescue her. The Witch demands the slippers for Toto's life. She tries to remove them from Dorothy's feet and is nearly electrocuted. As an hourglass measures Dorothy's life expectancy in red, Toto escapes. He finds the others, who penetrate the castle and rescue Dorothy. They are recaptured. The Witch starts to execute them, setting fire to the Scarecrow. Dorothy throws a bucket of water on him, splashing the Witch, and she melts to nothing. The people there rejoice that they are free of her. Back at the Palace, Dorothy requests their reward. The Wizard balks. Then Toto pulls aside a drape about a booth, revealing a little man frantically working dials and levers--the Wizard. he admits, "I'm a very nice person, but a very bad wizard." He is able to point out to the three companions that they've already got what they were after; their rescue of Dorothy has proved that. He gives them symbolic gifts. Dorothy wants to go home. He offers to take her there in a balloon--that's how he got to Oz. Leaving the Scarecrow and the others in charge, he takes his balloon up. Toto jumps from the gondola, and Dorothy, running after him, is also left behind. But Glinda arrives and tells her the ruby slippers can help--all she ever had to do was want to go home more than anything. Dorothy follows her instructions and finds herself back at home, lying in bed with her Aunt and Uncle tending her and the farmhands looking on anxiously. She tells them about her dream and says, "There's no place like home!; the film fades out on her radiant face. The Kansas portions of the film, were in sepia tone; Oz was always vivid technicolor.This film as fine special effects and vivid production values. Cinematography by Harold Rosson and the production design by Malcolm Brown contributed to its strength. Noel Langley, Florence Ryerson and Edgar Allan Woolf along with author L. Frank Baum received major credit for the screenplay. The film was directed by Victor Fleming; King Vidor shot the sepia tone sections. Many contributed to the dialogue; Harold Arlen and E.Y. Harburg wrote together or separately most of the songs included. The art direction was by Cedric Gibbons, sets by Edwin B. Wilis, costumes by Adrian. Judy Garland had to play a twelve-year-old girl; camouflage was required. Jack Haley was not the first choice for the Woodman, nor several other principals for their roles. But the cast included Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion, Ray Bolger as the Scarecrow, Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch and Miss Gulch, Billie Burke as Glinda, and Frank Morgan as a host of characters including professor Marvel and the Wizard. Charles Grapewin and Clara Blandick were the Uncle and Aunt Em. And the feature was also enhanced by the presence of dozens of little people as Oz's denizens.


                
The Wizard of Oz (1939) 
Director: Victor Fleming (Primary), George Cukor, Mervyn LeRoy, Norman Taurog, and King Vidor 
Watched: 10/1/18 (Rewatched) 
Rating: 8/10 
 
A wondrous rainbow-filled world for all, 
Timeless songs and lessons for life! 
Have I courage to flourish? 
Have I brains to explain?
Have I heart to carp? 
Better than book! 
Magical. 
Lame end. 
Oz! Nonet, conventionally defined as "a group of nine people or things- especially musical"- is a poem with the syllable composition 9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1. 
#Nonet #PoemReview #Adventure #BetterThanBook #Classic #ClassicBooks #Family #Fantasy #Musical #Polychromatic


                
A real classic. Although unrealistic I loved it, it was the first ever color film, it had a good storyline, a good cast, good directors and good special effects (of course, the effects are bad now, but at the time they were very good). Highly recommend. Everyone should see this movie at least once in a lifetime


                
