Fantastic tale about a Kansas farm girl who's spirited off to the wondrous land of Oz. The film still tingles with freshness and beauty. Garland is forever memorable as Dorothy Gale, the young girl and the supporting performances of Bolger, Lahr,Haley, Hamilton and Morgan are all stand out and will remain national treasures. The superb songs of E.Y. Harburg and Harold Arlen are still beautifully blended with the lovely photography, cinematography and art direction. Unforgettable!!!


                
This movie is creative, original, and very watchable. I first saw it 25 years ago. I was about 10 years old. I still find myself watching it every time it's on TV. It's not supposed to be realistic(obviously). It's filled with metaphors and meaning. Here's some trivia that can be missed. Repeated viewing reveals that the 3 characters that Dorothy meets are based on 3 people she knows. They are seen earlier in the movie, and are played by the same people. When re-watching, their early dialog becomes more note-worthy. The music is VERY memorable. And the movie has a very popular catch phrase everyone's heard many times. Also, there was a play on PBS in '95 based on the movie and I loved it. It starred Jewel and Roger Daltry as the Tin man and he ROCKed - literally. It was classic. I like how the audience laughing added to the play. It's out on VHS.


                
Directed by Victor Fleming, the 1939 musical fantasy film produced by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, is probably the most well-known and commercial adaptation based on the 1900 novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum. While the film is so dated, it's still watchable even today becoming part of American pop culture. The film is known for its use of Technicolor, fantasy storytelling, musical score and unusual characters. The movie starts out amazing black and white, with Dorothy Gale (Judy Garland), a young farm girl who lives with her Aunt and Uncle, in Kansas in the early 1900s. She decide to run away, due to Dorothy's dog Toto, biting a neighbor. Before she can get far, a tornado comes up, carried her and her house to the Technicolor world of Oz. Dorothy find out that the only way to get home is to find the Wizard (Frank Morgan). With help from Gilda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke) and some new friends on the way, like Scarecrow (Ray Bolger), Tin-Man (Jack Haley) and Cowardly Lion (Bert Lehr), they make their way to the Wizard on the dangerous yellow brick road, where the Wicked Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton) is looking for revenge for Dorothy accidentally killing her sister. All the actors were wonderful in their roles, playing multiply complex parts, bringing the comedy and music and dance alive. Still, it was bit over the top. All the actors also play the farmhands in the beginning, making you wonder if all this Oz was just a dream. That was the main different between the film and the book. There were other things that the film change, such in the case of Dorothy's age. Shirley Temple was originally wanted for the role, but since they couldn't get her. They got Judy Garland and had to change the age from 7 to 16. They even wanted the blonde curls that Temple is famous for. The wig was top heavy and kept getting mess up, so they took it out, and went with Garland's natural hair. It's creepy in a way, that Dorothy was literally based on Frank Baum's daughter that die in childbirth. Frank Baum was known for his medium spiritual belief, and you see it in the character of Professor Marvel (also Frank Morgan). It's believe that the Wizard character represent fault power leader. The Wizard can be allegory to what Baum thought was fault power leader at the time, such as President McKinley who introduce the Gold Standard, in which many historians believe was represented by the Yellow Brick Road. Oz is indeed: an abbreviation that stands for gold, a hot political topic of the day where people were rallying for fixed gold and silver ratios. Some believe that, the Wizard in the film represent Franklin D. Roosevelt who was known to make illusions to sound strong and look powerful, when trying to present the New Deal to Americans at the time. Emerald City is allegory to Washington D.C that looks like money, but in the end, the film, it was dull white. If the novel, Emerald City look was based off the White City in the 1893's Chicago World Fair. Then 1939's Emerald City was the New Deal, Washington D.C. Then, all of Dorothy's friends could be presented as Coxey's Army, an group of unemployed workers made out of farmers (Scarecrow), laborers (Tin-Man) and free silver supporters (Cowardly Lion). It is said that the Lion represents 19th century politician William Jennings Bryan, who was viewed as someone having a load roar, but no power or bite. Honestly, in the book, the Bimetallism Ruby slipper were really silver. There were a lot of things that wasn't in the film that was in the novel such as the visit to China Country, Queen of the Field Mice, the battle with Giants Spiders & Kalidahs, and the attack of the armless Qualdings. Talking about missing limbs. Civil War vets with prosthetic limbs were inspiration for the Tin-Man. There is a tale that Tin Man was indeed a munchkin named Nick Chopper. The screenwriters wanted Tin Woodman to be a hardened criminal so heartless he was sentenced to be placed in a tin suit for eternity. The torture of being encased in the suit had softened him and made him gentle and kind. Wow, that's really dark. Another dark urban legend claimed that, in the film, a Munchkin could be seen committing suicide by hanging by the neck from behind a prop tree and swinging back and forth in the left background, but it was just a bird. There were a lot of weird rewrites, like a spoiled, selfish princess in Oz outlawing music and others. The role of the Wicked Witch of the West was also enlarged for the movie. While, the Witch of the West in the novel was less evil. I think this role fit the film, well. Mad props to Hamilton for continuing the role after getting badly burn during production. There are at least 44 major differences between the book and this movie. Nevertheless, the film was far more faithful to Baum's original book. Still, they almost cut the most famous song from the movie, 'Somewhere over the Rainbow' written by E.Y 'Yip" Harburg. Glad, they kept it. The song "The Jitterbug," was instead delete. The film footage for the song been lost, but you can find the 'Jitterbug' footage rehearsals on newer DVDs version. I still dig the other songs. "Ding! Dong! The Witch is Dead" "We're Off to See the Wizard" and "The Merry Old Land of Oz" are some of my favorites. The movie always have great special effects, and top production value for the time. Still the story is lacking an overall moral and there were lot of not necessary extra scenes that could be cut out. Overall: a great movie that will forever be known as one of the greatest movies of all time. I have to agree.
I was always interested in fantasy movies and after watching this one it has become truly my favorite one, even tho I watched it quite late, in the age of 25. The Wizard of Oz is a timeless classic and I just loved it. The story is about Judy Garland who plays Dorothy and is traveling to the land of Oz where she meets with Lion and the Scarecrow with who she has plenty of adventures and to battle the forces of evil. The writing and dialogues in the film are so fresh that you will be surprised. you will never have read or heart anything like this. This is kind of film which can be enjoyed by everyone regardless of their age.


                
We all know this is a classic which has more than withstood the test of time, so just some thoughts: Why would Dorothy want to go back to that god-forsaken farm instead of living in Oz, a place where Technicolor might've been invented? She didn't seem to get much love from anybody in Kansas, and Elvira Gulch is bound to come back for the dog (providing the cyclone didn't kill her). Another thought: Why is Glinda such a masochist? She appears to watch out over Dorothy and her friends from the heavens, but where is she when they really need her? Why are the residents of Oz so happy to see the Wizard leave? It's a big celebration, yet he's their ruler! Wouldn't they be sad to see him go? Also, there is no scene depicting the Wizard's unmasking of himself to the people of his city. How do they know he's the Wizard? Has he been behind that curtain since he arrived? A sketchy plot like this--which invites more questions than it answers--really shouldn't result in such a joyous picture, but it does. I remember when they re-released this to theaters in 1972 (after years of showing the thing on TV every year) and people lined-up down the street to see it again. That's the power of good movies.


                
The Wizard of Oz, is no doubt, a cinematic class that breathes new life with each generation. Despite the film being released 76 years ago, it is still one of those rare gems that clicks with today's audience. Sure it has a rather simple story, but it's a resonant film that features groundbreaking visuals (that famous twister scene, anyone?), themes that can relate to anyone (courage, having a heart, etc), famous music that became a part of pop culture lore, and just a simple fantasy story that is fun to watch and is suitable for all ages. The story itself has the feel of a 1939 movie, but those visuals are still mightily impressive. The twister scene is just amazing, and it still fathoms me to see how they created all the flying objects seem realistic. The production design is amazing as well, as we get a very colorful film. Keep in mind that during this era, most films were black and white. The yellow brick road is a delight to look at, especially occupied by the central characters. The story is simple enough to follow, and it's one for all ages. Dorothy is whisked away from her Kansas farmland by a tornado, and it transports her to the magical land of Oz. Dorothy desperately wants to go home, but she is tasked with finding the wizard of Oz in Emerald City. She must follow the yellow brick road, where she finds allies in a talking scarecrow, a tin man, and a cowardly lion. But she also must avoid the Wicked Witch of the West if she wants to get home safely. The film is full of pure, magical performances. Judy Garland, a well- known name in 1939, was transported to stardom after the success of this movie. Her acting method is different by today's standard, but she effectively carries the movie as the kind-hearted Dorothy. Margaret Hamilton's performance was very scary, and rumor has it that much of her performance was edited due to it being scary. I imagine what her performance could have been if there was no editing. I also liked Ray Bolger, as the scarecrow trying to find a brain, Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion looking for courage, and Jack Haley as the tin man looking for a heart. Everyone delivers praise-worthy performances here. While not an instant box-office success when first released, the Wizard of Oz delivers magic, wisdom, and just a great movie to the audience all around the world. From the magical tunes of "Somewhere over the Rainbow," to the interplay between Miss Gulch and Dorothy, to the experience with the Wizard of Oz, we have ourselves an unforgettable classic, which began with the writings of L. Frank Baum. I have seen this film many times, and it is still a fantastic delight to watch. Once I'm transported to Oz, "I'm no place like home," as Dorothy so kindly tells Toto, her dog. Once again, a classic movie for all ages. My Grade: A


                
Can you believe I just saw this movie?! I've watched many classics over the years, but I just hadn't got to this one. Until this week. And I'm glad I did.The young Judy Garland as Dorothy singing Somewhere over the Rainbow is one memorable moment. And that's just one among lots of others in this movie. And all those lovable characters, The Scaregrow who wants to have a brain, The Tin Man who wants to have a heart and the Cowardly Lion who wants courage. Not to forget The Munchkins. The Wizard of Oz (1939) is a timeless classic, that's suitable for both kids and adults. Some kids may find some scenes rather scary, though. If you haven't seen this one yet, go do it now!


                
You would be hard pressed to find someone who hasn't seen the Wizard of Oz. It is just one of those movies that seemingly everyone has seen. In my family, it has been an old standby for all sorts of gatherings. After I re-watched it from a technical viewpoint, I was blown away by the sheer amount of work that went into creating this film. From the musical numbers to the pulling of heartstrings towards the climax, this film will bring you on a journey through an incredible land full of magic and wonder. This film has stood the test of time because of how it draws people in with such an innocent girl, and the wild adventure she embarks on, all to return to the ones she loves. What stand out to me however, is the key phrase of "There's no place like home." This little piece has left such an impact on so many people, it would be wrong to not include it. So if you are one of the few who has not seen the film, just go out and do it. You're missing out on Americana.
Now this is a true classic in every sense of the word. The music, the story, the cast, the acting. This is all great. Of course I wasn't around in 1939 when it first came out, the first time I saw it was like many of you, on TV then later of VHS tape. I've seen this movie so many times that it isn't even funny. So many times I lost count over a decade ago. But as many times that I've seen it, I will never get tired of the WIZARD OF OZ. Now the only complaint I got and it's minor I assure you is that some of the musical numbers run a bit long, like a lot of musicals of the time period. But that is minor compared to the whole thing. 91/2 STARS
I recently saw this movie again after a hiatus of several years. I was able to view it with a more objective eye; the movie didn't disappoint.Two facts stick out at me when pondering this film. First, it creates the hugest impact when the viewer sees it as a child. I still remember trembling at the Wicked Witch of the West at the tender age of seven. To a child, the Witch is terrifying--she'll scare the living Beejeesus out of him. The underlying subconscious motives of children are all addressed, in a most direct fashion, in this movie--the desire to get away, the loss of security, our feelings towards our Mothers (the Antie Em figure) and our fear of scary things. Nothing could possibly be more horrifying to a child than the crystal ball sequence, where our beloved Mother figure (Antie Em) turns into this horrible, cackling, Id-figure Witch.People who see the movie first as an adult are less impressed; one acquaintance said,"The movie's no big deal--you're not missing much." They have missed the child's Wizard of Oz experience and can't understand the impact.The other fact that strikes me is that this movie is truly Pan-Human--there's absolutely nothing in the film that would offend anyone, whether he be Muslim, Jewish, Christian, African, Russian, Chinese, or green or blue or purple. It truly is a film that transcends all human boundaries.There are a few plot holes in the film made necessary by cutting the film due to over-length. I wish I could see an unabridged edition; Margaret Hamilton has said that her part was cut drastically because the children in preview audiences got too scared. I believe, in retrospect, the deletion of the Jitterbug number was a mistake; its deletion causes a glaring plot hole, obvious to those who watch the movie closely.A little piece of errata--I remember very clearly a scene in the Witch's Castle that is either lost, or been deleted. It's when Dorothy is gazing at the hourglass. Seeing that the sand is getting ready to run out, she desperately tries to turn it over--but fails; the hourglass won't budge. Does anybody else remember this scene?All in all, this is a wonderful movie. If you and your children haven't seen it, run--not walk-- to the nearest store and buy it.


                
I can't believe this movie was made in 39. It has so many creative uses of color and the set design is beautiful.
Some times they're just braggin with the colors like the color changing horse.The plot is fun, simple and easy to follow, but that's a strength. The wicket witch works great and the acting is a delightful over the top performance from every actor.Watch it, if you haven't


                
What a classic! THE WIZARD OF OZ brings back so many memories of when my parents first showed me this beautiful movie and it was great to re-watch it again after a few years. A beautiful movie that starts off perfectly in black and white and then transforms to color as we enter the magical land of oz. The colors are so vibrant and the sounds and musically flow beautifully within this musical and are also extremely catchy as well. The comedic characters such as the scarecrow and Tin-man are hilarious as well. Watching such iconic films for the second or third time such as this one are always so much fun because you know you're going to be able to just sit down and watch a great film and can maybe try and catch those details that you maybe missed the last time you watched it. Those details that act as the foundation for these movies such as the intricate lighting and beautiful colors. This film will forever be one of the most iconic musicals of all time.


                
"The Wizard of Oz" is a revolutionary movie about a young girl named, Dorothy, and her journey to go home after being swept away by a twister to the magical world of Oz. On her journey home she becomes friends with a brainless scarecrow, a heartless tin man, and a cowardly lion, as they go with her to find the magical Wizard of Oz. This movie is a timeless classic for a few very big reasons. The first being the style of the movie, second the characters, and third the simple yet fun plot.The style of this movie is what really stands out to me because of its bright vibrant colors for the fun and nice places and the dark eerie sets for the bad and evil places. The set design is very impressive especially for its time, however I think that the costume design and make-up are even better. This movie has fantastic make-up and costumes especially for its time. The make-up may be a little messy sometimes, however when you put into perspective the time that this movie was made it becomes so much more impressive. The characters in the movie are incredibly important, because you follows them throughout their journey and watch them grow and I think that is also another great aspect of this movie. This movie is special in a way that it shows these characters grow without having to make them go through a huge tragedy or something grand to make them grow. Instead these characters all grow by just being themselves more and by really bringing out who they really are. The simplicity of the plot and the fun journey that this movie takes you on definitely draws in many people as well. I find this movie to be incredibly fun, because it is a very simple journey as most of what this movie is, is you feeling the magic of Oz with all of the creatures that the filmmakers and writers create as well as the great atmosphere that the movie has.I think this movie is a very fun journey that is definitely worth watching. The movie has a very fun and simple plot that I enjoyed following. The story was not only simple, but also the characters are very simple and easy to love. The set is so beautiful that it almost takes your eyes away from the actors and the story at points. The growth of the characters, the simplicity of the plot and the incredible set is what makes this movie one of the greats and it definitely should be. I love "The Wizard of Oz" and I think everyone should at least watch the movie once in his or her life.


                
Dorothy Gale is a young girl who lives on a farm in Kansas, but a tornado drag her to a magical land where she will have to go through various adventures in order to return. Directed by a team led by Victor Fleming, this movie has script by Noel Langley, Florence Ryerson, Edgar Allan Woolf and others. The cast is headed by Judy Garland and Frank Morgan.We are facing one of the most famous films of all time, the precursor of musical, fantasy and adventure films. And its no coincidence that many of its scenes were in collective memory. It was a milestone for cinema, and almost all saw it, in movies, television, DVD or any other. The script is very interesting and takes children and adults to the child's imagination, plenty of witches, fairies, beautiful and impossible things. There are no dead moments, everything is perfect. The editing of the film was made carefully and photography, with a striking contrast between scenes in vivid colors and sepia scenes, marked the "border" between our world and the magical world of Oz. All this was innovative for its time.The characters in this film have become iconic. The Scarecrow, the Tin Man and the Cowardly Lion have become paradigms of the potential untapped of human beings, people who seek to overcome their own insecurities and flaws. Dorothy has been an ideal of goodness and virtue, and her puppy an example of loyalty. In turn, the wizard ends up making the connection between the two worlds. Garland had it so good in this film that just famous and was one of the most acclaimed actresses of the golden age of American cinema.The film also has several special effects, rudimentary and limited to existing technical, but functional and effective. The soundtrack of the film is perhaps one of the most remembered today. It mainly composed by Harold Arlen and has filled the movie with delightful musical moments. One of them, "Over the Rainbow," earned the Oscar for Best Original Song and its an icon even today. The film has also won the statuette for Best Soundtrack and was nominated for the categories of Best Film (1940), Best Color Cinematography, Best Art Direction and Best Special Effects.


                
This movie is groundbreaking, and even now it is held dear by many as a classic for film and storytelling. The costumes were brilliant especially for a new techni-color film, something many hadn't worked with at the time.Moreover, the special effects were outstanding for 1939, and I think that helped to step up filmmaking's game afterwards. With all the sequels and reboots, I think it's great that this movie has remained a timeless classic for the ages. If you haven't seen it, you're missing out on such a great movie no matter your age, so go out and see it today!


                
I finally got this on DVD a few days ago and was watching it last night. To this day I still have this as one of my favourite movies of all time. Where does it mark my list I am not so sure but anyway here is the review.Dorothy(Judy Garland) is a young girl living in Kansas with her aunt and uncle and the film of course starts off as a sepia toned film. Dorothy of course gets upset as a woman wanted to get rid of her dog Toto and she runs away,only to get whisked away into the magical world of OZ. Now Dorothy is in the magical world and she has to try and find a way home. Along the way she meets a wicked witch,a white witch named Glenda,a lovable lion who wants courage,a tin man who wants a heart and a scarecrow who wants a brain who are all very well done.So here is the good,the bad and the verdict.The good: The visuals are very good (yet I did find a problem with it as well which will be talked about in the bad section). The cast was very good,especially the late Judy Garland who did it justice as Dorothy our main heroine in the film and the premise is original and not predicable. Think of it as Alice In Wonderland where she goes to another dimension and the 2013 James Franco flick OZ The Great & Powerful which was also a fantastic film.The music was very good too especially the iconic song Somewhere Over The Rainbow and Follow The Yellow Brick Road.The bad: The backgrounds are just so false looking. Maybe its just me but you know once you see it in the colourful world that its not real as it looks like canvas in the background. Also the songs can get too irritating from time to time but I loved them all the same.Final verdict: Overall this is a film that I have loved since I was a child and I was so happy to have picked up the 2 Disc DVD version of it in HMV a few days ago. If you haven't seen it I recommend it to everyone,who loves a good fantasy and musical.Thumbs up.Visuals: 7/10 Premise:9/10 Characters: 9/10 Setting: 5/10Overall rating: B+9.5/104.5 stars because the backgrounds were fake.
The Wizard of Oz (1939) directed by Mervyn Leroy, is a fun movie that is simply unforgettable. This film has iconic set pieces, and bright colors, which is amazing for the time it was made. The film starts out black and white, but progresses to color upon arrival at Oz. The characters in the film are all great, and the relationships between the characters is heartwarming. The music in the film is great and the band of friends skipping down the yellow brick road is iconic and simply innocent. The movie has some macabre elements and themes, but they do not make up the vast majority of the films feel. Overall, The Wizard of Oz (1939) is an outstanding piece of filmmaking worthy of a 9 out of 10.


                
It was 1939, when "Gone with the Wind" took the major awards of Oscar. But, that's another movie that also made a history of the cinema, yes, this movie. Full of fantasy, that very surprising in its era. I haven't watch "Gone with the Wind" yet, but this movie just make me believe the magic of 1939. I think the revolution of the movie and also new standard of the film-idea itself. There are no border in the movie, you can make a world whatever you want, that's what "The Wizard of Oz" tried to make.Land of fantasy, a very new field of the cinematography that time. I think the audience will understand that movie isn't just a imagination of usual activities or world, but sometimes as an interpretation of fantasy imagination itself. With the fun song and simple story line, "The Wizard of Oz" will last forever, as an old-classic-movie for every children in every era.There were some not optimal scene, but that's okay. I just can grasp the entire feeling of this movie. At last, this movie very amazing and inspiring for the next generation of fantasy-genre. A new genre was born, a new entertainment will come to the world. Fantastic!


                
The Wizard of Oz is one of those movies that it's hard not to like, and I'm not just saying because everyone else likes it and you feel obligated to like it. It's just such a sweet and charming film, that if you do dislike it I bet you feel kind of like an asshole. So this film has definitely earned it's rebutation as a classic.However, there are a few plot holes in the story, such as why the witch doesn't just take Dorthy when she doesn't have Glinda to protect her. Or they may just drop a major part of the film. Remember the fact that Toto is bound by law to be killed at the beginning, and then it just sort of is never brought up again. And am I the only one who thinks Judy Garland is a little too old for this. She was sixteen when she filmed it, but she is playing a twelve year old, yet to me she always kind of looked like she was in her early twenties.Now let's talk about the special effects, while watching this today, I still ask how they did some of these. Yes some of them are quite obvious, but others seem like they need CGI to be able to become reality. All the characters are extremely likable, and in the middle of the film when it gets dark I honestly feel really sad for Dorthy and want her to get back home. The songs are catchy, despite a few being very similar in tune. And this film looks beautiful, I mean don't get me wrong, "Citizen Kane" was technically a fantastic movie, but this film came out two years earlier, does some really unique stuff too and is in color, so why is this always rated lower. And it just leaves you with a good feeling, with a nice moral.While The Wizard of Oz isn't perfect, it's just such a likable movie, I can't really imagine people hating this movie. Sure it has some plot holes and some stuff doesn't make sense, but it's just a beautiful, likable, and well executed movie with great characters and songs.


                
It is hard to believe that this film is almost seventy years old, yes some of the special effects look rather dated now but not that dated. There are many films that people say everybody should see at least once in their life and in many cases those films are good but not that important, this film I genuinely think everybody should see though, preferably when they are still fairly young; although it is still a delight to watch as an adult.I'm sure most people will know the plot even if they haven't seen the film but just in case anybody doesn't I'll give a brief description. Dorothy is a girl living on a farm in Kansas with her aunt and uncle. When a mean spirited neighbour threatens to have her dog Toto put to sleep she runs away from home and meets a travelling magician who persuades her to return home. Unfortunately before she can get home a tornado is seen approaching and everybody there has taken shelter in a storm basement. She goes into the house and when the tornado hits she is knocked out.She awakens to find the house in the air and through the window she sees many strange things, including the mean neighbour on her bicycle who turns into a witch on a broomstick. When the house crashes to the ground and she goes outside the film switches from sepia tinged black and white to spectacular colour. As she looks around the strange land she has arrived in she is met by Glinda, the Witch of the North. She introduces Dorothy to the Munchkins, the little people who inhabit that part of Oz. The Munchkins treat Dorothy as a heroine as her house landed on the Wicked Witch of the East, her sister, the Wicked Witch of the West is not happy though, especially when her sister's ruby slippers magically appear on Dorothy's feet. Dorothy is told that if she want to return home to Kansas she must follow the Yellow Brick Road to the Emerald City where the eponymous Wizard of Oz lives.As she walks along the road she meets three strange characters; a scarecrow who wants a brain, a tin man who wants a heart and a cowardly lion who wishes to be brave. As strange as these characters are each of them is vaguely familiar to Dorothy. They journey is made harder by the witch who is determined to get the slippers off Dorothy. They eventually reach the city but once there the Wizard is not as welcoming as they'd hoped and demands that they must go away and no return till they have the Witch of the West's broom stick, this obviously isn't an easy task. Just in case anybody has yet to see this I won't spoil the ending.Judy Garland is perfect as young Dorothy and the rest of the cast a pretty good too. There are plenty of songs some of which are now classics which you'll find yourself singing in your head after you've finished watching the film. The film is a treat for all the family although very young viewers might find some parts a little scary.
OZ is, my dears, about learning, and, as such, a meaningful fairy tale; it should teach the kids that guts, mind and aptitude to love are not given miraculously by any wizard; are not magically conferred, but come by experience, by life, by facing the life. As the wizard explains the team, they're cases of temporarily messed psychologies<U+0097>individuals deluded about the meaning of what they're searching for. You do not get to be hearty, gutsy or brainy by some magic, these don't come from a wizard, but by experience and learning who you are and what you're capable of and what defines you indeed; I must confess I've found this identity quest very much appealing. Baum's literary world is one without psychologies, of course, without psychologically true creations<U+0097>yet these questions are very acutely underlined in the movie (and, of course, in the books).So, they do not so much learn how to love, or how to think or be braver<U+0097>but rather they learn who they are and what their forces already are<U+0097>see the scarecrows prodigious, and I mean prodigious, ingenuity in devising plans.This educative piece is also a work of wild fancy; and, if you ask me, Baum solitary created a _sui _generis form of surrealism and of literary _magicality. His was a surreal, unbridled, unbound fancy; sometimes mechanical, given the scope of his enterprise, sometimes wonderfully creative.The whole episode of the evil witch's castle was marvelously done<U+0097>the choreography of the guards, etc.. It's the one I've liked best. There is some of the original creepiness of the book, and the flying monkeys are well crafted<U+0097>see the impressive view of the departure of the flying monkeys, when sent by the evil witch to kidnap poor Dorothy Gale.Do the characters truly need the controversial, if I might say so, the controversial wizard? (Because in today's crapped language, that's what they would call him<U+0097>a highly controversial wizard.) well, first they need experience, true open experience, action; but then, they need one to disentangle their messed up psychologies; and the couple of magicians<U+0097>the wizard and then the good witch<U+0097>does that.Now on the other hand, if somewhat compared to the book, of course the action in the movie is a little hurried, or a little messed up itself, some fine points of subtlety are definitely missed for good<U+0097>but such as it is, this adaptation is some fine work.This brightly colored, vividly colored, exquisitely scored and fast<U+0097>paced classic really deserves exceedingly its prestige; its meaning is vital and needed. Its values shall endure.
Dorothy,who is an orphan kid,lives with her aunt Aunt Em and Uncle Henry.Whe she gets into a clash with the humorless old witch Almira Gulch (Margaret Hamilton)in the neighborhood she decides to leave Kansas.On the road she meets Professor Marvel(Frank Morgan).Under the magical talking of the professor she understands she should go back but on the way back home she gets herself into a twister and she can't reach her aunt and uncle because the whole whole family is already down in the cellar and cannot hear her kicking on its door.After that we see Dorothy in the magical trappings of the Land of Oz.Actually the fun of the movie starts here you know.The dry sepia techni-colored Kansas environment and the dialogs sound so affected until the land of OZ.At the land of OZ you can't help reducing yourself to the enjoyment of a great imaginary musical.Maybe it will sound really irrelevant but I myself like realism in a movie and I don't like fantastical elements much but after seeing a Kurosawa movie(Rashomon which I found highly over-rated)I really liked this imaginary piece of art.I heard people remember this movie as a backdrop to their youth. When the movie was produced even my parents were not born yet so the artistic value of the movie seems like it will address the following century too.


                
What a great movie I think more people have seen The Wizard of Oz, then an movie in cinema history. I remember seeing this as a kid and it never got old to me. Sometimes you watch a movie and you may forget about the characters, or different scenes but not this one. This film also became a musical on Broadway, that's how beloved it was. We forget about the little songs we learned growing up like," We're off to see the Wizard the wonderful Wizard of OZ". The film was so colorful from the background to the characters, the only thing that was dark was the witch and wizard. The lion, the tin man,the straw man, Toto, and Judy Garland as Dorothy from themselves walking on the yellow brick road to see the wizard.The imagery was absolutely magnificent, and you can't forget about the effect of the house spinning and lifting off the ground.
Some sixty plus years after it was released (in that extraordinary year for Hollywood movies, 1939) The Wizard Of Oz is back (albeit temporarily) where it belongs, on the Big screen and digitally remastered to boot.It's sad to think that the children of today will probably scorn its simplistic message and computer sophisticates to a man laugh it 'effects' off the screen but that is their loss and the current re-release only serves to remind us how modern children have been deprived of childhood on virtually every level.The film does a nice line in irony; after kicking off with one of the most potent 'want' songs ever written, Somewhere Over The Rainbow with its built-in yearning, longing for a better world the movie then negates this with its famous epitaph 'There's no place like home'. Arlen and Harburg didn't write a song to cover this and had they attempted to do so they may have found it a tad difficult because it had already been written: Back In Your Own Backyard. All that remains is to sit back and delight in the familiar story, performances, music and recall the first time you saw it and how far away you have journeyed from the child you were in the years between.
Spoilers herein.As a film, this ranks pretty low on my charts. But as a stage talent, Judy Garland is one of the best and this is quite a performance. She really does work hard to make us fall in love with her, which of course we cannot resist. Here she is quite fat, which reminds us that by now she was already heavy into speed and sex.I met Noel Langley in the 60s and he insisted that he wrote the screenplay to emphasize certain spiritual symbology. The contrast between these two facts fascinates. Why are gays so attracted to Judy? Why do Christian fundamentalists see this as the Devil's work? Is this the eighth gate?
