If you know ANYTHING about the history of Rome, please do yourself a favor and don't watch this movie.Lets see: Film opening sequence. General Maximus speaks such nonsense about troops, casualties etc. The massive battle in the movie would have been fine if they didn't have archers or catapults in the scene. After that, they should have used the scene in "braveheart", instead of a film about Romans.Remember that Roman army didn't charge into combat without controlled formations? Not considering this fact, the battle is the BEST part of the film. After this incident, the plot of the movie is sooooo predictable, as if the manuscript had been written by someone with the imagination of 12 year old child.Actors then...I have only seen worse acting performed by mr. Sylvester Stallone than the Aussie playing the role of Maximus. Even a wooden log could have put more feeling into the scene when he finds his family slaughtered. Besides, he rode a huge journey in one day, came to the smoking ruins of his villa from a distance of 1000 klicks (try that yourself).And the final scene: Emperor challenging a gladiator into a duel, how stupid is that? This movie has the same value as a historical movie as Rambo III.


                
I remember watching this film when I was maybe 12, and I loved it. Now, 8 years later, I rewatched it (extended edition) and realised how awful this movie really is. I hope I'm not nitpicking, because it felt to me that the points I am going to make were there just to insult the viewers intelligence. -First major battle scene. Romans have siege weapons just lying around, on the front line of Germania? They are obviously hard to transport, and there is no reason for them to be there. -Crowe says later that there were roughly 10,000 roman soldiers on the battlefield, with 2,000 dead. Thats funny because I could probably count the number of roman soldiers who were shown to have died on 1 hand, whereas the number of barbarians killed was massive. -Crowe says the casualties sustained by the cavalry by the siege weapons were necessary, then does nothing but complain about how many of his men died. -Russell Crowe sneaks out of the fort with his cavalry and somehow manages to encircle thousands of barbarians, without them ever noticing. Also, the barbarians just stand there and allow this to happen. -The choice of softly spoken British accents for the romans was awful. I'm not saying they should of spoken in full Latin, but that is no reason for them to speak in those annoying accents. -After the battle, the emperor, the emperors son and his daughter are all within maybe a days ride of the Germanian front line? That makes no sense, why would such important figures be there at all? -Crowe is described as Rome's best general by Caesar, yet he is Spanish, lives on a farm and has no involvement in politics. -Caesar says he is close to death, yet he journeyed from Rome presumably to the front line of Germania. Why didn't he stay in Rome? -Caesar bestows Crowe with the title of Protector of Rome, a man who is Spanish, has little interest or skill in politics and wants nothing more than to go home. Good choice Caesar. -Crowe's slave(he's never called a slave) has a Scottish accent. Is this a nod to the Eagle of the Ninth? Simple stealing of idea because they thought it would work in the Roman context? Or just bad historical accuracy? Also, they are in Germania, so why would there be a Scottish slave there? There isn't any mention of Crowe serving in Britannia. -I can understand Crowe being depicted as an indestructible badass, but seriously, the dude can throw swords that accurately? -Crowe somehow manages to ride from the front line in Germania(which kind of suggests deep in Germania), to Spain, just in time to just miss his wife and son's murderers? Impossible. The farm was still smoking when he got there for god's sake. -After that funny scene where he's covered in snot after finding his wife and son, he's picked up by apparently African slave traders (Carthaginians?). A roman citizen, in a roman province, abducted by slave traders? I don't think I need to explain myself anymore. -So Crowe apparently has an SPQR tattoo, something never practised by Romans at all. The only people who would tattoo themselves were barbarians. So I got 45 minutes in than I gave up. I'll probably get a lot of stick for this review, but I really don't care. If you are looking for a good historically accurate movie with a plot that makes sense I cannot stress enough how frustrated you will be watching this movie. If you have no knowledge of the Roman civilization at all and you are willing to look past all the glaring plot holes and bad accents, there is a lot you will enjoy about this movie. It is full of action and Crowe is a badass. The reason I didn't give this 1 out of 10 is because there were a few enjoyable battle/fight scenes where you could forget about all the stupidness that had occurred for a few minutes. Other than that, there is nothing stopping this from being one of the worst movies I have ever seen.
Ridley Scott's Oscar-winning ersatz epic is one of the least spectacular big-screen spectacles ever sold to an undemanding public: a sand-and-sandal throwback stripped of the genre's all too necessary guilty pleasures. The idea was to recreate for today's digital generation a wide-screen Roman Empire costume drama from Hollywood's pre-video adolescence, but all the fancy computer imagery (and state-of-the-art budget) only makes the new film look and sound more solemn and pompous than its beefcake role models. Worse yet, the occasional token nod toward old-fashioned visual grandeur isn't enough to camouflage the claustrophobic TV screen compositions and typically frantic Madison Avenue editing job (designed, perhaps, to hide the digital wrinkles).Russell Crowe is the title character: a Roman general fallen from imperial favor, battling for his life and honor on the floor of the Coliseum, where the prize for victory is another day of slavery and the cost of defeat is a mercifully quick death. Crowe's protagonist is a man of few words, most of them delivered in a flat monotone, matching the equally colorless photography, shaded in picturesque hues of misty gray and mud brown sepia.Don't expect any surprises from the strictly formula riches-to-rags-to-rebel hero scenario, which doesn't even allow the villains (degenerate emperor Joaquin Phoenix and his sister/lover Connie Nielson) a chance to have any fun. Audiences (and too many critics, who should have known better) conditioned by habit to reject anything original made the film a worldwide hit, but even in our current age of diminished expectations it should have been clear that they don't make 'em like they used to anymore.


                
As a fan of Peplum films (or Sword & Sandal) and having enjoyed previous films from Ridley Scott, I was surprised by how disappointing GLADIATOR was.The first thing that stood out is how badly shot it was. The DP (and Scott) missed the boat on this one. The film's constant greyish tone was off putting and uninspired. It tries to give the film a realistic look but comes across as forced and in the end more fake than anything else. Because the look of the film wasn't believable, the film's other weaknesses stood out even more, like the acting. Except for Joaquin and the veteran cast, the acting was sub-par. Crowe is monotonous, almost sleepwalking through the entire epic. He can't really be blamed as his character is as one dimensional as possible. He acts like a robot, an unstoppable robot who kills everyone in sight. In one scene, Maximus enters the stadium grounds and proceeds to kill a dozen other gladiators, one after the other, in a single run. The scene is so ludicrous that the reality of the film flew out the window and couldn't get into the predictable story with Maximus reduced to a Roman version of Rambo.The monotonous look of the film also can't camouflage the obvious CGI which today looks even more cardboady than it did 9 years ago. To make things even more tedious, the entire film is a direct rip-off of Anthony Mann's THE FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, which, albeit wasn't great but at least it respected the intelligence of its audience, unlike GLADIATOR which is the fast food version of history. All of this could have been overlooked had the film been entertaining on some level but the slow pace, ponderous tone and predictable story killed all possibilities for it being entertaining. It's not a fun film at all.In the end, GLADIATOR, which won the Oscar for best picture (it must have been a really bad year), is not even remotely memorable in any way shape or form. Give me a vintage Italian Sword & Sandal flick, like THE REBEL GLADIATORS, before this inert Hollywood production.


                
A mediocre flick with excessive cast,excessive crowd scenes, excessive violence, excessive everything except what makes a movie more than fluffy shallow entertainment.Remembering all the rave reviews when this movie was first shown and the awards it received I was expecting to see an outstanding movie. I was surprised and disappointed.People who call this great movie must never have seen a great movie.Gladiator begins with an improbable event. The old Caesar Marcus Aurelius is along in his elaborate carriage in Geremania and he calls for his son Commodus and tells him he is not going to name him Caesar but will have his favorite general Maximumus be the leader who will bring back the Republic. for gratuitous violence and no real message, no real humanity or depth. It seems we have regressed to It's highly doubtful that none of Caesars guards are near both as witness to this important act and as protectors.So of course Commudus kills the old man and then sends soldiers to kill Maximus. Maximus is severely wounded but escapes and then some how gets from Germania to what looks like a desert in North Africa !!These two improbably events are followed by dozens more. There are so many why not throw in a car chase or two...As another reviewer said,it has.. gratuitous violence and no real message, no real humanity or depth. .


                
In the 1960s, Steve Reeves would have killed John Drew Barrymore after 80 minutes (the necessary time to tell such an inane story), and "The End" ("Fine" is more appropriate) would have appeared on the screen, as Reeves kissed Mylène Demongeot, Chelo Alonso or Scilla Gabel in the hereafter. The production would have cost 1/200 of the "Gladiator" budget, and you would have left the cinema feeling as silly and empty, but not as cheated, as after seeing this "white elephant". Unfortunately, this never-ending melodrama has been hailed as a masterpiece by the lovers of over-amplified sound effects, boringly fake visuals and gratuitous violence; and as in a Roman circus, it has been crowned with awards that make it look worst than it is. They all have shown more inspiration than the filmmakers in tracing a parallel between the Roman empire and the present one. What a shame.


                
There are a couple of reasons I didn't really like Gladiator.First and foremost is Russell Crowe. I'm an Australian and while it seems a little unpatriotic, the guy is pure wood. He is the new Charles Bronson who has one expression and sticks to it.Thus I had a problem when he supposedly 'sells himself to the crowd'. I'm also a wrestling fan and I can only guess that 'selling' must mean something different to the people who made this film. Crowe does no selling here.The other problem I have is some biiiiig holes in the plot. Commodus becomes the new Emperor and sentences Maximus, and his family, to death. Maximus kills the guards and rides as fast as he can for home. So fast he kills both of the horses he rides although he might have been a little faster if the cinematographer didn't decide that he absolutely had to put in some visual effect to boost his career.Anyway, he gets home and Roman legions had already arrived, tortured and raped his family, hanged them and then left. My question, how did they know? Did Commodus, still up in Germanica somewhere pull out his cell phone and make a call?! I mean, Maximus goes as fast as he can but the enemy troops seem to not only know Commodus' orders but that he is the new Emperor.A friend of mine said that there were communication methods that could have been used. Carrier pigeons, signal towers, etc. Fine, but if the film makers want me to buy that, they should show me this.Next, Maximus falls to the ground grieving for his dead family and then boom, next scene, he's a wounded slave. How did this happen? Even more curious is why a slaver bothered with caring for a wounded slave with the Mediterranean so close by to act as a dumping ground.Third, I still can't understand how Maximus manages to become such an acclaimed gladiator. Nothing I saw endured me toward him and while he was a general that doesn't make him an exceptional fighter. I don't know if I'd win a fight against General Schwarzkopf or Collin Powell but I bet Mike Tyson could beat them in a fight.Finally, all the other anachronisms just added up to cause my poor suspension of disbelief to evaporate.


                
"Gladiator". What is there to say about the "Braveheart" wannabe? May I say that this movie is just too highly over rated. While there are 2 or 3 scenes worth watching, I kept falling asleep. I don't understand what is the big deal about this movie. And Russel Crowe winning best actor for this? I don't get it. Like I said, there are 2 or 3 scenes worth watching. But after a while you'll want to throw yourself out the window after boring yourself. This movie can work for some, but as for me. Well, let's just say it I landed on the ground 5 times and am still standing.3/10


                
Ouch. This was the first DVD I ever purchased, and the first I gave to the local thrift store.First of all, I was subjected to Richard Harris all too much at the beginning, and what was that all about? How did that contribute to the film? Film is all about compression of characters and more-or-less smooth progression through the story. I'd have left the Richard Harris part on the cutting room floor. To present "the wrong person is on the throne" can be done very effectively in many other (shorter) ways.Second of all, Joaquin Phoenix's character was wholly one-dimensional, the result of which was a uniformly downward-feeling mood. Think of Stephen Boyd in Wyler's Ben Hur. Of course, Gladiator was a kind of remake of that one, which was a remake of a really good one. I now better appreciate Francis X Bushman.And what was the dog all about? I get all that Roman Valhalla stuff, but the execution was pretty corny, all dreamy and, can I say it, cheap. And let me digress - Richard Harris's part in Caviezel's Count of Monte Cristo might better have been left 60% on the cutting room floor. It gave the same problem, taking time and focus from the meat of the story.Gladiator was a one-and-done for me.


                
With an excellent cast led by Russell Crowe and amazing special effects that really transport you in time to ancient Rome, it is not widely known that this film is really a remake of the 1960's film, "The Fall of the Roman Empire" starring Steven Boyd in Crowe's part, Christopher Plummer in Juaqin Phoenix's role as Commodus , Sophia Loren in Connie Neilson's part as Lucilla and Alec Guinness in Richard Harris's role as Marcus Aurelius.Were it not for the extremely excessive violence, this might have been a great film. But the violence in the arena is so unnecessary graphic it should have had a higher rating. It strives to titillate and shock the viewer in the same sadistic way that the actual games in Rome were meant to do. Granted (and thankfully) there of course is no actual loss of life. But it is way too shocking and not for children at all. Our culture has become too used to excessive and too realistic violence.Were most people to ever see the real thing in either battle or growing up in a rough neighborhood as I did; I doubt they would take it so lightly or be able or willing to view such abuses.One of the few films I've seen in recent years where violence is used to the film's credit was "Saving Private Ryan", where the viewer can experience the sheer insanity of war and the amazing courage of those who fight. A great anti-war film. But all Gladiator accomplishes is to further desensitize the viewer through the film's version of "shock and awe".
I missed this on first release, but have watched it on DVD. To be quite honest, it's tripe of the first order. The script is awful, and the acting generally not much better (thank heavens for the computer-generated actors: they are at least the equal of their flesh-and-blood rivals). I found this film to be deeply contrived and boring. As for the garbage of the Emperor Commodus fighting 'mano a mano' with a gladiator, the scriptwriters must have been on something stronger than LSD.Presumably Ridley Scott hired Derek Jacobi for 'Gladiator' because he'd played a Roman before (to whit, Claudius, see below), but even in his minor role he out-acts the far starrier names (except for the late Oliver Reed, who steals every scene he's in).If you want a _real_ flavour of 'life at the top' in the Roman Empire, get the DVDs or videotapes of 'I, Claudius', the BBC's conflation of Robert Graves's 'I, Claudius' and 'Claudius the God'. This is far better written and it's superbly acted. It's also more convincing, despite being made on a shoestring budget. If 'I' Claudius' is an excellent fillet steak in a superb restaurant, accompanied by the finest wine, then 'Gladiator' is a gristly hamburger in a seedy fast-food joint, washed down with a 3rd-rate clone cola.


                
Either you want to make a movie which is true to the facts (as we know them) or you just want to make a big screen spectacle, not bothering too much about the details. This movie is neither. Considering all the "realistic" scenes and scenery, it wants to be a depiction of true historical facts, but it is not! So for people who know a little bit about Roman history it is hard to take the story very seriously, but, on the other hand, because the makers seem to take it very seriously, it is hard to watch it as simple entertainment.To name only a few examples. Which Roman general would ever leave his troops in the middle of a (political) conflict? His army is his power basis. Of course, had Maximus done the most sensible thing and called his army for help, then Commodus would have been wiped out and the movie would have been over within 15 minutes. But no, Maximus runs, away from his army.Second example. In the end, when Maximus returns to Rome as a famous gladiator, he is recognized by people who remember him as general Maximus. Remember, when he became a gladiator, it wasn't as general Maximus, but as an anonymous. Is he released....? No, but only because the story dictates that we should wait for the climax, not for any logical reason.The coincidence that Maximus, fleeing from Germany to Spain on foot, which would have taken a few months at least, finds his house still smoking is just too much.So maybe the old Hollywood epic historical movies didn't look so realistic (actors were clean and had white teeth), but Errol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks were so much more fun to look at, because they didn't take it all too seriously.


                
This picture is epically overrated- it is not the number 46 of the 250 best movies, like the IMDb ratings system states at the time of writing of this review. Because it simply never should have been even near such top 250 list. Aside from a clearly visible big budget, only three things are worth of mentioning: shots of hand brushing thorough stalks of wheat (which are iconic), "Are you not entertained?!" shout out moment (of intensive emotions) and the point of story when there is a conspiracy created "to get him out" (which in turn leads to a few minutes of enjoyable suspense). Other than that, this picture is quite boring and mediocreIt is suppose to be an epic story, but it does not suck you in on any scale. Instead of that it just epically blows, like if it was a giant blown egg shell- decorated on the outside, but empty on the inside. Even the very first battle in the woods has some stupid visual techniques, with addition of some dog disguised as a wolf saving his master- and what a load of kitsch that was. And the kitsch comes back in epic size at the grand finale- the only missing thing at that point is a group of gladiators singing "Kumbaya" to the crowd of cheering and crying spectatorsIn this picture even the music is way below expectations. Yes, there are some good moments, but overall in the beginning and at the end the music is rather weak, while in the middle it is somewhat without a taste or noticeable substance. And what is more, the Wikipedia says that Hans Zimmer took some of this music from Gustav Holst and Richard Wagner. But there is more to it- most likely he also borrows from Henryk Gorecki. And on top of that, some tracks sound like a reworked version of music from "The Rock" [1996]", which Hans Zimmer co-composed; and also there is a musical motive in the "Gladiator" that he later on simply reused for the "Pirates Of The Caribbean" movie series. But what is the most disturbing in regards to the score is the fact, that he got nominated for that work by Academy Awards, while the co-composer Lisa Gerrard did not. So it is just ridiculous that the music which is at best mediocre got nominated, but at the same time it is scandalous, that only the man of the two persons that created it received such nomination. (Of course all those Oscars prizes for music / songs should not be viewed as something like some kind of musical Metre Convention agreements)But what is most important- it does not matter, if you watch this movie in crappy conditions at the time of its release when you are entering your young adulthood, or if you watch it some 15 years later on a good home cinema system when you are an adult. It is still boring and also flat to some extentDo not waste your time on this one. Go watch a "Spartacus" (2004) instead- although it is a TV movie and was not intended to play in the same league as Ridley Scott does with his big bucks flicks, that "Spartacus" beats the "Gladiator" almost to the ground (but also in no way constitutes as one of the 250 greatest movies ever made)


                
Gladiator is possibly one of the most over rated films I have ever seen. I went into this film thinking it would be a masterpiece. Instead I got a bloated Oscar bait film that had me cheering at the end not for its filmmaking style, but that it ended. The film is dull and the character of Maximus is in a clichéd story of a father seeking revenge against those who killed his family. I felt that it was more interestingly done, sadly, in Death Wish. Commodus is upset because his father wanted to put Maximus on the throne instead of him. So the film was sort of ripped off by Thor in every way, with one major difference. I don't want to gouge my eyes out whenever I see Thor. Don't waste your time with this overrated garbage.
Everyone seems to have an affinity for this film. Maybe I prejudged it and did not go in with an open, or even a slanted mind. I look at the background images on the screen as much as I look at the main characters in the foreground. The cinema was impressive as well as the timing from scene to scene. Maybe, just maybe, I missed something important in this film, prompting me to give it a negative critique. However, I will never change my opinion of the impossible story line. Clearly it is just Hollywood. Joaquin Phoenix was great as always and the military uniforms and other garb of the era were well done. Thanks, people. I will view the movie again........


                
Warning Spoiler,,,,It's hard to believe that this bomb gets such high ratings. 1) Wooden acting and dialogue. 2) The MTV 'fast cut" photography does nothing to enhance the movie. It's merely a FAD promulgated by no talent camera people who substitute faddish standards when they can't think clearly or creatively. 3) Scott treats Maximus and Marcus Aurelius like they are noble characters, with corny swelling music. Instead of what they were. Vicious, ruthless creeps on par with the worst of the Nazis.4) Now to the worst part and the spoiler. Even if you've disagreed with the former you have to agree with this. This movie wants us to believe that Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) would put Maximus (Russell Crowe) into slavery because he threatens Commodus's chances of being the Emperor. He lets him live so he has a chance to come back and threaten later. Duh! Yeah that makes sense. He kills Maximus's wife & kid though. C'mon! Any dufus dictator would have just executed him plain and simple.Then we are supposed to believe that Maximus rises to the top of the gladiatorial thingee far enough that he becomes a hero gladiator. Again. Duh! Commodus would allow this? Double Duh! Now the crowning blow to credulity. We are supposed to believe that the wimpy Emperor would be STUPID enough to climb down into the arena and fight the buff, tough, well trained killer Maximus.How stupid can movie goers and reviewers get? Pretty damn stupid I guess judging from the reviews here. Not all of us are fooled though.The real tragedy is that within the story of Rome are countless compelling stories. Truth is way more interesting than this kind of contrived fiction. A real movie about real life Romans would have been far more interesting. Romans were like us. Their rulers were lazy, corrupt, ignorant, egotistical and horribly brutish. They had slavery like us, conquered like us, maintained a republic for 200 years, like us, until they capitulated to a dictator and a dictatorship in the name of security, which I hope we avoid. The Romans were masters of self delusion and deliberate ignorance of the society they created.Spartacus, of course, comes to mind. The way that Kubrick explored the inner decay and fear of Laurence Olivier's Marcus twisted Licinius Crassus was brilliant to say the least. On the surface Crassus is genteel, educated, brilliant, but on the inside... Crassus kills HIS gladiator the way a real Roman Emperor would, after he is wounded, near death and no threat. He kills him in fear, cowardly, with a knife to the throat. He desperately wants Livia's love but doesn't know why or even what love is. He will never know love. He is obsessed with her indifference because it threatens his self deluded image of his own superiority. Rising to become the most powerful person in Rome he's really a pathetic shell of a human being terrified to confront his humanity. So pathetic he is worthy of pity from his slave.There is nothing in this film that even comes close. Its all flash over substance and not even great flash. The tension and anticipatory horror in final battle scene in Spartacus is palpable. We feel it the same as the rebels feel it. We are small and vulnerable in the coming gigantic battle. We feel their fear but we also know they are ready to die free because the alternative is worse. We are with them in spirit because we ARE them. We fear the Romans but we also hate their decadence and lack of decency and what they will do to our families. We may die but we are going to take down as many of them as we can.In Gladiator we are treated like dumb observers who can't think for ourselves. We are marks who are stupid enough to pay the admission price. We ARE the observers in the coliseum, lazy, corrupt, ignorant, decadent, stupidly accepting a absurd plot.
This movie, although I admit was good,was definitely not great. I think the publicity put it up on a pedestal that in my opinion it never quite reached.I was disappointed all the way through as I had been led to believe that this was going to be one of the great movie experiences of my life.


                
Somehow many people seem to like this Roman empire set action drama flick. I'm definitely not one of them.It's a cheap, yet expensive, excuse of a story, already seen a thousand times (i.e. basically revenge), to cover the real reason for this movie: the fights. In this it is quite similar to 'Braveheart'. It falls far behind many, if not most, other films taking place in the same era, like 'Spartacus' or 'Ben Hur', although these included action scenes, too.The monetary success most likely originates from the same reasons that sports do--among them handsome people, villains/opponents, heroism, "blood, sweat & tears", and plenty of pathos. I honestly think this ultimately proves that today's people would visit real, bloody gladiator fights, if they were still allowed.I must confess that I didn't watch it on the big screen, so maybe I missed the full beauty of larger-than-life landscapes and deaths, after all it was pretty well done technically. It also was dubbed in German.


                
When I first watched this movie, I was expecting everything it promised: "A Spectacular Historical Epic From Ridley Scott" But after seeing it, I can't understand the reception it got (four Oscars!). As far as I can tell, it was a botched attempt by Mr.Scott to create a historical epic of Braveheart proportions, and since Mel Gibson turned it down in favor of The Patriot, took the next Aussie in line, Russel Crowe. But the casting is the least of the problems, as the story seems derivitive and uninspired, which usually leaves it to the special effects and editing to carry the film. Sadly, even these are quite amature and ineffective. There where many times I couldn't believe I was watching a Scott film, for a tight picture and perfect visuals have become his trademark. If you want my opinion, don't even waste time on this failure, there's much better ones out there. 1/10


                
How the actors in this film could deliver such lines with a straight face is a credit to their professionalism. That so many people ate it up and loved it is a credit to Ridley Scott. I sit alone however on the other side of the fence. He who wins the love of the people, wins Rome. I get it already!I was hoping that the fight scenes might save this movie but I found Mr. Scott's MTV-style editing style to be distracting. Instead of the nitty-gritty fighting of "Rob Roy" or the impressive scenes in "Braveheart", we got a lot of flash to cover up for the lack of substance.Only Mr. Crowe and his charisma  and impressive Coliseum shots saves this film from a "1".


                
Usually Ridley Scott's movies are exciting and full of suspense but this one was a total disappointment to me. Only Joaquin Phoenix was worth staying in the cinema. The movie was too corny since while there was no fight scene the actors always were near weeping, the fight scenes were too brutal and the whole movie was much too much hollywood-like. Letting the Roman Cesar fight in the Colloseum was ludicrous as well as the figure of the old Cesar - absolutly not authentic.


                
Weak script, mediocre acting but spectacular cinema. Ridley Scott has brought modern movie technology to the Roman Empire genre. The money shot is the recreation of the Coliseum with its awnings providing shade for the multitudes. We can thank the folks a Nova, the PBS science series, for funding the research that the recreation was based on. Too bad the rest of the movie could not live up to the quality of the Nova show which provided the inspiration.Except for its connection to Nova, "Gladiator" is a very forgettable movie. My mind has already wander away from this dog of summer. What other movies are based on the Nova series? Well there's "Twister" and...


                
Although the great scenery, costumes, camera and actors are impressing, the film as a whole is not.After having seen a good and wise, grey-haired caesar in the beginning, who wishes nothing but a fair government for his people, followed by a two-day's horseride from Germania to Spain, you can't take the plot serious anymore, so even the most tragic scenes become ridiculous.Other highlights in braindead scriptwriting include a bunch of freshly enslaved gladiators-to-be, listening to a motivational speech by their owner instead of slicing him with one of the few dozen swords scattered about the scene and leaving the place.For anyone who can switch off his brains in favour of some nice monumental action, the movie might still be worthwile. I didn't expect anything thelike from the man who directed Aliens or Thelma & Louise, though.


                
How can everyone like this movie?  Any seventh grader that takes details from Braveheart (one of the greatest movies ever) could write a better script.  Pheonix did one of the worst acting jobs of the year, though what could he do when the script couldn't decide if we should hate him because he's a coward, because he's cruel, or because he's a pervert.  The three reasons didn't mix well at all.  I do have to say the fight scenes were great, with the exception of the direction in the first one and the blade on the wheel cutting someone in half.  Crowe is also a great actor, but he couldn't save the most overrated movie I've seen.


                
This movie had some good points but overall it was a boring action movie. The beginning was increadibly film and dramatic (I still wonder what happened to his dog).  Then there are two hours of slow parts with three minutes of gladiator fighting in the spurts.  The gladiator scenes themselves are full of choppy views and MTV style cuts.  This is a disgrace that people are comparing this movie to the classic epics (Sparticus, Ben Hur).  Even the special effects were only decent.  Russell Crowe was a bad ass, but one performance does not make a movie.  Actually make that two Damon (last name?) was great in it too.  Overall a big disappointment.


                
