Contains SpoilersSeen as an action movie, it's okay.But be warned if you think you've learned something about history. Not much in the movie is true about Commodus. He did not kill his father (the plague took him, and Commodus wasn't even there). Neither Commodus was killed on any arena (actually he was assassinated). There is much more big mistakes, just find a history book and you will be quite annoyed about the movie.It's a fictional movie, and it's allowed to change things. But not as much as they did here, I think.
Roman empire, 180 a.c. Maximus is a popular general. In fact, he is so popular in the empire that Marcus Aurelius wants him to take over the throne after his death. Aurelius' son Commidus doesn't like that idea so he wounds and exiles Maximus and kills his family. Maximus swears revenge and after becoming a gladiator he gets his chance..."Gladiator" is one of the reasons why the Oscars are loosing their reputation. By giving this stiff and pompous movie 5 awards, including the ones for best picture, while in the same year ignoring much better films like "Memento", "Crouching tiger, hidden dragon" and "Almost famous" proves the academy jury is still deluded by long, 3 hour epics, even if they are not that good. I could say I liked this film too, but that would be a lie - quite frankly, it was too long, unexciting and only marginally emotional.------- After the brilliant "Blade Runner" Ridley Scott has started disappointing me big time. The only thing we learn about this film is that a gladiator shouldn't turn his back to an emperor. The rest is a lame revenge story which copies too much from other epics ( e. g. Maximus is stroking the peaks of grass, just like Costner did in "Dances with wolves" ). The surprising thing is that I found Stone's "Alexander" to be equally good as the "Gladiator", but for some reason while one film is being called trash, the other one is being hailed. So why is everyone in love with this film? I guess the thing is just like with Mr. Chance in the movie "Being there"; people see only what they want to see.Grade: 4/10


                
The "coming attractions" were more exciting and fun than watching "Gladiator" after them.  I was all prepared for a movie of action, and romance and adventure.  The kind of film that gets you caught up in the story, and has you rooting, cheering and clapping at the climax of the movie.  This wasn't it.  The story never drew me in, or gave me a reason to care what happened.  I think Russell Crowe is a talented actor, but not in this...  His acting consisted of variations on looking stern or solemn, with maybe three smiles thrown in to show his range.  As for this moviegoer, I'd rather watch an old Steve Reeves movie.


                
Too bad...I was hoping for a revival of Roman Gladiator Greats.     Ridley Scott's "Gladiator" is not all that it's cracked up to be. Although most of the action sequences are astounding, the dialogue is so awful that each time a character says something it sounds like nails on a chalkboard.  How many times did someone say "I will have my vengance!"?  5 times, by my count.  Gladiator has lots of scenes devoted to character depth, but no real person would talk in as many cliches as these people do.     Another Gripe: The movie is much longer than it needs to be.  If the last hour (of its 155 minute running time) was to be cut off, absolutely none of the plot would change!  The plot is supposed to thicken in the last hour, but that never happens because every interesting scenes which surfaces is shot down by cheesy dialogue; every scene which starts promisingly falls flat on its face.  I suggest cutting out 50 of the last 60 minutes and putting the ending in sooner.     A few highlights: The fighting scenes in the ring truly are amazingly staged, if over-gory, and the opening battle is a delight.  Finally, Russell Crowe does try hard to rise above the script, and his performance would have been memorable if he had some actual material to explore.     I say "Gladiator" is only for those of you with three hours and eight bucks to burn.  Otherwise, go rent Ben-Hur, even though you need four (well-spent) hours for that one. Grade: C-


                
Let's just get the negatives out of the way first. 1) This is not historically accurate. I could bore you all with the details, but I won't. Let's just say that the last fifteen minutes of the movie were purely fantasy, while the rest might be written off as a...dream-version of history. Ahem. 2) The music was awful.  This is not Xena. Please don't subject my eardrums to the atonal wailings of some middle-eastern woman.  It wasn't appropriate to have synthesizers when you've got someone like Basil Poledouris who could've scored this masterfully with *real* instruments!Okay, onto the good stuff. I'll skip comments on acting and whatnot--it was good and bad, you decide. But I will say this: the political themes presented in the movie are entirely topical to 20th century America. Demagoguery hasn't ever been more rampant--listen to Gracchus, people. He knows of which he speaks:)  Secondly, watch for the comments on the folks who ogle men about to kill each other, and about the idea of bloodsport in general.  Then, look around yourself in the theater, and ask, "How many people are here just to see a man and tiger try to kill each other? Or to see the 'big battle scene' with all of its violence?"  Then wonder where the comments are actually being directed: at the audience of the Colosseum, or of the Googolplex Cinema you're in.Enjoy!


                
What a disappointment. Although I'm sure that the handicapped kid in the front row with the speak and spell board who typed repeatedly throughout the movie "I need a hug" and "I want more" added somewhat to my lack of movie-going enjoyment--I did not like this movie at all. Now I understand what scriptwriting courses mean when they say to avoid "talking heads," and boy, this movie has exposition a-plenty. Long, draggy, incomprehensible exposition---anytime there isn't a fight onscreen. Plus, all of that exposition is done by predictable, cliched characters possessing as much depth as a sheet of paper. Not that the acting is bad---it wasn't. But if you've seen any entry in the "they-killed-the-family-of-the-noble-hero-and-now-it's-payback-time" genre, then you've already seen this movie. What's sad is that Russell Crowe is a fantastic actor, and "Gladiator" would have benefitted greatly from having a flawed anti-hero like his role in "L.A. Confidential."  And while this $100 million movie IS pretty (if a bit vertigo-inducing with rapid-fire jump cuts and camera angles), it seems to possess a lot more style than substance. Wait for the video.


                
...and if you think that "overblown blockbuster" is a pleonasm, wait until you see this movie. Even if it's not completely shabby, the amount of self-indulgent, ham fisted dialogue coupled with the sheer stupidity of the script makes one wonder...Ridley Scott used to be a visionary. Which doesn't really translate in his poor rendition of the ancient Rome. Colors, framework, costumes: the art direction is very weak. The script is so formulaic and falsely clever it's almost insulting. And the editing rarely shines. The action is either boring or gives serious headaches; only one scene really stands out: Maximus (painfully portrayed by a sleepwalking Russel Crowe) leads his enslaved friends to victory by resorting on their old warrior reflexes. Nothing really shines except that scene; the supporting cast is bland (Connie Nielsen) when not irritating (the usually great Joaquin Phoenix gives a really bad performance as the emperor Commodus).But the most hilariously bad moment is the climactic battle: Ridley Scott and the hack who wrote this should be ashamed. The whole movie tries to re-write history (I'm not even calling that revisionism) introducing modern, Christian philosophical and moral values in the story through Maximus' perception. If we trusted the movie, Rome was a beacon in a world of barbarians. This ends up giving the hero the upper hand in a duel against Commodus, avenging his family with the sacrifice of his life. This whole ending, not only ridiculous on screen, is truly aimed at the blood-thirsty audience who needs his fix of "eye-for-an-eye" climax to feel satisfied, like in a good ol' "Death Wish" Bronson flick. Not only this is an historical lie (too bad for a movie that tries so hard to feel "realistic"), but it really misses the mark emotionally as the real demise of the emperor showed true poetic justice, as opposed to the self-righteous, overwrought lines Crowe delivers.As for the "revisionism" complaint, I'm asking you: what if, 2000 years from now, a screenwriter comes up with a WWII epic comic book movie (not unlike a peplum of our times) where Captain America (Maximus) single-handedly defeats Hitler (Commodus)? Well, it *may* turn out good. If Ridley Scott isn't directing.
Gladiator was one of the films I grew up with as a kid. However, as I grew older, I stopped watching it, and I've gone several years without watching it. I wanted to check it out to see if I would still like it as much as I did when I was younger. When I finally re-watched it after all these years, I felt like it didn't hold up. Its fighting and technical aspects were very good, but I could not care about Maximus's character.After a Roman general named Maximus is about to become Emperor of Rome, he is betrayed by his brother named Commodus who murders his family. He is forced into slavery where he comes back as a Gladiator and fights his way up to seek his revenge.The action is definitely the highlight of this film. I think that it's really good. The fights aren't choreographed all too well since they have shaky cam, but I think the fights were shot that way on purpose to show how Gladiators fought by using sheer aggression and desperation. Every time a character gets stabbed, you feel the pain as the stab always feels very realistic without ever feeling over-the-top or ridiculous. The Coliseum looks realistic, and it gave the fights a claustrophobic feeling. During one fighting sequence, they were reenacting "The Battle of Zama". A large number of Gladiators were in the middle of the Coliseum and they were surrounded by enemies in chariots. Shortly after the battle started, a few Gladiators were quickly killed off, and it gave the fighting a lot of tension after the viewer learned how much of a disadvantage Maximus had. That was my favorite fight scene in the film.Considering that Ridley Scott is usually pretty good with cinematography (Blade Runner and Black Hawk Down), I had no concern about the cinematography, and I expected it to be really good. I was right. The city of Rome was perfectly captured in the film. Many tableau's of Rome and the Coliseum were beautiful to look at. Rome looked vast, majestic, and full of people. Even the CGI shots were impressive and blended into the film seamlessly. They hold up pretty well today. The only issue I have with the film on a technical level was with its soundtrack that was composed by Hans Zimmer and Lisa Gerrard. Some songs felt like they were ripped off of by many other action films. Especially the parts where it sounded like someone was singing in a different language. I've heard that in many other films before and it's starting to feel a bit unoriginal. Other than that, the film worked pretty well from a technical standpoint.I don't think that Russell Crowe should've won an Oscar. His performance wasn't bad. Crowe himself is fine. However, his role is about as basic as you can get for a tough guy role. Any actor with some talent could've done what he did. Speaking of Maximus's character, I could not care for him at all. He's just dour and dull for the entire film, even before his family is killed off. He's bland and unsympathetic from the get-go, and he only gets more revenge filled as the movie continues on. I was just given a shell of a character to try and get behind. I could not care for his character for that reason. I could not care about any of the other protagonists in the film. When a main character died, I didn't care that much for them as I felt like I had just been introduced to them. Their deaths just sort of came and went by. Also, I was not as moved by its ending as I expected I would be before going into this film.Looking around a bit, I've seen several reviewers bring up that its plot of betrayal and revenge has been done to death. If I felt that way, I would most likely have a bigger issue with sympathizing with Maximus. As of now, however, I can't think of any movies which borrowed its plot line that came out before this one was released, and I have yet to see any reviewers name any films with a similar plot as this one. So, until I do, I'm going to put that criticism aside.In conclusion, I wasn't a fan of this movie. It's a real shame, because I was hoping that I could relive my childhood memories of it. I can appreciate it for impressing me with its action and its technical aspect. The action was definitely the highlight of the film, and Rome was also very beautiful to look at. However, much of it seemed wasted since it failed in the most important area: Its characters. Maximus felt like a very generic shell of a character and he seemed very uninteresting. I will always love Ridley Scott though, even though I disliked one of his most popular films.


                
This must be the most overrated film of the last 30 years. I have sat through the idolisation of David Finscher, the rise of Michael Bay, and "The Matrix" becoming the philosopher-film of my generation, but I draw the line in the blood-soaked sand at the attention given to this movie. Three hours long when it should have been 90 minutes, the film has little to go for it apart from Russell Crowe's glower and a wash of grainy CGI effects. I will never understand how Joaquin Phoenix, who is a descent actor (Just watch "To Die For") managed to get an Oscar nomination for aping Malcom McDowell's performance in "Caligula." Am I really supposed to feel touched when Maximus returns to see his family dead; a scene from countless better films? If that is enough to move the hearts of people these days, than for God's sake send me back to the silent era.Rent Spartacus instead


                
I'm sure to be one of the few that didn't like this picture.The opening scene was fine, as were the cast and sfx (mostly). However the story was a pastiche of genre films, such as Spartacus, that did it better. The Arena scenes, surely the draw for most viewers, were few, brief and done with close ups and quick cut editing that obscured most of the action. Anthony Quinn and Victor Mature did it better....in Black & White no less.


                
I find it very bad that this film is so popular. There are no qualities in this star vehicle that make a film great. The screenplay is childish and stupid. The story is boring, and cliche. People need to start using their heads and realize that they are being sucked into the factory of hollywood.


                
Whenever a new Ridley Scott movie appears, I can hardly contain my indifference.  He's way too variable in terms of quality for me to get excited about a new release: Alien is a great movie, Thelma and Louise is nothing special, White Squall is pants, and G.I. Jane was surprisingly good, but I'm the only person who seems to think so.  With this track record, as I walked into Gladiator I was less expectant than Adam Sandler on Oscar night. It turned out to be worse than I thought.Gladiator is an epic-by-numbers.  Sweeping shots over cities, a couple of thousand extras wearing togas, a few seconds in a battle scene where the music turns to silence and the direct-o-matic uses a different shutter speed...  Seen it all before.  While everyone else was dropping their jaws, my thumbs got busy with the twiddling.If you're going to make a movie where the audience can root for the underdog, you should at least blur the lines a little.  Gladiator's heroic goodies and hissable baddies are so obvious even Spielberg would have complained.  For the Autobots, we have Russell Crowe.  He gets fired from his job, sentenced to death, manages to escape only to find his wife raped and his children murdered, is sold into slavery, forced to perform in front of bloodthirsty crowds as a gladiator, loses his car keys and steps on a dog poo.  For the Decepticons, we have Joaquim Phoenix, who killed his own dad, ordered the deaths of Crowe and his family, forces people to fight and die for his entertainment, wants to do his sister, and kicks puppies in the teeth.  It's as balanced as a see-saw with Jabba the Hutt on one end and Calista Flockhart on the other.It has pretensions above the action movie it knows it really is, and it's at those points that the film moves from boring to laughable.  We're told, over and over again, that gladiator fights are brutal, that  the crowds are disgusting for watching, and that the men are unwilling to take part.  It was at this point I phoned Amnesty International to see what we could do to stop this barbaric sport.  Are we really learning anything by this?  It's in these moments, too, that the film's hypocrisy becomes obvious.  While the viewers are weeping at the injustice of it all, they're also excited by Crowe's muscular heroics, and the slo-mo, pop-promo style used for the bloody fight scenes.  We can condemn the audience in the colosseum for enjoying it, while happily stuffing popcorn down our faces and cheering when Crowe stabs another gladiator.  Is he the only one fighting against his will, or are the people he kills innocent victims too?  Who cares?  We've moved past the pathos now, we're on to the fight scenes.  Carry on Cleo had more emotional impact.The ending is as predictable as possible.  Did anyone really think it would end with Phoenix still in power?  The only good thing about the ending was that it actually had one.  Three weeks into the movie I was starting to have my doubts.  Overlong, over-rated, add it to the list of undeserving modern classics.


                
I ordered this movie in a hotel room for 10 dollars in hopes that I would be watching a possible Best Picture nominee. Instead, I watched a confusing, poorly executed excuse for a movie. The first war scene's camera angles and overall layout had me wondering who was who. I hope other people did not have to pay 10 dollars to watch such a disappointment.


                
I would like to say that the special effects where totally awesome.  The scene with the camera breaking through the clouds landing into Rome, was quite remarkable.  And had no problems with any of the acting.  But, I have also watched Rocky IV and Braveheart.  As they started chatting MAXIMUS, MAXIMUS, I found myself ringside, hoping Rocky knocks out Drago.  And can anyone want to defeat the bad guys without killing off the family? Hollywood, AGAIN, fed us another movie, filled with special effects, and a used up story.  Damn computer animation, and the abiltiy to come up with a simple story that moves you without hitting you in every sense but the brain.  I did shed a tear at the last scene.  Kudos for that one. OUT


                
I'm not going to talk about the historical truth - one should not expect this from epic movies anyway. The problem is - I cannot understand where is this meaningful 'plot' in this movie. A Roman prince cannot dispose of a slave? (recipe: kill him silently, then kill at the Arena someone who looks similar). One cannot kill a sleeping man (s)he wants to be dead? (this man IS reachable and how about a poison instead of sleeping pills?). A new emperor suffers from a lack of female attention?(does word 'hetaera' ring a bell?).But the above is not the worst. The worst is the characters. They are flat and lifeless. Chess pieces have more personality. In the real life if a homo sapiens does something, this means  he has some reason to do it (this reason may be an emotional one but it does exist). Not so in this movie. If Commodus does something, it serves only one of the purposes: to show how evil he is, or to advance the 'plot'. Don't try to find a reason or to understand why he does something - the story-writer wants him to do it and that's enough here. Maximus - see above but replace 'evil' with 'good or suffering'. Lucilla exists to build schemes , to be the weakest point of these schemes and to be a woman (almost the only one in the movie). That's all. Behind almost every scene I see a shadow of the story-writer who wants this scene to be that way - no matter does it make any sense or not, no matter if such scene is even slightly possible. Frustrating.Don't get me wrong - the movie is beautiful and visually detailed. But I expect of a movie significantly more than to be a set of beautiful pictures.2 for the story and 10 for everything else.


                
The movie contains several mistakes of technical nature. Any student of high school in Italy would be a sufficient historical consultant to the writers of the screenplay. The main mistakes are concerned with the representation of the fights of the Gladiators in the Arenas. The seats chosen for the spectators in the Colosseum and generally speaking in Roman Arenas were precisely assigned. Lower levels, i.e. first "gradins" were exclusively reserved to Senators and important citizens of Rome, such as magistrateships. In the movie such rule is completely ignored. The intermediate levels, above, were for other citizens and the main part of male spectators. Finally women were segregated in the highest and separated levels of the Anphitheater. No mixed men/women audience were allowed! Moreover no mixed fight with beasts and other fighters ever took place. At noon the show was concerned with fights with or against wild beasts. Then, late afternoon, one man against another single man. Never, ever a group of men or against a group of men.


                
The only good thing that I can say about this film is that it was shot well with careful planning in costume and excellent scenery. I cannot fault the picture/cinematography at all. But, this is the only thing the film has going for it, and this alone cannot save a film.'Gladiator' was over-rated as a classic epic of its time. The story is complex and very dull in many places, and it could have been shortened. Now, I am a big fan of historical fiction films, but this one just did not do it. The story was very weak, and I could not get into it at all. The characters were also another problem. I felt that I could not relate to them. The film is not as engaging - the characters and story are weak so much that none of the great things about this film make a difference. It is too bad because I had some high expectations for this film and the genre.


                
Hard to understand how this uneven flick won the Oscars it did. Russell Crowe has moments, but they are all of a single mood. The sets are tacky (think how gorgeous they are in Fall of the Roman Empire with Loren and Plummer), the cinematography is strangely muddy, and the story leaded.The exception is Joaquim Phoenix's compelling reading of Commodus. The first time Crowe and fellow slave gladiators fight in the arena, Phoenix eclipses the scene with his convincing depiction of blood lust. One could watch the film again just for those few moments of insight into a genuine character.


                
Gladiator (2000): Dir: Ridley Scott / Cast: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Richard Harris, Oliver Reed: Visually stunning depiction starring Russell Crowe as a gladiator whose life is marked by violence in an ugly fashion of sport. He is framed for murder and sentenced to death but he survives only to discover that his wife and son were crucified and burned. Central plot thrusts him in gladiator games where he spends wasted time hacking up soldiers. Triumphant art direction cannot save repetitious story. Director Ridley Scott successfully creates the era but this is hardly a match for his superior films such as Alien and Blade Runner. Crowe carries the film going from honoured soldier to a fighter placed within a bloody game of survival where only his revenge drives him. Joaquin Phoenix overacts tremendously as Caesar who is basically a cardboard villain destine for death and when it happens, it lacks the intended satisfaction. Wasted appearances by Connie Nielsen and Richard Harris. Oliver Reed even appears as an old gladiator who likely wiped his ass with toilet paper that contained more than what this screenplay does. The art direction and visual elements are in top form. The film reflects the Roman Empire and violent sport to entertain the lust for violence. Unfortunately the repetition and violent exploits of the screenplay render this perhaps the most overrated film of the year. Score: 4 ½ / 10
What a disappointment.Predictable, bad cutting, bad voice recording.Suited only for a 4 part TV-series.I have seen much better historic cinemas on TV also with Derek Jacobi.The battle against the German barbarians was quite unnecessary as it added nothing to the plot.The only okay was the formation of Roman troops.The clothes was also fine.All in all a low level entertainment movie.I am glad I did not pay to see it.The start is way to slow and the movie should have been paced up and quicker.


                
I am yet to come to terms with the hype this film has got. Nothing in it makes it deserve to be in the IMDb's top 250 list, neither the Oscar, nor all the good things that have been written in its praise.The first 30 minutes or so are good, quite impressive indeed. They kill the emperor, kill Maximus' wife and son, but that is it. The story takes off well but completely loses its flight right from the point he is captured by those slavers. From then on the film loses its point and becomes a tiring exercise, predictable too. It gets more and more boring as well as the film approaches its ending. A huge disappointment if I am honest.
Ridley Scott's Gladiator is a film that is acted and directed very well, but is an eyesore to look at for two and a half hours. The film's effects are nice, which got the film an Oscar in 2000, and so are the costumes, but they are all captured in a dirty, muddy tone. Most of the film is a dingy colored brown, appearing as if someone imbedded dirty in the camera lens.The film's plot is just a revenge story, soaked within a period piece. It involves General Maximus Decimus Meridius (Crowe), the leader of the Roman Army in AD 180. Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Harris) is very pleased with his latest victory, and grants him leadership, much to the dismay of the Emperor's son, Commodus (Phoenix). It isn't long before Commodus is consumed with rage, and murders his father, claiming the throne as his.Commodus puts out an order to the Praetorian men to kill Maximus's wife and son. Before Maximus can return in time to stop them, they are killed. Being in a functioning state of depression, and after being kidnapped by slaves who teach him how to fight, Maximus finds out he has a knack for fighting and slaying people. So the plot is born. Maximus is a great gladiator, and continues to fight and murder, leading up to his appearance at the Roman Colosseum.I've established that the film is long, which it is, but it is also fairly impotent. It's slow, a bit dreary, yet well written in the sense that decent dialog is always recited. After a while, though, you begin to grow weary of the film's hushed tone, and about five battle scenes later, the material begins to overstay its welcome.The film is slowly paced, but it definitely has a grand appeal. Crowe's performance is fantastic, and he brings life to a new action hero. For the brief time we see him, Richard Harris does a fantastic Emperor, and Joaquin Phoenix does an outstanding job playing a despicable, intolerable villain.I also stated that the film's costumes are nice, which they are, but after two hours they become sort of a chore to stare at. Some nice CGI is used, some scenes made up entirely of it, yet again, everything looks the same. Everything is mostly brown, green, and black, and very monotonous and harmful on the eyes.Not to mention, no characters are really developed at all. The film is two and a half hours, and neglects to give us very many personal traits of the characters. This is the perfect case of style over substance; a movie trait I've run into far too much recently. To value style over substance is to put looks in front of every other concern, rather than efficiency and depth. John Logan, one of the three writers of this film, would give us so many character traits of Howard Hughes in The Aviator, four years later. It's a shame that wasn't put in the foreground rather than a loud score and heavy action sequences with this.Gladiator isn't perfect, but it's a fairly memorable action flick, with some ups and downs. To me, this seems like a long B movie, with marvelous special effects and well known actors. It's just a shame that in two and a half hours we have to listen to decent, yet sometimes, redundant dialog, trait-less characters, and stare into a vast field of brown. At least we get Oscar worthy performances to watch for the most part.Starring: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Oliver Reed, Derek Jacobi, Djimon Hounsou, Ralf Möller, and Richard Harris. Directed by: Ridley Scott.


                
I think this story has been told many times. I really do not enjoy Crow's acting. The script was okay and the direction was good. I mean once you get pass the inconsistencies, it was okay. This is not the type of movie I usually watch but I did find parts of it entertaining.I will probably never watch this movie again, so at least I have the experience of seeing it once.This is not my favorite movie and I disliked some of the actors, but all in all the movie was okay.


                
At the time of its release, "Gladiator" promised far more than it delivered; part of the audience still had some hope "G.I. Jane" and "White squall" were the exception to Scott's career (other "exceptions" such as "Thelma & Louise" and "Black rain" were too far behind to be remembered) and Crowe had recently hit the big screen with "L.A. Confidential" and "The insider", making us believe he was indeed a versatile actor.But when the moment of truth came, it all came down to a formulaic, even boring revisiting of "peplum" with a penchant for vengeance and codes of honor, some sort of Spaghetti Western on sandals. Worst of all, it is extremely inaccurate in its depiction of Ancient Rome, and there is something in its inaccuracy that makes me think it was intentional; for instance, the only main character with a Mediterranean phenotype is Joaquin Phoenix, albeit the rest of the main cast (Crowe, Harris, Nielsen, Jacobi, Reed, ...), although apparently Roman patricians and "equites", would be far more adequate playing Celts or Germans. And moreover, the true Germans were shown for a couple of minutes as furtive, dirty, easily disposable barbarian thugs who hid behind the trees making guttural noises and looked anything but Nordic. Furthermore, a grandiloquence is attributed to Roman architecture, urbanism and daily life which is highly unlikely to be even similar to the real Rome of Marcus Aurelius and Commodus. Even some of the weapons shown at the beginning of the film are extremely unlikely to have existed. In other words: this is not a reconstruction of Rome, but a projection, a deformed mirror from which a certain country of our days looks at itself. This happens to a certain point in "Alexander", too, and makes me think the current vogue of historical cinema is more directed at redefining the position of the United States as a summit of "enlightened power" in the midst of an uncivilized world than at maintaining accuracy and resemblance to the true facts.The truth is Ridley Scott has only given us two good movies in all his career: "Alien" and "Blade runner". The rest of his work could have been directed by Spielberg, Cameron or even his own brother. Instead of wondering why his filmography is so mediocre nowadays, we should wonder how could he direct those two masterpieces. Maybe the essence of artistic excellence is heavily dependent on having the right collaborators rather than on personal genius, especially since the latter is not so frequent, after all. This would explain, for example, why Schoedsack and Cooper delivered one piece of Art in 1933 and never came even close to doing it again.


                
Emperor vs. Gladiator in a battle to the death.  Live Sunday, Sunday, Sunday at The Collesium.  Come one, come all.  Price of admission will not be refunded if this film sucks.Oh My Holy God, why couldn't you inspire this man Ridley (Riddle me a munch ass) Scott, to make a film that makes sense?  What is this supposed to be?Russell Crowe what did you do?  Mr. Romper Stomper, Mr. L.A. Confidential? Why God Why?Hey I got an idea let's make a modern version of this film.Let's get President Bush in a steel cage against That serial sniper guy. That seems like a logical thing for a man of great political power to do. 
Oh My God!Is this the end?Why did Maximus die?  Why did he have to die?  Oh this is tragic?  Nothing has been more tragic in film history since Earnest bumped his head in "Earnest Scared Stupid".This is a tragedy.  Let's bite each others toe nails and give this an Academy Award.(applause)Wait I meant for Best Puketure not Best Picture.Why does this keep happening.To be continued...with Ridley Scott's next bomb!!!!!!


                
