There is an unwritten rule in movie making that if you have an excellent script it doesn't matter how you film it. If you have a lousy script - then everything else matters, the direction, the cinematography, the acting, the music... "Gladiator" is an epitome of the latter half of that rule. The case where direction, music, acting and art direction completely redeemed a crappy story.For me it took watching it in German overdubbing. As I don't speak German there was nothing to detract me from visuals and music. And it's a new experience on another level. But more on that later. First the crappy part. The story.Make no mistake, whether you care about history or not, this is a horrible script. It's taking huge (and quite unacceptable) liberties with the period it purports to portray, it's unconvincing even on its own terms, the dialog is pretty much high school and in its core it's a predictable revenge story told a zillion times before. Apparently (according to a documentary about Hollywood screenwriters) only Russell Crowe didn't know what turd the script was so he contributed himself with the juvenile "husband of the dead wife" speech.Ridley Scott and his crew apparently knew what stinker they had to work with and did their best to defeat it with excellence in all areas and actually made two films in one.On the surface it's a revenge story. The hero, a favorite army general turned gladiator, seeks revenge against a young emperor, who had general's family killed during the tumultuous succession to the throne. The military battles and the gladiatorial bouts required for this aspect of the movie are done both to tremendous detail and on a grand scale. With the help of CGI they are seen in all their glory and gore. Some accuse Scott of shying away from action but his direction shows everything one needs to see. Yes, the cuts are brief, the camera sometimes doesn't follow through, but the editing is pure poetry and you miss nothing. Cinematography-wise every frame is shot in a way that you could just hang it on a wall as a nice picture. Costumes and scenery are impeccable. A revenge story, yes, but well worth watching.But on another level "Gladiator" plays out like a remake of "Fall of a Roman Empire". But it's not in the script. It's in the mood set again by production. This other story is about the decline and death of classical Rome and its ideals. There is simple yet effective symbolism to express it, the play on dark and light and the sunrise-sunset arc. The movie starts with a battle at dawn, the way the Rome itself had once dawned, fighting. There is an ideal Roman hero, valiant and dutiful, there's a typical Roman villain, clandestine and scheming. Hero does his best in the light, the villain does his worst in the dark, whenever they swap environments during the movie they fail miserably. The story ends at sunset, symbolizing the end of the Empire itself, and although an uplifting speech is given at that point it is defeated by the setting sun.The feeling of the doom is constantly emphasized by melancholic music. The dreamlike experience of the main character who is already dead but doesn't yet know it is enhanced when he finally visits Rome and the city is an idealistic, blown in proportions version of itself. The script may be a complete falsification of history, but the feeling of decline one gets when watching those scenes is probably completely faithful.So forget the story and the closing speech. Watch and listen the movie. The Roman Empire is living and dying once more before your very eyes.


                
I am usually worried that I'm in for a big let-down when I am looking forward to a film as much as I was to this one.  This time however, I was very pleasantly suprised, when Gladiator not only fulfilled but surpassed my expectations.  It's a brilliant film, which (while containing weaknesses such as a script which wasn't quite as good as it could have been, and one climactic scene which completely changes, and ruins, the ending) manages to engage your heart and mind.The performances are without exception excellent (although the accents may distract a bit, there is such a wide variety of them).  I must single out for commendation Mr. Phoenix, who despite his youth manages to portray a character with such conviction that you never for a moment doubt his interpretation.  His physical performance is as good as his mental one.The film rests firmly on the (extremely attractive and capable) shoulders of one Russell Crowe.  In a tour-de-force performance, he manages to convey a man (not a superhuman) with frailties and doubts and fears and heart.  I cannot convey to you how brilliant this man's performance was.  If anyone else had been this character, the film would have rated at best a five out of ten.Kudos to Russell Crowe, and to Ridley Scott, for managing to keep this film on a level with humanity, rather than one in which the characters become killing machines.A must see, five stars out of five.


                
Movie is technically very fine i have watched in theater twice and i like it much as lots of turks but sometime after the reason why we loved this movie became clear this was only a western look over an old Turkish movie series Tarkan... Maximus was so Turkic that he was wearing lamb fur(lamb was introduced by Huns to Europe) instead of bright armors of Romans,Like Tarkan he rides along his wolf, his family has been murdered by his foes ... you can claim that these may be inspirations of Ridley Scott from Tarkan but there are some scenes taken directly from Tarkan movies...1- Maximus fights a big German guy - Tarkan's fight against Giant Orso both are under snow.. 2- After the fight in arena, emperor orders death- neither Tarkan nor Maximus kill the victims. 3-The scene of birds over Rome 4-The appear order and camera movements in the arena at least the final is different, Maximus dies though Tarkan is immortal


                
In Rome circa 185 AD, General Maximus (Russell Crowe) leads a successful expedition against Germanic tribes in the northern empire. Dying Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris) confides that he is to succeed as Emperor, to the chagrin of the vain, ego-maniacal Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix), who kills Marcus and usurps the throne. Maximus is expelled from the army, his family is killed, and he ultimately ends up in Rome as a gladiator for Proximo (Oliver Reed). Defying the will of the Emperor and eager to have his revenge, Maximus becomes a hero to the masses and joins Commodus's sister Lucilla (Connie Nielsen) and a cabal of Senators led by Gracchus (Derek Jacobi) in an attempt to bring down Commodus.Gladiator is something of a paradox. As a well-made, entertaining action film, it's hard to beat. Its attempts to be something more, however... not so much. It's very entertaining, an excellent crowd-pleaser to be sure, but it's far from the great film it's widely considered to be.Gladiator wants to be something significant. Its multi-faceted plot, its commentary on society, its distinguished cast of actors, epic battle scenes, and great musical score almost push it there. The movie borrows heavily from "Fall of the Roman Empire" (settings and characters), "Spartacus" and "Ben-Hur" (for the plot). This is not a criticism, merely an observation. And the movie does have an inkling of being something more than just another action movie. And yet it fails, because at heart it is basically "Braveheart" in a toga.Perhaps I'm just not enthralled by the film's basic storyline. See if this sounds familiar: A successful warrior who wants only to live in peace is roused to ass-kicking action by the death of his family at the hands of cartoonishly evil villains. This is the plot of "Braveheart", "The Patriot", and innumerable Westerns, action films, and Steven Seagal/Chuck Norris slugfests. Death of family members is an easy motivation for a character, and dare I suggest a lazy one. Maximus isn't a thoughtful, conflicted hero like T.E. Lawrence or Spartacus, he's just a man of action who wants to wreak vengeance on those who wronged him. In spite of its attempts to convince us otherwise, the movie is basically a Schwarzenegger or Van Damme flick set in Roman times with a lead actor who can act.The subplots of the film don't fare much better. The character of Commodus in particular is a disappointment. One of the few good things about "Fall of the Roman Empire" is Christopher Plummer's portrayal of Commodus. Commodus is an egomaniac with delusions of grandeur. He's not horribly complex in that film but Plummer makes it work. Whether it's the script or Joaquin Phoenix's acting, this film's Commodus is a sniveling weakling. I appreciate the effort to give him motivation (his father never truly loved him) but in his big scene with Marcus Aurelius, Commodus doesn't come across as heart-broken, merely insincere. Commodus is a petulant child who lacks menace. David Schofield's duplictious Senator Falco is a much more effective bad guy. The Senate plot against the Emperor is under-developed and comes across as a bad pastiche of "Spartacus".On a purely action level, the movie is pretty good. The epic battle which opens the film is not particularly impressive in my opinion, but the gladiator combats later in the film are impressive. The visceral thrill of a gladiatorial match comes across well, particularly when Proximo's gladiators "upset" an enemy team. The fight between Maximus and the "Tigress of Gaul" is very well-handled, as is the final duel between Commodus and Maximus. The CGI is of mixed quality. It's impressive in some scenes (notably Commodus's entry into Rome) but in other parts it's murky and distracting. Hans Zimmer's score is haunting and helps drive the film's more powerful moments.The movie excels largely because of Russell Crowe. FOTRE failed because Stephen Boyd is a block of wood; Crowe, playing a very similar role, excels. Maximus is not a particularly noble hero but he's a fabulous action star, and Crowe does bring a degree of intelligence and complexity to complement the ass-kicking. The supporting cast is mostly under-used. Djimon Honsou, Oliver Reed, David Schofield and Derek Jacobi give the most memorable supporting performances in the film despite very limited screen time. Richard Harris is disappointing as Marcus Aurelius, and Joaquin Phoenix and Connie Nielsen aren't particularly compelling either."Gladiator" is one of the best action films ever made, on a purely action level. But in its attempts to be something more... well, not so much, I'm afraid.7/10
It's starts out like any good epic should with a masterfully filmed and executed exciting battle sequence that sets up the audience for one of those rare Hollywoodian confections that are both entertaining and artsy. Unfortunately, it all goes downhill from there. It isn't the performers faults since every single one of them give amazing, emotional, even, at times, riveting performances (the kinds you should find in better movies) and who give the whole picture more class than it deserves. It isn't Hanz Zimmer's nor Lisa Gerrard's fault since they have composed a score that's almost (and I do mean almost) as unforgettable as the Godfather's. And it certainly isn't Ridely Scott's fault since he yet again succeeds in immersing the audience in the world he has created. No, the ones who are to blame are the people who wrote the saccharine, clichéd, soap-opery script and who, in the process, have wasted all of this incredible talent. They should be fed to the lions. It's an entertaining B-movie that could have been a classic. Just like Titanic in a way.


                
There is much to appreciate about about this picture but at the same time there is much to castigate as well. What could have been a thoroughly involving story turns out to be crippled by a lean script, some very indecisive direction and choppy editing. Not to mention some bad casting in the form of Richard Harris as Marcus Aurelius, a role which cries out to have been the last role played by Anthony Quinn.The film starts out well and looks bleakly authentic in its depiction of the pivotal battle in the wars between the barbarian tribes of Germania and the Roman Empire. But as the story gives way to 40 minutes of exposition following Commodus and Lucilla's introduction, Ridley Scott seems to tack things on whenever the script runs into weak spots. This leaves the film without a flowing narrative and it seems to want to please a mindless summer movie action market while at the same time aspiring to be something deeper. What it leaves us with is a schizophrenic, unequivocal story full of contradictions. There seems to be an epidemic in the past three or four years - films like this, Titanic, The Patriot, Pearl Harbor, Enemy at the Gates etc, try hard to be great epic films but at their core they are very slight and even trivial. The story in Gladiator holds promise but what little conflict there is set up and thrown at us in the first hour, leaving just a linear resolution to unfold for the remainder. A shame because so many elements could have been introduced in this story to make it truly an awesome and thoughtful epic. I guess complex stories like Spartacus and Ben-Hur will never be made again. This one falls somewhere short, though better than Demitrius and the Gladiators and the film it heavily borrows its narrative structure from - The fall of the Roman Empire.Technically the CGI is at times seamless and other times poor. When our troop of Gladiators run into the colosseum for the first time however the effect is absolutely jaw dropping and the scene that follows certainly delivers the action goods. The acting is very good throughout except for Tomas Arana as Quintus (about as bad as John Dall in Spartacus) and the aforementioned Richard Harris. Like Braveheart, not a bad entertainment experience but highly Hollywoodized and with an uneven narrative. But unlike Braveheart, the ending to Gladiator is a just a little embarrassing as it rips off both Braveheart and Titanic to far less effect. If you can get past the flaws, not the worst Roman spectacle on offer. Too highly rated at 8.1/10.


                
The beginning of "Gladiator" is powerful. We see the Roman Legion fighting against the Germanic tribes in what surely must be one of the most spectacular battle scenes ever filmed; one which truly does give the viewer a taste of what warfare in that era must have been like. The ending is powerful, as the quest for vengeance finally comes to a head, with General Maximus facing the Emperor Commodus in a gladiatorial contest in the Roman arena. In between - well - things could have been a little better.The acting in this movie, I thought, was first-rate. Russell Crowe as General Maximus, Joaquin Phoenix as Emperor Commodus and Connie Nielsen as Lucilla, sister of Commodus, all played their parts perfectly. The gladiatorial bouts were superbly choreographed. The set decoration was magnificent, and looked exactly as I would expect Imperial Rome to have looked. So, why do I say this could have been better?(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Basically, the whole thing was just a bit too clear-cut for me. Maximus was too obviously the good guy, Commodus too obviously the bad guy. With this being so clear, we know that the movie must be heading for the final confrontation between the two, and it makes watching the middle 90 minutes or so difficult. "Get on with it," I found myself thinking from time to time. It didn't have to be quite so clear cut. The potential was there to give the viewer a real ethical choice to make. I mean, one can understand Commodus being angry when Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris) - his father - takes away the throne that Commodus had believed all his life would be his, and hands control of Rome over to Maximus. Commodus could have been a sympathetic character. He didn't have to murder his father. His father was elderly; a natural death wouldn't have been out of the question. And why the incestuous fascination with Lucilla? I didn't think it added anything to the movie - except to make Commodus even more repulsive. In the end, the movie didn't make me think about anything; it didn't challenge me with any moral decision-making; it didn't make choosing sides in this battle even remotely difficult.Don't get me wrong. This was a very good movie. One can always argue whether this movie or that should have been named best picture; one certainly has to agree that "Gladiator" was worthy of consideration. I just felt it could have been better. In the end, I give it a rating of 7/10.
I have had a great deal of discussions with people about this film. I agree it is a good movie. Its entertaining, action packed, worth the price of a ticket. However, I don't think I have ever seen a movie win so many awards without questioning the validity. Gladiator, while still a good film, is hardly deserving of all its accolades. I mean it might be worthy of winning cinematography or production awards or special effects but Best picture? Best Actor? I could think of a 100 other movies in the year 2000 more deserving than this movie. Don't misunderstand, I like this movie, but the problem is that movie awards like the Oscars,presumably, are there to honor high quality and High achievements in each respected field. Russel Crowe does an adequate job, but his acting in his other Oscar nominated films like "The Informant" or "A Beautiful Mind" were light years ahead of his performance in "Gladiator". Furthermore, Giving best picture to this film was mind boggling. I personally feel that the only reason this movie was even in the running at all, was because of the money it made. It was a good action movie and nothing more. Hey, remember that "Couching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" was also up for best picture that year. In my opinion, It ran circles around "Gladiator". Wheras "Gladiator' was just a good action film. CTHD was a phenomenal action movie and love story and should have won the top prize.
The New Millennium Begins with this "Time Machine" Movie that was and has become one of the most Popular, Award Winning Films in Recent History.History is Tweaked by the Journey, 2,000 Years Ago, when Rome was Kicking Ass and Decadent as the Fall of the Empire was Beginning.A Central Theme in Ridley Scott's Blockbuster is Rome's Politics, Corruption and Direction for the Future. But that is Hardly the Thing that Sold this one to the "Mob".It's Epic Appeal, mostly done with CGI, was its Bloodletting, Hero/Saviour (the muscled up Russell Crowe), and its Simplistic Display of "Wrestle-Mania" Spectacle.Joaquin Phoenix is the Over the Top, Effeminate, Incestuous, Megalomaniac Villain. Connie Nielsen is His Sister with Her Young 8 Year Old Son in Tow that Phoenix uses for Blackmailing Her into Submission.Other Supporting Characters make Mild Impressions. Oliver Reed as a Slave (Gladiator) Trader, Derek Jacobi as a Senator, Djimon Hounsou as Crowe's Token Sidekick, and Richard Harris as the Aging Caesar.Overall, it is a Lazy, Hazy, Sword and Sandal Modernization that has more Pretensions than it can Sustain. Not Taken Seriously it's an Entertaining Oscar Hog that is Overrated but Worth a Watch. The CGI doesn't Hold Up all that well, but in 2000 A.D., it had some Appeal.


                
This is a very known movie. If you haven't seen it you've probably heard someone say it was good, and it is. A great film and some outstanding acting. Good character development. Great recreation of Rome and the Colosseum, with nice costuming and a decent supporting cast. Where Gladiator does triumph, is in its ability to express the sheer depth of the inhumanity and evil that drove the Romans to lust for gladiatorial combat. It's portrayed unflinchingly in all its gory horror. Yes, it was violent, so if you are sensitive to violence I would say you should find something else to watch.


                
A decent historical/action film which is unfortunately spoiled by too much dreary Irish music. As have been so many other nearly good movies, such as the Lord of the Rings series. Who thinks this drippy wailing schmaltz is a suitable accompaniment for any worthy action?Not me, anyhow.One of the very nice things about Gladiator is that Oliver Reed gets a decent part, suited to his skills, and that he acts it with admirable restraint. The other principals all do well, particularly Joaquin Phoenix, who exudes corruption and malice in every scene.


                
So i watched this movie because it was suggested after watching 300 (which i liked better to be honest) and at the beginning i liked it very much, but the end was very predictable. One big disappointment was the language. Before i watched this movie, i watched Narcos with its authentic Spanish, Braveheart with this awesome Scottish Accent and Inglourious Basterds with Brad Pitt and his cool Tennessee Accent. I don't want to say that the whole movie should have been in Latin, but this American English destroyed the whole atmosphere. I would not say it's a shitty movie, but in my opinion it doesn't deserve an eight-point-five score.


                
after a row of forgettable films Ridley Scott returned to former glory with this glorious adventure straight out of the realms of the 60's peplums(which can still be seen every easter and Xmas,full of adverts,on TV.it was surely a risk,however, ticket sales,DVD sales,critical reviews and a handful of Oscars,showed the production team had got it right.what they hadn't got right was historical correctness,the list of errors is longer than the final credits,but who cares,this is a film to sit back and enjoy,not improve your knowledge of roman history.a visually beautiful movie,with wonderful performances by all involved,gladiator has something unusual in todays cinema for the masses,Maximo.Crowe's interpretation of the general as a family man,loyal comrade is full of fateful exoticism perfect for the times he lived in,and worthy of Crowe's place as a great actor'.


                
I never got around to seeing this in the theater. I'm sure it's a marvelous spectacle on the big screen. I don't know what it was. I found the acting good, the spectacle and special effects outstanding, the hero one we could cheer for. Why, then, do I feel so empty? Was it all the hype, best picture of the year? I just don't know. It was totally predictable. There were absolutely no surprises. After seeing The Patriot and realizing both movies have the same plot, I expected something more. Why are evil Roman Emperors always portrayed as cowardly wimps? I still don't believe that he actually was willing to go into the arena with Maximus. He wouldn't have anything to do with war. There is the obligatory killing of the family. That goes back to Macbeth folks. If a ruler wants to stay a ruler, leave the family alone. I know it's just to show how evil and powerful the Emperor is, but do you want the top general in the army gunning for you?--this will guarantee it. There is masterful cinematography in this film. The scenes of violence are masterful. Although once you've seen one fountain of blood spouting up, you've seen them all--one decapitation is like another. What I wanted was to see the characters really dealing with the evil of the times and confronting it. There is always that army out there ready to be commanded again. There is always the possibility that the greatest empire in the world can be destroyed by one guy (like when Mel Gibson won the Revolutionary War all by himself). I think this is really quite a good film. But I don't see it as deserving to be named the best of any year. We've come to demand a movie that looks good rather than one that grasps our heart.


                
Gladiator strives to be more then a brainless big-budget action movie, in that sense, it deserves credit. The question is, though, does Gladiator actually manage to do this?In a way, yes. The storyline, while fairly linear and lacking a huge amount of complexity, manages to give proper motivation to each character and it flows smoothly. There never is any doubt what a character is doing in any given scene. The characters are even well-defined, which is more than can be said for the vast majority of its ilk.However, Gladiator does have its problems. There is no joy, and little emotion to this movie. Everyone who is in this movie is either vengeful, depressed, angry, or just plain said. It's a rather cold movie, in that way... compared to its fellow Best Picture nominee Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (which exudes warmth and emotion), Gladiator is extremely cold and joyless. While the storyline does do a good job of saying why everyone acts like this, it still doesnt help the fact that the movie is extremely cold. Im not asking for a tacked-on love story, just a little bit more emotion then anger or depression.Still, that aside, the movie does manage to stay entertaining. Some parts dont seem to flow quite well, but, for the most part, it is good. The many facets of what is going on (for example, Commodus' dealings with the Senate) are well represented, and Ridley Scott manages to do a good job of sticking with these topics and dealing with them.Gladiator has its fair share of special effects, and they are very nice. Fitting in with the theme of the movie, however, much of it is filmed in drab earth tones. The early scenes are extremely blue or red, but never in between. Compared to a movie like "Titus" (to be fair, that movie only kinda-sorta takes place in Rome, but I digress), Gladiator is quite dull looking. Still, most of it does fit - the Colosseums look as one would think, as does everything else. But the movie definitely is not vivid, nor beautiful to look at. But it does look nice. A lot of the camerawork is good, but a special point must be made about some battle sequences (both the opening, and some effects used in the gladiator battles). There is just too much herky-jerky effects... enough to distract one from the actual event. In Braveheart or Saving Private Ryan, the camera moved around a lot, to be sure, but at least one still got a good feel for what is going on. With this movie, the cameraman fell so in love with these techniques that he neglected that people would actually want to know whats going on.Still, in spite of these flaws (some more significant then others), Gladiator is a very good movie. It is entertaining (although it does get boring at parts) and it does tell a good tale. However, compared to a movie like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (the two movies do have a lot of similar elements), Gladiator does come out as being the inferior one. But, that doesnt mean it's a bad movie - in fact, its probably worth a spot in a movie fan's collection.


                
First, the good parts: The movie looks really nice, great special effects and magnificent environments. The battle scenes are some of the best I've ever seen, thrilling and realistic. Joaquin Phoenix is also very good as Commodus.WARNING---SPOLILERS CAN BE FOUNDNow for the bad parts, and unfortunately, there are many: Damn it Ridley Scott- Read a history book! The movie is FILLED with historical mistakes and errors. I tried no to think too much about them, and I tried not to care, but when they are so obvious and incredibly silly, I could not ignore them. Here are only four of them, to keep it short. FIRST: The Germans did NOT stand in an open place, waiting as the Romans loaded their siege equipment and prepared their archers. Speaking clearly: The Germans were not freakin' STUPID! They used a type of guerrilla warfare, hiding in their forests, and making surprise attacks, often at night, when the Romans were camping and resting. SECOND: SO, Maximus rides from Germania to...Spain? wounded? And taken by slavers to northern Africa? That would have taken months, even years! THIRD: Maximus is what..Spanish? The word Spanish was'nt even invented by 180 ad. Spain was called Iberia and the inhabitants Iberians, and these where barbarian warrior tribes of possible Celtic origin. FOURTH: The emperor is fighting a gladiator in the Colosseum? Very silly.Furthermore, the acting could have been much better. Russel Crowe is quite boring! You can't feel for him in the same way as you could feel for Mel Gibson in Braveheart, just for example.I know- Everyone is NOT historians, and some only want to get entertained and have some action at the screen, but I can't help but feel that this movie is overrated.
When a Roman general (Russell Crowe) is betrayed and his family murdered by an emperor's corrupt son (Joaquin Phoenix), he comes to Rome as a gladiator to seek revenge.The music is very much like that for the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series, which should not be surprising given that both come from Hans Zimmer. Did he recycle the music here for "Pirates", or is it just a similar style? Hmm.This is the film that really made Russell Crowe an international star, and helped him earn an Oscar (though it probably should have gone to Geoffrey Rush). This is also probably the best film from Ridley Scott since "Blade Runner". While on first viewing it may not seem like anything special, it really does present a great telling of Rome and its problems (fictionalized) and could have parallels to empires today.


                
I think without a doubt that Gladiator's strengths are its simple but powerful story and its engaging performances. Other than that, however, I think the overall style of the film and the film-making itself are already quite badly dated and forgettable. It doesn't feel like the personal vision of a talented filmmaker (Ridley Scott in this case) but more like an anonymous miniseries with great actors and a very big budget. So, it's good but it should have been great and I find it frustrating because I think it's overrated and I don't know why so many people either can't see or just don't mind what appear to me to be obvious flaws.The action scenes are no longer very special. Braveheart had passionate battle scenes with very precise and skillful choreography. It's not that these ones aren't skillful, but they aren't very original and there's nothing particularly personal about them either. And of course, the special effects are well past their "best before" date so that aspect no longer helps a whole lot.Is Hans Zimmer a hack? He blatantly rips off Holst's "Mars: The Bringer of War" (and does it badly), not to mention tinges of Vangelis, but maybe Scott is in part to blame for this. His orchestral texture is typical of his scores, there's the obligatory march (that sounds a lot like Pirates of the Caribbean, which he had a hand in, not to mention the Michael Bay movies he's done) and worst of all he employs the subtlety of a sledge hammer when it comes to setting the mood in rousing or emotional scenes. One major exception to this in my opinion was Richard Harris' last scene which I found surprisingly good, as if the director gave him some freedom and he actually liked the scene. Otherwise, Zimmer's music fits the movie, or at least its obvious surface layer, perfectly. No risks. No depth. Plenty of formula.Russel Crowe's performance transcends the dated film-making. It's honest and gritty. Oliver Reed also stood out for me (especially his eyes) while the rest are more than engaging. Coupled with the effective story, the performances make the movie worth seeing (IMHO).So, weakness = formulaic film-making. Strength = story + acting. I reckon if you replaced Hans Zimmer's score with any thematically similar music and re-filmed all the non-dialogue scenes using any competent but disinterested cinematographer, Gladiator would be just as popular as it currently is.


                
One of my all time favorite Ridley Scott movies, keeps you entertained all the way through and spectacular movie making at its best


                
I'd heard so much about the Roman Empire from history class, but never got to watch many movies about it. I'd watched Ben-Hur but this was closer to the grandeur of a lost empire. Nail-biting action and suspense with a revenge plot make for a good story. A respected warrior goes to zero then back up again in order to find justice and peace. Will he succeed? Is he doomed to a premature death? Let those be your guiding questions as you watch the film. It may not be entirely accurate but it's good as a period piece. Plus we get some familiar faces.


                
Once again, Director Ridley Scott proves to be as professional as one can be. The recreation of ancient Rome is splendid, with all its magnificent buildings and atmosphere and he is able to show with all brightness the greatness of the Roman Empire, with its political problems and military discipline, and love and treason, of hate and jealousy, that still have a place in our world today. But the story has a glow of its own, to which all the beautiful scenery (believe me, it's awesome!!!) and great cinematography are just balancing factors. The plot is a rich one, that is as dynamic as it is present. He once again, after Blade Runner, 1492, and others helps us visit the depths of the human soul, which remains the same over all our historical and social experience. Even the fights, are displayed in such a way that all the blood is quite discrete, but still, making us feel like screaming and jumping out of our seats. I would also like to point out the performances of the cast, that is surprisingly good. We have some actors and actresses, who are not Hollywood icons, but are are greatly able to move the audience among screams and tears. All in all, we have guys like Russel Crowe, who are coming out to be part of a new and extremely promising harvest of people who are making each time more fans around the world. Well, you should see for yourself!


                
Compared to a lot of other war movies,this one in particular has a really good battle scene to start it all off. Though its plot isn't my favorite i would have to agree that they got every battle scene right and the character development was almost even better. But it did have me falling asleep at certain points and also reminded me of a movie my mom would watch, which doesn't make the movie bad but definitely sets it aside from other action movies. I also think the whole medieval setting makes more than a war movie too. But if i had to give this movie one word, that word would be "thrilling". A movie i would recommend watching personally.


                
A General who is tired of war wants nothing more than to be with his family; a wife and a son in Spain. His name is Maximus (Russell Crowe). Since Emperor Marcus Aurelius became the Caesar, General Maximus has been at his loyal command. He has sworn his utmost allegiance to Emperor Marcus who trusts -- not even his own son, Commodus, the rightful heir -- the general to lead Rome. To take his place as Caesar. It was soon after this conversation that Emperor Marcus is announced dead. Commodus explains to Maximus that it was of "natural causes," when in truth it was he, Commodus, that killed the emperor. Having caught wind of the concursion between father and general, Commodus arranged for General Maximus to be disposed of -- permanently.After escaping the secret execution, Maximus rides home to only find his farmland and family burnt and crucified. In complete distraught and sadness, he faints and is picked up by a slave caravan and is taken to Zucchabar, where he begins his new battles, not as a general, but as a slave.This movie has many qualities that makes it a "complete" movie. It has a story, as simple as it may be, that is moving and full of action, conspiracy, and beautiful filming techniques. In terms of slavery, this movie does a pretty darn good job at representing the most intriguing form of Roman slavery. Gladiators.In Roman history, a lot of times slaves were picked up due to abandonment, such as children with no guardians. Maximus was picked up and became a slave. With the Romans, which the movie portrayed, anyone that was a slave was equal in slavery means. In other words, their prices did not vary due to skin color or race. All slaves had an equal price, unless certain arrangements were made, such as doubling the price of gladiators.What I found interesting was the idea of winning over the crowed will get your freedom. When Maximus completed his first alone fight, he yelled at the spectators, "Are you not entertained?" This caught the attention of a man. He would tell the ex-general how to be a gladiator and earn his freedom. He could not kill quickly. He had to win the crowed. He had to get the people on his side for "the mob is Rome."Throughout the movie there is various spiritual references. An example being when one of the slaves wishes good luck to Maximus for "red is god's color." We also see that Maximus has visions of going to meet his family in the afterlife or Elysium. This might have been meant for a form of foreshadowing.There are many positive takes from this movie in forms of character and vengeance. Right away we know the Maximus is a man of honor. He is incorruptible. Turning down a life of riches and fame because it is not his beliefs and violates any and all of his principles. Also let us not forget the fact that with the lesson of good and evil, Commodus gets a rude awakening.Lucille, Commodus's sister, knew Maximus from the past. She paid him a visit before his next time in the arena. They were conversing about the power of Rome when Maximus exclaimed, "I am a slave. What possible difference can I make?" I found this a little disturbing. He has gone all this way to fight and become a gladiator to seek his vengeance, and then he makes a comment like this. It sounds as if he has given up. Lucille assures him he can. That he will change Rome. He will bring the greatness that Rome has envisioned for so long. He did. Maximus brought honor to the city. It made the people see a true warrior. A true soldier. Maximus has struck the hearts of many for he was General that was brought down to a slave and became an honorable gladiator that changed the fate of Rome.No matter what. Slave or not. Anyone can make a difference. Anyone can change something if they so desired. Their hearts and minds have to be set and then just then will they achieve something of greatness.


                
If you look on my top shelf of DVDs and Blu-Rays you will find pride of place given to "Spartacus", "Ben Hur" and "El Cid". I have told the story elsewhere about how bizarre English educational policies permanently altered my brain chemistry so that I became fetishistically fixated on sword and sandal epics and how death by being disembowelled by the sword became linked with stories of baby Jesus in a satanic miasma of adolescent confusion. In short, I like a good epic. I had therefore been looking forward to seeing "Gladiator" ever since I first heard about it. The question is, then, was it worth the wait? Short answer – no. Long answer follows.I liked Gladiator a lot though it took me half the film to readjust my head to what I was seeing as opposed to what I had expected to see. I would not call this film an epic and it certainly does not compare to the spectacles we used to see in the good old epics as mentioned above. Instead we get a classic Joseph Campbell-like heroes journey story in which Russell Crowe starts out holding high position as a commander of the Roman Army in the North but is betrayed, left for dead and has to fight his way back from the bottom in order to wreak the revenge of the righteous man. On this level it works superbly. Russell Crowe is the man. There can be no doubt after seeing this film that the mantle of romantic tough guy lead must pass to him for the foreseeable future. I would not say that he is a great actor (thank god) but he has the looks and the presence to make the character work. A pivotal scene in which he reveals his identity to Commodus, his nemesis, is simply fantastic.So we end up with a film that has a very strong emotional centre. The murdered emperor Marcus Aurelius is a highly moral man who wants to pass responsibility to Crowe, not to his real son. We see the struggles that Crowe has to go through to accept the responsibility and then how, even when he becomes a slave and his family is murdered, he can still eventually do the right thing. I would guess that it is because this emotional tale is so central, rather than the fighting, that Scott has chosen to shoot so many scenes by using close-ups of the actors and that they occupy so much time on screen. In fact I think this will transfer very badly to a pan and scan TV version because he often uses close-ups with 2 heads either side of the screen with an out-of-focus centre. Nice to see a director really directing for widescreen (at least on this level).But as for the much-touted gladiatorial scenes I have to say that I was disappointed. In the first instance the CGI is still not up to the job. We all know only a portion of the Coliseum set actually existed and the rest was computer generated. It's good but it's still not good enough. The flyover shot of the arena which has been much talked about is also good but still not good enough to make you forget you are watching a computer-generated scene in which the movements of people and animals is still too jerky to be convincing. Compared to the epics of the 50s these modern CGI scenes are not as impressive as large-scale sets.I have to report disappointment over the actual combat too. Compare the opening, admittedly very good, battle with any battle scene from Braveheart and you will see that it is not quite as good. The man to man fighting between gladiators later in the film is even more disappointing with Scott constantly going for close-ups rather than pulling back to let us really see the action. Bruce Lee and Fred Astaire both looked brilliant because they were usually (almost always with Astaire) shot with their full bodies in frame. What made them so impressive was that you could see they used their whole bodies and most of what they were doing was not faked. In Gladiator I seldom escaped the frustrating feeling that tight camera angles were being used to compensate for the fact that the real spectacle was too difficult to depict. Oh and I have to say that men wrestling stuffed animals still looks as silly as it ever did.I regret saying so many negative things here but I say them because the film seems to have been hyped as something it is not. It is superficially an epic but it in no way compares to the best of the original epics. In my judgement this is a film about character and the relationships between men of honour and men of opportunity. The acting from Richard Harris is as impressive as that from Crowe. Oliver Reed also turns in a good performance for his last film and we can only regret that he did not get better roles in his life. Perhaps Reed's tragedy was that he would have been perfect for epic roles as a young man but epics had become too expensive to make by then.Ridley Scott is still, to my mind, one of the best and most innovative directors around and I rate this film highly despite my criticisms. The problem lies in the marketing. This is an excellent film but for every reason other than the ones advertised.


                
Rome, just like any other empire (British, Soviet and American, etc.), was bent as seeing itself as enlightening a dark world, even if attained by savage conquering. Therefore, historically speaking, it's hard to see these folks as the proverbial "good guys" in some kind of morality play.
That said, director Ridley Scott does deliver to us a pretty good movie. I found the performances adequate, yet still couldn't help see Russell Crowe's character (Maximus) as the L.A. CONFIDENTIAL detective character suited up in armor. The same brooding performance. Maximus, for a Roman General, is the typical Hollywood antihero. (Hey...let's mow these Huns down, so I can call it a day, and get home to the wife and kid.) This is hardly original. I've seen better work of his, in such films as the mentioned L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, THE SUM OF US and ROMPER STOMPER. His main antogonist, is the emperor's son, Commodus, played bewilderingly off-the-box by Joaquin Phoenix. The guy is a walking-talking Freudian slip, whom anyone with an ounce of sense wouldn't let him watch a hardware store for an afternoon, let alone an empire. The contrasts between the two leading characters was simply too obvious and simplistic. I frankly saw too much of a parallel in the script, with the relationship of Marcus Aurelius, Maximus, Commodus and Lucilla. It was like this part was lifted from THE TEN COMMANDMENTS. It reminded me of the old Red Skelton quip: "Impersonation isn't the sincerest form of flattery...it's plagiarism!" Well, not as bad as all that, but the screenplay was hardly original, as well.   A nice touch, was adding a few older veteran actors (namely Richard Harris and the late Oliver Reed, who gives an excellent turn to his character "PROXIMO"). The battle scenes and the brutal gladiator fights were stunning in their horrible brutality. Serious kudos for not flinching about the awful truths of human carnage. Top marks in this catagory. The computer generated effects have been well mentioned for their disapointing results, by other reviews, so I need not mention them here. Overall, rather overrated, but still generally entertaining fare if you're not looking for something too deep. A classic on the level of SPARTACUS? Hardly.


                
