Many men has called this the greatest movie ever made. I disagree, though I liked it very much. The hype of this movie is as interesting as the movie itself as it says a lot about the world we live in and the men who seek power. I have seen and read intimidation used by people, trying to personally attack any who called this movie terrible or boring calling them stupid, while many other just jumped on the wagon calling it the greatest movie ever made to avoid such attack. A similar pattern to how physically strong, but emotionally weak men like Capone and Hitler came to power.The movie is significant to both world and film history. I however only give the movie a 5 as by todays standard its less artistic, entertaining and original. I also did not feel there was much new or original to learn from this movie and I did not get that "wow" feeling. I would not have much interest to see it again.This is one of my favorite gangster movies though and its certainly not terrible or boring. However it lacks in much of what I think a great movie should be such as: Moral points, emotion, surprise, humor, editing, cinematography, original thought, special effects, music score or even acting.(the tough guy role is not as challenging as it is to play mentally ill person) It does also not appeal to a very broad audience (not a movie many women and children like). It was great for its time, but compared to some of todays movies is very limited in the areas of greatness.If you like movies like old gangster movies or even tough guy movies like "the departed" and "scarface" or want to know what the hype is about. I recommend this movie it is a great movie for this genre. But it does not reach the emotional or theatrical heights of movies like "Forrest Gump", "the Lord of the Rings", "Dances with Wolves" or even my favorite gangster movie "Goodfellas".


                
The only good thing about the movie was its style. It is unique. The second thing was Al Pacino, I mean he just holds everything still while he speaks. REally commendable performance. The opening scene was fantastic"I believe in America" perfectly lit shot. After that everything is a drag. I get bored by the end of the movie. It has elongated scenes , I mean these so elongated that you can take a nap without missing anything. It was more like a opera kind of movie. So the opera lovers may like this movie but for me it was boring. Go watch it if you kind of love family drama said in a kind of some song and well love to nourish the scenes


                
I saw this movie twice. It's an alright movie but really has noexceptional value. Certainly not as much as everyone seems tothink. I believe people heap praise upon it because other peopleTELL them this is the best movie ever. I say to those people growa backbone and watch some better movies.


                
Time and time again my friends berate me for not seeing this film and yet consider me to be something of a 'movie buff'. So they duly sat me down on Saturday night with a curry and the director's cut for my entertainment and delight.All I can say is, there's 3 hours of my life I'm never going to get back. Don't get me wrong; I'm a big fan of gangster movies, I've studied some of the early Cagney/Robinson films and seen most of the more important ones: Scarface, Casino, Goodfellas - I even stayed awake through Once Upon A Time In America. But The Godfather was agonising. Slow, meandering, overly-complicated, lacking punch - what it lashed out in bullets and horses heads, it certainly lacked in dynamite. Watching The Godfather is the cinematic equivalent of the Beach Boys' Pet Sounds; 30 years on it's impossible to see why on earth it was considered so ground-breakingly new and exciting. But by all accounts Coppolla was making a brave movie here, reintroducing a genre stuck in the 1920's and lavishing 168 minutes on the minutiae of one Mafia family.And lavish it he does. The only thing I can say in its defence is that the production design was superb, it lacked for nothing, the overall look of the film was excellent. The budget must have been colossal. What a pity the plot and the dialogue didn't live up to its promise. With a cast so huge and impressive as well, it's twice as pitiful.The legendary Marlon Brando couldn't fail to disappoint - the poor man's legend - in my opinion - far exceeded his talent. I understand the director begged Brando to come out of retirement for this, although I kind of wish he'd stayed there. His incessant mumbling, padded cheeks and all, peering out of dark corners and scratching his face just had me turning the volume way up high and becoming increasingly frustrated. Diane Keaton just played Diane Keaton/Annie Hall (her real name, trivia hounds)as usual, with an increasingly terrible haircut. She looked like she wasn't sure what she was doing in the movie any more than we did, she just looked like she wanted to go home. Her relationship with Pacino totally lacked chemistry and I found his return to her from Sicily as a widower highly unbelievable. Even Pacino's 'thunderbolt' relationship with Apollonia seemed contrived and wooden - I know he's meant to be a hard man but he remained so poker-faced throughout the movie I lost any feelings of sympathy for him.The best part I felt was played by James Caan, whose character was labelled as 'hot tempered' by his father (is that what it takes to be interesting within the Corleone family?!) so of course he met a predictably sticky end like a lot of the better characters. I found a lot of the meandering plot very predictable - to the extent where I was annoying my die-hard fans who put on the show for me, but I couldn't help it: "Something tells me Apollonia isn't going to get out of that car" etc. The plot didn't really go anywhere, it just seemed to be setting itself up for that sequel; every 20 minutes or so Brando/Pacino were inviting people to take advantage of 'an offer they couldn't refuse'. It was laughable.Other than Caan's, none of the characters were the slightest bit appealing; the outrageous behaviour of Tommy in Scorsese's Goodfellas, for example, is counterbalanced by his likable personality: you're laughing in spite of yourself. Pacino's protagonist in Scarface is the same - snorting copious amounts of cocaine and waving a gun around - you still care about the guy, however monstrous he's become. But Pacino in The Godfather was just a cartoon bad-ass, like the rest of them, identikit baddies with no depth whatsoever, no remorse, no weakness, no humanity, no growth. When Brando stumbles to his death among the tomato plants in play with his grandson I take that to mean that Coppolla was showing us Vito had a heart but really, it was too little too late.Coppolla may well have been brave in 1972 to reintroduce a decidedly unfashionable genre on a conservative audience, and for the time it might have been a breath of fresh air, but the glamour and pace of subsequent, better, gangster fare puts The Godfather in the shade, however responsible the film may be for the genre's future output.


                
I am a 14 year old film buff and have just set up my account on IMDb if i had set this up earlier i would have commented on this film before now. I watched the Godfather when i got it as a Christmas present 3 years ago, when i watched it i immediately thought wow what a let down!! everyone who i spoke to had said it was one of the best films they had ever seen. But i disagree, there is no denying that the acting and direction in the Godfather is sublime but it is the fact that it is so monotonous, many people will say that it is because i am 14 but i have seen many films including other Coppela films such as The Conversation and Apocalypse Now, which is my favourite film so i definitely am not saying that Coppela cannot direct but what i am saying is that he could have done so much better with the script, the talent and the locations. So overall I am saying this: The Godfather is not a Bad film just very poor and it is definitely not all it is cracked up to be. Thankyou for reading my review.


                
OK, I REALLY don't get it. I always thought: "Oh well, the Godfather, masterpiece, everyone has to watch it at least once in their live, let's see it then (someday)". Then today I finally decided myself to watch it and I was shocked about it.To make it short, it was boring, WAY to long for the amount of real action (and I don't mean Micheal bay action, I mean something like a traceable storyline that doesn't introduce new names and character every time something really happens (and thats not often the case) so that in the end, you don't even know who's who and what is really happening. I don't like a film where you don't know who is doing the action you see, especially if some of the main characters are so similar that you can't distinguish them in some scenes. Also, the film is too long. Take the first set for example, the wedding (or was it a wedding?). If you count all the minutes you see some macaroni's dancing without sense or entertaining the viewer, I think it's around 5 to 10mins. If you look at that you know why the movie is around 3 hours long. Coming to the characters, I didn't have any emotional relationship to them after 3 hours of nearly non-stop conversation. I didn't really care when they died, first because in most cases, I didn't know who was killed in the scene most times and second, because I had no emotions for them. (Let's take that scene near the end, where all the people get killed, like 5 or 6 in three different locations. I didn't even recognize one of them, the whole scene didn't make sense for me. Why would they shoot a women with their child in the bed, especially if the viewer doesn't know who (the f**k) she is??? Not really a pro for a so-called "masterpiece") The only two pros I have are the acting and the music. I have to say I'm not a pro in commenting acting in films (watched Catwoman and didn't have a clue why Halle Berry became the golden raspberry for their acting after learning all that stuff with the walking like a cat, martial arts etc.). But I have to say what I've seen in this film is the most natural acting possible. None of the scenes looks contrived, the "we are all family" part came very good. Also the soundtrack is really worth recognizing.To sum it up:Acting: 10/10 Storyline: 4/10 (really disappointing) Action: 3/10 (even more disappointing) Lenght: 2/10 Soundtrack: 8/10Overall: Around 4-5/10, I'll give it 4 because it's overrated.PS: I watched "The Rock" the same day and found it much better than "The Godfather" (Better action, no lenghts, even better soundtrack, a very simple but at least traceable story)


                
Just another violent gang movie, whats the big deal? I hate these sort of movies about mafia guys going around with guns thinking they are all tough, put them in a ring one on one with Tyson and see how tough they are. I Don't understand why this movie is so praised, Whats the big deal? There is enough violent gang movies around, what makes this one special? There are so many movies better than this one out there, don't waste your time with this. I suppose there must be lots of fans of this movie like there is for lots of other violent pointless ****house movies such as Sin City and the likes, I guess this just highlights that there must be fairly big problems in our society today, why would anyone find this sort of negative and pointless junk enjoyable? The way that this sort of thing is portrayed in movies as being "cool" is really quite sickening, I wonder how many people who have had personal experience with murder and violence would find this sort of thing enjoyable, not many I would say. If you think you are going to get anything worthwhile out of this movie think again, your life will not be enriched in any way by watching this, spend the three hours out enjoying the sunshine or talking to your friends and family or something instead...


                
Ddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddd ddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd dddddddddddd


                
I watched this movie three times in an attempt to see why such a poorly written, directed, and acted movie is so revered by fans and critics alike.
Aside from the music (which is the only good thing about this movie really), I found everything about this movie to be mediocre at best. I found the plot to be thin and simplistic, the characters to be one-dimensional and underdeveloped, the cinematography to be pretentious and boring. And the movie itself to be unnecessarily long and lacking of suspense. Overall, it looks like a documentary, and a very bad one indeed.
And the ending was a major simplistic plot convenience to the point of being stupid.
The only logical explanation for this movie's acclaim is that this movie is a mafia propaganda movie to instill fear and respect towards them. And the mafia forced critics to praise this title by placing severed horse heads in their beds!


                
I do not understand the big fuss about the Godfather trilogy OK yes the acting is top quality with brilliant performances from marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Robert Duvall and even talia Shire is good but the film just drags the whole story is boring and the films just seem to go over the same things over and over again.I must admit that i am probably not the best person to review the godfather seeing as i don't really like gangster movies i didn't like Goodfellas either although i did like like the untouchables I believe people saying they love the godfather movies is simply because they have heard other people saying how good it is and think that in order to be considered a proper movie lover they have to like the godfathers.


                
Having seen this movie many years ago I sat to re-engage and watched again. I cannot understand the hype about this movie. I think that people hear that its the best movie made then automatically accept this opinion and convince themselves it is. The scene with the horses head was ridiculous really. Acting by Brando was at best mediocre and James Caan is useless . I don't even reckon FFC as a director either, especially after Gangs Of New York. If this was made in present day it would probably flop. The 2 sequels got worse and the supporting characters never seemed to fit in.I would imagine the book is a million times better. The only redeeming feature for me was seeing Al Pacino honing his acting skills he used so brilliantly used in the later Serpico and Scarface. Sorry but this never gripped me at all.Am I right in thinking Brando changed his looks,size and accent many times during this?


                
A friend of mine and I were arguing as to the greatest film of all time and he sent me to this site to see what the idiots (all 250k of em) here had decided was the best pic. I of course (like anyone with sense and taste or knowledge of film) was extolling the unlimited virtues and impact of the REAL best picture of all time, Citizen Kane. He meanwhile was arguing for the Godfather and I just figured it was his immaturity or possibly his ignorance and then when told me to go to imfd id10t or whatever this site is I was ASTONISHED to find that there were a quarter of million other people who agreed. Habadashery!!! There could not have even been a "godfather" without Citizen Kane, ALL of modern film owes a debt of gratitude to that film and anyone who knows anything about film making knows this. Please refer to AFI or just ask any freshman student of film. Blasphemy! and everyone knows that Peewees big adventure is the foundation for the future of film./ HAHA.


                
This is a good movie but not as great as everyone seems to think.Certaintly not the number one movie in the top 250. Heat, in fact,was much better than The Godfather. Pachino's acting was not sovery good and the plot was slightly sluggish. The whole timewhere Pachino is 'away' is a blind alley of a plot line and onlyserves to kill off his first wife that has no bearing on the plot really.7/10


                
What I don't understand is why so many think this is such a great film. The actors did great, but the whole story to me was boring. I like to see the bad guys get whats coming to them. I think a lot of the guys who watch this kind of idolize them and that's just sad to me. At least it seems that way. Maybe I just like my crime movies to have a more definitive hero. Someone I can root for to come out on top. There are mob/crime family movies I really like so I know its not just the genre I don't care for. The only reason I gave it a 4 out of 10 is because the actors were good, otherwise I'd have given it a 1. This is just my opinion of course. I often disagree with critics and ratings so you should watch it and judge for yourself.


                
A bad movie, just lots of conversation for 3 hours, and little action.


                
Very good movie ive watched it 10000000 timesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................


                
How is this considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time? Does something amazing happen in the third act? I wouldn't know because I only got around an hour and a half into this absolute slog of a movie. This thing is so impossibly overlong and boring that I'm pretty sure that most of these 10/10 reviews are fakes. Or at least from people who have never seen any movies other than this one.


                
One of the jewels in the crown of the 70s cinema, The Godfather tells the story of the Corleone family. Itialian immigrants, caring people, and mafioso. From the first frame in which you see Marlon Brando's face lit from in front and above like a dark angel to the last frame of the last film in which Al Pacino's wineglass falls out of his hand as he slumps, the family gone and destroyed. The Godfather is the holy trinity of mob films. Every film after it has its influences in it, and, much like some people look towards the Star Wars trilogy for an answer to every question, many people do so for The Godfather.


                
I watched this movie, trying not to set my hopes too high, after everything i had heard about THE GODFATHER. I think its overrated. It's an OK story. But i do not think that this movie should be worshiped the way it is. I think most people say its the greatest movie of all times, Because someone said to those people that it was the greatest movie of all time. I on the other hand found it so boring. So completely overrated and just simply SO boring that i hope never to see the other episodes of this movie. I in fact pray my children in the future will never have to see such a bad movie. Im sorry to say these thing and sound like a hater. But i really just do not agree with you and other who find this movie so magnificent. But i found this movie very bad apart from ill make him an offer he cant refuse story. Other than that i found this movie a mistake.


                
