Marlon Brando's acting as the Godfather is sublime and this film is worth watching for that.However I did find the film very long-winded and at times boring. I liked the slow progression of the storyline and understand why Francis Ford Coppola did the film in the way he did. It's just that I felt the film was lacking something. It could have done with a bit more excitement or suspense to make the film more gripping.Lets just say I watched this film about a year ago and I still haven't seen The Godfather 2, and I am in no hurry to either.7/10. Average film. Worth watching to say that you have seen it.


                
During the 1970s, American directors decided, like their French counterparts did in the previous decade, to elevate and transcend the genres that appealed to them as children growing up in the 1940s and50s. Lucas took Buck Rodgers and Science Fiction to new levels, as didSpielberg with the Action/Adventure movie.Some re-made war movies in their own image; others re-configured the Western. Coppola took a stab at elevating the gangster film from B-movie to artistic masterpiece.On some level, he succeeded, transforming the gangster film from movies about crooks to movies about crooks and their families.Though it may not seem like such a difference, adding that familial component made movies about organized crime much more interesting than they had previously been. When critics discuss the great gangster films, few films made before the Godfather are mentioned. The Godfather, in one sense, made gangster movies as we know them. That is no small feat and Coppola ought to be commended for that. He made a solidly acted and directed film in a genre not usually known for those attributes.However, the Godfather is not the greatest movie of all time. It is not even the greatest gangster movie (that would have to go to Goodfellas) or the greatest movie of 1972 (compare it to the dynamic performances of Sleuth, the absolutely absurd and insane Ruling Class, and Bunuel's masterpiece, the Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie and you will find the Godfather lacking).Do not mis-understand: the Godfather is an eminently watchable movie, filled with great performances and guided by the sure hand of a very gifted director. It is simply, though, a very good movie - no more, no less. Perhaps I'm able to take a step back from The Godfather because I wasn't there at the timeI understand its appeal and I understand why people call it one of the greatest motion pictures of all time, but I cannot agree with them. It lacks an intangible quality that all great movies have; it lacks an aura. Movies like Close Encounters and Chinatown have an aura that, though difficult to describe, simply exudes greatness.The Godfather lacks that intangible quality while maintaining all of the tangible qualities of a great film. That one, almost invisible piece, though separates the very good from the great. That intangibleis vital and is something this film simply does not have.
Like I said: Definitely not the best movie ever. While the movie had its good points, I can't see why it's number 1 on IMDB. I don't even think it was better than Goodfellas, or even better than the other two movies I rented (American History X, Casablanca). Oh well, still good entertainment, looking forward to Godfather Part II.


                
The Godfather series stands as the best in the mob dramas, butthat doesn't mean it is as spectacular as advertised.  In generalmob dramas have been overrated from Godfather to the SopranosTV series.  The main problem with The Godfather is that many plotelements are not shown or even described.  The followingexample is a *spoiler* so if you don't wish to hear a fairly majorplot point don't read on.  In the middle portion of the film Sonnypicks up the phone and then goes racing off in the car with othersscrambling to follow.  He then is gunned down.  Neither the topicof the call nor the reason he was killed are told to the audience,leaving them wondering why it happens aside from the usualtension throughout the movie.  These types of skimpy explanations make too many parts unbelievable that the plot is aweakened form of a potentially great plot.  Outside of that themovie features fine acting and scenery for a decent butdisappointing experience.
Personally, I found this movie to be quite overrated. Even though it was a good movie, I see very little that makes it great. The movie is long, and often long winded. The only standout that I see is Brando's incredible acting. Mr. Brando and Al Pacino both make this long film bearable.


                
In a word, underwhelming. The Godfather is a decent film with some strong acting, but I did not find any exceptional or unique quality in the film that would render it a masterpiece. It's a simple a mob story in which everybody is an antagonist; the story is not gripping, the characters are hard to care about, the camera work is adequate but not in any way remarkable, the list goes on. I don't think The Godfather is a bad movie, but in no way is it the best I've ever seen, or anywhere close.The movie has been so hyped that I really was expecting to see the best movie all time when I watched it. What I saw was a decent flick with some very quotable moments, but in my mind the film has no singular or superior quality when compared to other great films. Monstrously overrated, but still a respectable movie.


                
So, the best movie ever? No. Not in my opinion, but I can see where the sayers get it. the Godfather was rather ground breaking film for it's time, a rather bold film, but still it's not the cinematic masterpiece everyone keeps raving about.Coppolas best film is "Apocalypse, Now". That is something that is extremely hard to top. When you compare the two the style of directing is so different, that they almost look like they were shot by two different directors.Godfather's biggest issue is poorly made editing, unnecessarily lengthened out scenes and totally unnecessary scenes, but then again what can you expect of a film, which was something, or so I've heard, that even the director was frustrated about. Some scenes just linger on the screen, without any evidence, that the director really knew what he wanted, and, in the end, the producers decided to amp it all in the film just because the material was there.The best thing about the film is acting. There's no way denying that. This is the film, which shows why people think Marlon Brando is one of the greatest actors of the history. This is the film that showed us the genius of Al Pacino.It's been some time since I've seen part 2, but I remember liking it better, I've always thought it was a vast improvement from the first one.


                
For mafia members murders are nothing but business. They never kill for pleasure. Only in case of need, cold revenge or even summary justice (punishment of traitors for instance). Besides this they all have normal family lives with most cherished spouses and children and are usually very religious making pompous wedding, christening and funeral ceremonies in the Church or under priests' directions. This reality and atmosphere is splendidly shown in this movie that Coppola directed in a superb way and with a competent and strong hand. The cast has a stupendous performance. Marlon Brando plays a magnificent part in the role of the old godfather of one of American powerful mafia families, mastering his intonation and facial expression effectively thus creating an unforgettable character in the history of cinema. The action unfolds itself along the movie in a very captivating way. I want to stress particularly the sequence of the christening in which the new family godfather (Al Pacino) makes all the oaths in the name of the child (of whom he is also the Catholic godfather) and before the priest while a parallel cut shows us all the time a series of murders of rival mafia chiefs that were taking place at same time in several other places and which had been ordered by himself. The contrast of the religious scene and the violence of the killings is really impressive and full of meaning. This is maybe the best movie about mafia ever made.


                
I hate reviewing classic movies, since most have a reputation and I feel like I'm not an actual moviegoer/critic if I don't like the classics or give them a certain rating. Anyway, I finally got to see The Godfather. I was a little disappointed, but I still liked it.In Francis Ford Coppola's Mario Puzo's The Godfather, Al Pacino plays Michael Corleone, son of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando), a famous family mafia. The film goes through their various escapades as a crime family.I really, really enjoyed watching The Godfather. The almost-three-hour runtime seemed to fly by. I was enthralled by the sincerity of the acting and the horrible true-to-life feel of the film. All of the acting was dead-on, although some of the screaming could have been a little better. With up-and-coming stars at the time such as Al Pacino, how can you go wrong?However, with all movies, they can't be perfect. The film could, or should, have had more plot to it. I know it's supposed to be "a day in the life of" type movie, but if it had been with one adventure for most of the way it would have helped. Also, there were lots of supporting characters who we can't remember about for three hours. If that wasn't enough, all of the characters looked like either tall or fat white men with thick Italian accents, making them hard to understand (and of course I had to rent the VHS version so I couldn't read subtitles). More towards the end, I couldn't tell who was on whose side. The ending could have been trimmed down a little; the last half hour or so seemed to actually be boring and not very exciting. Maybe Coppola put it in there so the movie could have the designation of being "one of those long classics".I was surprised about how little strong language there was for a crime movie like this. I would have guessed all the characters to be swearin' like a sailor, but I was surprised. The amount of blood didn't surprise me, but I commend Coppola for putting so much in.Pacino looked like he does now, minus bags under his eyes. Brando gained about 200 pounds after The Godfather. And, Abe Vigoda looks exactly the same as he did thirty years ago. Yes, that's right. Abe Vigoda is in this movie. Hurray!The Godfather is an entertaining movie that is overrated but still fun to watch as three hours pass.My rating: 7/10Rated R for strong violence, blood, brief nudity, and constant but mainly minor profanity.


                
I didn't grow up then but in the modern era having now watched this film it's no 10. The acting is overdone and the multiple characters dropping like flies makes it hard to keep up.


                
I saw this for the first time as a teenager and was pretty bored.  At the same time I was seeing things like "Scarecrow" and "Deliverance" so its not like I was just interested in seeing juvenile nonsense. 
I've seen it again recently, twice.  I admire the movie, I like it, it holds my interest, I think its very good.  But I fail to understand why the imdb trolls think its the greatest thing since the invention of the lightbulb. For that reason I've rated it lower than I normally would cause you've all gone overboard in your admiration.  Pacino not winning an Oscar is a huge injustice.  He makes the entire movie worthwhile and doesn't even have to talk.  James Caan is miscast.  Brando is terrific but if he didn't win, I don't think the earth would have ceased existing.  Its Pacino's movie, through and through, and someone must have agreed w/me on that, since the second one is his, too.


                
No doubt a good movie, but to place it among the top ten is foolish. It hasn't introduced anything new at any cinematic level. Its influence on the living trends of cinema is practically zero (no interesting movie made after The Godfather owes anything to it). It's the paradigmatic example of what Fredric Jameson calls nostalgia cinema, a pastiche of the old conventions of gangster movies, a kind of funerary monument. Classical cinema ended long time ago (probably in the fifties), and this movie is just a well-done late survivor, a kind of aesthetic dinosaur.


                
Although I have a high regard for THE GODFATHER as a gutsy crime melodrama, I would not place it as the #1 film of all time. That place in cinema history should still go to GONE WITH THE WIND, in my opinion.But it's a brilliant piece of work, gorgeously photographed, extremely well crafted throughout with everyone in the cast perfectly suited to their roles.I read the Mario Puzo novel and it's as though each actor was hand- picked for their roles with uniform precision. Highest ranking among the performances are MARLON BRANDO (although I needed the caption feature to catch all of his mumbled words), AL PACINO, who practically carries the main part of the story with a very earnest, very strong portrayal of the favorite son, JAMES CAAN as the hot-headed Sonny, and DIANE KEATON as the romantic interest (Kay) for Pacino. All of the others do stand-out work, particularly RICHARD COSTELLANO as Clemenza.Rumors that some of the details reflect the story behind Frank Sinatra's desperate quest for the role of Maggio in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY are apparently quite true. After all, here the crooning son who needs to save his fading singing career is eager to get a serious role in a war film that is just right for his own Italian persona. We learn that his sweetheart is also the object of lust by a studio head who has spent millions turning her into a studio star only to risk losing her as a property if she marries the crooner. Sound familiar? It should. Think Ava Gardner and Frank Sinatra. Or even Sinatra and Kim Novak. (Is Harry Cohn the lecherous producer???) But just how many of these details are true, I don't know. I like to think that author Mario Puzo invented some of them.Aside from this aspect of the story, which culminates in a very famous and bloody comeuppance for the uncooperative producer, there are plenty of other gripping sequences where we know something bad is about to happen because of the various injustices within the crime families. This is the hook that ties all of the sequences together and maintains suspense right up until the final touching scene.A brilliant piece of work--but still not at the top of my "favorite movie" list. It's a well-structured crime story by a man who really knew how to write for this genre--and a man (Francis Ford Coppola) who really knew how to direct this sort of crime melodrama, so meticulously detailed and realistically set in the 1940s.


                
Some memorable sequences, in particular a string of assassinations intercut with the family at church, but too many overly long scenes.  To me the film seems disjointed, and is let down by poor central performances (yes poor) by Brando (hammy), Pacino (stiff) and Keaton (invisible).The Conversation, which Coppola directed a couple of years later, is a better film, with a brilliant performance from Hackman.  But even that takes an hour to get moving.


                
The Godfather has set the boundaries off all crime drama films that have ever been shown to people around the world. No one, will ever go beyond this film, it is truly magnificent. The film shows how the Corleone crime family want revenge on the men that tried to destroy them and there old beloved Don. Don Vito Corleone played by Marlon Brando can been seen as some greatest acting that has ever been placed inside Hollywood. The famous line "I'll make him an offer he cant refuse" will always be rembered. Brando plays a character that is a family man, who wants to keep his family safe from the underwold. As well as to get out of the family business. He man who never wanted his sons to go join him, but yet he could do nothing about it. He is man of respect, a man who knows when the right time is, no matter what the situatuion is. He is the Godafther. When he was nealry killed by the drug baron called Sollozzo, he knew that his time as Don was up. He knew that there would be war, bloodshed,and that he could do nothung until he was ready again. His oldest son who was hot headed, angary, but a wonderful tactican like a general could never run this family. His second son Fredo was not man enough to to do his job. He youngest son though, the person who killed Sollozzo, was a calm, thoughtfull, ruthless man, and would be the person to take over the family business. Even to his displeasure, that he never wanted this to happen to his son at all, he knew it was the right thing to help bring back the weakened Corleone Crime Family, into where they belong. The king of the American Mafia Underworld, and the only way to do it is to destroy the five familes of New York.


                
Very few movie dads come off worse than Vito Corleone. As he postures and pretends to be a man of honor and a man who loves his family, he's all the time setting in motion the elements that will wound or destroy his kids. No man is in the Mafia unless he's just a greedy SOB. So, Don Corleone mortgages his children's future at a very high interest rate in order to become a multimillionaire off of bootlegging, labor-union corruption, gambling and loan-sharking. One son is horribly murdered by a thousand bullets, his only daughter, Connie, is eventually left an embittered and tragic widow before she turns 25, his grandson by Connie is left orphaned thanks to in-house vengeance, his eldest son is corrupted and eventually under the mob thumb in Vegas and his idealistic youngest boy is overwhelmed by the old Mafia game and eventually seizes headship of The Commission by committing one of the worst mass-murders in New York history. Don Vito said in the third scene of this movie, "A man who doesn't spend time with his family can never be a real man." He should have focused on demonstrating values to his family, not just spending all that time with them.


                
This movie is probably the most overrated movies on IMDb, if not the most overrated. People on here are looking for too much out of movies and they aren't looking to judge them off of the right things. The movie was shot beautifully, the storyline is pretty interesting, but the movie is long, and dryly drags on and on. TO me the definition of a great movie is a movie that gets my different emotions running, whether it makes me laugh, cry, gets me excited etc. etc., this movie did nothing,I just sat there, I watched the movie, then I thought to myself, this movie is what people consider to be the best movie of all time. THe Best? H*** No, the best movie of all time should make my emotions run in everyway. I'm not saying its a bad movie, but its just not my idea of grade "A" entertainment. Definitely not number 1, before you bash me, just think about it.


                
I agree that The Godfather is a classic and one of the greatest movies of all time but it bothers me how many people think it is absolutely perfect. It is not perfect, but it still probably deserves the number one spot. It is definitely the best mob movie ever made, but I don't like how people live and die by it.


                
Sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss


                
I watched The Godfather for the first time in the mid-70s, shortly after it came out, and I have watched it occasionally during the following years, along with its sequels, and one thing that has always intrigued is how it has failed to carry me on with it, to have me on the edge of the seat and to evoke in me that "(sigh) Oh, they are playing<U+0085>So And So!" feeling when I have found it while surfing channels on TV as it has happened with many other movies, including some minor ones. I never could find why until, as in many other occasions before, I came to read the negative reviews of the film: because (American) mobsters are not interesting people. They are just violent, unsophisticated, predators. So no matter how hard Coppola and his collaborators worked during the years that took to produce the 3 films, how much talent was involved, from the director, the top actors down to the humble extra, no matter how hard they tried to give the Corleone family something of an aristocratic dignity, a sophistication, even an ethics, a basic honesty —"we are into gambling and prostitution, we wont lower ourselves to sell drugs to kids"--this is not a work of art which will last much longer in time because it stays where it was born, in the dark, tortuous, smelly, bowels of the criminal world. The three TGs are not in any way works that overflow their origins and spread to the entire world, as a true masterpiece does. All along the series the Corleones remain strangers to us, they don't belong in our world, our lives, their plight and their labors are theirs, not ours, and there is no way they will ever be. When Corleone grieves for Sonny we don't cry with him, we only say, "well, what he expected, that's the way you live and die in his social milieu". And the same with every other (violent) death in the series. (BTW, the only one that gets my sympathy is Freddo, he is the real tragic here, he didn't have a choice to be there as he was born into a world he was completely unfit to deal with, while being at the same time too weak to leave all that behind and start a new life elsewhere. The only one with whom I may relate in any fashion, a real hostage to fate.) But don't get me wrong, I still consider THE Godfather 1 and 2 cinematographic masterpieces--Godfather III is another story--but in the same way that I consider the pyramid of Keops and the Great Wall of China as masterpieces. I stand in awe in front of them but otherwise they leave me cold, I can't relate in any possible psychological, ethical, emotional way to them and here is the reason why that may be.Let me explain IT by comparison. Don Quixote has been chosen as he greatest work in literature because it perfectly embodies the eternal struggle in the human soul between spiritual yearning and the nagging needs of the flesh, the temptations of earthy pleasures, which is true now as it was a thousand years ago and it will be as along as there as a human being alive. We all may identify with it so this is an enduring work of art, one that belongs to all of us. The same can be said of many other works of art, including Coppola's Apocalypses Now. They all touch something in us, they either remind us of our own frail human condition, our dreams, fears, pains, works or constitute simple metaphors of life itself, like Kafka's The Trial. There we can include movies like the Matrix, that explores the essence of physical reality as opposite to pure imagination, and toys with the scary idea that we may not even be capable of making the difference between both. Or Memento, which shows us in a really scary way how we are prisoners of our brain. That is what makes these two movies so interesting, we can see ourselves, our own reality, fears, anxieties, dreams, mirrored in them. That is not the case in the TGs series. At its very core TGs is not different in any way to, say, Casino--mobsters, doing bad things and getting their comeuppance--the only difference being that Coppola tried—unsuccessfully in my opinion—to envelope the bad guys here with an undeserved halo of dignity by giving the story the form of a family saga like Bertolluci did with his 1900 masterpiece.Now, there is no arguing that the production is perfect. Technically the entire series deserve a 10/10—if there was only that to factor in. Everything from the production values, the direction, the reconstitution of an historic era at a very specific place has been done to perfection. The acting is impeccable down to the most humble extra, so the direction and the camera work. The only missing element being the lighting, which sometimes leaves us practically staring at the dark. But as said, all that is enveloping an empty shell with no transcendental meaning. If you don't agree, just do this experiment: watch the movie again and look around you the luxury in which they live, and think that nothing of this has been obtained with honest, work, but with the proceeds of gambling, prostitution and maybe drugs. Pretty hard to base a parable on the human condition on that context, you got to reckon.In all, entertaining to watch when it is raining outside and nothing worthy on TV. Which means 7/10.
The Godfather is most peoples favorite movie of all time and that's fine. But for me their are better mob movies that explore the mafia. This movie is an epic such as Saving Private Ryan or Gladiator but it doesn't give you an emotional staying power like these films do. Be that as it may, I really enjoyed The Godfather because it makes the story of these characters believable. The three strong points of this movie are its story, you live this life with these characters and you don't doubt that they had to go through serious heartbreak and triumph throughout their lives. Another strong point is Marlon Brando's performance as Vito Corleone. It is an iconic screen performance and has definitely been copied in later crime movies. It's such an original character. And then the last strong point is the writing, so many memorable quotes are from this film and as they should be. In action movies visual effects and stunt doubles make you feel good. In a great movie like this the action is the dialogue. An overall good movie but extremely slow.


                
Amazing!This movie served as great entertainment with a colorful cast
A film that has stood the test of time. Marlon Brando is brilliant in this film so many iconic scenes and marlon Brando steals the show.


                
I think this title is awesome cast and magistral directing. Amaizing production and wonderfull drama.


                
