This is by far the best movie ever to give a portrait organized crime, this movie goes deep inside and shows it all inside out..With superb acting by especially Al Pacino as Mike Corleone and Marlon Brando as Don Vito corleone this movie shows how one of the head mafia families in New York works, it gives a detailed picture of how their business runs and what kinda chances they got to take on their business, for example their denial to step inside the narcotic business brings on alot of troubles, but also it shows what kinda sacrifices they make, every day could be their last day..Al Pacino shines above all in this movie, as the smart boy of the family he returns after fighting a war for his country, at that time not involved in the family business, but it doesn't take long before the war breaks lose and he see no other ways than to step in and fight for his family.This is definetely a "must see" masterpiece.
The Godfather is one of the very few films that doesn't have a single flaw.  Seeing The Godfather for the first time was the most amazing movie experiences of my life.  There's scenes that stay with you when the movies over, and you don't forget them.   Everyone makes the mistake of calling this film a movie about crime.  Its really a movie about family.  The dialogue is just unbelievable.  I've seen the movie at least 30, 40 times, and I'm still amazed at how perfect it is.  The music, the acting, everything.  People think that Citizen Kane is the greatest movie ever made...well, there's no way  that ANYONE can think that Citizen Kane is more moving, and has a better storyline than The Godfather.  The thing I find so amazing about The Godfather is how Michael (Al Pacino) changes throughout the movie.   Its my opinion that this is the greatest movie ever made, and I doubt that anyone can watch this movie, and think I'm crazy.
An important place in American history is the period when several thousand Sicilian emigrants went to the United States in search of a new, better life, in which there would be no tyranny of the Palermo and Messinxich dons. Who knew at that time that this "bunch of Sicilian emigrants" would occupy a high place in the United States and in the history of this country.Sicily is one of the most beautiful places in Italy. Unfortunately Sicilians, quite friendly inhabitants of this island, the words-synonyms of Sicily are not only olives, butter and wine, but also words like omerta, vendetta and mafia. Yes, the mafia. A small bunch of bandit mackerel in Sicily, run by the Don. In the US, this word took a slightly different meaning. A huge number of gangsters who seek to conquer and rule all the States. A family is a mafia, a mafia is a family headed by a cruel and wise person who manages everything and who owns everything. Proudly and shortly - don.Mario Puzo is a brilliant writer, rightly considered to be a recognized classic of the twentieth-century literature, having written several excellent and worthy works, the best of which is undoubtedly the novel "The Godfather". A book about the life of gangsters and revealing all the doors to the world of the mafia. Mario Puzo was a great connoisseur of human psychology, but the psychology of people who transgressed the law especially. That is why in his novel he explores each character to the depths of his soul and climbs into the most intimate corners of their thoughts.The novel, and indeed, the film - is not a direct and reliable historical source, but, nevertheless, it contains the quintessence of the criminal world. Five families of New York Piuso wrote from the real five families of New York, Johnny Fontaine Puzo wrote from Frank Sinatra. The literature was tired of books about Al Capone and Frank Costello, and Puzo made a move to a horse-invented a criminal family that was not really there, but which subsequently won, without exaggeration, the whole world.It often happens that the director, when stating a picture, leaves the original and is engaged in arbitrariness. Francis Ford Coppola director is no less brilliant than the rest of the directors. He squeezed everything that can be learned from the novel Puzo and put it into the film. Doing nothing without adding something new or removing something from the book, Coppola and Puzo created a masterpiece. A masterpiece in everything. Mario Puzo's book became a masterpiece of literature, and Francis Ford Coppola created the film - a masterpiece, a film - a classic that just can not help but like it. Coppola not only superbly put the film, but simply brilliantly picked up the actors. Who knows what was the fate of the film without Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. Coppola skillfully created the atmosphere of New York at the end of the forties, but also the atmosphere of family life, the life of people from Sicily.Vito Carleone is a wise and cruel man with clear principles, a loving but stern father. Marlon Brando was just awesome dona
Carleone. His character is a serious strategist who has achieved power and respect himself. Don Carleone's sad gaze, his smooth gestures, his unique voice and his unforgettable "bulldog jaw" forever blended into the image of the viewer.Don Carleone - this is Marlon Brando - sloven and lover in life, but on the screen - a genius who embodied the image of Don Carleone - a strong spirit of a man and a cruel gangster, who has enormous authority. Vito Carleone is a very impressive person who knew how to get others to do things their own way. Marlon Brando with his game was able to make the viewer believe that before him is not just an actor playing a role, but a real person is that same severe don. Brando is a great improvisator.Michael Carleone character is no less interesting than his father. Michael is kind-hearted and truthful, knowing what his father does, he never wanted to deal with his family and participate in criminal quarrels. Al Pacino played his character no less brilliant than Marlon Brando. Pacino showed all the destruction of the human psyche and the transformation of his hero: from the uninitiated in the affairs of the family of the young war hero, to the new Don Carleone, possessing an iron will, foresight, wisdom and dignity.
Sonny Carleone is not at all like Michael and Vito. He is an impulsive warrior, but a bad strategist who prefers to go ahead, not act cunning. Coppola did not lose on the fact that he called for the role of an American from Sicily. James Caan brilliantly played the role of Sonny - a man with an explosive Italian temperament, ready to always stand up for the family.In addition to the brilliant acting and excellent production in the film, there is the wonderful music of the composer Nina Rota. An excellent melody, fallen in love with everyone and has long become a classic."Godfather" is a masterpiece, an ideal gangster movie. The film without minuses, blunders and cliches, which pulls to review, even if you know it by heart. This is a classic, a gangster epic, a bible for cinephiles, giving answers to all the questions. A movie that teems with crown phrases that have long since become part of everyday life. A worthy picture, without exaggeration, is the best in its kind."Behind every wealth lies a crime" (c) - it is this phrase Honore De Balzac stands at the beginning of the work of Puzo. The film, if briefly, actually about it. And about the proposal, "from which you can not refuse" (c).


                
Some people have called this one of the best movies of all time. I can see why they say that, although I wouldn't quite rate it that high. It does feature an interesting storyline, great acting and magnificent photography so I am not going to argue with those who place in so high, because it's understandable. It also has a memorable score.One needs to see this on a nice widescreen DVD because it's so beautifully photographed with tons of greens, grays and browns that are just beautiful. It makes me want to visit Italy. The only reason I personally didn't rate it as high as others was I didn't like any of the characters, and especially the hot-headed James Caan. When he got riddled with bullets and was done with, a la "Bonnie & Clyde," that was fine with me!There isn't as much violence as people might think, if they've never seen this movie. To some, this film might be too slow, in fact. However, when the violence or something dramatic occurs it is intense and can be very brutal. Who can ever forget a guy waking up with a dead, bloody horse in his bed?!! Like a good film noir, there is a lot of tension running throughout the Godfather films. Everybody is after somebody it seems and you never know whom to trust. That's part of the downsides of living a criminal life: constant paranoia. All this is put together nicely as we become close observers of the Corleone family, its family ties and its "business."Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Robert Duvall, Caan, Robert DeNiro (later in the saga), Talia Shire, Diane Keaton, Sterling Hayden, Richard Conte, John Cazale, Richard Castellano, on and on - quite a cast and quite a movie. I enjoyed both sequels, too.I am also fortunate to own "The Godfather Epic" on tape, which must be some sort of collector's item by now. It is three two-hour tapes in which Godfather I and II are sliced together and the story is presented in chronological order, instead of with all the flashbacks. It's well-done and I would have printed a review on that version, but I don't see it listed on IMDb.
Part of the reason that The Godfather has been so popular, is that on first viewing it really does seem to have something for everyone.  It's a thriller, it's a (fascinating) documentary on 'Mafia Code', and half way through, for 45 minutes, a tragic love story.For starters, the acting is sensational.  There are very few people on Earth that cannot identify Marlon Brando's whispering, horse voice and bulldog expression. It has become what is probably the most famous performance in Hollywood's history.  The appearance of Al Pacino in the starring role is also a highlight.  The other highlights are of course the 'sound bytes'. For anyone who has not scene this masterpiece, I will not give the more famous quotes away- but they will be instantly recognisable when heard.This movie is split into three parts- the crime of the family, and its consequences, the exile of Pacino, and the reunion of the family in which the characters carry out the parts of the plot which set us up for the sequel.My only criticism of this film is how long winded it is.  Virtually three hours long, it is so meticulous that it becomes very hard to digest.  While the sequel is very deep and thoughtful, this tries to balance intellect and action- and although to a certain extent it succeeds, you wonder if this film would be a more enjoyable experience if there was less discussion and plot details, and a few more thrills.


                
There is always a risk when a film becomes a huge part of popular culture. So many of it's iconic moments and scenes are ripped off, riffed on, or parodied by countless shows and movies, that there is always a fear that the original will lose some of it's impact, and become comical and stale. The Godfather, however, disproves this. It is still a masterpiece, and always will be. The story-line proves once again how much the innocent public loves to view the lives of outright evil men, especially when they happen to be of the charming and charismatic variety. Let's look at the most iconic scene; a man chops off a horse's head, and leaves it in his owner's bed in order to scare him into submission. Oh yeah, he's one of the good guys though, so it's okay!Everything is explored in the Godfather, either directly or subtly; family politics, gangland negotiation, corrupt officials, there is no part of the mafia experience that is not pictured here, taken from the viewpoint of Michael, a character whose transition from unwilling family outsider and war-hero into the don himself really gives the film a unique perspective. Of course, for me, out of all the fantastic characters, the film is carried by Marlon Brando. There is something magnetic about his performance, a mixture of loving family man, ruthless career criminal, and sophisticated Sicilian gentleman, that is thrilling to watch. One of the all time greatest acting performances.


                
Spoilers herein.Building a life in film is not so much a matter of discovering the worthwhile films, but choosing which of those have the stuff worth building with. I have a clear understanding of what Scorsese is about, which I attribute to the Latin convention for storytelling. This convention is totally invested in characters, not situation or place or God help us, ideas. Scorsese's camera is attached to people, never place. His curiosity is always about people. This is a form of visual gossip that I eschew.So it is with Coppola. But his two projects (the Godfather and Apocalypse journeys) have another merit in how they work with what came before. Apocalypse is far more interesting in this respect. But `Godfather' is very clever in how it places itself. Gangster pictures began as a matter of a pretend world, and became ever more so as the genre matured. Mobsters lived in a world not unlike that of the Roadrunner,  always at a distance from reality, often winking at the audience.Coppola took his focus on the human to this genre. The film itself is no masterpiece without this placement, but is great with it. We inherit all the machinery and momentum of the genre to place behind the characters. Brando understood this, and alone is able to effect the transferral. Pacino would go on to sledgehammer his roles, but is appropriately subdued here.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
I did get a little bored here and there. But this film is classic. A work of art that will be remembered forever, and I admire the acting. It's so wonderful and you see so many familular faces that you see today. I will never forget "The Godfather".9/10


                
The first movie I've ever watched that left me with the feeling that I saw something bigger than just a movie. I remember it really well - I was 16, my parents were abroad and I watched it at home with a couple of good friends. When you remember the time and setting you watched a movie so well, it is because it really touched you and influenced you, and that's what I think that movie did to me. You really should watch it. It is an offer you can't refuse!


                
"The Godfather" is awesome. I could go on all day about all its strengths and why it is such a great movie. Instead I will comment on its weaknesses, or should I say weakness. It's too long. One thing that drives me nuts are movies that are a little bit too lengthy. Otherwise I loved everything about the Godfather.8 out of 10. (Pushing a 9)


                
No American filmmaker has had a more disappointing trajectory to his film career than Francis Ford Coppola. To have directed four of the most influential films of the 70's (the first two "Godfather" films, "The Conversation," and "Apocalypse Now") and then to spend the last two decades churning out one stinky product after another ("Peggy Sue Got Married," "Bram Stoker's Dracula", the third "Godfather") earns Coppola my award for Most Promising Director Who Most Miserably Failed at Establishing Himself as an Important Figure of American Cinema. But before "Jack" there was "The Godfather." While I feel the whole "Godfather" trilogy has been lauded into oblivion and is somewhat overrated, who am I to argue with the majority? People think these are great movies, and they've certainly implanted themselves permanently in our cultural consciousness.And don't get me wrong: these films have moments of greatness (at least the first two installments do). But I think "The Conversation" and "Apocalypse Now" are ultimately more interesting films, and I think Coppola stretched himself more artistically in those two films than he did in the entire "Godfather" trilogy combined.Of the trilogy, the first film is by far the best. It shows Coppola's flair for being able to craft a story with extreme mainstream appeal while staying faithful to his artistic vision. "The Godfather" doesn't look or sound quite like any gangster film before it, with it's muddy lighting and sound. It's also much more ambiguous morally than the usual Hollywood gangster film, at least any produced up to that point. The line between crime and justice is blurred sometimes beyond distinction, and the Corleone family at times acts with more honor (in its own way) than the institutions charged with upholding freedom, justice and morality. In this way, "The Godfather" offered a scathing critique of the foundations on which America as a country was built.Coppola, however, drives this point into the ground over the course of three films. There's really not much more to say after the first film (it's already apparent that Michael Corleone's style of rule is different from his father's, his coldness and ruthlessness necessitated by a changing time), but we have to sit through a nearly 3 1/2 hour second installment that does nothing but reiterate this point again and again. Part II at least is saved by the back story of Vito Corleone (played by Marlon Brando in Part I and Robert De Niro in Part II), and that story alone keeps Part II afloat. But Part III is wholly unnecessary and mars the whole enterprise, turning the franchise into the stuff of parody and camp.Al Pacino is the glue that holds the trilogy together, though his character really isn't as complex as a first viewing would have you believe. The major conflict facing him is resolved in the first film, and the second and third films give him nothing to do but replay what are essentially the same scenes over and over again.Other standouts in the cast include Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton and Talia Shire (who alone makes the third chapter worth watching).Obviously a must see for cinema buffs, or even casual fans, but don't feel you have to label this trilogy as great just because of the reputation that precedes it.My Grade--- Part I: A Part II: B Part III: C-


                
Does it even need to be said that The Godfather is an amazing film? Is there really any purpose at all in pointing out all the things which make it so wonderful? Everybody knows. Everybody will always know. This is a film which will live forever. The story, the performances, the cinematography, the music...all so perfect. And all woven together so wonderfully by director Francis Ford Coppola who created a true classic.There are so very many good reasons why this film will always be remembered so fondly. No matter how many times you see it the film never fails to make an impact. Even if you've seen the film so often you essentially have it memorized line for line and shot for shot it remains a thrilling experience. From the famous opening scene with Marlon Brando's Don Vito Corleone receiving requests for favors on the occasion of his daughter's wedding all the way to the end and the final settling of all family business the film never lets up. It's an undeniably powerful story and one which retains the capacity to surprise. Because initially it seems obvious that the story is about Don Vito Corleone. He is the Godfather after all. But, for as powerful a presence as Brando is, as the story plays itself out there comes the moment where you realize this is the story of Don Vito's son Michael, as played so wonderfully by Al Pacino. When Michael comes into his own the film, gripping from the start, becomes even more compelling. Has any character in any film evolved more than Michael Corleone does here? The Michael we meet at his sister's wedding bears no resemblance to the man we see in the end. And what a performance by Pacino, changing along with his character. What a journey it is for Michael as his story unfolds. And it is quite a ride as well for us who have the privilege of seeing it.Brando and Pacino are the headliners but they are wonderfully supported by an amazing cast which includes the likes of James Caan, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton and Al Lettieri. And that is just scratching the surface. There are so many memorable characters. And what a world Coppola has created for these characters to inhabit. The film has a unique look and feel to it. The world of The Godfather is quite unlike any other, often imitated but never duplicated. It's a triumph in every sense for Coppola. But perhaps his biggest success is in making you sympathize with the Corleones. We know right from the start that Don Vito Corleone is a man capable of doing monstrous things. But we identify with him anyway. And one cannot help but feel for Michael as he is inexorably pulled into the family business.Everyone has their favorite Godfather characters, favorite moments, favorite lines. The film has become a cultural touchstone. And as it continues to be discovered by new generations it seems that the film, if possible, actually continues to grow in stature. It is a classic film which stands the test of time. The Godfather has earned its place of honor in the history of film. A true masterpiece.


                
"The Godfather" has long enjoyed a reputation as one of the greatest films of all time. Is that a fair assessment? After re-watching the film recently, I'd say yes.The 'godfather' of the title is Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando), the aging head of the Corleone crime family. His time is coming to an end and some of his rivals would like to precipitate that end. When an attempt is made on the Don's life his sons follow in their father's footsteps as they seek to silence their enemies and protect the family interests.The Oscar-winning script was co-written by director Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo, the author of the original novel. While trimmed significantly from the novel the film still clocks in at two hours and forty-five minutes. The film progresses at a stately pace and features countless classic scenes.Coppola's direction received a well-deserved Oscar nomination and so did Nino Rota's score (at least until it was deemed ineligible). Gordon Willis' cinematography is good (but not great) and the film's evocation of the 40's & 50's is both attractive and authentic.As for the actors, Marlon Brando was rewarded with his second Best Actor Oscar for his iconic portrayal of Vito Corleone. Al Pacino was nearly as good in his role as Vito's youngest son but he had to settle for a nomination in the supporting category. He had good company, though, since James Caan and Robert Duvall were also nominated. Any one of these three performances would have been Oscar-worthy. There were also several memorable performances in smaller roles from the likes of John Cazale, Talia Shire, Sterling Hayden and others.Is "The Godfather" the best American film of all time? Personally, I don't think so but I wouldn't rank it too far from the top. In any case, this is one of those films that every movie lover should see.


                
I bought The Godfather: The Game and was sucked so deeply into it that I wanted to see the movies. My brother kept telling me about how the scenes in the movie played out and that alone was enough to make me buy the entire collection on DVD. I will never regret that decision so long as I live.The Godfather plays out like a documentary with out the corny voice over. The actors in this movie do such a great job it feels as though you aren't watching a movie but are instead watching the individual lives play out. There isn't a plot that can be fingered out. If you had to it would be the war between all the families and the cause of it.Don Vito Corleone is approached by a member of the Tattaglia family to form a deal between the two families in a new business venture: the selling of drugs. Don Corleone, a vigilant believer in the old ways, feels that getting into the business of drugs will draw too much heat. And because of this he refuses the offer that is placed before him.This fuels a fire with the Tattaglia family and it has a domino effect that causes wars between all of the families. The movie revolves around this central premise and comes to a head with the ending of the war. The outcome and what ends the war is also unpredictable and full of strategic writing. And I feel that the ending will surprise any body who doesn't already know how it all does.The only reason I didn't give this movie a 10/10 is because although it is a very entertaining and among the best movies I've ever seen, I don't feel that it is THEE best. There are movies out there that will entertain all audiences and that are just as good. There are movies that I can watch with friends without them growing bored. It gets a 9 because, as much as I love this movie, I can admit that it will only entertain a certain kind of person. I know there are movies that don't have this restriction.A definite must buy for collectors; Make sure you like dramatic movies and not action movies though.


                
I was fortunate to see "The Godfather" back in 1972 upon its theatrical release. No matter how many "gangster" movies were made before this, here we had a different kind of movie. We had a movie foremost about "family" and dedication to one another. If you could manage to ignore the fact that this was one of the New York mafia families (set in the 1940s), it was as if we were watching a model family. At once honoring the family patriarch, Don Vito Corleone memorably played by Marlon Brando , and at the same time witnessing the rise of the new family leader, Michael Corleone played by Al Pacino. Equally memorable was the role of Santino 'Sonny' Corleone created by James Caan. And memorable for Robert Duvall who created the quiet role of Tom Hagen. Many list have "The Godfather" as number one of all time. To me that doesn't matter, films are meant to be enjoyed each for its own merit. Regardless, there probably will never be a "gang family" movie that approaches the overall impact of this one.Coppola directed this movie and its follow-ups. Not all of his have been great efforts. For me "One From The Heart", shot entirely on a sound stage, looks and sounds cheap, I consider it a failure. But he also directed such a fun movie as "Peggy Sue Got Married", another "family" theme. Al Pacino, even though he was 31 during filming, was still essentially an unknown, but his role as Michael put him on the map, and he is still going strong. "The Godfather" is a long movie at three hours, but it never seems long, so well told is its story. It is a classic in every respect, and a copy belongs in the library of every serious movie fan.


                
It could be said that the film-adaptation of Mario Puzo's novel marked the beginning of a new era, as it established talents hitherto unknown to the wider public, including Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, and director Francis Ford Coppola. Furthermore, THE GODFATHER is often thought of as a "comeback" to Marlon Brando, which apparently puzzled the actor himself, as he pointed out in his autobiography that he'd been doing movies without considerable intermission for the last twenty-or-so years. However, the claim may not have been so unreasonable after all, as the role of Vito Corleone made Brando truly sought-after again. By the time Brando embarked on the role, no major studios would hire him due to a reputation for being "impossible" to work with, and Coppola was only able to convince Paramount that the actor was simply tailor-made for the part and could not be neglected by having him do a screen-test first. Considering that Brando had once revolutionized acting in America through his raw, unmasked portrayals of Stanley Kowalski and Terry Malloy in the 1950's, this procedure may sound shocking, but once accomplished, Brando proved that he remained the king of acting in the end. His portrayal of Corleone may strike us as being somewhat of a caricature today, as it has been endlessly imitated (and parodied) since, but Brando did in fact attribute the character with far more attention to complex detail than seen in a typical movie "gangster-boss" up till that time. That Brando's performance has now, in the eyes of younger generations such as my own, turned somewhat into a cliché is simply the inevitable result of his initial originality.Also Pacino, Keaton, James Caan and Robert Duvall are, of course, quite outstanding in their roles. Particularly in Pacino's case, his handling of his character Michael Corleone's dramatic development as a person which is so crucial to the story, comes off as completely convincing. From being apparently a rather sympathetic character at the beginning, he changes as he becomes increasingly involved in his father's business life. It is this devoted focus on character development, as well as on how conflicting aspects of a personality interchange such as in Vito Corleone's case, that truly make the story so intriguing as it is. However, it is one thing to have a story of nearly endless potential, but this does not necessarily result in a successful cinematic interpretation of it. Other than outstanding performances, the direction of Francis Ford Coppolla is, of course, more than merely significant; even if one neglects the other qualities of the film, it may be treasured for its own sake, due to Coppolla's extremely competent, innovative techniques. There seems to be too many scenes and moments to pick out just one or two favorites; his ability to define the mood and atmosphere of a particular event through a painstaking attention to every single detail, is arguably of equal impact to the story as the performances of the actors, and make the film a visual delight. This is no less impressive when considering that THE GODFATHER was Coppolla's first major film; he was to establish himself further into the decade with other brilliant films such as THE CONVERSATION, APOCALYPSE NOW and this film's second act.When released in 1972, THE GODFATHER turned out to be, not surprisingly, one of the most widely-seen, lavishly- praised films in the history of the medium, and earned three Academy Awards out of eleven nominations (Marlon Brando's refusal to accept the award, due to the "treatment of American Indians today by the film industry," has become famous in its own right). This is not to say, however, that THE GODFATHER is a film one is likely to grasp at first viewing; I, for one, did not quite understand its incredible reputation at first (though I did think it was a good film). Much as with CITIZEN KANE or BLADERUNNER, it is probably required to view THE GODFATHER through an historical context, and compare it to other films made around the same time, to get why it is so much adored. It helps matters that it's not only brilliantly made but really entertaining as well, so you're likely to have a good time no matter how you watch it.
As much as i did enjoy this film, and was intrigued throughout, I still don't like to see it gain the repetitive status of 'the greatest movie of all time'. I feel a movie has to have a more relevant context than the glamourised lifestyle and crooked dealings of Italian-American mafia to gain such a grand title. However, admittedly, unlike 'The Goodfellas' for instance, 'The godfather' is not glamourised that much, and I'm thankful for Coppolla turning what was at times a tedious book into a 3 hour long gripping tale. I did enjoy the book, but it's lucky that Coppolla was the man who got his hands on it. He turned some of 'The Godfather''s sections into the most mind-bendingly gripping scenes ever.In a film genre that is incredibly overrated, 'The Godfather' certainly stands head and shoulders above the rest, however, i feel it's genre should forever hold it back from being THE greatest movie of all time.


                
First time i saw this movie i did not understand the actual realty of movie and characters acting was speech less. Rest i can said when i saw and understand this movie after my 5th 100% successful attempt to watch full movie then i realize this was the awesome movie i need to buy original, and well be in my personal collection . Currently my family and my friends also buy the original blue ray of this movie very hard to find a seller because all want this one to their collection part.fabulous acting, superb story and played with characters am speechless. We all knows we well not again see to like this kind of level of movie in any decades hats off to all super actors in the movie.


                
Coppola's near perfect masterpiece. A first class cast including, James Caan, Al Pacino and heavy weight Marlon Brando to name a few. There is not much I can add that hasn't already been written, it frankly is the quintessential family, Mafia gangster film.The 1950's nostalgic feel is captured, distinguished cinematography by Gordon Willis and the script honed. The costumes, locations and sets add to the overall authentic experience. Brando's aged make-up is incredible, particularly for 1972 and apart from some insignificant choppy editing and stock footage the film is near enough picture perfect.Timeless, compulsive viewing, there is a reason why The Godfather is on a pedestal as one of the greatest movies or of all time<U+0085> There is no offer to refuse, it's a must see.


                
Here it is, the big boss man Vito is sitting in his gold chair, petting his cat, showing power. The poor man is begging for money from Vito but Vito just taunts him. This is one of the first scenes and probably one of the greatest scene in the movie because it shows how dramatic the movie is by the Vito showing power and wealth by petting a cat and sitting in a gold chair.
As I was watching this scene I thought I might give my opinion and review on the movie The Godfather. I think that The Godfather is a great movie for the time period it was made in. When it was made there wasn't a lot of technology they could use. But the movie is ultimately dramatic in a good way and it really expresses the characters feelings and emotions. Even though it is fictionalized The Godfather does add historic information to build off their plot which I love that the director did that. They also used one of the most amazing soundtracks I have heard in a movie. If that's not enough to convince you to watch it then I don't know what will.The movie is set in the 1950's where mafia superpowers are fighting for more power in New York. But this movie focuses on one specific family, the Corleone family. But when the leader of the family, Vito, gets in trouble with the other families he asks his son, Michael, to join the mafia and Michael reluctantly joins the mafia. But Michael starts getting involved in the violence in the mafia and he tries to maintain a normal relationship with his wife but ultimately keeps getting dragged deeper and deeper into the dirty, family business.One reason you should watch this movie is because even though it is old it got multiple awards for best actors and best pictures in 1973. To add on to that it got the BAFTA award for best film music. Now this is important because you can enjoy this movie, even though its old, and you can really experience the dramatic fashion of this movie because of the best actor awards and the best film music contributing to the greatness.Think about it, Vito's men are getting threatened and Vito is not having any of that. Then all of a sudden one of his men are killed and he says this line "Revenge is best served cold". Then out of nowhere two of Vito's men drowns another man that was apart of the gang threatening Vito and his gang. I love this line because it shows how dramatic the movie can be and how it expressive Vito is to go through with the murder.The movie is really good and I suggest that you give it a watch. It is definitely worth your time and is a 70's classic. And all the achievements and lines from this movie is amazing and will executed. Also this movie also influenced me to really go and try out different things outside my comfort zone. I really hope this review convinced you to give it a watch and this movie shows that joining gangs only leads to violence so don't join a gang.
One of the most amazing Movies in the history. Very close to the original source and masterfully done. I believe everyone should check out this masterpiece.


                
Classic, contemporary, contemporary, fantastic What to say more about a film that perfectly portrays a system that existed and exists until today?! Congratulations on the job. And watch it, a must for any movie lover.


                
One of the best trilogy made till date. Despite the slow move of the movie sequences it catches the attention of the viewer. A better way to represent the DON families of that time.


                
Rarely has a sequel been better than the original and in this case that is saying a lot. The Godfather 2 has Francis Ford Coppola bettering his original film which is such a tall task seeing as The Godfather was already so well received upon release. All emotions one can find in a life are presented here. Al Pacino is absolutely sublime as Michael Corleone who has taken over the business and family even though he is young. All the actors are so good you cannot fathom anyone else in their roles. The cinematography is exquisite and the direction so good it makes you wonder what happened to Coppola come the 80s. This is a must watch for any person who appreciates cinema.


                
I understand that this film has been argued as flawless, but I'm giving it a nine based on two reasons from a personal standpoint. This film can drag on at times which can become a bit dull and Goodfellas I think is a better film so I can't possibly give The Godfather a ten. That being said this film still lives up to the hype. The story is fascinating, the characters are well structured and this movie can really bring out every human emotion in its audience. The runtime be damned, this is a film you can easily watch over and over again.


                
