12 Angry Men is entertaining, mostly well acted, and worth a watch. It could have been far better but, from the outset, the film was designed only to take a pot-shot at the Right, and promote a Left Wing Progressive viewpoint as the absolute truth. This story is hardcore propaganda and, judging by its score on IMDb, has succeeded in fooling a great number of people. What is interesting to me is that the Left-wing's brainwashing started this early. Hollywood is still churning out the same bias today (go and read my Dark Knight review).The movie has a very interesting premise: An open-and-shut case is called in to question when one man on the twelve-man jury slowly convinces the others that the eighteen year old on trial for the murder of his father may, in fact, be innocent. That's got some real potential, hasn't it? Sadly, the gone-in-the-head Leftist who wrote this did what I feared he would: loaded the dice and peddled a Leftist agenda - namely one that excuses criminals of their actions and seeks to end the death penalty. That's the film's overwhelming goal. It wants the audience to come away from the movie, not with a greater appreciation of the legal system, but with the view that the death penalty should be abolished and that anyone who objects to this is a deluded, little bigot. Let's look at the facts we are given:-Spoilers from here on- 1. An 18 year old is on trial for the murder of his father. He has no alibi. The alibi he gave to police (that he was in a theatre the whole time) fell apart when he could not recall anything about the movies that were showing - even their names.2. There are two main witnesses: One saw the defendant leaving the scene of the crime (and heard the event); the other saw the murder take place through a window and identified the defendant. The defendant was also heard shouting in anger 'I'm gonna kill you', the same day as the murder.3. The knife (with a very rare design) used in the murder is the same knife that the defendant had bought earlier and was carrying around. His friends testified to this effect.4. The defendant is an habitual criminal who has had numerous run-ins with the law, including two arrests for knife fighting. He is said to be 'real handy with a knife'.5. The defendant has a clear motive: His father was repeatedly violent and abusive towards him, and had beaten him regularly (with fists) since he was five years of age, including the day of the murder.I was intrigued. Why does this one juror believe the defendant may not be guilty? How could he convince the rest that there is reasonable doubt? Despite the fact I feared these questions would receive fob-offs, I was still hopeful an intelligent investigation would be crafted around them. But no. Straight away, the film deliberately loads the dice by having certain jurors holding prejudiced or otherwise undesirable traits, while the dissenting voice is calm, collected, and supremely open-minded. That's cliché, and a very common Leftist tactic (you'll see it a lot on shows like Star Trek).The film takes each of the facts above and finds an absurd alternate explanation for them, such as the knife could have fallen out of the defendants pocket and the true murderer used an identical knife (this is the fantastic explanation given by our Leftist hero). The film has a moronic moment where the 'hero' pulls out a knife he has bought (illegally), which appears identical to the one in question. The idea being that it isn't so rare, after all.Other silly moments include the jury discussing why the defendant would come home a few hours later if he had indeed done the crime. Not one of them mentions that the defendant lives there and would have to come back home in order to allay fears that he was the murderer. It's part of an alibi. What else is he going to do, disappear and hope that the police don't find that a tad suspicious? Nearly every explanation given in favour of the defendant is absurd or complete conjecture.When you string all the known facts together, the chances of them all being explained away in a fashion that exonerates the defendant is literally millions to one. It's so implausible that no sane jury would acquit. But the writer wants this to happen, so it does (and 12-0 in favour, just in case you missed the point). I love it when writers do that. Don't you? At one point, the following dialogue takes place:"No-one can know a thing like that; this isn't an exact science." "That's right, it isn't." Okay, then, let's just forget putting people on trial because we can hardly ever be 100% sure that they did the crime in question, can we? The number of victims created by having no deterrent, or by allowing dangerous criminals to go free, is FAR GREATER than the absolute minority case where an innocent person is found guilty. Some people cannot be reasoned with and are far too broken to be rehabilitated. They are like a dangerous dog. We don't try to change the nature of a dangerous dog because we know it's futile, and we know that by ignoring it, we are just risking more innocent lives. This really isn't rocket science, it's just that the Leftist types (who have a huge stranglehold on the media/TV) refuse to budge, and muddy the waters with their insane Progressive agenda.People cheering this movie are cheering for a violent thug, who got away with first-degree murder. It's not hip, it's just dumb. Wake up.My rating: 3/5
When reviewing on imdb, the window pops up a selection between spoiler or no spoiler for your review. can one spoil a movie this flat? this predictable? Maybe in 1957 the characters in this movie seemed thick and nuanced but having seen this recently for the first time i was struck by how one dimensional each seemed. from the first few minutes of the movie you can easily decipher who's going to be a "bad" guy and who's going to be a bastion of choirboy-like fairness and innocence. maybe given the self contained nature of the plot there is much room for character development but perhaps something a little less like caricatures....the other thing that bothered me about the movie that pays so much attention to method of reason is the fact that early on in the movie it is stated that the knife had been wiped clean before the police got there. but according to witnesses the boy allegedly fled right a way. this seems a bit incongruent and yet no one in the movie has brought it up and no critical review of the movie seems to have brought it up. it would seem to be a major factor in the case and i can't believe it is overlooked. instead it's omission from discussion only makes the whole plot look as thin as the characters.........and upon further review each "explanation" or alternative given to explain away the facts in the case seems far-fetched.... but taken all together seems a full on miscarriage of justice. a nuanced director might have ended in a hung jury. NOPE. this one dimensional movie has to either be 1 or 0 or in the case of the jury all for or all against.even at a paltry ninety minutes it still greatly overstays it's welcome.
1/10
Boring film about how 1 person challenges the rest on a crime case.


                
I'm one who likes to look at IMDb and watch some movies based on ratings from this site. This one is probably the most overrated movie I have ever seen.People who are rating this movie great are just trying to impress you with the fact that they watched something that came out before they did. Seriously awful waste of time here. If you want a good older movie watch Treasure of the Sierra Madre or Casablanca or just about anything else over this.I try to find good in everything and I just don't get why people give this one such a high rating. Nothing great about it. Boring as hell and not one thing good worth mentioning. Because of IMDb i had high expectations and boy am I rethinking this sites reviewers.


                
I cannot believe I was forced to endure this movie in a class I took at college.  Synopsis:  12 men sit in a room and talk for the ENTIRE movie. It's about as fun as sitting in the doctor's office listening to the chit-chat of other patients.  I know it's supposed to be good since it has the noble purpose of pointing out the already obvious fact that some accused people, if the jury does not consider carefully all the evidence, will be wrongly convicted.  Also, some of the "evidence" presented to defend the accused is sketchy, at best.  It seems too many jurors have taken this movie to heart -- in this country we turn people like O.J. Simpson out on the street.I might have liked to read this as a book, where I could at least dream up my own characters and give them more to do besides sit and talk.  The two main characters were also pretty flat; one is your all-enlightened bleeding heart liberal who thinks a crack dealer that has been arrested 42 times will straighten up if given "just one more shot at 'rehab'."  The other is the typical conservative loudmouth whose values are rock-solid and self-righteous and he's going to scream louder and louder until you agree with him.  This movie isn't suspensful, it's laughable.Rating:  2/10


                
In the movie The 12 Angry Man, I didn't like the choices that the director made in the movie. First of all, the actors were overacting and they don't sound and their emotion doesn't look believable. For example, when the juror number 3 was having his moment talking about his kid who he "made the man out of him" by abusing him and later his kid punched him and ran away. His emotions and the way his voice sounded doesn't seem convincing to me. It seems to me like they are just reading their script out loud. Secondly, the camera angle wasn't good. The camera was mostly close up and it was quite boring. You want the audience to look excited or interesting so they will pay more attention to the main points but this movie didn't do that much of a good job. For example, in the jury room, when they were voting one by one, the camera was close up to them that I didn't get to see the reaction on other juror faces when they were voting one by one. I think it will be good to see other juror face and trying to make eye contact with juror to change their vote. Finally, the actor that they chose to play the role of the boy who was abused all his life and is a trouble maker, the actor looks nothing like his character in the play. So there fore I think the choices that the director made in this movie weren't that bright and it could have been better and more interesting.
This movie is horrifically boring. Your time would be better spent staring at door handles. I wish I could give this a 0 out of 10. I feel robbed of my time and sanity by this experience. I could go on and on, and in fact I will because IMDb apparently requires that I take 10 full lines of text to communicate to you how utterly awful this movie is. How is this considered a great film? Was life really this boring in the 50s? I've always mocked people that enjoy the Lord of the Rings trilogy, but I'll take 9 hours of that over 90 minutes of this excruciatingly boring drivel any day of the week. Let's recap: only one set, no true rising or falling action, no satisfying conclusion, no compelling characters (because none of the characters are developed in depth), no meaningful relationships between characters, no romance, no action, no... anything. Words are inadequate to describe how betrayed I feel be the various friends and reviewers that have recommended this movie to me (and, yes, I am deliberately using the term movie instead of film). Do yourself and America and favor -- rent the copy of this movie from your local Blockbuster and put it in the microwave.
Myself and some friends watched this movie after seeing all the reviews on IMDb.The film was so bad that I had to join IMDb to tell everyone what I think.OK there was some good dialogue in the movie, but it was slow, dull, highly predictable, repetitive, cheap and quite frustrating.It must have been the cheapest movie ever made, just 12 guys in ONE ROOM for the entire 90 minutes. Often going 2 minutes or so without any words being spoken.My girlfriend even predicted half of the things that were about to be said... how poor must a film be if you can do that? Sorry but I just can't understand how this film is number 7 on IMDb, who on earth gave it 10/10? Me and my friends can't even find enough in this movie to give it a 2, so it gets a 1 from us and would be 0 if IMDb allowed that.Anyone thinking of watching it - DON'T! Go watch paint dry.


                
It goes on and on, they are talking in a small room and it's not a good set because it makes the viewer feel cramped and claustrophobic. The movie should have shown other places, because you get bored in like 5 minute of the same damn room, that you're in for the whole movie. We want to see other places which are more interesting! The actors are mediocre and make their characters seem just like some random person on the street, and not like a spectacular character who is larger than life in some way, and that's just boring ! The script isn't that good, they just talk back and fort and don't seem to get anywhere, everybody could have said what they wanted and been done with it in at least half the time. And let's talk about the ending, you don't even get any closure, you don't even get to know if the boy was the murderer for real! Then what's the point of the whole MOVIE? Where you're trying to find out if he did it or not. All in all, it's a pretty mediocre film, which would have benefited from some better acting at times and not being in black and white.I give this movie a 5/10
I remember watching this movie on one my last lessons in Legal Studies in Australia because there's not much else to do besides the exam prep. I don't understand the appeal of this movie at all. All it is revolves around twelve angry men yelling at each other for the entire movie, in one room. Sure, it tells the story (and I'm seriously stretching the term for this particular live action reel) of a jury made up of 12 men as they deliberate the guilt or acquittal of a defendant on the basis of reasonable doubt, forcing the jurors to question their morals and values. This works well as a play and I like the acting and dialogue in this, but does not translate well onto movie at all. That's what Parliament Question Time TV show is there for. This movie is so boring, forgettable and torturous that this is the third time I literally fell asleep a half hour in besides Transformers: Age of Extinction and the new version of Independence Day. Because movies are meant to entertain people, even Tommy Wisseau's The Room and the animated Titanic movies are watchable compared to this torture device. This movie is generally studied in English (lucky I never had to do that, even though there was no way I could escape seeing this movie), and I feel for the high school students who have to watch this for study, and fans of this movie who would throw their money at everything they see.


                
This movie clearly misogynistic and racially biases. It represents the typical mental superiority complex of Americans. of the 12 jurors not even one is a woman, neither is one that represents the African American or hispanic or any other race that still part of the American system. Movie is shot in poor taste, acting is superficial and mediocre at best, this movie does deserve to be in top 250 movies of all time. I can think of 500 movies which have a better set of actors and better story and better director. Only reason this movie is in the top 10 is for a counter argument, that should never exist in the first place if the jurors had an iq that was better than 2 digits.


                
I was forced to watch this in school and I knew it was probably gonna be boring like any other movie they make us watch, at least the ones we've never heard of. Watching 12 old men argue for almost 2 hours is boring. But what can you expect from a 1956 movie where men just argue(and not comically) the entire time? I hope this is never remade


                
