'12 Angry Men' is an outstanding film. It is proof that, for a film to be great, it does not need extensive scenery, elaborate costumes or expensive special effects - just superlative acting.The twelve angry men are the twelve jurors of a murder case. An eighteen-year-old boy from a slum background is accused of stabbing his father to death and faces the electric chair if convicted. Eleven of the men believe the boy to be guilty; only one (Henry Fonda) has doubts. Can he manage to convince the others?The court case provides only a framework, however. The film's greatness lies in its bringing-together of twelve different men who have never met each other before and the interaction of their characters as each man brings his own background and life experiences into the case. Thus, we have the hesitant football coach (Martin Balsam), the shy, uncertain bank clerk (John Fiedler), the aggressive call company director (Lee J. Cobb), the authoritative broker (E.G. Marshall), the self-conscious slum dweller (Jack Klugman), the solid, dependable painter (Edward Binns), the selfish salesman (Jack Warden), the calm, collected architect (Fonda), the thoughtful, observant older man (Joseph Sweeney), the racially bigoted garage owner (Ed Begley), the East European watchmaker (George Voskovec) and the beefcake advertising agent (Robert Webber) who has plenty of chat and little else.Almost the entire film takes place in just one room, the jury room, where the men have retired to consider their verdict. The viewer finds him or herself sweating it out with the jury as the heat rises, literally and metaphorically, among the men as they make their way towards their final verdict. Interestingly, the jurors (apart from two at the end) are never named. They do not need to be. Their characters speak for them.Henry Fonda is eminently suitable and excellently believable as the dissenter who brings home the importance of a jury's duty to examine evidence thoroughly and without prejudice. Joseph Sweeney is delightful as Juror No. 9, the quiet but shrewd old man who misses nothing, whilst E.G. Marshall brings his usual firmness and authority to the role of Juror No. 4. All the actors shine but perhaps the best performance is that of Lee J. Cobb as Juror No. 3, the hard, stubborn, aggressive, vindictive avenger who is reduced to breaking down when forced to confront the failure of his relationship with his own son.Several of the stars of '12 Angry Men' became household names. Henry Fonda continued his distinguished career until his death in 1982, as well as fathering Jane and Peter. Lee J. Cobb landed the major role of Judge Henry Garth in 'The Virginian'. E.G. Marshall enjoyed a long, reputable career on film and t.v., including playing Joseph P. Kennedy in the 'Kennedy' mini-series. Jack Klugman was 'Quincy' whilst John Fiedler voiced Piglet in the 'Winnie The Pooh' films and cartoons.Of the twelve, only John Fiedler, Jack Klugman and Jack Warden* are still alive. Although around the eighty mark, they are all still acting. The film was still available on video last year and it is shown on t.v. fairly frequently. I cannot recommend it too highly!(*John Fiedler died June 2005. Jack Warden died July 2006.)


                
This is one of those movies where everything could go wrong. The story is as simple as it can be: 12 men are jurors on a open and shut murder trial, but one man thinks that another persons life deserves at least some thought on the matter and votes not guilty. From this point on we have 12 actors and a closed room. This could be the most boring film ever made. Lumet however is a master of mise-en-scene and provides a tense movie that keeps you locked on from the word "go". The dialogs are great and supported by incredibly talented actors. Joel Schumacher in Phone Booth needed to see this movie and draw a few ideas on how to make a character built, dialog driven movie. A must see for everyone.


                
... the main flaw being that everybody brings their own life experiences and history into the jury room with them, no matter how hard they try to be impartial.Here you have a trial of a young boy who supposedly stabbed his father to death. When the jurors go back to deliberate on the case, ALL but one lone man played with a quiet courage by Henry Fonda states not guilty and the rest of the film is about trying to get them to his side. Quite amazing movie if you ask me. Fonda's case is not that the boy is innocent, but that the threshold of reasonable doubt has not been reached. The trick in this film is that it never leaves the jury room. You have no idea of what the defendant, the prosecuting attorney, or the defense attorney were like other than retroactively through the words of the jurors.Writing this good just can't be ignored. Reginald Rose's screenplay is absolutely brilliant. Not only are the characters of twelve individuals indelibly implanted in your brain within the limited time span of about 100 minutes, but Rose accomplishes this feat without undue speechifying or pontificating about injustice or the failures of the jury system or expositional dialogue. The characters personalities come out in the course of the film and are not "set up" in the first half hour, (as in having the jurors explain to each other what their occupations and backgrounds are) as is the case with mediocre screenplays. As for the acting it is true ensemble greatness. All twelve cast members are excellent, although if you put a gun to my head and forced me to say who was best I'd express a partiality for Lee J Cobb as the toughest nut to crack for acquittal and E.G. Marshall as a juror who is all logic and no emotion other than arrogance. And Sidney Lumet's first film just may be his most fast paced. The hundred minutes whiz by! Not a dull stretch to be seen anywhere.And yes, these are twelve white men judging a Puerto Rican boy, and yes Henry Fonda violated many classic rules of jury behavior when he introduced items into the discussion that were not official evidence, but this was 60 years ago and it IS a movie. So just suspend your beliefs and try to enjoy the art of the thing -the riveting dialogue, the character studies that don't choke each other out, and the brilliant camera-work that manages to make the room seem increasingly smaller so that you can appreciate the claustrophobia that must be setting in with the jurors as deliberations wear on and get more heated.


                
"If you follow the crowd, you will likely get no further than the crowd. If you walk alone, you're likely to end up in places no one has ever been before. This is not without its difficulties, for peculiarity breeds contempt." – Oscar Wilde Sidney Lumet's "12 Angry Men" opens with a teenage boy sitting before a judge. He's been accused of murdering his father. All evidence points to him having committed the crime and even the kid's lawyer believes him to be guilty. Enter the jury: 12 men tasked with settling upon a verdict. It seems certain that they will all find the kid accountable. After all, the facts prove that this kid killed his father. Don't they?The jury seclude themselves in a tiny room and take votes. 11 men find the kid guilty. One doesn't. The majority look at the 12th with bemusement. He's Henry Fonda, a mild mannered architect with a temperament of quiet confidence. How dare this guy disagree with them? How dare he stand alone? Tensions develop and the men begin to argue. Fonda plays it cool, stating that he doesn't necessarily believe the kid to be innocent, he simply wants to discuss the matter. After all, a kid's life is on the line. Why make hasty judgements? Why not talk things out, investigate the issue and dig a little deeper? Reluctantly, the others agree to talk. The kid's guilty, no doubt about it, so why not grant this wacky guy a couple hours of discussion? They're getting the day off work anyway. Humour the guy. And of course as the 12 men investigate the case, they begin to grow doubtful. Previously agreed upon truth comes crumbling down, ambiguities arise, new facts come to light, testimonies are cast in a new shade and the motives of witnesses and jurors are shown to be skewed by personal vendettas and a range of social/racial/personal biases.The film eventually ends with Henry Fonda, an iconic actor in one of his finest (if far too angelic) roles, having convinced the entire jury that the kid is innocent. With his quiet probing, his appeals to curiosity, truth and intellect over emotional hysteria, popular opinion and snap judgements, Fonda successfully opposes the other jurors. The film's message: question the majority, test the Gods with a hammer and be suspicious of commonly held truths. And most importantly, be tactful when contesting the majority, least they threaten you with a switchblade. But who cares? Normal is only a statistical distribution anyway.Upon release, "Angry" was read as a cautionary tale about McCarthyism, then a hot topic. Later its message became more broad: about a callous society's indifference to the less fortunate and willingness to unjustly sustain false accusations. Today, the film's almost a parody of bleeding heart liberals, many siding with the film's courtroom conservatives as a result. "What is this?" actor Lee J Cobb fumes in the film, "Love Your Underprivileged Brother Week or something?" His stance is typical today. The notion that offenders are too heavily viewed as victims of oppression, deprivation, racism, mental disorder, systemic problems etc, and so deserving of support rather than punishment.Aesthetically, "12 Angry Men" is remarkable; Lumet's camera work is superb and the film drips with both atmosphere and tension. The film also differs hugely from other legal dramas, taking place almost entirely within a jury's room and so sidestepping most of the the usual genre clichés (courtroom antics, last minute testimonials, witnesses, cathartic group-hugs etc)."12 Angry Men" may also be the finest film shot around a table. Indeed, any director will tell you that filming large groups of people conversing over a table is one of the most taxing things to do. Keeping track of eye-lines, coverage, body positions, shooting each individual from multiple angles over and over again...it's a mighty chore just to get things down on the most basic level, let alone keep the thing feeling kinetic and fresh.So what's remarkable about "12 Angry Men" is how much of a spatial movie it is. Director Sidney Lumet, who has a background in theatre (a very static medium, hence, perhaps, the initial appeal of such a claustrophobic script), charts his jury's room with a fluid camera. Watch how gorgeous his mise-en-scene is, how choreographed each character's body movements are, how Lumet's camera traces each character, assigning them spaces within the room. It's an incredibly organised little movie, Lumet dancing us deftly throughout this tiny arena, only to then spew his victors back out into the real world with a series of magnificently expansive shots.Then there's the acting. Lumet has always been an actor's director, and here he populates his film with a wealth of wonderful character actors. But Fonda's the star of course. Dressed in an angelic white suit, he's exactly the kind of morally righteous everyman hero which made many of Jimmy Stewart's early roles so popular. With a mixture of "aww shucks", suave sexiness and quiet intelligence, Fonda's immediately endearing. Unfortunately, the motivations of those who oppose Fonda are at times very heavy handed (everyone but Fonda is a raging buffoon, a sneaky attempt to elevate him), each one deliberately positioned to be shot down. End result: a heroic tale of progressive compassion defeating reactionary prejudice, in which the saintly conqueror of bigotry is himself bullying, has a firm agenda and is being buffeted by emotionalism.10/10 – More great courtroom movies: "The Verdict", "Paths of Glory", "Compulsion", "Death on the Staircase", "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance", "Capturing The Friedmans", "The Paper Chase" and "Murder on a Sunday Morning". Lesser legal flicks: "Inherit the Wind", "JFK", "Adam's Rib", "Anatomy of A Murder", "The Caine Mutiny", "Witness for the Prosecution", "Miracle on 34th Street", "My Cousin Vinny", "Anatomy of a Murder". Worth multiple viewings.
So simple yet so brilliant, 12 ANGRY MEN is not to be missed. It's the tale of the meticulous Mr. Davis, a juror not quite convinced of a murder suspect's guilt despite what appears to be overwhelming evidence. His questions gradually persuade his fellow jurors that things aren't always as open-and-shut as they might seem.One of the great all-time ensemble casts highlights 12 ANGRY MEN. Henry Fonda is superb as the hardcore skeptic... but then again, everyone is superb, from Joseph Sweeney as the eldest juror to E.G. Marshall as the no-nonsense Juror #4. Anytime a film set almost exclusively at a single cramped table in a single cramped room can spellbound the viewer, you know you've got first-rate actors. The clever, colorful dialog is a treat as well.Yet the strongest asset of 12 ANGRY MEN is the demands it makes of the viewer to think critically. Initially we are like most of the jurors, curious as to how Fonda can be so naive to think the young suspect may be innocent. But he gradually pulls us into his line of reasoning, challenging our assumptions and finding fault with the supposed facts. By the film's end, we're left wondering how we could have been so narrow-minded just 90 minutes earlier.As sharp as what's on screen is, 12 ANGRY MEN is equally smart for what it does not show. Many of today's filmgoers would demand flashback sequences to depict what the characters describe. They would want to get to know the accused killer so they could judge him for themselves. They would want more action, more pizazz, and changes of scenery. Yet it's precisely the film's refusal to do any of this that makes it work so well. The viewer is effectively the 13th juror with nothing but recollections of testimony to go on. Our imaginations are free to create a picture of the alleged murder, just as we would have to as part of the jury.12 ANGRY MEN is often cited as one of the greatest films ever. It's a verdict that is well deserved.


                
12 Angry Men is as simple as it is profound, and as bare-boned as it is a showcase of true camera-work and directional complexity. It is as much a film about the justice system in America as it is a film about people; a film that lets the viewer into a single room for 90 minutes (the film moves forward quicker than real time) and examines the quirks, insecurities, prejudices and glaring background differences of twelve different characters.The film begins in a courtroom as a murder case is coming to a close. The judge informs the twelve jurors of their duty as though it were just another day in his life, as though the defendant (an 18-year old street kid) has already been proved guilty. In general, nobody in the film expects the potential (and probable) difficulties that the viewer anticipates externally. It is an "open and shut case" as the remarkable, unnamed juror (played by Lee J. Cobb) states in the first ten minutes.Of course it isn't, otherwise 12 Angry Men would be an "open-and-shut" film. Opening credits play over an empty room which gradually fills up as the jurors takes their seats and prepare for the ballot. Over this time, we see windows being opened, negotiations taking place and pleasantries exchanged. If these 12 men agree that the c12 Angry Men (1957) by Sidney Lumet - Unsung Filmsase presents enough evidence to show that the crime had in fact been committed, then the verdict will be guilty. But if there is any room for what the judge calls "reasonable doubt", then the verdict changes.Each character in this film is entirely different. It almost feels as though each has been handpicked to take part in a sort of experiment – and it very much feels like we are watching one unfold. Each man represents something unalike. With one man's decision not to conform, or at least not to believe everything that was discussed in the courtroom, 12 Angry Men erupts. Gradually, we start to understand these men; first, we are let it on some of their social backgrounds – one is an immigrant (possibly Greek or French) and one admits to have grown up in the same conditions as the young defendant. Both men should be able to relate to the defendant in many ways – for a moment, we are afforded a glimpse at the defendant's face, an immigrant from an anonymous ghetto. Strangely, both men vote "guilty" without hesitation.12 Angry Men (1957) by Sidney Lumet - Unsung FilmsHenry Fonda lets us in on his reason for disputing — he simply does not want to decide on a person's life in the space of five minutes. This is understandable; the viewer takes his side and so, it seems, does the filmmaker. But some of the jurors argue as though it were personal; as though the young man had slaughtered their own sons, daughters and wives. Some of the men, and most noticeably Cobb as juror no. 3, work themselves up into a blind fury.As the film goes on, it becomes evident that the case was never as clear as the jurors had announced at the beginning. For some, the more reasonable and likable characters, it had simply been a case of accepting the evidence provided without questions. For others, assumptions had been made as a result of deep-rooted prejudices and massive complexes. While many change their minds with the influence of rational thought, some characters simply get angrier and more aggressive; two characters give away their racist views and the powerful scene that runs over the final ten minutes, works to reveal so much about the most moving and brilliant character portrayal in the film.The happenings described in court unfold for a second time over the duration of 12 Angry Men. By the end, it as though we possess the same knowledge of what happened in the courtroom over the days of the trial, as the twelve men in the film. Helmed by Fonda, juror no. 8, the situation is played out again with incredible detail; every argument and theory presented to us is done so with such extreme care and passion. This is one of the film's that stay with you for a lifetime because its simplicity allows itself to be engraved in the mind, while the complexity of it demands that you make sure it is.


                
12 Angry Men is directed by Sidney Lumet and adapted from a teleplay of the same name by Reginald Rose. The cast is headed by Henry Fonda and Lee J. Cobb. The film tells the story of a jury made up of 12 men as they deliberate the guilt or innocence of a defendant on the basis of reasonable doubt. Except for two short scenes at the beginning and end of the film, it's filmed entirely on one set, that of the jury deliberation room.Sweaty, gritty, claustrophobic-all words that sit snugly in the context of Lumet's excellently crafted deconstruction of 12 men trying to arrive at one verdict in the case of a Puerto Rican youth on trial for the murder of his father. The evidence appears overwhelming, there's witnesses, a murder weapon and motive, the boy is surely on his way to the electric chair. 11 of the men are convinced he's guilty, only one man stands alone, Henry Fonda's juror number 8, who refuses to turn in a vote of guilty until the evidence and facts are discussed at length. As the others rail against him and tempers get frayed, juror number 8 prompts the others to examine their own prejudices and commitment to justice.A lesson in tight direction and editing, and with performances to match, 12 Angry Men is quite simply not to be missed by those seeking to venture into classic cinema. 9/10


                
Crime and hatred are like continental boundaries, always hot and ever rocking the earth beneath our feet. We often lose moral balance and clutch to a stereotype just to keep our ground. But a single person's calm perspective and will for justice now and then help us to rise above our own prejudice. This movie is a bridge across an eternal boundary; has flaws, no doubt, like any bridge, but stands magnificently for 50 years and brings together people of all kinds. This bridge offers a view on the problems of society and a place for discussion. This movie deserves its place among the greatest.


                
The unsurpassed character studies of the "12 Angry Men" would almost make a movie worth seeing even if it had little else to offer. This is also a very good drama that uses everything it has to good advantage. The cast and director Sidney Lumet all do a fine job of sketching each character efficiently and memorably. Every character is important, and almost every line serves a purpose.One interesting thing about the story is that the trial per se is almost not even particularly important. The jury setting is really just a stylized way of high-lighting many aspects of human nature and human interaction, and in particular, the varied ways that different persons respond in situations where their options are limited. The characters have a wide and well-chosen diversity of personalities and opinions, and each one's temperament and attitudes are developed as things proceed.In performing this kind of material, it's important for the actors not to overdo it, or else the believability suffers. It's also a challenge to keep things interesting when the settings and props are so limited. But everything works very well here, and it is a credit to everyone involved.


                
Yes, this is a Hollywood masterpiece. It was the start of an incredible journey by the director, Sidney Lumet. It's a shame the writer Reginald Rose did not have as an illustrious career as Lumet, but he did write one other classic, MAN OF THE WEST (1958). The nod goes to the performances by an amazing cast who hold it together in the confine spaces of the one setting. You would expect a film that mostly takes place in the one room to be theatrical, but Lumet manages to create the intensity with his tight direction and the brilliant use of deep focus and wide angle lenses. This is one film that all students should watch to observe the craft of how to create a very low budget movie with a perfect cast, the right director and a top notch writer.


                
12 Angry Men; The simplicity of this film, I believe, prevents it from being named in lists of best ever movies. I was surprised but equally glad to see it ranks #17 here, but have also seen it unfairly omitted from several other polls of modern times.What really strikes you about this film is that the entire sequence is shot in one room. The moment the court attendant locks the doors, you can feel the tension of twelve individuals merging under the surface. The film isn't about spending vast sums of money on creating a blockbuster, nor does it feel the need to explain every last detail about each of the characters portrayed. Perhaps these key differences are exactly the reasons "12 Angry Men" strikes one as so effortlessly brilliant.One of only two shots outside of the room is at the beginning, with the exasperated judge calling for the adjourned verdict from the jury. You have a closing shot of the young boy on trial before the twelve men assemble themselves into the sticky, humid room to consider their decision.The movie doesn't take a long time to get started. Questions are raised instantly and answers are given. Juror #8 (played by Henry Fonda) instead glares in a moments reflection onto the street below as the other eleven men give their first impressions willingly. It is clear from the conversation that the majority who have spoken are convinced of the boy's guilt, with many of them keen to come to a final verdict as soon as possible.Instead, upon the first vote, Juror #8 goes against the grain of everyone else and decides to pitch his verdict of not guilty to the astonishment of his fellow jurors.What happens next is 80 minutes of passion, pain, conflict, and conclusion.What I find remarkable about the character of Henry Fonda is although he is not convinced of the boy's guilt, he is also equally not sure about his innocence. As he poses questions and figures out answers, it is clear that he is realising these facts at the same time as everyone else. In the depths of his mind, he has ideas surrounding why the boy might be innocent but needs to formulate them, and he is able to do that via the other jurors, even the ones that put up a fight. As he finds more reasons to doubt a guilty verdict, his reflection allows the other eleven men to do the same.With each revelation, and the testimonies brought into question, you can feel the passion of twelve individual opinions. Whilst some of the jurors were not so outspoken, they still played a part in peeling apart the layers of badly constructed trial. Whether it was a personal experience (such as living by the El Track, or wearing glasses) or just an view of one man, they all fitted together in a jigsaw that eventually, couldn't be disputed. As the film reached the climax, so did the heat, finally erupting into a violent storm that reflected the tension in the verdict room. In particular, it was parallel with the clash between Juror #3 (played fantastically by Lee J. Cobb) and Juror #8 (Henry Fonda) - 8 being the stand alone verdict of Not Guilty to begin with, and by the end, 3 being alone in his verdict of Guilty, before breaking down.The film was beautifully directed, shots of the intense weather, the cigarette smoke drifting away and the passion of the twelve men in deciding their verdict reflected in their perspiration collaborated effortlessly with the script. There was no need to delve any deeper into the characters, build exaggerated story lines or become unnecessarily violent. All it needed was twelve men, with different backgrounds, to explain themselves.
For viewers out there who don't like "old movies" or "black and white," please give this gem a try. I think you'll find it completely engrossing. It's a masterful piece of work, expertly directed by Sidney Lumet and contains no sex, explosions or special effects, not even a single female (it's still worth it!). Flawlessly acted by fine performers: Henry Fonda, Lee J. Cobb, E.G. Marshall, Ed Begley, Jack Warden, Martin Balsam, Jack Klugman, etc. The simple setup involves only 12 jurors in a little juror's room, nothing else. It's the power of the story and the interaction between the varied personalities of these men that keeps you riveted. It's why less can be more when it's done well.SPOILERS AHEAD:It's perfect symmetry the way these men each have a personality all his own: the liberal, the bigot, the wise man, the jerk, the haunted man, the immigrant, the hard worker, the know-it-all, etc.... During the course of this film we get to know them all, maybe can identify with one or two. There's an air of Political Correctness which tends to favor the liberal side, painting the "guilty" voters as racists, loudmouthes with personal agendas, or ignorant sports fans. It's because of this (and more objections) that I'm hesitant to award the movie a complete 4-star rating. It's a "great" film, but I just cannot call it "excellent" when I can't seem to side with Fonda's noble cause. From the moment we see Fonda (Juror 8) in angelic white, he's a "do-gooder". He "says" that he does not really know if the young defendant is innocent of killing his father, but his facial expressions and sighs of relief tell me he had his mind made up to free this boy all along. Fonda even goes out of his way to buy a knife - BREAKING THE LAW IN DOING SO - just to plead innocence for the kid. He constantly asks jurors: "isn't this possible?" but the same could be asked by other jurors and their ideas. Our justice system is a scary mess. because I believe ANY murder case can have "reasonable doubts" raised in them, if someone wants them to. So no witnesses are ever to be considered reliable? Luckily for the kid here, one of the jurors wearing glasses scratched his nose, so there's an instant case for "reasonable doubt" because a juror recalls that a female witness also rubbed her nose (maybe she wore glasses). There is a lonely old juror who observes that an elderly witness seemed lonely and ashamed. So this juror "relates" to him and decides that the old witness may have wanted to "appear important" and so maybe his testimony was unreliable! A truly guilty man could get released by this! Whenever Fonda wants something to fit his agenda for "not guilty," he believes the old witness' every word; when it won't help his cause, he dismisses his feeble testimony! There's a crude re-enactment where Fonda hobbles around to determine if the old witness was able to get to his door in 15 seconds as he testified - it actually takes 41 seconds - but is this as conclusive as Fonda claims? Maybe the man was mistaken when he said "15 seconds"; maybe the man said "50" . Fonda doesn't care; this is one of those times he'll trust the man's testimony if it proves his agenda! He sure works awful hard to ignore anything the other jurors suggest. The boy claims he was at the movies when the murder was committed, yet one hour later cannot recall anything about the films he watched. How does Fonda chip away at this evidence? He tests juror E. G. Marshall by asking him if HE recalls what HE did last night. When Marshall easily replies, Fonda goes back to the night before. Marshall still doesn't miss a beat, so Fonda goes back a couple more days (why doesn't he just go back three years?) until he's back to a week. Naturally, Marshall eventually can no longer remember, so a "point" is supposedly made (um, not really). Is Fonda correct that some of his points are feasible? Yes - but so are the others'. "Juror 8" won't give up until the kid's life is spared, it seems. Even when the "guilty" voters suggest to "have a hung jury," Fonda will not accept. It's not good enough for him. Here's the key to me that Fonda's not interested in a "fair verdict": Jack Warden votes "not guilty" with all the others, just because he doesn't care and wants to get out. If Fonda was so self-righteous, he should have gracefully said: "11 of us have now voted 'Not Guilty'. But I cannot accept the 12th vote, as this man is only voting for whatever verdict will let him get out of here". But Fonda will take it -- the boy's free, even if he had to get one "fake" vote to achieve it.We have to give the benefit of the doubt. I don't want an innocent man executed. But nor do I want guilty predators freed because a witness "had lines on her nose," or "maybe that witness lied to feel important." When Fonda says "this isn't a game!", it seems to me the jury system IS a game - who can think of a twist the fastest, who has the best lawyer. I think Fonda plays a "game" very well and won - even if society lost. Because when he marches out of court at the end, thinking he's a hero, I can't help thinking he let a killer fall through the cracks to satisfy his own conscience. Still, I wish I could side with him. I think this is a more fulfilling film for those who do, and I believe we're supposed to. Either way, this is a very powerful piece of cinema. That's the main thing.***1/2 out of ****
Sidney Lumet's superb direction leads this brilliant adaptation of the Reginald Rose classic. The cast features some of the finest ever assembled, most notably Cobb and Marshall. Lumet's use of the camera is astounding. One that film students must study!


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadger12 Angry Men tells the story of one jury man who goes against the majority in order to prevent a miscarriage of justice. The story might seem rather boring and mundane, but it is quite the opposite. The story is told in real time and the debate between the characters is amazing. The dialogue is fluid and characters are complex yet simple. The ending is very good.The acting is great. Martin Balsam, John Fiedler, Lee J. Cobb, E.G. Marshall, Jack Klugman, Edward Binns, Jack Warden, Joseph Sweeney, Ed Begley, George Voskovec, and Robert Webber all perform very well. Henry Fonda delivers a stunning performance as a man reluctant to persecute under substantial evidence.The pacing is perfect and the runtime is short.The film is very old and this can sway some people from watching it.Pros: Great story, good characters, fluid dialogue, great ending, good acting, amazing performance by Henry Fonda, perfect pacing, and a short runtimeCons: The film is very old and some part don't hold upOverall Rating: 8.9


                
12 Angry Men is a 1957 American drama film with elements of film noir, adapted from a teleplay of the same name by Reginald Rose. Written and co-produced by Rose himself and directed by Sidney Lumet, this trial film tells the story of a jury made up of 12 men as they deliberate the guilt or acquittal of a defendant on the basis of reasonable doubt. In the United States, a verdict in most criminal trials by jury must be unanimous. The film is notable for its almost exclusive use of one set: with the exception of the film's opening, which begins outside on the steps of the courthouse followed by the judge's final instructions to the jury before retiring, two short scenes in an adjoining washroom, and a brief final scene on the courthouse steps, the entire film takes place in the jury room. The total time spent outside the jury room is three minutes out of the full 96 minutes of the film.12 Angry Men explores many techniques of consensus-building, and the difficulties encountered in the process, among a group of men whose range of personalities adds intensity and conflict. No names are used in the film: the jury members are identified by number until two of them exchange names at the very end, the defendant is referred to as "the boy", and the witnesses as "the old man" and "the lady across the street".In 2007, 12 Angry Men was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" and is often seen as one of the greatest films ever made.


                
It's often that many movies or readings have multiple themes, but the one I would like to focus on in this film is acceptance of being different. The term different is described as "not the same as another or each other; unlike in nature, form, or quality". For me growing up was a bit difficult I grew up in a straight Mexican home, I was the only mixed child (Black and Mexican) so I was forced to be different. As reflected in the movie when one juror decides to stand for a cause (voting not guilty) and in result of being different he was greeted with unpleasant responses. He more courageous than I because he had a choice, and he stood for more than himself. He was the starting factor for a movement that changed and maybe saved a life. Remember in High School, when everyone was picking their dream job and careers so many people dreamed differently then others and it was okay some wanted to be; Doctors, Lawyers, Business Owners and so fourth, in return before even accomplishing their desire they were respected. On the other hand you had the real dreamers like me, aspiring actor, models, entertainers courageously choosing a different unguided path to accomplish their dreams. In response for being different and not working a nine to five like most; We faced some of the same challenges as the juror who said not guilty did. However, this movie messages was to send its okay to be different; as long as you stand up for what you believe in thats when the quality of ones character is revealed. If we take a look history all the greats had mentors Phil Jackson to Micheal Jordan, Andy Grove to Steve Jobs, Benjamin Graham to Warren Buffet. So if you're out there being different whatever the case may be in. Keep being different, because it was the difference that will make you stand out above the rest.(MLK, Rosa Parks, John Brown, Lincoln) There might not be ribbons or awards that can show value for the qualities of leadership in that matter but there are student out there like me hungry to learn from someone like you and in the real world that is what makes a difference.
Sometimes it is very hard to describe something you like specially when it is so simple. The whole movie took place in a single room and the characters just kept on talking! If someone invites you to such a movie the first thing that will come to your mind would be "Boring"! Well its not even close to that.The movie is extremely entertaining and uplifting. The story is very well written and keeps you tight to your chair to the end.I read some reviews about the movie criticizing the absence of female characters also having all the jury as white men, I trust that would be understood taking in consideration it was made back in 1957.To me it is a MUST see and deserves it rank in IMDb.
I remember seeing 12 Angry Men about 10 years ago and really enjoyed it, but I watched it a bit closer last week, and realize what a great movie it really is. I love the movies of the 40's and 50's and I would have to say that 12 Angry Men is up there as one of the best 5 movies of that era for me. There are some many things happening in this movie, that it takes more than one viewing to pick it all up. The camera work is first class, starting off with full view of all 12 jurors, and as the movie progresses and the jurors re-asses their decisions, the camera show the jurors looking straight down the lens, giving the impression they are talking straight to the audience. No names are given till the very end of the movie and then it is only 2 jurors, apart from a quick scene in the courtroom and outside at the end, the rest of the movie is filmed in the jurors room on a hot stinky summers days. Although not a long movie, the emotional turmoil felt by the jurors is explosive and the audience are drawn into the same gut wrenching feel. I highly recommend this movie.


                
12 Angry Men is a film that deals with a number of issues including racism, justice, and standing up for what we believe is right. The acting is amazing and the story is even a better. The main conflict is the decision 12 men must make about the fate of a young African American man who has been accused of murdering his father in cold blood with a knife. It seems to be quite obvious to the majority of the jurors that the kid is guilty, except for one man. When the men vote on the guilt of the buy, it is 11 guilty, 1 not guilty.As the film moves forward, we see the one man (juror #8) fight as hard as he can for what he believes to be right.


                
I rarely say a film is perfect, but this one just might. If you haven't seen it yet, turn off your laptop or whatever, go to the nearest store that sells DVDs (I have no idea if it exists in BluRay) and buy it (downloading is bad !). Then, sit on your freaking couch and watch the darn film ! (Or whatever, just see it ASAP).This "huis-clos" is absolutely brilliant ! The acting's great, the plot is smart, the characters' portraits throughout the movie are very interesting (mostly because they're all different).I have waited a long time before seeing it, never quite finding the motivation to do so. I really can't explain why ! Maybe partly because I was afraid it would have aged too much... but I was entirely wrong.I had seen a play with the same plot, and loved it as well. I'm glad I finally watched the film, and I invite you to do the same !


                
There are very few movies that make you go speechless, remain awestruck due to their sheer concept and execution. This is one such movie.12 men, each from a different background, different views and opinions, strangers to one another, come together, along with their personal prejudices, to reach a decision acceptable to all. This line itself shows the magnitude of complexity involved, and to make a movie out of it is a work of true genius and a one that leaves you spellbound.Right from the first shot, till the final one, you are so engrossed that you would even forget to breathe. If the background sound track, screenplay, script, direction are the cake, then the roles enacted by the characters (I say characters here, not the actors, because you believe they are truly the 12 angry men) are the icing on top of the cake.Surprisingly it was only after the movie, did I realize that it was a black and white movie. The movie shows that to make a good movie, you don't need exotic locations or high drama, or superstars. All you need is a good story and good actors who make you forget they are merely playing their parts in the play.The movie teaches you how an analytical mind and logical thinking can make a difference of life and death. It teaches you to be the most responsible when you have a person's life at stake. It shows how our personal prejudices and upbringing can affect our reasoning, how our senses play with our sense of judgment, how we let our emotions take over, at a time when it is required to be fair and impartial, how we tend to be a part of the crowd because we scared to be the odd – man-out. How one man, one true, sensible and empathetic man, it takes to make a difference. How important it is to have an objective and open mind, at any point of decision-making - in life/ death matters. How we are so stuck upon the facts and what we see, that we forget to use our mind, the ultimate powerful tool that we have. And that all it takes is sense and reason to convince someone, not decibels.There are movies that make you laugh, or cry. There are movies that make you wonder and then there are movies that make you think, force you to ponder upon it, understand it, and learn from it (if possible). This is one such movie and a must – watch for one and all.


                
Nowadays, it's hard to find a screenplay that's based solely on dialogue. The mere suggestion of locking 12 men in a room, having them debate with each other and making a movie out of it in the 21st century would be unheard of - God forbid people might actually like it!I'll be honest, that was my initial reaction upon reading a brief summary of this movie. But being a fan of classics, I knew that somehow this would work. There is no need for a visualization of the crime; there is no need for fancy props (save for a knife and a diagram), there is no need for special effects. The powerful acting and emotional dialogue in this film are enough to sell its message, and it is a meaningful message at that.This film is a must-see, for lovers of classic films and great acting.


                
The plot of (12 Angry Men) is incredibly splendid. And also the choosing of this subject generally and this specific case. Even though this movie is very simple from production wise, such kind of dialog is almost impossible to do it perfectly. I mean writing an ideal script of 12 people in one scene in this way is amazing by all of these people who are from very different backgrounds and don't know each other. Also they not just chatting or hanging out, they are working in very difficult conflict which they have to solve in in one season. The several transitions and changes in this long scene is so flawless and smooth in a way that you would definitely believe it is all logical and so reasonable. Furthermore, the performance of the main character who is (Juror #12) is perfect and I like so much because of is ability of convincing other people and how he used a careful plan to clarify his opinion and the required tools for that.
12 Angry Men is one of the best plays turn into movies films ever. 12 Angry Men was adapted from a teleplay of the same name by Reginald Rose by director Sidney Lumet. There is no music score, no action scenes, no sex appeal, but this movie is one of the best, due to two reasons: great writing, and great acting. One thing that I love about this movie is how little locations there are in this film. Beside the opening scene, most of the film takes place in a room made up of 12 men jury as they deliberate the guilt or acquittal of a defendant on the basis of reasonable doubt. They must stay there, until they can be make a unanimous decision. To add to the pressure, the room goes from hot and humid to warm, and cold, making each character go through a chain full of emotions. The way, the film is filmed is amazing. It shot in a way that makes the room feel a bit claustrophobia. Since there is a lack of locations, the character of the film had to be very interesting people, and they were. Like the title says, 96 minutes of the movie is pure intense arguments between a group of men whose personalities ranges from quiet and good-hearted to outright anger and hate. None of the jury members have their real names mention, as most are refers to each other by a number given to them beforehand. When you think about it, nobody name was used in the film; the defendant is referred to as "the boy" and the witnesses as the "old man" and "the lady across the street". The film use anonymity as a way to make the film more a general representation of America. These are everyday people that could very well be on your jury. This sense of anonymity raises the stakes of the play as a social drama, in that is a more general commentary of our society. Who were these men is still a mystery? We only get a glimpse of what they do in their real life. They soon become acquainted with the personalities of each other and want to vote. Some of these men believe that the young teen killed his father in a fit of rage but only one juror, Juror Number 8 (Henry Fonda) is not certain beyond a reasonable doubt that the young boy did it and felt they should talk more about it. The jury soon came head to head with clashing of arguments and questioning of the evidence. Without spoiling too much about it, I have to say the heated discussion of evidences is the best part of the film as find out more about the true personalities of the jury members. All the actors did a great job. Henry Fonda does a great job as Juror 8, as the lone man wanting to convince his peers to evaluate the matter beyond their initial, largely emotion-based judgments to determine what the kid really did do. He does this, by explaining the murder weapon and the faults of the two witnesses. Still, I doubt, even in 1950's standards, a jury member can carry a knife in a jury room. Ed Begley as Juror Number 10 is chilling as the loudmouth racist whom based on the locality where the accused lived. Lee Cobb as Juror #3 is painted as a father who allows his poor relationship with his own son to influence his judgment of the case gives one hell of a performance. Last, worth noting is Jack Warden as Number 7, a sport fan who cares more about a baseball game than the case that he is given. While the others jurors members, are interesting characters, none of them were as great as these 4 men who brings the best out of this play. Throughout the play, we see two opposing views of justice which I love. The two-sided nature of justice create tension and contrast the characters. Each character wants "justice," but what justice becomes unclear and fluid throughout the course of the play. If I can find one fault in the film is how the movie makes Henry Fonda seem like the protagonist and everybody else the antagonist. We don't know if Juror 8 is right and yet, his actions are framed as an act of bravery, standing up against the group to do what's right. In the end, of the film in a chilling reverse of roles, Juror 3 is view as a stubborn man, refusing to come over to the side of reason. What's really interesting about the case within 12 Angry Men is that we never ultimately find out for sure whether the accused is guilty or innocent. It's up to question. People even today, still have open debate about if the boy did the crime or not. In modern terms, most likely the results would happen, is a mistrial assuming, of course, that applicable law permitted the content of jury deliberations to be revealed. It's one of the few movies that make you think. The film should be view by anybody going to Law, but not only that, but regular people in general. Yes, the film is a bit outdated, and younger people might not want to see a black and white film with old men yelling at each other, but I think once they mature enough, they would find this movie great as well. If not, this movie. They can watch the 1997's remake of 12 Angry Men. That version is also pretty well done. There is a lot of things that people can learn from this film, like issuing dealing with class, racism, family relationships, psychology and communications. It's really hard to hate this film. The more years pass by, the more praise it gets.
It as been a while, that I wanted to see this movie, but I never was brave enough to see it, since it is a 90 minute movie, where the movie it's all concentrated on a 12 men deliberation. Otherwise, this movie actually surprised my ideas, indeed. This movie is surprisingly brilliant, it is very simple but wonderful at the same time, it just shows how can a simple movie without any special effects can be turn to a real masterpiece. The whole cast is amazing, specially Henry Fonda and Lee J. Cobb which made this film even more incredible, thanks to their powerful performances. The characters are impressive, there is a wonderful job on that department, all jury's are different from each other, in personality and class terms, which in my opinion made a very good character extension. The dialog was genius, very original and creative. Filmography was beautiful, the camera focusing the juror's faces was really impressive with the black and white picture as well. What also impressed me was the impact that this all discussion between the 12 men can make a perfect impression of our society of today, even though this film was made in 1957.This is really an outstanding classic movie, which is really worth to see, and that I really wasn't expecting for its marvelous success.


                
