First let me state that I think Michael Chiklis is a good actor. That his visibility got raised because of The Shield is a god thing.Then, let me state that I do understand the producers of The Shield are doing what they're doing on purpose. And that's exactly my problem. Making something look unprofessional on purpose doesn't made it interesting and does not magically turn lack of quality into quality.Shaking the camera constantly for no other reason than to create a style is actually a bit worse than shaking the camera because you don't know any better. It has that artificial quality that reminds you constantly that you're watching a badly made show that is badly made on purpose.That this lack of quality is then hype in the media as somehow being hip or edgy or whatever the buzz word du jour is just adds to the annoyance factor.The fact that in spite of all this media exercise The Shield still didn't find significant audiences is telling of its lack of quality.


                
To sat how awful The Shield is, you'd have to write pages and pages, so suffice it to say that it is a monument to bad directing."When Directors Go Awry" should have been the title of this production. Indeed, directors are supposed to infuse their work with a sense of visual style and story-telling that propels the story forward.How is constantly shaking the camera and playing with the zoom lens a "style"? How is it propelling the story forward? Of course there's also the "editing by random numbers" nonsense. Apparently it's become hip to just cut randomly.I guess it's too much work to do good editing.Well, that made it too much work for most people to watch The Shield which languished as one of the most over-hyped and unwatched shows of all time.


                
The Shield has consistently demonstrated poor quality throughout its run. Its camera work has been amongst the worst on television for years. Its editing is just laughably bad (especially because the lack of quality is willful, not accidental).Sadly, for some reason this bad, bad show has continually been hyped as if it were somehow "cool" to watch a bad show.Michael Chiklis IS a good actor, not that you can tell by watching The Shield where mo0st of his great work is edited out.The music is also awful, illustrating the low quality that occurs when iPod lists are used in lieu of dramatic taste in music.Overall, a must-avoid that the public smartly never bothered with.


                
Finally, the comedy of bad film-making errors that was The Shield is coming to an end! How this poorly made show stayed on the air for seven years will remain in the annals of television network mismanagement.But let's start with the positive, since there was a positive to that show. Michael Chiklis got the exposure he deserved. Now he got it for a badly made show that should never have survived given its awful ratings, but that he got it is a positive.Now the negative... The Shield was a parade of poor film-making, in particular the dreadful shakycam that afflicts nowadays many movies and TV shows trying to be "hip".How shaking the camera is "hip" is never explained and one has to suspect another intrusion of 'if it's different it's good" mentality.Sadly, this awful technique has crept up on other shows and movies, ruining them.Bad editing was also the hallmark of The Shield. Fortunately, this dread trend has no penetrated into other shows as much as the shakycam.Overall, The Shield (and FX by hyping The Shield as if it were a big success - which it wasn't) has had a very bad influence on the art of film-making and I, for one, can't wait until it quickly disappears from our screens (given its lack of viewership syndication appears unlikely).


                
I'm not sure why FX spent so much time and money promoting The Shield to unsuspecting audiences like myself.In truth, it really doesn't matter all that much.What matters is how good or bad the show is. And it's really, really bad! The Shield's producers have apparently intellectualized shooting their show with a video camera and shaking the camera around as a tool to show realism.Maybe, that's trying to make a good thing out of a really low budget... Or more likely, it was a very, very poor, corner cutting decision that has come back to bite the show.Add to that, the pretension of the scripts and the really, really bad editing (apparently bad camera work demands bad editing in The Shield) and you have a really bad show that essentially nobody watches except for blasé TV critics who think anything badly made is "original".


                
The Shield was a study on how not to make a TV show if you want it to be successful.It looked like a home-video, both in its video origination and incompetent editing and framing (the fact that this was done on purpose makes it much much worse in my view as it shows a complete ignorance of what makes a good film).The acting was hard to see given how the camera kept jumping away from any opportunity for the actors to shine.In other words, it's a bad show that should have disappeared for lack of viewers a long time ago.That it lasted so long is a tribute to a Hollywood where hyping bad shows to get positive press articles is more important than producing quality that the public enjoys.Personally I don't know anyone who bothered to watch a second episode of this awful show.And for good reason.


                
How does such a bad show last so long when great shows get axed? That's the million dollar question.I've suffered through 9 episodes of this garbage show, how it is rated 9 out 10 is beyond belief, either I have bad taste or many of your like trash shows. This series has got it all, bad filming, bad acting bad, script and bad music. The episodes are so far fetched that this should be listed under crime and fantasy and if boring was a genre then you would find it under that. No cops I mean no cops are that corrupted in the nine episodes of the first season I saw cops, watching live child porn shows stealing drugs, shooting innocent people, planting evidence, beating a hooker to a pulp to help cover a murder and copulating with prostitutes. Now if that isn't good enough reasons not to watch this show then you must really like perverted shows such as this, which is why its should be under the fantasy genre, no where but in a banana republic do police act this way.Sure some of the things could happen but in that much in nine episodes I think not, this show is aired out of spite for police and fueled by viewers who see police in this way. Yes it's fiction, plain bad fiction at that to bad there is no 0 rating because that is what this gets maybe even -1
There is no point in dragging this review out longer than it has to be. So I'll try to be concise and short.The Shield wants to portrait a leader that goes out of his way to catch the bad guys. Mackey and his special Strike Team handle their way around the law, as it fits them best to ensure results. Mackey is very popular within the department, but has a few enemies that seek to reveal him for what he really is, a renegade cop who doesn't abide by the law. Many other reviews places The Shield next to The Wire. I don't think these two series are in the same ball park - at all. I'm a big fan of The Wire, and was therefore intrigued by the comparison between the two series. Sadly The Shield did not live up to my expectations, here is why:The biggest problem in The Shield is, that there are no characters to get involved in. We only get superficial notions to characters motivations and what they in general feel and think. Besides this none of the characters are likable or have any sides that are interesting to the viewer. Unlike The Wire, where you know what Rawls is about or what his motivation is, The Shield fails to engage me in the characters and fails to have a main character that in any way is likable. Dirty Harry was a renegade cop who bended the law to his will to get results, that otherwise wouldn't have been accomplished, but we grew to love him as the type he was. We could relate to his logic even though it was fallible and wrong, this is not the case in The Shield. It's always nice, when watching TV-series, that the production is good, the actors are performing well and that the director has accomplished what he could with what he had. This is not the case here. The actors perform badly, the stories are full of wholes, the set is not credible and the production is second rate. Some things might be ignored, but when they stack on top of each other like they do in The Shield, it is unbearable. Badly written script ensure a story that is unrealistic. For example: the cases that are fabricated to ensure some sort of side story, often is solved in the exact same manner. Go to the crime scene, ask witness or suspect, get pointed toward new suspect, pick new suspect up, pressure him until he admits guilt. There are also scenes that have no justification and that would have been better left out. I managed to force myself through the first 6 episodes before giving up.There is no way this show is in the slightest vicinity of half of the quality of The Wire.


                
It's really too bad.The Shield may have been a good and commercially successful show had it been better produced.Sadly, the shaky-cam chosen by Shawn Ryan in order, one surmises, to appear hip and edgy to Hollywood know-nothings killed all chances of The Shield of being either watchable or a commercial factor.Why did it last so long, one asks? And it is a good question. The sad answer is that FX decided to keep this shell of a show on the air because it so desperately wanted a hit, it decided to pretend The Shield was that hit.It's really too bad nobody put a stop to the inanity of the shaky-cam and bad editing and The Shield may actually have been a hit.It's really too bad also that Shawn Ryan forgot every film making lesson he received while working for Don Johnson on Nash Bridges, a show with a striking look and whose quality The Shield can only aspire to.The result? While you'll enjoy Nash Bridges on the airwaves for many, many years, The Shield has already disappeared for lack of viewers.


                
I have heard nothing but rave reviews for this show and so I picked up a copy of season one and watched the first five episodes.I am really quite surprised at how amateurish it is and how forlorn are the attempts to sound gritty and profound, while to my ear they ring formulaic and heavy-handed; some of the dialogue actually makes me cringe it is so bad and ham-fisted. I am at a complete loss how the show has won so much applause but I am going to keep watching it because surely/hopefully there is more to it than has already been hinted at in the first episodes. But so far, I have to give it big nada.
SPOILERS Everyone who ever wanted to watch this show don't this plot is equal to the plot of a show that was wrote by a 3 year old on massive drugs and above all the man in this show has gone outside and viciously slaughtered a cat by strangling and snapping the neck of an Innocent animal a poor old tabby cat. so I sincerely hope and pray that this actor slits his wrists and then goes swimming in the saltest ocean on planet earth. And that not all did say how absolutely abysmal the characters are they are boring not thought out in the slightest even if they were that does not make me not infuriated about this dead cat so DO NOT WATCH!!!!!!!
