I hate giving 10's because nothing is perfect, but a 9 doesn't do it justice. There have been a lot of 9's over the years but this show is even better than those. Over 7 seasons The Shield consistently provides an incredibly diverse group of characters and more intrigue than most TV has ever provided. The web Vic and his team weaves is always winding in all sorts of directions and is often on the verge of breaking. Vic and the rest of the strike team use their authority and cunning to untangle it as best they can, almost always using tactics that are ethically questionable at best. The whole thing really gets you sucked in and you're always torn because rooting for Vic is easy, facing what he really is is not. What's right and what's wrong? When do the lines begin to blur? It's not always clear, but it's incredibly entertaining to watch.The other thing I really love about the show is how there's always another separate case being pursued by Dutch Waggenbach and company. It keeps each episode going in different directions and the case is always interesting or has an unexpected twist when it's resolved. I think another thing that separates this show from all the others is that you get your murder/rape case that you get everywhere else, but that only compiles about 30% of each episode and the rest is even better than that. Shows like CSI and Law & Order can't even touch the content this show brings, and I haven't even mentioned the gritty, realistic style it's shot and written in. Absolutely unique and done believably and well. The finale? It's as good as you're ever going to get. It really is a stellar show. I would say there was perhaps one season I thought was only above average (not exactly a strike against it) but the rest was a thrill ride that was so gripping I don't know if there's more than a handful of other shows that have ever matched it in that capacity. You're always in for a surprise when you watch it and the characters grow on you, some of them whether you want them to or not. Recommended as highly as possible.


                
The Shield is not for everyone. My wife, for instance does not like violent TV shows. The Shield is raw, violent and full of incredible suspense and intrigue. A good friend of mine recently turned me on to the Shield and I will forever be grateful. I travel quite a lot and watched all 100+ hours of the Shield while on the road. I could not wait to get to the next episode. During a recent 2 week trip to India, I did not turn on the TV one time. I watched a episode or two of The Shield every night and a whole season each way on the plane. There is a lot of debate about the ending, which I thought was perfect. It's difficult to end such an epic saga but these guys did it about as good as you can. The Shield is life changing. Not all for the good.You should be prepared to be affected by this thing. It's gritty but in the same way that A Clockwork Orange is gritty. The difference is that this lasts for a long, delicious time.


                
The shield is one of the best cop shows of all time, only behind "The Wire." The story line is rich and the cast is just brilliant. Michael Chiklis had a career defining role as the brutal Vic Mackey. Chiklis is so good that somehow you continue to root for the guy after all of the brutal crimes he has committed. He truly played that role to perfection. The show continues to get better as the seasons progress. They build on each other perfectly which sets up the epic and heart-wrenching series finale. As the seasons build, life truly seems to be on the line for every member of the strike team. Walton Goggins, who plays Detective Shane Vendrell, continually got better as the show progressed and gave mind blowing performance in the last two seasons.What also makes The Shield so rich are the other characters on the show other than the Strike Team. CCH Pounder was brilliant throughout the series and Detective Dutch Waggenbach and Steve Billings both helped balance out the show.Season long guest stints from stars Forrest Whitaker and Glenn Close helped make this show a top 10 drama of the decade.If you like "The Wire" or "The Sopranos" then you need to check this show out...It will be worth your time


                
As far as cop dramas go this is definitely the best. One I first started the series and I finished season 1, I was already really enjoying the show and someone told me to just wait til seasons 5 and 7. So I kept that in mind. And before I reached those seasons I noticed the show ramps up its quality in each season. It kept on upping its amp all the way until the gut punch of a series finale that leaves anyone speechless and breathless.This may not be my #1 favorite show of all time but it's damn close. I haven't seen the six feet under series finale yet but as of right how the shields series finale is the best I've ever seen. Heck not even just the last episode was great the entire last half of the final season is amazing. I won't spoil a single word and I have to say you should be cautious of this page so you don't get spoiled.In conclusion this definitely in my top 5 of all time. I recommend this show to anybody who shows any slit interest in starting this show. Start at any time you can. Enjoy. Thanks for reading my review.


                
The Shield in my opinion as it is in most people's view, is probably regarded as second to The Wire as one of the greatest shows on television. The Shield is not just a cop show either, just like The Wire. With The Shield, you see politics, family issues, sexuality, and many other hard hitting topics that The Wire covers also but in two separate environments; Baltimore and Los Angeles. I was lucky enough to have bought the entire season 1 - 7 of The Shield on DVD at a good price, and slowly made my way through the vice and darkness that surrounds the show and its characters.All I can really say is The Wire has only barely just topped The Shield in my opinion as a hard hitting gritty show. Both are almost fully fair in greatness, if not for The Wire beating the other by an inch. Through The Shield, you are tagging along on a journey with Vic Mackey and his Strike Team, through some harrowing and disturbing stories to the finale of this amazing show. Just as the The Wire is considered to be an analysis of society, I believe The Shield is too more so through the police but you still see both sides of the same argument from the political and criminal side too. No one is innocent, and no one can pretend to be either as they all hide secrets. Through The shield you will see some harrowing scenes, some gritty cliffhangers to the seasons and some life-changing decisions being made in the show by its cast. Its harrowing, disturbing, gritty, hard hitting, and so down in the dirt realistic you know this happens almost everywhere. If not to watch for the crime side to it, watch The Shield to see an analysis of family life, ones own battle with their sexuality, the ever-running struggle against the corrupt institutions. Its a study of policing in an urban environment torn by strife, violence, racism and definitely the class system.As each season passes and new ones open, we are left with many questions, awaiting answers. We await retribution, vengeance, and just deserves but we keep watching as it it so addictive. The Shield barely scrapes the top of the world of policing, especially in a city like Los Angeles, but it does a good job and comes close to the scale The Wire takes on. Tear jerking acting, top-notch plots and directing. The Shield to me and many others is right up there next to The Wire.


                
I haven't watched many TV shows ever since The Shield ended, and never again with the same devotion and lack of critical attitude. After The Shield, I just couldn't go back to watching problem-of-the-week type of shows, whether it be super-duper, morally perfect policemen solving a crime every episode (CSI, Criminal Minds, The Mentalist, et cetera), or some young reluctant hero killing monsters (Buffy The Vampire Slayer, Supernatural, et cetera). I became used to long-term plotting, dynamic characters constantly changing, complex narratives developing organically, and incisive critiques of society, race, sexuality, power, politics, family relationships, and more, much more. Yes, I even became used to bleakness, a lot of pessimism and a refusal to offer viewers simple solutions to complex problems. In this sense, The Shield is less a conventional TV show and more a novel in visual form, a long story, carefully plotted, full of meditations and insights into human nature, and a mirror to our times.The story revolves around Vic Mackey and the other members of the Strike Team, a special LAPD unit that deals with street crime by bending the law as much as possible without snapping it. But then David Aceveda, the new captain, arrives at their precinct, demanding better crime stats. Aceveda is a cop with political ambitions and his cleaning up crime is just the first step on the road to become the mayor. This pushes the Strike Team to start using illicit methods to control the crime in their area, which ironically prompts Aceveda to start investigating them, by planting a spy in their group. When they get wind of this, they execute their team-mate and cover it up. This action reverberates throughout the series for all its 89 episodes. The Strike Team starts planning their early retirement by stealing from Armenian criminals, deal with betrayals, frequently try to redeem themselves, skirmish with Internal Affairs, all the while uncovering corruption, forging allies with criminals and federal agencies and simply trying to sort out their messy personal lives.Every character is missed dearly, for no matter how corrupt, evil or Machiavellian, they were clearly loved by the writers. Instead of stock characters, we have human beings with distinct personalities, dreams, motivations, fears, different worldviews, ways of operating and different levels of morality. It was always fascinating to see the outspoken, bullying Vic Mackey share scenes with the subtle, scheming Aceveda; or to compare Detective Claudette's by-the-book approach to morals with Vic's the ends-justify-the-means philosophy; or to compare Captain Monica Rawling's progressive but unpopular methods with Aceveda's media-friendly ones; or Vic's attempts at redemption with his good friend Shane's downward spiral into corruption. Or you can just be enthralled by the characters' personal struggles: Officer Julien's battle with his repressed homosexuality; Detective Dutch's social awkwardness and inability to become popular in spite of being a damn good cop, arguably better than Vic; or I.A. Lieutenant Jon Kavanaugh's own battle to remain a good policeman while allowing his obsession to nail Vic turn him into the criminal he despises. I could write an entire page just listing the fascinating characters in the show. And I haven't even mentioned the villains: Antwon Mitchell, whose attempt to grab power in LA dominated one of the best seasons of the series; or the final villain of the series, the businessman Pezuela and his blackmail network. Still the best villains in the show tend to be the cops: Vic, Kavanaugh, Aceveda, Shane, et cetera. Through them we get a sweeping vista of contemporary society as well as penetrating studies of morality. Season 3, which is undeservedly considered one of the series' weakest parts, is arguably the best study of greed ever written for TV, on par with The Treasure of Sierra Madre. And the fast-paced season 7, after dozens upon dozens of speeches on loyalty, ends with one of the most devastating betrayals ever. I wouldn't say The Shield is a difficult series to watch; in fact it's immensely watchable and entertaining; but unless you're prepared to accept that people are basically corrupt and selfish, you probably won't appreciate it a lot. Like many good novels, it provides an unglamorous, bleak portrayal of people that is a far cry from the soothing pabulum TV offers.The Shield mixes delicate drama with fast-paced action: it's fascinating to watch not only because of the violence, the sex, the cool and badass moments, but also because of the deep inner lives of each character, so well delineated and laid bare that we almost think we know them better than ourselves or our friends and relatives. Every action and decision exists organically; no character does anything that seems out of character or just to service the plot. Frequently they do stupid things, like we all do in our lives, but always for motives resulting from their own psychologies. The characters make the story, which is a nice change from typical TV storytelling, where often it seems characters are made to fit, by hook or by crook, into predetermined plots and conclusions. In opposition, The Shield's seasons build on each previous one, just like in a novel. When the series ends on episode 89, we know it was the only possible conclusion for every character. So it demands an investment of time and patience. In the 21st century, television finally learned that Twin Peak's formula was the way to go, namely long-term storytelling. Many mediocre TV shows were quick to bank on it, like Lost, with its ridiculous twists that screamed lack of planning, and Prison Break that started rehashing the same plot every season. But there were also a few good TV shows that learned the lesson well: The Wire, for instance. The Shield, however, for me is the apex of this new way of making TV shows. Even if it's not perfect, for nothing is, anything less than a 10 would be farce.
it's been a long time, since I've been posting on IMDb.. but this show is absolutely worth watching. There were some slow yawn-full moments and episodes and a couple of overacting moments through-out the latest episodes, but some of the best parts are done in between moments, when CCH Pounder and Michael Chicklis are meeting on, face to face. It gives a real intense character-play and dispute amongst these two qualified actors and critical claims when it comes to corrupt environmental-issues. The guest-appearances were a big plus for this show also. Whitaker played his part with an emotional yet troubled authority-figure, craving to do whatever he could with his part of that show. I never expected Glenn Close to pull off a role, in the shield..that was really unexpected, but well done, after all.This show portrays that, intensity doesn't always need gigantic action sequences or unrealistic special effects...it tries to deliver some sort of street value or real aspects of what it feels like, if the viewer were actually present, during busts and interrogations. The shaky cam, is shaky for that reason alone, makes you feel a part of the show. 10/10 nice song at the end credit suits the small memorable montage ;)


                
Awesome show. I really loved this.The turn of the camera, the live "feel", and the acting and writing - top notch all the way.It was a street war. The Cowboys vs The Indians. The Police vs The Bad guys. Good vs Evil.Right? Wrong! The writing is terrific, and you'll have to decide where the good, the bad, and the ugly is. In a way, it mirrors (or creates?) "real" life ! Most TV shows are bland, because they will serve up the sludge of lowest common denominator. NOT THE SHIELD! ~The characters are great, just superb. The way the camera action brings to life the docu-drama feel really seems to give The Shield a tough and mean edge. The viewer is right there with the acting, and raw acting!, all the way. So, top draw, well done to the creator! And all involved.


                
I have all the seasons in DVD box sets and they're worth every penny. Few TV shows are able to maintain an excellent level of writing, acting and direction. ABC's Once & Again did that successfully for 3 years and The Shield has done it for 5 years and is still going. New shows come and go but, few live up to a series like this. No cliché lines. No over explaining every thing to you like you're an idiot (i.e. C.S.I.). No clear good guy / bad guy. Everyone is human. The action is there, the suspense is there, they shoot it as if you are there. Vic Mackey and his strike team are a force for the gangs of Farmington to contend with. But, sometimes the cops find themselves on the wrong side of a gun.


                
I think the Shield is excellent and has a huge fan base in the UK. In my opinion it's up there with the Sopranos as the best thing on TV certainly in the UK. Obviously I can't comment on US television. I love the documentary style of filming and can't get enough of the whole thing. It's just a shame that we have to wait so long to see the new series here as we are well behind you in the US. I usually buy them on DVD to save waiting. I really can't believe anyone being critical of this show. You should see some of the stuff that's broadcast in England if you want to see rubbish. The Shield really is top class and long may it continue.


                
If you read the first couple of pages of reviews for "The Shield," you'll think that it's a poorly-crafted ratings loser that shouldn't be on television.Nothing could be further from the truth.I'll admit, I was hesitant to start watching "The Shield," but that was only because of Michael Chiklis. I absolutely hated "The Commish" and I figured this show would be a total dog.A co-worker challenged me to watch the pilot and, if I didn't like it, I could return the discs to him and he'd never hound me about it again. I took his challenge and watched the pilot---and I didn't stop until the season finale. Chiklis won me over. The writing won me over. The cinematography won me over.Is the camera-work shaky? Sure. But it's *supposed* to be. It's shot almost documentary style and I think that adds to the grit of the show. Some people claim that "The Shield" failed Movie 101. Well, you know what? It's NOT a movie. It's an episodic television series and there are no other scripted dramas on television that compare.Is it a ratings loser? Absolutely not. Folks, it's on cable. It's not going to be ranked in the Nielsen Top 10...ever! "The Shield" has helped FX firmly establish itself on Tuesday nights and was the first of a series of outstanding and cutting-edge dramas. "The Shield" is better described as a cable success story, proving that quality, original scripted television isn't the exclusive domain of the broadcast networks in the United States.If you haven't ever watched "The Shield" and are considering it, I'll pose the same challenge my co-worker did. Watch one episode and only one episode: Pilot. If you don't like it, turn it off.I'm willing to bet, however, that you'll wind up doing what I did."The Shield" is top-shelf. There's no doubt about it.


                
I don't know if I can add much more to the conversation or sway someone's opinion, and this will start of as a bit of a rant, but here goes: The thing that irritates me the most about so much of today's entertainment is the "Disney Ending" - the boy gets the girl, the underdog wins, what was lost is found, the hero defeats the enemy, etc. I'm tired of predicting the ending of every movie or TV show I see, with everything tied up nicely so you don't have to really think about what you just watched.The fact is, life is a challenge and can be as cruel as it is joyous. We all experience highs and lows. There is beauty in life as well as that which is ugly. There is tolerance and intolerance. Sometimes the good guys win, sometimes the bad guys win, sometimes nobody wins.And that is why I absolutely love this show. I'm not a masochist or anything like that - I'm a very upbeat, glass-is-always-half-full type of person. But this show draws me in by being real and true to the world that we live in. It's not set in our safe little suburban or rural community; it's in a very real inner city overrun with gangs, drug use, racism, and all the naughty things we wish didn't exist and make us squirm uncomfortably when the topics are brought up at our safe backyard barbecues.People who complain about this type of show are the reason why there is so much Lowest Common Denomonator garbage out there. This show breaks free and challenges me and my wife to think about the complexities of morality, racism, law-enforcement, and so many other issues. This isn't TV for children, and I don't let mine watch it. This is TV for grown-ups who want something other than spoon-fed drivel that clutters most of TV these days. If you want the safe, happy ending that will put you to sleep with a content smile on your face, wishing that your world was as simple as that on TV, you know where you can find it. If you want to watch TV as an art-form (art imitating life) with great acting, character complexities, and a show that forces you to ask "would I do the same thing?" then feel free to join the rest of the grown-ups at The Shield table.


                
I started watching The Shield a couple of years ago. A local station in my city was airing re-runs at around 1 in the morning. I was hooked from minute 1. The seasons aired covered seasons 2 and 3, maybe the best seasons of the show. After the incredible season finale of season 3 the local station simply stopped showing The Shield. I was naturally upset and made it my mission to purchase the entire series on DVD. So far I have not been disappointed. Every season of this show is outstanding and makes every single other cop drama ever made look like garbage. The shaky camera look and editing gets a lot of flack but personally I think it gives an amazing "real" look to it truly makes you feel like you are right there on the mean streets of LA. The camera angles give you windows in the characters that you would never see on any other show. The story lines and characters are simply brilliant. Vic Makey starts off as the perfect "Bad Cop" but as the show progresses you begin to see him become more and more of a "Good Cop" unfortunately his horrible bad deeds of the past are catching up to him at lightning speed. But fortunately Vic and the rest of the Strike Team are the masters of getting out of dangerous sticky situations. How they are able to dodge so many bullets and "look clean" are incredible. The season finale of Season 5 was truly one of the most shocking scenes I have ever seen in any show or movie for that matter. I have not yet season 6 but I am sure the show creator Shawn Ryan will not disappoint. Along with 24 and The Sopranos I rank The Shield was one of the greatest TV shows ever made.


                
"The Shield" is a polar-opposite to most cop dramas. Whereas in most cop dramas the main cop characters are incorruptible, good guys, we get the shady,dirty, and shameless Strike Team in "The Shield." The Strike Team is composed of detectives Vic Mackey, Shane Vendrell, Curtis "Lem" Lemansky, and Ronnie Gardocki, all of whom use their identities as cops to receive bribes, plant evidence, push drugs, and kill for their own purposes. This show starts out excellent, and only gets better, culminating in, in my opinion, the greatest t.v. finale ever made. If you enjoy great writing, terrific acting, and shocking, gut-wrenching moments of brilliance, then "The Shield" may very well be the show for you.


                
I've read the majority of peoples comments about The Shield, proclaiming it's too violent or too risqué. And bad cinematography? You have to be kidding. There isn't another show on television that makes you feel like you're right behind Mackey, chasing down the bad guy. This is the best show on TV today.If you want to watch the good guys catch the bad guys and teach them the lesson that "crime doesn't pay" then go watch Pacific Blue!!! Watching cops, dressed in spandex and riding bicycles, chase down crooks is great for the whole family.Now, if you want a show that doesn't slap you in the face with its own stupidity, put the kids to bed and knuckle down for some exciting, aggressive, erotic, nail-biting drama that'll leave you begging for the next episode.


                
I just looked at the first couple of pages of review for this show which were almost all universally bad. It seems to me that there must be some king of campaign against this show as when you continue through the reviews the good see to outweigh the bad. For me this is the best show on TV in years, like 24 it doesn't reward the casual viewer with story arcs that can last two seasons, and the main story arc has been running from the beginning. The shield is a wonderfully gritty cop show with great acting from all involved. Unlike most shows none of the characters are painted black or white, good or bad and even the ones we love to hate have qualities that make them decent human beings to some extent and vice versa. The shield is a truly rewarding sometimes shocking show that for me feels authentic and should be regarded as one of the best US cop shows ever.


                
This takes NYPD Blue etc to the next level. The "bad cops" go much further than Sipowicz et al ever did. The interesting question that you'll find yourself asking repeatedly is "Are they doing more good than harm?" Other posters complain about the message the show is sending to America! The show doesn't send a message just the above question Yes it contains shocking scenes of violence and sex (and even sometimes violent sex) but <U+0096> shocking as this may be to some of the more prudish posters on the site <U+0096> so does real life.Its well acted and enjoyable, and well worth watching <U+0096> but unsuitable for younger viewers and the easily offended


                
If anyone watches "The Shield" and gives it a bad review, they obviously don't know ANYTHING about film-making. People today are sick and tired of all the predictable Hollywood crap on TV and they want something new and original!!! The cinematography and the ACTING on "The Shield" make it one of the greatest television shows of all time. It is shot like an independent film to give it a "raw" look and feel and by God, it WORKS!!! There are reasons why this show won several Golden Globes and why Michael Chiklis won an Emmy for it. His performance in this show is hands down the best of his career. Walton Goggins' acting in the current season is Definitely Emmy worthy and it would be an outrage if he isn't nominated this year. "The Shield" has just signed on for a seventh season, but hopefully Shawn Ryan comes down with the "David Chase Syndrome" and writes more!!! If you haven't seen this show, get your hands on the Season One DVD and watch the pilot and you will become addicted!!! I DARE YOU to watch the pilot!!!


                
If you're longing for something more emotionally complex than a sit-com, a 3-dimensional story with brilliant scriptwriting, then "The Shield" is for you."The Shield" follows the lives and struggles of a police precinct in a crime-ridden area of Los Angeles. I've never seen a show successfully plumb and explore the hearts and minds of so many characters simultaneously, but this show does: from Detective Vic Mackey, head of the controversial strike team, to the men under his command, to white-bread Detective Wagenbach and his African-American partner, Claudette Wyms, to the Latino police captain, Aceveda, to the uniformed cops Danny and Julian, all of whom have desires and aspirations which put them at odds with one another and with themselves. The show is graphic and violent - don't watch it with your 5-year-old in the room - but the violence is necessary to the story line and the story lines themselves keep you on the edge of your seat. Just when you think you've figured out the next plot twist, something comes from behind and astonishes you again.The scriptwriting is unparalleled. The interaction between the characters is authentic, and the characters themselves defy easy categorization as heroes or villains - like real people, everyone has feet of clay. You might hate a character one episode and develop an unexpected sympathy for him or her in the very next one. I've always been a big fan of "law and order"-style shows, but this show does what the actual show "Law & Order" attempts, dealing with relevant issues in authentic and complex ways. It follows in the gritty realist tradition of "NYPD Blue" but this is meatier - it's "NYPD Blue" on steroids. The actors negotiate their characters skillfully and during the week I would find myself actually concerned about the outcome of a problem these fictional characters were facing. If you have an aversion to violence, don't watch this. Not a single episode avoids it. There's also some graphic sexuality. But if you're longing for something that goes beyond the watery fare generally offered on television, something that challenges your perceptions, emotions, and mind, I cannot recommend "The Shield" highly enough.


                
The Shield is one of the most amazing shows to ever be shown on the small screen. The power of its performances, the power of its story lines, and the overall power of its writing finds no equal in television and nearly equals the best motion pictures made today.The overall style of The Shield can be somewhat disheartening to people new to the series. But, despite what some over-zealous detractors might say, it does add a frustratingly real power to its complex stories. Many people that are more accustomed to the more polished typical way of television or film may find The Shield difficult to watch. But in order to accurately portray the imperfect lives of the imperfect characters found throughout The Shield I feel that this style of film-making is necessary.Though it sounds somewhat cliché, The Shield's intentional imperfections are what make it nearly perfect.


                
I've been a fan of the shield since the very first episode and even after 5 seasons the quality of the script and the acting has never dropped, in fact, in my opinion season 5 has been the best so far. What amazes me is then comments by some people on this site complaining of shaking cameras and poor production! its done this way to keep with the gritty, edgy feel that the program has, the production is spot on. if you want perfect static camera angles, perfect lighting, super-slick and glossy sets then you better look elsewhere. All the performances from the main cast to the extras, to the guest stars are fantastic. The levels of violence in the show should never be called into question, these things DO happen in real life, read the newspapers, plus it starts plenty late enough, 10 in the US and 11 over here. This show is nothing short of brilliant and is the best show on TV in the UK by a mile, although it is mainly ignored by UK audiences, due to the time its airs, 11pm on Friday night. Its a first class show and it will be a sad day for the fans when it comes to an end.


                
I can't believe the really poor reviews that people have taken the time to write about this show. This show is hands down the best show on television. Michael Chiklis is great and so are the supporting cast. Every episode rocks. The writing is great. If you are turned off by the grittiness of it, get rid of cable TV! I don't like chick shows, hence I don't watch nor review Sex and the City. If the grittiness bothers you, you are either a prude or you haven't woken up to the realization that not everything on TV today is Brady Bunch. The show gets as close to realism as possible. If you don't think so, go watch reality TV (which isn't as real as you think, by the way). Great characters, story lines, and original ideas. And in reply to soonerfan_forlife, yes, there are a lot of good cops out there. I just have yet to see one. Ditto for everyone I know personally, and no, none of them are law breakers. As for your comment that everyone hates cops until you need them, one of the reasons we hate them is because they are never available or do much when we need them. As for your comment on corruption in the police force, you obviously never heard of the Yonkers Police in Yonkers, New York. Truly a corrupt and unaccountable police force.


                
Very few shows start off strong and gripping and continue to hold you in suspense throughout every season. The Shield follows the LA's Strike Team lead by Detective Vic Mackey whose story is continually evolving and the consequences of their actions continue to follow each character. The plot of the show is also very original and interesting because unlike most cop-dramas this show follows a corrupt cop that uses any means necessary to get the job done. Each character in The Shield brings a different style to the show and allows the story to expand in ways most TV shows are unable to achieve. This is one show that will never bore any audience and that will continue to have them craving more. Highly recommended.


                
Don't listen to the nay sayers.... this is one of the best shows ever made. Screw the camera work, you don't watch TV shows to admire their frickin camera work. The plot and the characters are what blow you away.If you watched this from season 1, you get attached to the characters which is one of the main reasons why it has a cult following. Yea, the Strike Team is crooked, but that doesn't mean the entire police community is being smeared (and the team ends up getting investigated by an obsessed Internal Affairs Detective). Quit over-analyzing things and don't let the one of the best shows pass you by (season 7 will be the last).


                
Whoever wrote the other comment on this page is a moron. The Shield is shot in 16mm film, and it is also shot like an episode of COPS. The show has even had great directors such as Frank Darabont. The actors on the show are phenomenal. The performances of Michael Chiklis, Forest Whitaker, and Glen Close are some of the best performances in television history. As an audience member you feel as if the action is truly taking place. In stead of stale sets and stale actors you get to see what the inner city of Los Angeles looks like. I bet the guy who wrote the other comment gets his jollies on men in white sports jackets over a Hawaiian shirt wearing aviators and pretending to be Vice cops in Miami hanging out in obvious art deco sets.I guarantee you he doesn't know the first thing about film-making. There have been many instances of the hand-held camera style in several recent Hollywood productions from Saving Private Ryan to Star Wars: Attack of the Clones. As for your accusations that The Shield is shot in video, which it is not, who cares. Both of Michael Mann's recent films Collateral and Miami Vice were both shot in video, and they were great movies.In closing, I would just like to add that people who know anything already know how great The Shield is, and don't need me to tell them. They also don't need some idiot that took an entrance level film class that it sucks.


                
