With nausea-inducing camera work, The Shield has to be the most over-hyped show of recent memory.FX keeps spending huge amounts of money to relaunch this show every year, and yet it fails to catch with the audience every year. The reason? The thing is unwatchable!! note to the producers: making a TV show look like a homevideo doesn't make it look "real", it makes it look like something most people don't want to watch.It's too bad for the cast, which admittedly does a good job, but apart from a few award FX campaigns hard for every year, their work doesn't pay off in the important way, that is to be seen and appreciated by a big audience.What a waste of a budget by FX!!


                
Indeed, you'd think with all the hype and all the accolades, The Shield would be a must-see show.Instead, it's a must-avoid show! Defenders of The Shield pretend that the only way to avoid "static shots" and "pretty" sets is to make a show like the Shield. This is of course not true.Shaking the camera is not the only way to move the camera. Rather, it's a lazy way to avoid having to think about visual storytelling.Cutting away from reaction shots is not a way to avoid "mugging" by the actors. rather it's a lazy way to try (and fail) to instill excitement in a badly shot show.It's too bad, because the idea behind The Shield (a fictionalized version of the Rampart Division in L.A.) is a good one.sadly, the makers of The Shield opted for hype over substance.


                
Only the producers of The Shield or the most rabid fans of the stars would deny that The Shield is a poorly made show.It is shot on video and affects a fake documentary-style (no offense to documentaries which often look better than The Shield) that makes one quickly reach for the remote.The editing is also abysmal, again by a fake concern to appear "real" and achieving the exact opposite effect.And that is what causes The Shield to be low-rated. Now why does that fact not mean that PBS documentaries are also bad because they get low ratings? Because The Shield has been the beneficiary of millions upon millions of dollars of advertising, PR and other hype. FX has bought this show several awards to show "ignoramuses" such as myself that this show is "good quality". All that expense did is show that award "academies" are easily swayed by a few hundreds of thousands worth out outdoors advertising and trade publication PR. It hasn't made The Shield any better.Nor has it made it any more successful with the public, who couldn't care less about critics views (they almost always like bad shows) or awards (the more often than not go to bad shows).


                
The filmmakers of The Shield keep on harping about how the "only way" they could film their show is badly, because of how "real" they want it to be.But I am asking you: how is shaking the camera at nothing in particular making anything look more "real"? It doesn't. Shaking the camera constantly just makes The Shield look like their directors don't know what they're doing and so just shake the camera in hopes people will be fooled. They're not.This show has survived only because FX has decided that, even against all evidence to the contrary, this show would be hyped as a "hit". In reality, it's ranked in the low 300s!!! Shame on FX for wasting its money this way.


                
As The Shield wraps its run with yet another hyped-up campaign, it may be fitting to reflect on its storied career.Sadly, The Shield will be remembered more for the depth and intensity of its ad campaigns than for any real quality of the actual show.While many promises were made by the people behind the scenes of great quality, they never delivered.The photography, even when the producers apparently decided to finally shoot film, still looked like a home movie, and this is just not something that works on a consistent basis.The stories, while promising, never really managed to climb up from the mundane and the good cast was left with precious little to work with (PR releases don't make good scripts).Overall, a big missed opportunity to produce a special show.


                
How has it come to this? A supposedly serious and "quality" television show that looks like Cops...Actually, we'd be lucky if it looked like Cops, because at least the editors of Cops don't cut away from the money shots because they're trying oh-so-hard to be "hip and edgy".Cops actually tries its hardest to be as good as possible given its nature. The Shield tries its hardest to present an artificially badly-made product.Note to The Shields' producers: shooting on video and shaking the camera is not "documentary style. It's just bad, lazy directing.It's actually sad because this show had the elements to make compelling TV: an interesting variation on the Cop Show model and Michael Chiklis.Sadly, all that came out of it is this sad mess.
I have no idea what the producers of The Shield were trying to do, but the result speaks for itself: The Shield is practically unwatchable.Supposedly the performances on The Shield are great...In reality, the show is so badly put together that you can't even really see the performances. For instance, the editing cuts away from reaction shots before they've had their full impact.I don't know what intellectual rationale there is for that, but it robs the show of all emotional impact.I'll give The Shield one point for ambition in its subject matter, but that's pretty much all I can give it.It's a shame to see a number of talented performer waste their gift on something so strangely badly filmed.


                
The Shield is a bad, bad show.That's all there is to it.The camera work (or more aptly the direction) makes it one of the worse-made shows on television today.Shaking the camera mindlessly at everything that moves is not good television. It's bad directing and it reminds you every second that you are watching a bad show.The editing is also hilariously awful. Sorry, but cutting away from reaction shots just doesn't make for good editing. It makes for editing you don't often see, but that's because it's bad.Add to that the poor quality of the video images and it's just sad to see Michael Chiklis waste his talent on such an unworthy project.At least Chiklis did get the hype he deserved.The Shield got empty hype it didn't deserve and bad ratings.


                
As a rule of thumb, the more hype on a TV show, the worst it is. The Shield is a great example of that equation.FX has relentlessly been pushing the Shield at great cost in money and energy. Sadly, that money would have been better used in hiring directors who know how to direct and cinematographers versed in the use of the tripod.The Shield is so empty, it relies on bad directing and hype to sell itself. You see, according to the shills, if it looks like a 2-year-old with Daddy's camcorder, it makes it real, it makes it "quality TV", it makes it cool.Thankfully and unremarkably, audiences have stayed away in droves (the Shield is routinely ranked in the 300s in the Nielsens) but FX has kept this turkey alive year after year thinking it made for good press.Wake up FX! Having a bad show on is not good press. Cancel this bad show and use the money for something more worthwhile.


                
To hear the constant drone of the Shield's marketing machine, this show is some sort of acclaimed masterpiece with a huge audience.Sadly it's really far from a masterpiece.Indeed, the only remarkable thing about The Shield is how poorly made it is. The Shield features what audiences have learned to stay away from: the dreaded Shaky-Cam! The Shield is also shot on video and looks like it.I'll give the show a few points for having cast the great Michael Chiklis and for good stunt casting of Glenn Close and others. However, it's rather sad to see those great actors waste their time on a show where the directors work full time to lessen their contributions.Overall, it's a show that failed to attract an audience and failed creatively. A valiant effort, perhaps, but not a successful one.


                
The answer is simple: it's not well-made.People will watch well-written shows even if the film-making distracts rather than enhances the drama (NYPD Blue comes to mind - how much bigger would it have been with good story-telling?) But there is a limit when the sheer incompetence makes the viewers flee.That's what happened with The Shield. It has a great actor as the lead, an interesting premise and the promise of originality.But what The Shield delivers is a feeling of watching a home video. Far from making the viewers feel they're watching something "real", it actually reminds them they are watching a show with each incompetent camera move or bad edit decision.It's that simple.Putting crappily made shows on doesn't pay off in the ratings.


                
It's hard to know where to start, but I guess all you really have to know about The Shield is that it's quality is in reverse proportion to the amount of promotion it receives.It does have some good actors, like Michael Chiklis and some of the guest stars, but you can't really see their work. You see (or really you don't see if you watch the show), the camera-work and editing are so outrageously bad that they kill most of the performances.When you have to squint to look at what is going on and reach for the Dramamine because of the umpteenth useless zoom-in, you don't have much energy left to appreciate whatever is supposedly a great script.The Shield fails on such basic levels, it's easy to understand why it is so low-rated.Harder to understand is why F/X hangs on to this major loser.


                
You'd think The Shield had somehow broken some new ground and was brilliantly made when you hear the claims it makes about "breaking new ground".Five minutes into watching it, you realize how badly made it is, and that any "new ground" broken is that of film illiteracy.Get this: we are now told that not setting up shots for the camera is "genius". What genius!! So if you just do whatever, it shows how great you are?!!??!! What may be most disappointing with this show is that it was made by a number of producers who should have known better, but thought that going with hype and not fighting ridiculous ideas like the constantly hand-held camera and the bad edits was the easy way to get along with the network.Well, they got along all right, but instead of a great show, which this had the potential of being, this is a really bad show that languished in the ratings and is only notable for its repeated Emmy and Golden Globe campaigns.Sad.


                
It's amazing how long some shows can endure if they are the recipient of huge amounts of hype and PR.The Shield is a really bad show that has fizzled in the ratings a long time ago.Its well-documented awful camera-work and its overall bad film-making have sent audiences screaming for the exit (sorry, grasping frantically for the remote!) To its credit, they have kept luring great actors to come in and do guest spots, but it's more a reflection of how little work there is today in Hollywood than about the quality of the show, which is abysmal.FX has kept hyping this dead show for years and maybe in Hollywood they believe that it's a great show, but audiences everywhere know better.They've stayed away from The Shield because of how bad it is.It's that simple.


                
Wow, is this show awful!! Let the reader be forewarned: if you're looking for any visual interest in The Shield, you are barking up the wrong tree.Same for realism.You'd be much better off watching an episode of COPS, at least COPS showcases real police officers and its camera-work is a hundred times better that than of The Shield, which astonishes the viewers by its complete lack of any professionalism in its visual style.What made FX think that this pale excuse for a TV show should be their standard bearer is beyond me.For me, it made FX into the Badly Made Show network.Is that really something to aspire to? In other words, stay away. You've got better things to do with your time. Like watching a reality show (and I hate reality shows!)


                
The Shield is just a badly made show.That they make it badly on purpose only makes it worse than if they were failing at trying to make something good.Shaking the camera and pointing and shooting in lieu of blocking do not make for an interesting visual style. They don't make for anything that remotely comes close to "making you feel like you're there" as I often read in defense of lack of quality.All shaking the camera does is make you feel like there's a bad camera operator shaking the camera behind every scene.Everything else is just hype and intellectual justifications for lazy directing.Speaking of hype, The Shield is the recipient of major amounts of that stuff, and it's just too bad, as it crowds out better shows that deserve accolades a lot more than this boring, badly made show.


                
There are two kinds of characters on THE SHIELD: people who try to do the best they can and do the right thing, and people who relentlessly pursue their own self interest and commit every mortal sin they can while telling themselves and everyone else that they are heroes, and everyone's only hope. More than any other show, THE SHIELD is about hypocrisy and self-delusion. Unfortunately, the hypocrites and self-deluders are the shows heroes, and as such have the typical genre-fiction heroes' improbable immunity to getting defeated or caught and they come out on top over and over again, making fools out of all of their peers.The show boasts excellent camera-work. The lead ins and the fade outs are always superb. It really is a work of art to see. Unfortunately the story is a cartoony, overwrought wish fulfillment scenario of gratuitous violence, rape, and lies.The hero, who drags everyone down with him in failed scheme after failed scheme, is wiley like a warner bros cartoon character, always escaping and making fun of all the elmer fudds (anyone who does not support him in his lies and crimes), automatically attracting any good looking woman supporting character to come on the show, always surviving any attempt to bring him to justice, and ALWAYS scraping your ears with his excruciating self justifications. If another cop detects something wrong with something he's doing, and someone gets hurt because of his actions, he always blames the suspicious cop, regardless of the fact that his schemes and elaborate lies and doomed plans are always the cause. Every time.Like 24, this show relies on contrivances and innumerable delays to drag its story out for season after season. Boring, unbelievable long term stories are injected into the storyline every season to provide a skeleton on which to hang the bloody, perverted chunks of meat that are the characters' corrupt acts and the inevitable cover-ups.Most disappointing though, is the writers' hubris as they try to change the viewers' sympathies back and forth, to and away form the characters on whims. Sometimes, they want us to see Shane as the enemy. Sometimes they want us to see him as a poor misunderstood soul. Sometimes they want us to see Vic as a dangerous, sexual dynamo. Sometimes they want us to see him as a poor guy with a heart of gold. Sometimes they want us to see Mara as a low down vile Jezebel. Then they think that if they show her sitting and talking over her dreams with Shane, that we will find her to be sympathetic and tragic.None of this manipulation is adequate to obtain the kinds of sympathies they want. Once they've shown these characters ruin other people's lives for their own ends, that's it. It is nonsense to keep trying to flip back and forth. But then, it is also nonsense to produce seven seasons of these bumbling clowns drawing every super model in existence to their beds and running a crime syndicate right out of the police station, right under everyone's noses.
The Shield is an attempt at resurrecting NYPD Blue by copying all the things that didn't work in it and hiding the bad storytelling behind the now all-too-common veil of bad cinematography.Guess what? Shaking the camera doesn't make a show "documentaty-style". It doesn't even make it interesting.Dozens of shows are doing the same bad camera work these days and The Shield is just one more of them, and it's not any better.Bad editing also doesn't make the show look more "real". It makes it unwatchable and makes you aware that a bad editor is hiding the good stuff from you to try and be "hip".That's why the Shield languishes in the ratings in spite of repeated campaigns to get viewers to sample it.There's a lesson there: it doesn't matter how many awards you buy, if the product is not good, the audience will stay away.


                
That's right: I said it. My beef with this show has nothing to do with its pace, filming, or acting (contrary to many people responding to this show, I thought all of these were very well done). I am primarily concerned with the tag line, of all things: "The road to justice is twisted!" The word that really bothers me is "justice" because from what I've seen of this show (Season 1 and some of Season 2) there is none to be found.This is a show that essentially glorifies police corruption. The techniques it employs are the same as that other great propaganda achievement from FOX, "24". We have a sympathetic, but thoroughly immoral cop Vic Mackey (extremely well played by Michael Chiklis) who we see employ a whole toolbox-full of dirty tricks to rid the streets of their filth. Just like "24's" Jack Bauer, Mackey murders, tortures, traffics in drugs, etc., and we are led to believe that these tactics are what are keeping the child molesters, gangland violence and whatnot at bay.The moral of the show seems to be a familiar one at FOX: the root cause of the decay of urban neighbourhoods stems from the fact that cops don't have the right to lie, cheat, steal, rape and murder and summarily imprison anyone who rubs them the wrong way. The dangerous thing about this show isn't that it's bad... it's that it's GOOD! I with each passing episode I find myself more and more endeared to Mackey, and at times, I even feel like cheering, "Yeah, Vic! Hit him some more! Teach that druggie a lesson!!" The show is filmed mainly with a hand-held crew (the same crew that did the camera work for "The Mist") that gives the show a grainy, documentary-like atmosphere, almost as if this were "Cops", but pretend. Also like "24", which uses the gimmick of real-time and a one-day season, this gives us the impression that what's happening in "The Shield" could be real... could happen to anyone. It is this that blurs the line between real-world ethics and fiction ethics in the public's mind, and let me just say that I don't think the public is dumb. Quite the opposite in fact. What makes propaganda work isn't people's lack of intelligence, but the fact that they CARE. It is good people who want a good life for their families that are susceptible to this kind of manipulation: intelligence has less to do with it than we might think.All this said, the streets are mean, and sometimes the line between right and wrong can get very blurry indeed. Life isn't a clear-cut case of good and evil (certainly not in the police world).The sin of "The Shield" isn't that it tries to accurately portray the mindset behind police corruption. Its sin is that it depicts this corruption as morally right. It is here that the difference between realism and propaganda lies.


                
What's with all the uniform cops wearing their badges on the RIGHT side, name plates on the LEFT. Essentially every US police agency wears them on the LEFT, over the heart. Uniform shirts have badge tabs on the LEFT. Then to add to the confusion, there's a couple of cops with their badges on the LEFT now and then.Seems like a simple thing to get right. Surely there's some uniform security guys around the stage with their badges on the LEFT. Surely there's some LAPD (or other) technical adviser to say "Um, those are backwards". Surely the wardrobe people working on the project have done cop uniforms before. Almost seems intentionally wrong.Still a good show. Just sticks out seeing the backward badge thing.


                
