I read "The Godfather" novel, it was one of the best books that I have ever read. Not one minute in the story was I not entertained or interested. I was very excited to see how Frances Ford Coppola's collaboration with Mario Puzo, the author of the book, would translate this into a movie.When watching the movie I tried to put all of my memory of the book into the back of my head and try to enjoy the movie. But sadly the movie was just not entertaining as a movie by itself. Yes, the cast is one of the best ever assembled, Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Robert Duval, etc.But all of the main events that should be entertaining, like the elimination of all the bosses in the end. Or the murder of Sunny Corleone at the toll both. But sadly they just bore you to the point were you want even Marlon Brando to die, which he later does. Even the performances from the actors themselves, especially Marlon Brando, leave much to be desired from these awesome actors.This is without a doubt the most overrated movie of all time. If you want to see the life of a mobster done right, see Scorcese's "Casino" and "Goddfellas". These do not only show the life of a mobster, but they are also entertaining with awesome acting from Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci every time.I give this movie 2/10, that's because Mario Puzo was involved.
Might be a lot of people's favourite but I can't gel with this picture. And I've tried!


                
After watching a lot of the movies on the IMDb top 250 list, I have to somewhat agree with where the movie is placed. I watched the #2 movie, Shawshank Redemption, at least five times and it was just awesome. Finally, I got The Godfather and expected a lot from it, seeing that it would have to be better than Shawshank Redemption. However, I could barely sit through half of The Godfather. Absolutely NOTHING happens. Yeah, so some guy gets shot. Then some people get angry. Wow.Anyway, I would have to grudgingly say that the acting is pretty good, but good acting doesn't make a movie worth seeing. As an old movie, I guess that the overall quality can't be too great. But, even with all that aside, this movie still lacks a good plot, and, maybe even more importantly, emotion. The Shawshank Redemption really made me sympathize with the characters, while this movie just made me go to sleep more quickly (it was that boring).I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone.


                
This movie is the definition of overrated, it is incredibly slow moving, half of the movie is dark. very bored after 30 minutes of watching. incredibly overrated.


                
I've got a masters in Criminology, and have studied filmography, and I just don't get it.  This isn't a great movie.  The only thing that could make it a classic is the quality of the actors that were hired - and while the actors themselves can and have made quality movies, this one just doesn't do it for me.  Brando didn't impress me in the least in this movie.And as for the portrayal of organized crime - nothing personal, but if you find it attractive to honor men who not just break the law but flout the laws of civilization, then more power to you.  Crime and criminals aren't glamorous - they're a sore on the backside of humanity that should be expunged.


                
If you aren't a thug lover... if you don't drool over less than smart bad guys somehow getting ahead... if you don't really like spectacle just for spectacle sake... then this movie may not be for you. To me, it just epitomizes the big dumb knock people over the head with a club, speak like you dropped out of school in fourth grade sort of guy movie. I'm a guy. I like guy movies, but I don't like this one.Brando I like pretty well. Pacino too. Hell, probably half the cast I am very fond of. Why can't I like this movie? I don't know, but it has just never made me feel anything but annoyance and boredom. The problem is people over-hype it and make me want to try to like it. Every time I try to watch it, it's the same thing though.So sorry, this movie just isn't great.


                
I just don't get it. Sure the acting in some parts of the movie is good, but honestly, the entire "angry Italian"-role is probably the easiest character to play. And i really don't get how every other character other then the "angry Italian" seems underdeveloped, plain boring and uninteresting. The only way for you to like this movie is by sympathize with the characters. And sympathizing with the bad guys (since almost every main character is a murderer and a mob member, even the protagonist is a bad guy)is difficult, although not impossible. If the director makes the evil sides of those characters redeemable, then it would be a lot easier for the viewer to sympathize and worry about the protagonist if he/she was in danger. When i however see Michael Corleone in danger in this movie, every time i wish for him to be killed, for i feel nothing for him. Which means that watching this movie was a waste of time. Although the soundtrack is quite good so instead of a rating of "1" The Godfather will receive a "2" out of generosity...


                
I saw this movie years ago, and I loved it. It was my favourite movie. This morning, I watched it again, and began to pick it apart.This movie is first and foremost overlong. Unnecessary dialogue and scenes weaken the raw effect that could have been produced. The musical sequence after Pacino does his restauant thing is unlike any other in the movie, it doesn't fit in. The part of the movie detailing Pacino's stay in Italy is poorly done, and also doesn't fit in.Some of the performances are dull, such as Keaton's, Lettieri, and Conti. Yes, I do believe Brando's part is badly written. I know I will be hated for saying this, but the character constantly changes, and his dialogue is never consistent. Brando does his best, and I don't think anyone could have done better, but it was still not a great part. The only outstanding performances were those of Caan and Pacino. Caan's acting is raw and Pacino is right on target.Besides the main theme, music is weak and unfitting. As I have said, some of the scenes don't fit, and the music score doesn't help any. At one moment, the movie is a gritty masterpiece, and  at another a cheesy, cliched piece of film, going back to the traditional style of film, ruining the film's effect. Had the movie cut all the silly dialogue, not to mention the sans-dialogue scenes that aren't even poetic, which a dialogueless scene should be, the effect might  be better.Also, to throw some more mud, the romance between Keaton and Pacino is awful, and no chemistry is arisen.A disappointment, but not to be missed. I recommend a single viewing. One more thing, this film certainly doesn't deserve to be the best ever, it shouldn't even be in the top one hundred, but it doesn't deserve a "1" rating, I only give it that because I want the average rating to go down.


                
This movie was probably relevant in the 70s and may have been a benchmark at the time it was made. Watching it in 2006, I can see how it added to the movie landscape and that effect that it had on subsequent film making.Some of the film is amazing, but mostly it goes on and on. It is very long, with some of the scenes taking an age, without really adding to the atmosphere or the point. These are not impressive pauses, silences, looks, stares, or useful dwelling time, simply editing that never happened.This film is worth seeing as a history lesson in film, to get an understanding of the development of the genre, but anybody who has seen goodfellas, casino, or any other mob flick is unlikely to find the moral tale worth the journey.


                
This film leaves one big question behind: Why the hell is it rated no.1 in IMDb?? There is no basic storyline, sometimes some people are being murdered but nobody knows why, you can't even say if the acting is good or bad because they run around with hats and sad faces all the time. From the beginning you simply sit there, waiting for some kind of message or at least some sense - and then after a much too long time the film is over. Why did they kill Don's friend? Why did they try to kill Don? Why did their enemies know that his son was driving to the husband of his sister? Where from did they know the one of the sons was in Italy? Why do they kill all the time at all? And where is the police I was wondering all the film. Lots and lots of murders, no police. Hm. It's nothing more than a bad 70's Mafia-trash-film.


                
I don't see what all the fuss is about surrounding this movie.  It is long, slow and boring.  I'm partial to the odd gangster movie (yeah, I know, this isn't a gangster movie it's a 'family' movie...*yawn*) but have seen far better than this (Carlito's Way, Mean Streets, Scarface to name a few).Judging by the comments left on IMDB people say this movie is great due to the acting, the cinematography, the direction etc....what about the plot? The characters?  Isn't that what makes a good movie?  Or are the people who so verbosely extol the virtues of The Godfather all film/media students studying it for their coursework?  Do people say this is a great movie because that's what they hear everyone else say?The Godfather is not a good movie and the emperor is well and truly naked.


                
The fact this movie is consistently called the best movie of all time absolutely baffles me. This isn't even remotely one of my favorite movies, in fact its one of the worst I've seen. Its 3 hours long, which is far too long, it's beyond boring and the story, or what little story there is makes no sense. I did not understand why anything happened throughout the whole movie, each death just happened for seemingly no reason out of the blue. Some of the actors mumble so much they are impossible to understand or speak in Italian without subtitles, which doesn't help in following along with what's happening. This movie does not deserve the extreme high praise it has received, not by a long shot. Its single redeeming factor to me is the excellent cinematography for its time, I'll give it that.


                
let's give it a good estimationentertainment: it's been said many times that the acting is stupid , including Brando's character just mumbling and Pacino's character just ,well, staring.. truly over-hyped junkie so called acting.the script is bad , it's like a Mexican soap drama. the dialog is below the standard of those Indian cheese. the production value is fair though , shot in Sicily. it seems the producer is not interested in faking locations. overall rating 3/15social/life message: the isn't a particular deep movie. isn't anywhere better than any eurocrime pic. the message is banal: criminals have souls.- rating 0/10politically objectionable things : nothing big really, as I said the director/writer seems to be obsessed with organized crime, he hardly delivers any political or historical material. rating is high 3/5overall rating: two out of ten


                
I don't typically like gangster mob films. I tried this film because I thought it would be a good film to see as a student studying film. I didn't like it and I guess I should have known I wouldn't. Cheers to those who do.


                
Seem pretty boring for me want my type, plus its an old movie


                
The Godfather is probably the most overrated movies of all time. I don't see why everyone gives this movie such a high rating. The movie sucks. The movie is just so darn boring and the only reason I kept watching it was because I kept wanting it to get better. I know a movie is not all about action, but come on, who wants to watch a movie that is just all talk and no action. Look at Scarface and The Untouchables, those were good Mafia movies. They both had a great storyline, great acting, and had at least some action. The Godfather is just way to boring and I don't get why it is number on the all time list. Some reviews that didn't like this movie have said many people like this movie because its about the Mafia and its influence. Those people who have said that are absolutely right. The only reason I don't give this movie a 1 is because Marlon Brando and Al Pacino's performances were pretty darn good, but the story itself which carry's the movie is just so darn boring and this is without a doubt the most overrated movie ever. I'll stick to the Star Wars Saga instead of the Godfather Trilogy.


                
Simply put, this is a very poor movie.  The acting was substandard... Marlon Brando stuffs his cheeks, giving himself a speech impediment which is almost unavoidable and does not make for an amazing performance, and Al Pacino walks around with a blank, emotionless face throughout the entire movie (which is the point at some times, but not the whole time).  Diane Keaton also plays easily one of the most annoying roles I have ever seen in a film. Every scene in this film drags on and on and on, making it very possible to summarize the whole thing without leaving out details in around thirty seconds.  The closest explanation I've gotten from anyone I've talked with in person about why this film is so great to them is because "it's the Godfather."A movie that puts you to sleep and is not exciting or interesting does not belong as the greatest movie of all time to me.


                
I recently saw the godfather again, 34 times I think. Now, never was a Brando fan, can't stand mob movies, so why should I like this one? Simply, because everyone else does. Its not that the acting's bad (except for brando) its not that its a mob movie, OK, it is that it is a mob movie. I mean seriously, pick a better topic! Not a realistic view of the mob. The mob did things quietly never have I heard in history of a mobsters getting gunned down in his car by many bullets. Oh, and another thing, if this movie is supposed to be realistic, why did the gas can blow up when the shot the car?Only see this movie if you love mob movies and love brando


                
The Godfather is an engaging and compelling story to say the least, but as a movie- so what?  Just because something makes for a great story or play doesn't mean it can automatically translate onto the big screen.  There has to be some point of making it into a movie, and quite frankly, The Godfather works just as effectively as a book.  The characters, the dialogue, the plot twists- yeah, they're all okay, but where are the shots, the angles, the editing techniques, the sound effects that make this into a number one film???  The conventions of film are all used pretty simply according to the Hollywood format- ie, make the camera invisible.  There are few scenes anywhere in The Godfather Trilogy that stand out in the history of cinema. If you want an entertaining movie, you will certainly like the Godfather. But you may just as well read the book (unless, like so many today, you haven't the time).  But if you want a film that stretches the genre or that will blow you away with an element OTHER than storyline and dialogue, you can do a lot better.


                
Godfather has a epic soundtrack. I am sure that someone who has a little knowledge about movies, is privy to this OST. It is a masterpiece for sure.The first time I watched this movie I had a 2 CD version of it. The second CD was broken/scratched and I really was so bored that I did not consider to watch this part on stream. I don't know why this movie is so high rated even if my father likes this movies.I do not blame anyone for watching this series of Godfather but those who watched it, cannot tell why they like this movies either. By the way I have watched every film starring Al Pacino and these are the only I could not finish at all! It has a very long, uninteresting and well known story which has a high budged. If you don't believe me, ask your friends who watched it. You will see what I am trying to tell because they only will tell you: "Well.. it is.. just watch it! It's a great movie".


                
A good job I saw it when it was originally released in the cinema.Because it has never been worth watching since. I usually lose interest after the first party sequence.At the time this was a groundbreaking film, with an excellent performance from Marlon Brando, it's easy to see why they paid him his astronomical fee despite his short time on screen, and it could well have been a momentous flop without him.But this film definitely does not stand the test of time, unlike say 'Goodfellas' 'African Queen' Spartacus etc, very few films do. How it got to number one is beyond comprehension, a very minor classic at best, which has since been done to death by the even more inferior clones, nowadays all very dreary and boring. 'Lawrence of Arabia' now there's a film really worthy of the number 1 spot.


                
Three words to describe this film... BAD BAD BAD...  Not worth five minutes of your time...  Goodfellas and Casino are lightyears better. Ok, maybe that is a little harsh, but seriously, this is not one of the top 250 movies of all time... it does have some merit, so maybe overall it deserves a 5.0/10 ... but, given that this movie is lacking in so many other areas, I have no choice but to award it a 1.0/10.0


                
I watched it once (in jail) to see what all the fuss is about. Boring. I would not watch it again. Its appeal confuses me and I like most popular movies.


                
Violence, Emotions, Violence.
Nothing than celebration of the pure violence motivated by pseudo social reasons.
No thanks.
htpp://adrianalecu.us
I tried to watch this film a couple of years ago... since it is so hyped, and I'd never seen it before, I thought it would be worth seeing.I was wrong.Seriously, I found it hard to stay awake during the film - and eventually had to give up just over halfway through, and find something more interesting to do. This is a shame, because quite possibly it might have got more interesting towards the end - but it did not retain my interest for long enough. I did see the infamous scene with the horse's head, expecting it to be some cinematic masterpiece, but... no, even that was an anticlimax.


                
