The day before yesterday I decided that I should watch The Godfather since it's pretty much a movie that one would have to see during his lifetime, but I was very disappointed. I thought that it would be a great movie with a plot that would be interesting, characters that I could relate to and give me some form of entertainment during the course of the movie, but boy was I wrong.I was pretty much bored from the start to the end of the movie and the only reason why I kept watching was because I thought to myself "This is a movie everyone must have seen during their lifetime". It even took me two days to watch it because I was so bored that I paused the movie and went to bed and continued to watch it the day after and was still just as bored.The acting was okay at best and I felt that the actors could have done better but failed to do so, and the director failed to even get me interested in the characters. When some of the characters die I didn't care one bit, not once did I care. They could have killed everyone in the movie and I wouldn't care at all because I could not relate to anything of the characters persona.Due to the lack of character-interest I didn't get interested in the plot at all and it felt like I was dragged through the whole movie with a barbwire around my neck.Today I plan to get dragged once more when I'm going to watch The Godfather 2 and if it's anything like the first one it's going to be a horrible experience.
1.- Pouring alcohol into an injury. 2.- Counting the number of books available in a big library. 3.- Reading all those books. 4.- Watching the Weather Channel for 5 hours. 5.- Looking for a needle in a haystack. 6.- Counting the hays in the haystack. 7.- Sharpening 10,000 pencils in a row. 8.- Seeing a tortoise walk a distance of about let´s say, a million miles.You get the idea, don´t you? This movie was so sloooooooooow, and the story just draaaaaaaaaaaags on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. It was a torture, and at the end, I wondered: WHAT WAS THE POINT OF THIS MESS OF A MOVIE? It seemed like it was also going to tell us the story of Michael's sons, grandsons, great grandsons,  great great grandsons, and well.... it just seemed endless. ENDLESS. I wondered why IMDb users praise it so much if every single person that I know despises this movie. It's beyond dull. At the end, somehow Michael got rid of ALL of his enemies, in 2 minutes? Just that simple? He should have made that before, and he would have kept me from suffering this dreck. After watching this, I never want to watch one of those called "classics" (like Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Schindler´s list, Gone with the Wind, etc.) because it seems to ba a rule that a movie can´t be artistic and entertaining. Few movies combine those things. Those are the true classics. One example? Pulp Fiction. That movie is perfect in every possible way.I'll rate this movie a 3. I don't give it a one just because Marlon Brando was great. By the way, Al Pacino sucked in this movie. He couldn't have been more inexpressive.


                
OK, I see that the movie has many naysayers. I was one of them when I saw the film in 1972, and I was only fifteen at the time. I could go on and on about the film's myriad failures. It is contrived, self-important, at times even poorly staged. Which brings me to my point. A lot of people seem to forget that Coppola did not win Best Director-- Bob Fosse (for "Cabaret') did, and deservedly so. He did a much better job. That is one of the eight Oscars that "Cabaret" won.The other seven just happen to be Art Direction, Cinematography, Sound, Editing,Original Score, Best Supporting Actor, and Best Actress. So when the time came to open the envelope and announce Best Picture, the Award goes instead to a film that, by that point, had won only two statues (for Actor and Adapted Screenplay). How does any movie win eight Academy Awards and fail to grab Best Picture? With that in mind, "The Godfather" is not merely arrogant film-making. Its history and legacy,both--just like its protagonists-- are just downright larcenous.


                
I saw Godfather when it came out. I don't remember the movie but I remember going out to the lobby 2-3 times to get away from it and take a break. It was soooooooooooooo boring. It was like it was in slow motion or something and I just didn't care about anyone or anything including the plot.I recall hearing that Brando stuffed cotton balls in his cheeks to get that effect and I couldn't not think about it during the movie. It looks like a lot of movie was spent on this movie to create the look of a certain era but so what.I could see people's lips moving and hear people talking but the dialog might as well have been entirely in Italian as I had trouble paying attention. My mind would wander and I really didn't follow the plot or care. For some reason, the dialog seemed trapped in the movie itself as though I was watching it through a window that was muffling the sound a bit. Weird.Many people may think this is the best movie ever but many people also thought the earth was flat in 1491. When it comes to movies, it only matters to me what I think.


                
Overrated movie. not even in my top 1000 movie. I feelt so sleeping while watchin it and felt that I just wasted two hours watching it and decided to stop


                
I'm not really the target audience for The Godfather franchise, but I did go into the movies with an open mind. After all, I love heavily dramatic, soapy stories, I recognize the quality of the cast, and my mother's side of the family comes from Sicily. With all those elements in place, why wouldn't I like a movie about the importance of family, Italian heritage, and loyalty?I'm not a fan of violence, but ironically, the version of The Godfather that I saw had been edited for appropriate television audiences. Much of the blood and violence was cut out, the swear words were muffled, and the sex scenes were deleted. The movie was only an hour long-just kidding! I don't know how or why this movie became so legendary, since to me, it felt like a B-picture starring a bloated, tired, low-energy Marlon Brando. This felt like a typical '70s movie, or an '80s television movie, with cheap production values and a has-been lead. I'll never, never understand why Marlon Brando was cast as the title role, and why, after his performance was seen during rehearsals, he wasn't replaced by someone else. Why wasn't Anthony Quinn cast? Marlon Brando must have patterned his famous, never-endingly mimicked accent after a relative or family friend, but among my Sicilian family line, and meeting people during my trips to Italy, no one has sounded even remotely like the cotton-mouthed, whispering, jaw-jutting "Italian" accent.I doubt I'm the only person in the world who doesn't like The Godfather or its sequels, but those of us who aren't fans are certainly quiet. If you haven't seen it yet, I'm sure you'll want to at least try it out, since there are so many famous moments to the first movie. There's the offer, the cannoli, the bag of fruit, the car bomb, the fishing trip, and of course, the horse's head. Marlon Brando scratches his jowls, James Caan is a royal jerk, and Al Pacino explains the difference between personal and business. But most importantly, there's tons of self-importance and an almost tongue-in-cheek seriousness that begs the question, why were there two sequels?Kiddy Warning: Obviously, you have control over your own children. However, due to violence, I wouldn't let my kids watch it.


                
I don't know why everybody who loves this film loves it so much. Maybe the fact everybody hyped it up meant i was never going to fully enjoy this but to be honest, it seemed slow and confusing and i struggled to keep my concentration. Constantly, i found myself drifting off and daydreaming. I would have stopped watching but i had a Uni assignment on it.It has some great scenes but everybody has seen them before anyway. The acting is good but I thought Al Pacino has been better in other things.Also, it was hard to make out, the characters speak so quietly it just turns into background noise.It's not the worst film I've ever seen, no way. but it certainly isn't in the top 10, not even close.The game is better, you get all the good scenes without the fairly dull bits in between.


                
I watched this film because it had a high user rating. I don't get why people find it a good film. For me, it was just a film about people, a family, killing other people. I couldn't take much more away from it than that, sorry. Shawshank is a much better film in every respect. The Godfather is long and drawn out and although it is one of the better gangster films, I would have to say that it is not one that I will watch again. Please let there be someone that agrees with me. From the reviews that I have read there doesn't seem to be a good reason to suggest why this film is voted number one, something that really puzzles me. There are no twists, little to think about, and the film hardly makes you feeling better at the end of it, does it? I've seen much better films than the Godfather although I'm sure, as I seem to be going against popular opinion, I will get heavily criticized for these comments.


                
This movie is strong, good script, great casting, excellent acting, and over the top directing. It is hard to fine a movie done this well, it is 29 years old and has aged well. Even if the viewer does not like mafia type of movies, he or she will watch the entire film, the audiences is glued to what will happen next as the film progresses. Its about, family, loyalty, greed, relationships, and real life. This is a great mix, and the artistic style make the film memorable.


                
This is a movie for people who want to watch fat guys eat pasta."The Godfather" confuses sentiment with emotion and nostalgia with authenticity. Like "Goodfellas", it tries to capture something deep and meaningful about loyalty, family, and honor, but in the end manages only to convey that food plays an important role in Italian culture. Brando's portrayal of Corleone becomes farcical as his brooding look tips over into a vacant stare.In all fairness this is not an altogether bad movie, but it pales in comparison to the novel by Mario Puzo and deserves to be taken down a notch.Watch this for the costumes.


                
I noticed that this was the best rated film in this place a couple of months ago, so naturally, I decided to give it at shot. But I just don't get what attracts you folks to it?The character-draving is pretty weak, and you don't really get to go inside the heads of the gangsters. The pictures are pretty ordinary and the whole storyline is... well... boring.I mean no disrespect or anything, but maybe this is to old folks, what the first King Kong film was to my great granfather... Maybe I'm just part of a next generation... Or maybe.. A next step in the evolution. A superman! A mastermind! Maybe I'm going to be king of the hill! Top of the heap! Maybe I need to find some sleep.Sorry. This one did nothing for me, but if you're high on gangsters, this is definitly the one for you.6/10.I'd love to hear from you folks that thinks this is Gods gift to movies.


                
Even though I gave this film a three star rating (pretty high for me), I consider it one of the more overrated ever. Reviewers from some newspapers and magazines gave it strong advanced notices, and that got the ball rolling before other media and the public saw it. Plus it had almost an all-star cast headed by Brando, often considered the king of American actors of his generation. Granted Pacino and some of the others were young but most of the cast had some reputation going in.I know Coppola had not directed much if any but was known as a good writer, especially from "Patton." My gripe with the movie is it is basically an overblown melodrama with a lot of hype and gloss. The cinematography is good but not great. The acting: while a few minor people are good, Brando is terrible, mumbling more than ever with those cotton balls or whatever in his cheeks. Why did he think he had to play it this way? James Caan gives the best performance. And the flick is hackneyed, an old-time gangster one, full of violence and anger and crudeness. It is not film noir. They took the crime genre and Hollywooded it up, trying to make something grandiose. Two gangs pitted against each other, using gages and fifty caliber submachine guns. So what else is new? "Little Caesar" was better.


                
Maybe it is simply because I am not from the generation of when this movie came out back in '72, but my god this was a bore.The acting, the script, and even the set of the movie I found to be quite great, as a matter of fact.Aside from that, all I got from this movie was a group of men ramble on and on and on about whatever. This movie did not keep me interested at all. The wedding scene was way too long, there is not much of a build up to anything for the most part. It is as if I am watching family members have conversation, and that's it. The ending scenes I found to be exciting, but at that point I was already tuned out of the movie, and found myself playing temple run just to pass the time. I literally would glance back and forth at the clock just to see how much time this movie took up from my life.So yeah, this movie was a giant bore-fest for me, giving me little to no motivation to watch Part II and Part III.
If you want to see the quintessential american crime film?  Goodfellas. The Godfather is romanticized garbage in comparison.  Take a look at Coppolas' interviews about the godfather.  It is not a film he was passionate about doing, nor is he proud of the mafia legacy and he was a little bit insulted the studio thought he would do a good job just because he was Italian. Coppola purposely turned the story into a universal tale of a king and his family to avoid the broken, bloody and undressed view of the "earners" on the street.  He didnt want to focus on this, because of his aforementioned lack of pride.  He turned the mafia into a fairy-tale.Scorcese created goodfellas with passion and respect.  The line between good and evil was blurred, as it is in real life.  The good stories of the mafia dont come from the "Don".  They come from the "earners".  The guys in the trenches.  They are what keeps the wheel turning.


                
I waste money on no good film. I write now because I mad. All talking, no thing else, very boring. I like alien vs. hunter better. Yay! h o r ah beer i like to movie it movie it dance dance fill up ten lines biggie Boigie i mean gouged gaodiadfhashjja Hadria dads fiadfiadfashda dihadfiashd Faustina fatfhadbfg5adhjahjasdf ad ark EKG ajfhjaksd kjasdhfjash fated d1 ah2ada d3fadjash dfj4hasdj fa5fhuasdfh6asd fkjas7dhf asdjkf8h jakdhjk9ah DJ hasd0 hadfhkadjakj1ad2adhjha3fhkjadkja d4kjasdjfhsadjf hjs5kdf hake dfh6k dh7jdfkjafhjkafh9jkdfhd45, sorry you no understand my language. I said godfather no good. Just kidding, I found the direction rather stunningly insightful, portraying each character within his own serene yet revealing perspective. A winner! I still mad.


                
I watched this film last night because I heard Kanye West once said that it was an all time classic. Now I do respect the rapper and producer's opinion but I beg to differ.Firstly I found it quite boring, it just doesn't have the action packed pace of some of my personal favourite movies such as Weekend at Bernie's 2, Teen Wolf, or Kickboxer 3 : The Art of War.The acting wasn't great either. I know Pacino and Brando are decent actors but compared to performances such as Judd Nelson in The Breakfast Club or Rodney Dangerfield in Caddyshack, it's seriously under par. It's easy to play a moody gangster but could you imagine Al Pacino playing Ross Geller in Friends? Me neither. The guy has no versatility.One more thing is the music wasn't too hot either. Just classical nonsense all the way through. By my calculations, The Godfather would be 37% better if there was a tad more Genesis, maybe "Invisible Touch" playing over the restaurant shooting scene.3/10. Cheers.


                
The movie is too long and almost put me asleep. Even though,great acting by Al. The story is not unique and not interesting. I know it's popular to love the movie as a classic piece, but i didn't like it so much.


                
After all the hype people have given this movie and the fact it won Best Picture confuses me.Most of it was just people sitting around talking. There were some good actiony scenes but they are few and far between, aside from Sonny's sister flipping her lid and smashing up the house, followed by the famous tollbooth scene a few minutes later.Speaking of the house-smashing scene, it's meant to be dramatic but I burst out laughing, but that's just my morbid sense of humor.Maybe I'm just not "getting it" and my head is up where the sun doesn't shine, but this movie was just...... kinda boring for me.


                
honestly one of the most boring movies I've ever seen! i would've enjoyed it more if it was shorter. i really don't get how its one of the most talked about movies of all time. i rated it 5 after watching but i'm giving it a 3 now. and i'm pretty sure i'm never gonna complete the second and third films.


                
well, i worked in a video store for five years and for five years everyone nagged me to see 'the godfather' and for whatever reason it simply never interested me. i love films but wouldn't consider myself a pedant who nitpicks about minor details. a film doesn't have to be entirely perfect for me to enjoy it or feel that it was worthwhile to watch. i like to get lost in a film when i watch it. be it a quick comedy or an epic saga. there are films that have plenty of continuity errors and even bits of really bad acting, and i've watched them several times, because it's a satisfying experience. well, i finally watched the godfather tonight. i finally felt ready to watch it without bias and without towing all the talk and hype behind it into the experience (well, i did the best i could to start with a clean slate, but couldn't always succeed. for example, i'm sure the horse head in the bed at the beginning would have been more shocking and effective if i hadn't heard that scene referenced thousands of times). overall, i have to say that i really wasn't very impressed, and, even before i remembered that it was, in fact, based on a book, i was left with that empty sensation of too much missing information and imbalance of characters that sadly happens with too many adaptations. also -- and as i said, i don't deliberately go seeking out errors, especially during a first viewing, but... -- the editing in so many parts was really bad enough to take away from the movie experience. it was difficult to pay attention to the dialogue because the cut-to's during some of the conversations were so blatantly recorded at different times that i forgot about my own involvement in the film and instead had to sit through these confusing cuts. likewise with the 40's atmosphere. i'll bring 'the hype' into the argument for a moment here to comment only in retrospection, but for all the talk of how classic and what a masterpiece this film is, i would have thought it to be more... i don't know... scrutinised? and there were just too many times when i would find myself involved in a scene, drawn in, convinced, fully attentive, and then there would be a completely random cut, even dialogue cut in mid-sentence when fading to the next scene. so strange. parts gave me the impression of watching a well-financed, well-meaning rough draft. all that said, some of the acting, not all, but some, was in fact, first rate. Marlon Brando really didn't convince me. he was good. but nothing special, i'm almost sorry to say. the wife (i forget her name) who was married at the beginning, she always seemed really out of place and ... i can't quite put my finger on it, but her fits just didn't flow with the film. i thought James Caan did a great job. i've only ever seen him in 'thief' and 'bottle rocket,' so i can't really make any worthy comparisons with other performances. but his hot-headedness was convincing enough. Robert Duvall was great. i didn't recognise him for almost the first half of the film. another acting gem for me was Al Pacino. he, too, i didn't recognise at the beginning of the film. for a few moments i mistook him for Adrian Brody, even though i knew that was impossible. but i was immediately drawn in by "Michael's" performance. every gesture and every word was electric. it took me about twenty minutes to realise that i was watching Al Pacino. then, furthermore, i was really impressed by the evolution of his character. that's one thing i think they really nailed solid with this film, from Pacino's acting to the storyline and editing and everything all rolled into one. i came away entirely convinced and ruminating on the life and thoughts of this character. i watched and admired the power he carried in his manner even when he was, in the beginning, insofar as the bloody family business was concerned, innocent. then saw that power unfold and transform itself until, in the end, he was finally consumed by the corruption inherent in the prioritisation of his blood-family's honour. however, apart from this character and a few other performances, there really wasn't enough "meat" to this movie to make me want to see it again. i'm curious about the sequel(s), to see where the story goes. but by the end of this first viewing i was mostly just wondering who was going to die next, and i didn't really care. i was plenty intrigued by Michael, but i felt like i was mostly sticking around to see who would be left standing by the time the credits rolled. maybe the whole mafia style depiction thing just isn't enough for me to be able to sympathise or feel anything when the next trench coat gets strangled or shot or stabbed. so, overall, there were indeed a very few classic moments, and some of the acting was really well performed. but on the whole it just didn't chalk up to much for me, least of all a masterpiece.
AZING! I Just got myself a Free Playstation Plus 365 Days Subcsription Code. Now I can play online on the Playstation 4 for a full year without paying a single buck. Get your code too at www(dot).AZING! I Just got myself a Free Playstation Plus 365 Days Subcsription Code. Now I can play online on the Playstation 4 for a full year without paying a single buck. Get your code too at www(dot). AZING! I Just got myself a Free Playstation Plus 365 Days Subcsription Code. NowAZING! I Just got myself a Free Playstation Plus 365 Days Subcsription Code. Now I can play online on the Playstation 4 for a full year without paying a single buck. Get your code too at www(dot).I can play online on the Playstation 4 for a full year without paying a single buck. Get your code too at www(dot).
The Godfather supremacy has been broken by the Ring.The Godfather is a wonderful film, but it is not the best trilogy ever, at least not anymore. Let me give you a hint why the trilogy of Lord of the Rings is better than the Godfather trilogy. Godfather part III a big time loser!!!You don't even have to be a fanatic filmgoer to see and realize that. The movie was clumsy and boring to a point that it was almost clear to me that Coppola wanted desperately to make his trilogy without having a clue of what he was doing. That reminds me of another 80'ties character called George Lucas (see Star Wars-saga). Maybe Coppola was trying to take the quote from Alfred Hitchcock a bit too literally, when he said that style in film is to plagiarise yourself. Godfather III is a recollection of scenes we saw before in a different outfit, adding some cheap cosa nostra crap that did not work, like the fake set-up scene with the helicopter. This is the moment where by unbelievable coincidence the Godfather and Sonny's son came out without a scratch. This is not the same kind of realism I saw in I and II. While Return of the King is the climatic moment of the trilogy, Godfather III was its lowpoint.This is Hollywood wanting to sell tickets the cheap way, betting on a sure thing.  And what about the story? What is it? Financial corruption at the Vatican? It is nothing more than an expensive soap-opera. So what if he did it the traditional way. He should of realized that he had no good story.
It is not because the actors from the Godfather trilogy received Oscars for their performances and probably LOTR not is because the actors from the first trilogy did a better job than the others. It has nothing to do with it. The whole show is not about rewarding talent, but to uphold a tradition of celebrating those who are loyal to the spirit of Hollywood. LOTR has but conformed to one tradition, the one from Middle-Earth, in a galaxy far far from Hollywood.Let's not forget however to point out that Coppola is responsible for putting his daughter in the film who given us a stunning insight in how bad acting can be. Fortunately for her she has proven, she is much better off directing films. Even Pacino doesn't bring a good performance. While in Godfather II he brought us a believable and likeable anti-hero, while in part III he doesn't do anything else than shouting.There are unforgettable scenes in the Godfather trilogy. But so there are far better scenes in LOTR, and probably in a way future generations will get inspired in how to make a sensible symbiosis between technique and story, in the same spirit of Hitchcock and Welles, who both were neglected by The Academy of Motion Pictures. If you talk about memorable scenes, look at how Peter Jackson brought us Gollem. It brakes again new boundaries for visual effects and surpasses even the matrix by far. Phantasy has never been that real since ever. And the examples could go on and on.Part III doesn't bring anything new, while LOTR innovate at every turn. LOTR is not the typical Hollywood film. In fact, it is not a Hollywood film at all. But It is a pure refreshing experience and a great motivation for a lot of young filmmakers.


                
Here's how the arguments go for liking this movie go: The Godfather is a great movie because it's a hallmark of the genre. While gangster movies before this had been wall-to-wall violence and only loosely strung together by a plot, The Godfather was able to move away from that tradition by having a plot-heavy mobster movie. The performances were all superb and the characters all felt real.However, what this argument fails to recognize is that the plot moves at such a slow pace that it's difficult to give a damn about it. This is quite honestly the slowest paced movie I've ever seen, and it would have been improved a thousand-fold if an hour or so had been cut. It's not that I hate slow movies--a slow pacing can work brilliantly--but The Godfather? No, it doesn't do it.As for the cast and performances, they're really not all they're cracked up to be. If indecipherable mumbling is your thing, so be it, and in that case, this movie is the best thing ever. In reality, though, half-mumbled lines don't really do anything for me, and because of that; all the characters seemed to be fairly one-dimensional as a result.I can see how you could like this movie. On a technical level, it did move away from the traditional three-point lighting which was common in earlier films, and the plot was definitely something other than what had been dealt with in mobster movies before then. But the content of the plot was somewhat devoid of any real interest--or at least it was for me--and the characters came off as being one-dimensional as a result.


                
The Godfather is still a very enjoyable and strong film, even after more than 30 years. Something that we can't say about a lot of other mafia movies. There is one scene though I find not convincing enough and a bit clumsy, and that is the first scene with Johnny Fontane and the godfather at the beginning of the movie. Now, taking under consideration that Coppola was under a lot of stress during the shooting, because he was threatened to be replaced, the scene doesn't really work as it should in such a flawless masterpiece. Not only do I miss more insight in the relationship of those two men, the camerawork is lost for a minute and I feel it has been build up too much as a set-up for the Woltz scene, which is a mistake.


                
One of the most boring movies I have ever watched. All these good reviews they must have watched a different movie than I did. Just a bunch of crap and talking which you can hardly understand cuz one guy talks with his mouth full the whole movie and then a lot of Italian. Just a really suckkkky movie.


                
