Before 'The Godfather' came out in 1972, the gangster genre, chiefly associated with Jimmy Cagney and the film noir style of the forties and fifties, had been in something of a decline. It was, therefore, a brave move for Francis Ford Coppola to attempt a three-hour epic based upon the family life of a Mafia don. The film opens in the immediate post-war period with the wedding of the daughter of Don Vito Corleone. Scenes of the wedding are intercut with scenes showing Don Vito himself in his study, granting favours and dispensing a crude form of justice as though he were an absolute monarch. We soon learn, however, that times are changing, even in the world of organised crime. Don Vito's empire has been based upon gambling, illicit liquor sales and prostitution. Other Mafia families, however, are eager for the profits to be made from drugs, and Corleone receives a proposal from a drug dealer named Sollozzo that the Corleone clan should join him in exploiting the narcotics market. Corleone refuses, ostensibly for business reasons, but it is made clear that his real objections to narcotics derive from his personal code of honour. Sollozzo, offended, orders an attempt to be made on Corleone's life. This fails, but Corleone is left seriously injured.The focus now shifts to the younger generation. Don Vito has three sons, Santino ('Sonny'), Fredo and Michael, and an adopted son, Tom Hagen. These four have contrasting characters. Sonny is hot-headed and impetuous, Fredo weak, Tom cautious and moderate. Michael, the youngest, loves his family, but initially wants to play no part in their criminal enterprises. Recently returned from the war, his ambitions are to qualify as a lawyer and to settle down in a respectable life with his Anglo-Saxon wife-to-be, Kay. The attempt on his father's life, however, persuades Michael that his first loyalty is to the family, and he agrees to be part of a revenge attack on Sollozzo and Captain McCluskey the corrupt policeman who is on his payroll. There follows a brutal cycle of revenge, as each killing is avenged by another murder. The film's emphasis on family ties, honour and vengeance recall the revengers' tragedies of the Shakespearean and Jacobean theatre. Coppola does seem to be aiming for a Shakespearean grandeur. Don Vito, the ageing monarch whose powers slip away is reminiscent of King Lear, Michael, a good man corrupted by power, of Macbeth (a comparison which will become even more apt in the later episodes of the trilogy). There is also something of Hamlet in Michael and Sonny's resolve to avenge their father. Such an ambitious film requires acting of a very high order if it is to seem credible, but Coppola was able to draw upon some of the best performances of the seventies. To my mind, this was Marlon Brando's last great role (I have never cared much for 'Apocalypse Now' and loathed 'Last Tango in Paris'), but it was one that he made the most of. His Don Vito is both terrifying and pitiable, part dictator and part lonely old man. His rasping voice (the result of an earlier bullet wound in the throat) conveys both menace and physical weakness. Don Vito may be a bad man, but he is also in a way a magnificent one, and his passing marks the end of an era. If the film was notable for the last of the great Brando, it also saw the birth of a new star. Except perhaps for 'The Godfather Part II', I have never seen Al Pacino give a better performance than he did here, as he portrayed Michael's passage from a 'civilian' (as his brother calls him) to a warlord, from an innocent young idealist to a ruthless killer. Given the length of time that Pacino is on screen, I am surprised that he was only nominated for Best Supporting Actor rather than Best Actor. It would be interesting to speculate who might have won if he and Brando had been in competition for the award. I am even more surprised that Pacino did not win as Best Supporting Actor; Joel Grey's role in 'Cabaret' (which did win) is more showy and a technical tour de force, but it lacks the emotional depth of Pacino's performance. I also greatly admired James Caan's role as the hot-headed Sonny. This is not a perfect film; it has flaws, both artistic and ethical. Artistically, there are places where it tends to drag, particularly after the killings of Sollozzo and McCluskey, and even more so after the killing of Sonny, although it recovers at the ending, which is a highly effective piece of cinema. Ethically, I felt that the film tended to take the characters' world view too much at face value. Don Vito may be a dictator, but he is in his own eyes a benevolent dictator, a man of honour who lives by his own moral code. As others such as Roger Ebert have pointed out, this is a film which views a closed society from the inside; the only outsider is Kay, and her role is a relatively minor one. As a result, we do not get to see the damage that organised crime does to the fabric of society, and the Mafia's own view of itself is never openly challenged. That is not to say, however, that the film is totally amoral. We do see that an ethos of taking revenge can spiral out of control and lead to unforeseen consequences, to the innocent as well as the guilty. This is particularly true of the scenes where Michael takes refuge in Sicily after killing Sollozzo. The dead man's associates track him down, and a bomb meant for him instead kills his innocent young Italian wife Apollonia. Although there may be no overt condemnation of the moral position of the Mafia, there is implied criticism of its bloodier deeds. All the characters, whatever the crimes of which they may be guilty, are careful to pay lip-service to the Catholic Church and its rituals. Throughout the film (indeed, throughout the trilogy as a whole) the traditional ceremonies of the Church form a backdrop to various criminal activities. ('The Godfather' begins with a wedding and ends with a baptism). It seemed to me that Coppola was using these scenes to make an ironic contrast between the values of organised crime and those of Christianity, especially at the end of the film. Michael, already a 'godfather' in the metaphorical sense of a Mafia boss, becomes one in the literal sense of a baptismal sponsor. Shots of him taking vows on behalf of his godchild to reject the works of the devil are intercut with shots of his enemies being gunned down on his orders.Despite my reservations about this film, and although I personally would not have ranked it as my all-time favourite, there can be no denying that it is a film of great power and a milestone in the history of the cinema. 8/10
One thing that's a bit annoying when seeing `The Godfather' is the sense that, as a viewer, you feel you are required to bow down before this film and worship it as movie perfection, or else reveal yourself to be a person of no taste. Well, I can definitely acknowledge that this is a very good movie, but not necessarily great, nor is it on my personal favorites list.
For starters, while this definitely gives you some great characters and atmosphere, there's really nothing in this movie that you couldn't get from reading the book. In fact, the strength of this film comes from the way the director and actors faithfully bring the novel to life.What's best? No question - the acting. Judged on that scale alone, it gets a 10. I cannot disagree with those who state that this combines the best acting performances in American film history. The directing and scriptwriting are also very good, worthy of at least a 9.
What's not so good? The pacing. As others have noted, this film can be boring at times. Most notably, at least for me, was the time spent showing Mike in Sicily after he shot the cop and the Turk. Other than getting married, it doesn't really show him doing much of anything, nor does it really contribute much to the story. In contrast, the book made this particular sub-plot far more interesting and relevant.And that, at heart, is my problem. I've seen the movie and I've read the book. And I far more enjoyed the latter. The book gives all sorts of details the movie skips. For example, in the film, Al Neri is just a guy dressed up as a cop who performs as one of Mike's hit men. In the book, we learn how he went from being a good cop with a bad temper to taking over the role once held by Luca Brasi (another character who is developed far more fully in the book).So there you have it. On the one hand, you have to intellectually acknowledge the great talent displayed in the making of this film, but on the other, I must admit it just isn't very satisfying emotionally. These characters seem cold and distant, and I never really cared much for any of them. In that respect, I much more preferred "Goodfellas". The acting wasn't as good, but the characters were far more engaging and the pacing much more lively. In short, `The Godfather' is sort of like a great, but somber, piece of music, something you can admire but not dance to.8/10


                
Think epic novel crossed with Mafia speak.Imagine excellent cinematography and direction, a great musical theme, violence, tragedy, spectacle, and the family, and a cast which can't be faulted, and here you have a film which fits the bill on all counts.Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando in one of his greatest roles, one which he supposedly didn't initially want to play) is the powerful Mafia Don we meet early in the film. He has three sons (Sonny - James Caan; Fredo - John Cazale; and Michael - Al Pacino) and a daughter (Talia Shire), and an adopted son (Tom Hagen - Robert Duvall). These are his beloved family and the centre of his world. His day job involves building his empire by making 'offers you can't refuse'.'The Godfather' was the first film in a trilogy following the fortunes of the Corleone family, and I think the best. It has some well-presented set pieces (Connie's wedding; Sonny's murder; Michael's killing of family enemies in the restaurant; the horse's head in the bed; and Vito's death while playing with his grand-child) and is extremely well-written. The novel itself was more soapy, a work of pulp fiction - the film pulls it together and gives it a bit more class.I particularly like the characterisations of Vito and his sons. Vito is assured in his role at the head of the premier Mafia family. Sonny is a vain libertine who is hot-headed. Fredo is a weak disappointment. Michael takes his place in the family when he has to (in fact throughout the three films he is shown to be far more ruthless than any of his relatives).Is 'The Godfather' the greatest film ever made? No, but it is one of the best. Certainly in the top 10 films of the 1970s.
There are many mafia movies out there but The Godfather truly stands out among them. And it is not great just because it is one of the first movies in the crime genre but also because of it's great cinematography and outstanding storytelling .If you retell the plot to someone it will sound like it is extremely dull. It's just the story of how a son takes over his father's business. But the way the movie presents this plot (with many betrayals and deaths) makes it great and memorable.The acting is not always good. In some scenes it is extremely bad. Take the scene where Connie starts breaking utensils. The acting in this scene is so bad that when it comes up while I'm watching the movie, I just turn my head away. Of course I should metion that Marlon Brando and Al Pacino do a great job. Their acting is outstanding and deserves the pride it gets.The Godfather is truly a classic in the crime genre that must be on everyone's top movies list.
This was a classic for me when I saw it for the first time, later I made all of my family watch it, we became true la Familia ;) not really a crime syndicate, but rather we loved what we saw in this film. I think this one is the best of the three parts and it is a timeless classic.I think Marlon Brando really deserves the Oscar for his role in this film, just as the film deserves other Oscars that it won.It is hard to add more laudeamus about this film that has already been written, I will let you read other reviews which I read which makes it so interesting to read. I will leave you with a question. How much of this could happen in the real life? I will leave you to wonder.


                
This film has spawned so many gangster clichés and parodies that it's not even funny. Every time you've heard of people "sleeping with da fishies" or "making an offer you can't refuse," it'll all boil back to this classic, highly-tutted film.On first glance, I dismissed the film as being rather dull, despite a few standout moments. On repeat viewings, I have found it more compelling. The film is most memorable for the scenes everybody knows and loves: the scene with the horse's head, the street fighting scene, Marlon Brando's mumbling, the restaurant shooting, sporadic bursts of gunfights and violence...it's all there. Dialogue dominates most of the film, but when given due attention, the story can be rather gripping and mesmerizing. At this point, the only drag I've felt is in the last thirty minutes or so; the film just kinda winds down after nearly 150 minutes of epic-scale gangster mayhem.The story is long, dense, and chock full of quality characterizations. The film does a fine job of keeping its events in order so that the politics of each situation makes some kind of sense. What matters the most will be the characters, who are endearing, and the underlying themes of family, honor, and loyalty. Family and generations are probably the most blatant themes, especially since most scenes show some strong contrast (or perhaps comparisons) between adults and children.As a film, it looks really classy. Photography never was a huge standout for these films, but the sepia tones and framing lends the movie a type of classic family-portrait appeal. Editing is decent. Acting is probably the biggest virtue here. Marlon Brando chews the scenery, despite his mumbling and constant fiddling with things, he does show endless nuance and expressions that brings Vito Corleone to life really well. Al Pacino must be at his most nuanced as Michael, and the rest of the magnificent cast fulfills their parts well. Writing is decent. This production has good-looking sets, props, and costumes, and is especially noteworthy for its period reproduction. Music is nice too.Everybody should see this at least once in their lifetime.4/5 (Entertainment: Pretty Good | Story: Good | Film: Perfect)


                
Pretty good, but a bore at times. The plot was very good and has some turns, but overall the story unfolded very slowly. Only the actors did a great job to save the day. I was also very impressed by the music, when you closed your eyes, the music alone can put you in the story.


                
Quite possibly the MOST over rated film in history. Never has there been so much made of so little. It is an OK movie if you like discriminate killing and foul language and the glorification of "gang" lifestyle. This movie hardly belongs in the top 50 let alone be in the #1 spot. Do you know what the saddest part of this movie is? That it was remade two more times with the Godfather III being quite possible the worst remake EVER. I'm not saying you won't like the movie. It is entertaining at times and certainly some very good lines have come from the movie. I just can't stand when movies can't stand up to their own hype.


                
The people who vote on the Internet Movie Database have ranked "The Godfather" as the greatest film ever in human history. Which is nothing to sneeze at, and deserves some seriously thought. I watched the film, thought it was great, but hardly found it to be the greatest film ever made. I mean, if you told me "Citizen Kane" was the greatest film ever made, I would wholeheartedly agree. And personally, as far as gangster movies go -- with or without Al Pacino -- I think the real choice should be "Scarface". But I'm not professionally trained as a movie critic, so maybe I'm missing something.I asked my supervisor and a co-worker about the film, and while they both thought the film was good, they really did not think it was some amazing masterpiece. My supervisor said, "maybe it's good because it is so real", but that's not a convincing reason and how "real" it is I cannot say for sure.If nothing else, the film might be great simply because it has become so cliché. The horse head, the Marlon Brando voice, the gun behind the toilet and the line "an offer he can't refuse" are all part of pop culture these days (over 30 years later). But does being cliché make the film great? I guess that would make "Star Wars" the greatest film ever made, which is certainly not true (though not a bad film by any means).And sure, you have powerful and memorable performances. James Caan is amazing, Marlon Brando is a bit over-the-top (a mumbling, lock-jawed godfather? sure...). And Al Pacino is of course great as always, maybe more so here than anywhere else. Not only does he have more range here than any other film than "Scent of a Woman" (more often than not he simply repeats a variation of his Michael Corleone role), but he is so young and plain that he is not even recognizable as Al Pacino in many scenes (I didn't recognize him until 30 minutes into the picture).I haven't yet mentioned the plot: an aging mafia boss (Marlon Brando) hands control over to his son (Al Pacino) when the father becomes ill, though he hoped never to do so since his son is Ivy League educated. Brando's role is actually quite small compared to the attention he is given (the film is really about Pacino coming of age).The directing is decent. Nothing special, but not awful, either. Very real and almost gritty (but not dark). The acting is great. The music is perfect. The only thing that really needed work was the fact that many of the Italian scenes had no subtitles and were thus lost in (lack of) translation. The entire Sciliy subplot and Appollonia were excellent and could not have been improved upon.I'm sure much more could have been said, but I'll cut myself off here. Certainly looking forward to Part II (though keeping my hopes and expectations low) and maybe someday I'll see Part III (though I've been warned not to).


                
I finally set out to take three hours to watch "the best movie ever" and, frankly, I'm not thrilled. Is it good? It's great. But the best... not even close.8/10


                
While I certainly wouldn't call this THE BEST MOVIE EVER MADE, this movie sure has a lot going for it, starting with the cast. I of course like Brando and Pacino going at it, but my personal faves are James Caan and of course my main man Robert Duvall. All of them give dynamite performances here, forever raising the bar to new actors everywhere. Even though the movie is 3 hours, it hardly ever drags, Coppola has a tight rein on the story (or maybe it's the producers doing that?) and it makes for a highly charged, highly entertaining classic of the first order. Funny as It seems, I only got around to finally watching this movie last year. Although I'm not exactly doing facepalms over the fact I've waited this long to see it, this movie will never grow old with me,


                
In contrast to part 2 this is more loosely structured and sometimes less climactic and also seems more improvised. But thanks to the enormous effort put to detailed cinematography and camera-work it lends itself more to repeated viewings. (One example: when Vito is about to be shot there's a poster on the grocery store announcing a fight of Jake LaMotta thus foreshadowing the assassination attempt).Probably the most interesting is the light and dark contrast between the outer, ordinary world and the inner, godfather world. Even when these two worlds meet in one shot they are still strictly separated by showing two rooms in a way where you watch one world from the other (the end shot e.g. where Kay is seen in one room and the men in another: then the door shuts).Very effective use of mirrors (reflection), doors (separating worlds) and windows (showing perspective). From the back-to-back shots and other shots where an object obscures the picture we can see where many modern filmmakers get their ideas (Kar-Wai for example).Coppola has himself watched Antonioni very well: Scenes where only buildings or spaces are shown to create an alienating effect or just loneliness combined with tension (hospital scene). Or characters disappear and only a static shot of the room is seen to signify emptiness (fight between Connie and Carlo).Especially the end scene is well edited and composed: But they even improved on that scene just two years later.


                
I know I will be in the minority with this review, but I think "The Godfather" and in particular Marlon Brando's performance are completely over rated. I'm not saying it's a bad movie at all, it's a good one, but I don't think it lives up to the hype.Plot In A Paragraph: The Godfather "Don" Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) is the head of the Corleone mafia family in New York. Vito is a powerful man, and is kind to all those who give him respect but is ruthless against those who do not. But a powerful and treacherous rival wants to sell drugs, and Vito refuses his permission or help. What follows is a clash between Vito's old values and the new ways which may cause his youngest son Micheal (Al Pacino) to do the thing he is most reluctant in doing, and join the family business.I found it to be over long and very drawn out. Sometimes a movie nearly three hours long, can feel like an hour and a half, as it is the engrossing and enjoyable the time flies by. This felt like I spent five hours watching it. With the exception of Brando, all the cast are superb. And I don't mean that as a slant at Brando, he does what Brando does. No more no less. Al Pacino, James Caan, and Robert Duvall are all excellent as is Talia Shire (in my second favourite role of hers, behind Adrian in "Rocky") and Diane Keaton. Ridiculously quotable, and still a movie I think everyone should see once. It's just over rated


                
I went into the Godfather expecting a masterpiece from all the reviews and how it number 2 or 3 on the IMDb top 250 films. After watching it I found it very disappointing for a few reasons. 1. You can't understand what the Godfather is saying half the time for the most part it all sounds like he's wheezing. If your going to watch this film put on subtitles.2. Its way to long. the movie is just shy of 3 hours long! Thats long enough and especially most of the time nothing is going on. I found myself not paying attention to most of the boring parts in the film and there's a lot. Now I know what your saying, your saying that i don't like long films. To you I say false i don't mind long films like the LOTR Return of the king is 4 hours + in the extended edition but there's a difference LOTR is entertaining there's action going on throughout 80% of the film. Now I'm not saying I hated the movie I'm justing saying it has a few flaws and its not perfect by any means. Now I have yet to see Part 2 maybe that will change my mind but right now it doesn't appeal to me because its 4 hours + long! All I can saying is that it better be more stuff going on in the movie then the first one.8.7/10 not a bad film but a few flaws


                
It's good for those who like crime genre.But I just interested in the part that Mick kills all mafia heads.
That it is. Fantastic set design and performances all around.


                
Love this movie and all of the GF movies. I see something new every time I have seen it (countless, truly). The story of tragedy and (little) comedy that exists in this film is easily understood by people all over the world. This film has been called an American story however I have met others who have seen this movie in other languages and they seem to have the same love and appreciation for it that I do. I love the characters and all of the different personalities that they represent not just in families but in society itself. It seems like the entire cast is part of every other movie that I love as well. The sounds, music, color and light in the film are just as much a part of the film as the people.


                
This movie is MORE deserving of the spot held by Shawshank on this site as the best movie of all time. The film was rather concise, leaving the viewer with a desire for more. The main character, bizarre voice aside, was a character that is easy to get attached too, both in part to the well written script, and on point acting. A classic movie everyone should see.


                
Well I Wonder More About What Michael Angelo Is Doing As Fact, But When It Is Time For A Demonstration For Movies; I Think Of The
Fiction Mario Decided To Write For Michael In The Godfather. So It Is A Great Example Of The Creative Mentality Amongst Italian People During The Modern 20 Century.


                
Directing: 10
/Acting: 9
/Story: 8
/Production values: 9
/Suspence - Thriller level: 8
/Action: 6
/Mystery - unknown: 6
/Romance level: 6
/Comedy elements: none


                
Cool characters, good story... good acting what do u want more than that?
this film really demonstrate and communicate it's messages very well...what do i want to say is yes watch it,i think it's a worthy film...
p.s: my first review and my English suck...


                
Overrated? Maybe a little bit, but this is really a very well-made film that features wonderful performances. The pacing of this film will drive some crazy, but The Godfather isn't afraid to take its time and let us get to know the characters. This is an iconic movie though - no doubt about that.


                
The acting and expressions from all the characters go perfectly with the Plot and Jonour of the Movie


                
It good movie
me likey
veri good
yes
i like
likey much
good songs
good story
good everything
very movie
long movie
bacon
eggs
cheese


                
Amazing movie, i did not expect the ending to turn out like that. One of the mafia movie classics


                
