How can any adult who enjoyed "Star Wars" and "The Empire Strikes Back" possibly find anything entertaining, or even interesting, about this abysmal, unimaginative travesty?  A genuinely bad movie, truly awful in every possible way, "Jedi" features a screenplay aimed squarely at four year olds and absolutely terrible acting from an understandably embarrassed cast; in addition, the film offers us the shoddiest array of cheap, plastic-looking space aliens since Irwin Allen's "Lost In Space" tv series. Yes, I realize it is this very cheapness that endears the movie to a legion of kitsch loving fans, but, as a direct follow-up to "Empire," one of the most entertaining and inventive fantasy movies of the last twenty years, "Jedi" comes across as a particularly insulting spit in the face from George Lucas.  And those godawful teddy bears!  Is there anyone out there (over the age of four, that is) who doesn't cringe in horror at just the mere thought of those monstrously cute creatures?


                
I very nearly walked out, but I'd paid my money, and my nearly-as-disgusted friend wanted to hold out. After the endearing, wide-eyed innocence of "A New Hope" and the thrilling sophistication of "The Empire Strikes Back," I remember awaiting "Return of the Jedi" with almost aching anticipation. But from the opening scene of this insultingly commercial sewage, I was bitterly disappointed, and enraged at Lucas. He should have been ashamed of himself, but this abomination undeniably proves that he doesn't have subatomic particle of shame in his cold, greedy heart. Episode I would go on to reinforce this fact -- your honor, I call Jarjar Binks (but please issue barf bags to the members of the jury first).From the initial raising of the gate at Jabba's lair, this "film" was nothing more than a two-plus-hour commercial for as many licensable, profit-making action figures as Lucas could cram into it -- the pig-like guards, the hokey flesh-pigtailed flunky, that vile muppet-pet of Jabba's, the new and recycled cabaret figures, the monsters, etc., etc., ad vomitum. Then there were the detestably cute and marketable Ewoks. Pile on top of that all of the rebel alliance aliens. Fifteen seconds each on-screen (or less) and the kiddies just GOTTA have one for their collection. The blatant, exploitative financial baiting of children is nauseating.Lucas didn't even bother to come up with a new plot -- he just exhumed the Death Star from "A New Hope" and heaved in a boatload of cheap sentiment. What an appalling slap in the face to his fans. I can't shake the notion that Lucas took a perverse pleasure in inflicting this dreck on his fans: "I've got these lemmings hooked so bad that I can crank out the worst piece of stinking, putrid garbage that I could dream up, and they'll flock to the theaters to scarf it up. Plus, all the kiddies will whine and torture their parents until they buy the brats a complete collection of action figures of every single incidental undeveloped, cartoonish caricature that I stuffed in, and I get a cut from every single one. It'll make me even more obscenely rich."There may have been a paltry, partial handful of redeeming moments in this miserable rip-off. I seem to recall that Harrison Ford managed to just barely keep his nose above the surface of this cesspool. But whatever tiny few bright spots there may be are massively obliterated by the offensive commercialism that Lucas so avariciously embraced in this total, absolute sell-out to profit.
The cutesy Ewoks alone drag this disappointment into the gutter, but wait, there's more! Boba Fett's embarrassing death, the teddy-bear behind Darth Vader's mask, Chewbacca's Tarzan yell (is there a more efficient way of totally destroying my belief in the events of the film?), unfunny hijinks in the Ewok village...ugh. If not for the confrontation between Luke, Vader, and the Emperor, I would have given this a zero, were it possible. Too bad the Millennium Falcon wasn't destroyed in the final cut; it would have given at least a little weight to this utter anticlimax.


                
What's wrong with this movie?1. Ewoks. I mean come on!!! The Empire that terrorized the galaxy and can destroy an entire planet with a single laser blast can be defeated by cute little teddy bears armed with sticks and stones? Ewoks were an obvious merchandising ploy. It's a damned shame Lucas sold out his masterpiece saga to sell a few cheap toys.2. Luke. He's no longer the young wide eyed panicky novice we knew him as in the first two. He now plays a Mr Migagi like character who talks like he's reading a fortune cookie. "Your overconfidence is your weakness" is a perfect example. 3. Han Solo. The man who played vital roles the first two movies is now reduced to comic relief with a few unfunny wisecracks. And I'm no military expert, but how can he go from a self centered smuggling scoundrel barfly who wanted nothing to do with the rebellion against the empire to a general overnight? 4. Luke and Darth. They were furiously swinging light sabers at each other in the previous film but are now calling each other "Father" and "My son"? And when Luke said "I know there's good in you". Really Luke? He murdered your mother, mentor/teacher, aunt & uncle, your buddy Biggs, the entire planet of Alderann, and many of your rebel colleagues. He also froze your buddy Han after he tortured him for no reason, and he chopped off your hand. Where exactly do you see the "good" in him?5. Darth Vader. The dark, menacing, most bad ass villain in movie history is now a cowering wimp in front of the emperor. Until the end of course.6. Jabba the hut. This ugly wormlike blob who laughs like santa claus with a hangover and speaks some orcish language but always manages to throw about two or three English words into each sentence. "ME WONG UGH DOOG MA ZUL GUV OLD JEDI MIND TRICK".7. Boba Fett. This lurking villain has little dialogue in the whole series and none at all in "Return" so why is he even in this saga? Just to end up a burp joke? What a waste.8. The Sarlac Pit. OK first of all, who lives to be a thousand? And secondly, with no oxygen in it's belly, they'd probably be dead in less than an hour. "Slowly digested in over a thousand years"? Wow, just like when you eat a bagel. 9. The Luke/Leia sibling thing. OK George. It worked in "Empire" when you shocked your audience with Darth Vader announcing he's Luke's father. But the Luke/Leia thing was an obvious attempt for a second shocking but it missed this time. Don't you remember they tongue kissed each other on Hoth?10. The Death Star. Where's your originality George?
The STAR WARS films are a hallmark of our culture. Everyone who wants to study film should see them, because they display quite accurately how not to make a movie, and in particular how not to write a script. I cannot even express how much is wrong is these movies, in every possible respect. Obviously they are cynically manufactured with money in mind (Ewoks!? C'mon!), and obviously they wrecked the notion of film as anything but lightweight, even dull and stupid, entertainment. What even some of the series' detractors fail to see is how awful the movies would be with or without the hype.Let's start with the acting. I can't believe anyone ever took Mark Hamill seriously; meanwhile, Harrison Ford's attempts at emotion are downright laughable. Carrie Fisher does what she can, but like everyone else, she's saddled with some unspeakable dialogue. Far more offensive is the storyline that runs through the three films (and presumably the three prequels as well). You tell me with a straight face that no loser thirteen year-old who reads sci-fi comics couldn't come up with this tripe, and I will applaud you. George Lucas has created a masturbatory set of films in a remarkably self-indulgent attempt to take advantage of the notoriety he achieved with AMERICAN GRAFFITI. Let's not beat around the bush, these movies have one of the dumbest plots ever transferred to celluloid. "The Force"? Wow, talk about covering your tracks... to try to avoid plot holes, Lucas creates this invisible dimension that can let people do anything, like pick up out-of-reach objects (as seen in the remarkable "Luke retrieves a Kenner toy which you could go buy right now from the snow while he hangs upside down" scene, the stuff of great cinema, in the second film). How exciting. I'd like to have a Force in my house so I won't have to get up to change the TV channel when this idiotic movie comes on.The script? Don't even get me started. To be frank, what little plot there is doesn't make much sense. And talk about episodic! It's just one toy commercial after another, from the completely pointless "speeder-bike" scene to the seemingly endless chunk of partying from the Care Bears or whatever those things were. Any fan page or even the IMDB will hold a nice collection of ludicrous quotes, and the fans will probably shiver with glee, while I sit and gawk at how a screenplay with no trace of talent to be found can gain the respect of millions. Most offensively, you've got a score that screams and manipulates like a sitcom laugh track or a Nazi anthem (but then, John Williams never offered anything but recycled schmaltz to start with).In essence, I remain fascinated by the fact that more people have seen this than will sit through the infinite number of films that have more imagination and emotion in a single second than the entire "Star Wars" series can muster. The worst part is, if you issue any kind of a dissenting opinion on this boring junk, a million raging fanboys will assault you for not showing the proper degree of worship to a supposed American classic. Jonathan Rosenbaum said in 1997 that destroying every print of the Star Wars films wouldn't solve any of the problems caused by them, but that he wouldn't shed a tear at the loss. I would agree. I don't claim to have any authority over anyone's love of the series, and if you genuinely love these films, that's great. I just don't understand why those who disagree are so frequently labeled "flamers." I apologize for not wanting my brain to turn to mush.My rating: 0/10


                
This movie was lame. Many people treat the original "trilogy" as a monolith but in fact the fist two movies were great and all of the rest were disappointing. This one gets undeserved points because it came soon enough to feed off of the good will from the earlier ones, but in reality it is more like all of the subsequent ones.If the "speeder bikes" that speed between the trees can levitate, then why can't they levitate above tree level? Oh, because that would make too much sense. And the Empire that we've come to know as nearly invincible and galaxy-threatening can be beaten by little stuffed animals with sticks and stones?! It has become an exploitative franchise turning out silly product, eating away at the legacy of A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back. This third installment begins the decline..
Return of the Jedi is an example of a film that had to many changes before release.
Changing Chewbacca's planet to a teddy bear planet. removing Lucas's original idea of Luke going on a quest for revenge and replacing it with a reunion with daddy.
Jedi proves it's no simple task being a Star Wars film.
While the actors still give their all, the alien design is still good as are the landscapes.
It's the plot itself which kills it, not to mention some dumb character deaths (Boba Fett anyone?) Return of the Jedi lacked the darkness, depth and intensity of Empire.
I'll never be able to understand how anyone can rate this 9 or 10 stars. It's just plain bad.
I don't recommend it, it's a terrible ending to the original trilogy.


                
I never understood the huge amount of hype for the Star Wars trilogy. With Empire Strikes Back being the best one, and I still gave it a three, I'd say this is the second best, and I gave it a one.  The acting is bad.  A movie like Pink Flamingos is good with bad acting, but a movie like this needs good actors.  The plot is thinner than that of Bloodsucking Freaks, and is completely unimaginative.  It's very boring, and the only good part is the musical number, which really wasn't there in the original.  Avoid this movie.


                
I want 90 minutes of my life back! This is quite possibly THE worst film I have ever seen. What made it so terrible you may ask? Shall we start at the beginning where sound quality was so bad that it was near impossible to hear what any of the woeful actors were saying. There was obviously NO editing, as character development scenes were painfully long and pointless (although a good opportunity to make a cuppa!). The "5 hot chicks" were average, and if you're hoping for a bit of skin you'll be disappointed, as the best on offer is a passably attractive girl in skimpy shorts, fleeing for her life for about 10mins at most. The plot is barely existent, the filming dreadful, and there are simply not enough negative adjectives to describe this film. Did someone mention that this was made with "just" $35 million US? That would have to be the most destructive use of money since the "eat a tapeworm to lose weight" campaign in the 60's! I will finish by saying, I would rather eat the contents of my cat's litter tray than see this movie again.


                
After two forced film viewings I decided in for a penny in for a pounding.Painful.After learning of his heritage and escaping capture of the empire our hero decides That hiding and laying low is just not the right thing to do. So he decides that he should Like his father kill a big fat slug . Instead of going to the home and garden section of his Local store and purchasing rock salt , our hero decides that mounting a small war is what laying low looks like.After wisely giving advanced warning to his adversary our hero fires the fist shot gifting him two droids. As the operation moves forward Jabba decides that owing to the 1980s looming recession that staff cut backs are needed. The first to go the green exotic dancer whose salary is way to much. Especially with a half naked slave chained at your feet. The rancor found this decision shall we say ..tasty.Jabba after interviewing our hero decides to expedite him with a side of bacon to the prior mentioned rancor. Jabba's hopes are crushed as is the rancor ( to much iron in the diet maybe?). After that incident both the farm boy and the freezer blind Han are treated to Jabba's rancor. It is decided a feast will be held in their honor. They along with with the audience will be fed lame dialogue and unending cackles from a wingless bird.After the death of Jabba by choking our slave girl unfortunately misses the chicken. This is great fully our final stop on the planet not chosen for David lynch's dune. Our hero returns to the rainy jungle world that even Lt. Dan and Forrest Gump knew better than to explore to find a dying puppet. The puppet apologizes for lying to him claiming it was all in the script and that someone named Qui-Gon made him do it. After the BBQ , our hero returns to the fleet to discover that the rebellion was dumber than he ever suspected.The rebellion has placed all its hopes on a massive coordinated attack on the empires new floating tangerine , but before its slices congeal. Han solo it has been decided will be the mastermind of the key assault owing to his deft ability to be frequently captured by the empire.However things take a bizarre turn as our heroes attempt to lower the shield that protects the giant round " pardon our dust" station above the forest moon of Endor. That' s right forest moon . Not moon. Not inhabited moon . There are a lot of trees there and don't you forget that.And teddy bears don't forget the teddy bears. Such a wasted marketing opportunity what were the makers of Teddy Ruxpin thinking? Anyway after C3PO does his best post modern attempt at the robot stalker that followed will Robinson around (only with a more enhanced vocabulary and a better catalog of sound effects than the previous two films) afterwards it is decided that the empire has to go . Which is advantageous as the millennium falcon and a zillion other rebel ships have just shown up and determined that they were expected all along. Our hero in the meantime is engaged is a rather unhealthy encounter session with his abusive father figure. All the time refereed by an aging prune that bears a striking resemblance to grand neagus zek. The empire responds to the show of force in kind.Han and the teddy bear clan continue their plan to sabotage the shield generator. As usual and right on que Han is again captured by the empire. The space fighting continues above as the rebel fighters attempt to shoe a massive amount of tie fighters away from their fleet by bringing the fight to the fleet itself.After successfully stonewalling it opposition on the FOREST moon of endor , the shield falls. In side our hero has unhanded his mechanical father. He rejects the prunes offer of Rotting in evil solidarity whilst ruling the galaxy. The response is well shocking. Outside wedge and lando enter the death star interior in a sort frogger style light cycle race to the stations power core.Yes finally at last the emperor falls from his throne ( still waiting for that thud). Vader faces his son. All is forgiven. The death star explodes. The teddy bears break out the beer. Darth Vader is slow roasted to a fine finish. Everyone lives happily ever after. Except the imperial cleaning crews that are still out there reclaiming use able metals today.On a side note I found the extra behind the scene featurette of Hayden Christensen and Sebastian Shaw throwing it down WWE hardcore style for the little noticed or little cared about non speaking role of the ghost of anakin skywalker enjoyable. Really impressive given Christensen pulled off the upset at all of age 3.Long drawn out and wholly predictable. I thought the droids were the worst. I was soooo wrong. Admiral Akbar. Really?!? OK calamari do not look like that. The garbage eating pacmara from Babylon 5 were much better looking in that sense ( kudos art department). At least the movies are over. Unless the first three films are made. Wiat...NOOOOOOO....
Before saying anything else- anyone who felt the prequels or recent Force Awakens films were even remotely watchable, please stop reading. You people are just unable to understand why ROTJ was so terrible (just as I am not able to understand astrophysics). In a nutshell, ROTJ has all the usual bad elements in a sequel and none of the good (aside from improved special effects). How anyone can mention this film in the same breath as the first two is beyond me or anyone who has any objectivity about this trilogy. The two biggest problems were the acting and story/script. The acting seems wooden and emotionless, Ford seems like he doesn't want to be there at all, Luke is monotone and boring, Leia looks and sounds worn out. I felt Lando and the Emperor did a good job (they seemed actually part of the movie). The script for everyone was repetitive, unoriginal, no comic relief or wit, and far less intelligent- and if fans can't see this, then as I said, they are simply unable to perceive/observe these details- not everyone can. Story line- poor. Half the film takes place rescuing Han, and while I enjoyed the segment concept, it was hugely overlong, and irrelevant to the main theme. The story and backdrops were also terribly unoriginal and repetitive. We spend half the movie on Tatooine (like the First film) and then half the movie in a very standard earth-like forest like Yavin (first film). The return of the same death star threat also, while not terrible, worsened the banality as did its demise by blowing it up similarly like the first film- yawn. Chronology was also hugely erroneous- In Empires, Lando & Chewie leave to go to Jabba's to rescue Han. Yet, Luke is somehow a virtual Jedi in a matter of days or weeks. I thought it takes years to become a Jedi- and who would have trained Luke since he returns to Yoda to "continue the training" after confronting Vader. This anachronism makes the audience feel like Lucas thinks we are stupid (maybe we are). Now, the biggest flaws of the film are the detail errors (from beginning to end): why did Jabba permit Leia to unfreeze Han when Jabba enjoyed him as a wall decoration? Why did Luke attempt to clumsily attack Jabba with a gun from the holster of a guard? Did he actually think he could single handed defeat all of Jabba's guards? How could Leia strangle Jabba with a chain? He's enormous and she's frail. With all of the forces of the Rebellion, why did they only rely on 4 of them to rescue Han from Jabba- risky, no? Why not send an army or have a larger force waiting outside once Luke and Lando infiltrate? And actually, why didn't Lando unfreeze Han since he was already under cover? Please. Why did they have a door closing panel on the 'inside' of the monster dungeon that Luke threw a rock at? Why would being "digested for 1000 years" be scary when you'd be dead in moments once swallowed? Why were the languages spoken at Jabba's so dumb sounding- "wonga wonga"? Why does C3PO have so much trouble speaking a common Jabba dialect? For an interpreter of 6 million languages, he sounds like he is stumbling for the words all the time he speaks another language. Why are the creatures at Jabba's so juvenile looking? Absolutely stupid and silly compared to the sinister creatures in Star Wars. Speaking of which, the Ewoks really were silly- perhaps if they were not such a huge part of the movie! So, watching little people wearing teddy bear costumes for over an hour speaking in the least convincing dumb-sounding Ewok language was hard to bear, and listening to C3PO storytelling put me to sleep. Seeing Yoda on death's bed in ROTJ yet seeing him spry and jumping around like a teenager in Empires just shows how bad the errors in the timeline are in this film- and he just happens to die exactly when Luke arrives? Then the story line of Luke actually thinking he could 'turn' Vader just by approaching him and asking is completely delusional. What did Luke think was going to happen? Even a jedi would have a bit of trouble escaping alive from the Emperor and Vader on the Death Star. So why risk it as the last living Jedi??? Not plausible. Then let's fast forward to watching a Super Star destroyer (5 miles long) have a single fighter hit it and make it veer into the Death Star? Really? That's like a seagull hitting an aircraft carrier and sinking it. STUPID. Also, if you look at the scale of the Super Star Destroyer and the surface of the Death Star that it impacts on, the Death Star looks like it's a million times the mass of the Super Star Destroyer- not likely. And since when was it so close to the Death Star??? Wasn't it much, much farther away staying out of the conflict? What is most pointless is the fact that Luke could have avoided going to the Death Star and avoided Vader killing the Emperor and just watch as the Death Star gets ultimately blown up, killing but the Emperor. Redundant. Lastly, just because the Emperor is killed off, what about the thousands of Imperial ships and Destroyers, millions of storm troopers, and I'm sure plenty of high powered corrupt Senate officials and other bureaucrats who would obviously take over control? This movie ironically had literally all the movie making resources at its disposal. That may also ironically be exactly why this movie sucked- Lucas had way too much influence in it and not reigned in by smarter producers and co-writers and directors. Lucas may have succumbed to the hype of his own cult status and started to believe his infallibility and just couldn't imagine ROTJ could possibly end up being anything but amazing. He was wrong.
death-star gets destroyed the same way, lol One of the greatest stupidities of modern cinema? planting a light-sabre on r2, are you serious, what could go wrong? midget furries destroying elite storm-troopers, obviously.the almighty sarlacc?????????? story is horrible, the dialogue almost as bad and the acting is a bad joke.embarrassing. i have no idea how this is considered a classic, it should have been ripped in half. people really are cheap when it comes to movies.'Take your weapon. Strike me down with all your hatred and your journey towards the dark side will be complete!hahahaha ???????????


                
As is the rating is 4 stars. 1 given as balance. The original was great, excellent B movie. This is a joke. I hate Han solo/Harrison Ford, character and acting. A comic character along with chewy. Luke and Lea can't act. The freaking Muppet's! The dialogue. It is your destiny! Destiny? Does anyone know any other words? If it wasn't for the Farce Awakens this would have been the worst movie.1st was great. 2nd was good. This sucked. Prequels were better than this. Face it, it's garbage.My advice, watch only the first. And original star trek TV, not films.No more joke characters!
Just when I thought Star Wars couldn't get anymore childish and obnoxious, here come Return of the Jedi: the worst of the original trilogy (what an accomplishment!). That's astounding, seeing how the other two films are tedious pieces of trash as well. Return of the Jedi is strictly for those who will gladly get down on their knees and enthusiastically open their mouths for George Lucas (so, pretty much every fan of Star Wars).


                
