This is where it all went wrong -way before the lame modern films. Return of the Jedi was lousy in almost every way a movie can be lousy. How did the following "ideas" not get thrown out on day one? -Have a climactic saber battle between Luke and Darth Vadar so someone can get their hand chopped off again. -Build a new deathstar so we can blow it up again. -Reveal that one of the good-guys is the child of one of the bad guys again.The script is awful, the directing is awful, the score is a witless mish-mash of the first two movies, Mark Hamil couldn't act, Harrison Ford had long since forgotten the difference between the Han Solo and Indiana Jones... I could go on and on but I don't want to think about it anymore. God, it was just... awful!


                
I'm sitting with my 11 year old daughter and 5 yr. old son watching what they were sure was the mother of all Star Wars movies based on the hype of the most recent installment of the Star Wars saga, Revenge of the Sith. Once again I am appalled that this movie was made and worse, made money.Don't get me wrong, I loved the first Star Wars and respect it for the tour De force it was for the genre. Unfortunately, the rest are rubbish. The problem (and there are many), is that Muppets belong in Manhattan and not in a galaxy far far away.Jabba may work. His minions are crap. His pet, the worst. The guards look like rejects from The Dark Crystal. Most of these creatures should have surely bought the farm a millennium ago according to Darwin's theory. The acting during these scenes is so bad it makes soaps look like Shakespeare.Ewoks are the undying joke of this movie. The costumes are total crap. I would definitely not put "Ewok costume designer" on my resume. Their movement is that of midgets in furry costumes (political incorrectness intended) with casts on both legs. Darwin would have been out there clubbing Ewoks himself so as to not embarrass his natural selection theory. Again the acting in these scenes is terrible. Only Chewbacca has any credible acting in this portion of the movie.The rest of the film plays out as a regular B movie. Even the latest installments, with all of the latest special effects, are sabotaged by the stupidest characters (JarJar Binks) and terrible acting (Samuel L. Jackson, et Al), a running curse for these movies.Some say I'm over critical. I don't believe this. I am however, a stickler for details. A great movie, The Hunt for Red October, was ruined for me when the Russian under sea map had English in parenthesis, under the Cyrillic, cow towing to what the producers must feel are the more feeble minded viewers. If the actors say they are heading towards such and such a place, why wouldn't I assume that when they point to the map, in Russian or not, that this is not what they are talking about? I just think it's sad that I have to recommend Star Trek, Next Generation and the Aliens trilogy as the better examples of science fiction to my kids.


                
this one lacked a certain edge that the other two had. not to mention that "Luke, I Am Your Father" was a lot better than "Leia's My sister!" that was just plain silly, not to mention as to how Leia reacted to that. was that the same Princess Leia that said classic lines like: "I'd rather Kiss A Wookie!"? that was one of the wussiest displays of emotions I have ever seen. The Lightsaber Battles just weren't as intense as in Empire Strikes Back, and the death Star II.  Ha! Like we haven't seen THAT before, and those Ewoks! Man, what a dumb Idea! Living Teddy Bears? what Kind of Allies are that?


                
The Return of the Jedi was a movie that was hard to watch.I was a big fan of the first two movies and was very much looking forward to this one. The qualities that made the first two movies so good were missing from 'Jedi'. The plot was unoriginal. The story had nothing interesting or new. The actors seemed like they couldn't wait to get it over with. The new characters in the movie were very boring. It seemed like the target audience for this movie was 5 year-olds based on some of the work of the background actors in the opening act and by many of the other characters in the film. It seems like the movie was sloppily put together. There are only two scenes in the movie that interested me and it was not enough to overcome all the bad. I wanted to like this movie as I had the other two. An overall bad movie.


                
After The Empire Strikes Back, which built masterfully on the success of the first Star Wars film -- deepening characters, fleshing out the universe in grand and dramatic space-opera fashion, and adding more ambitious themes about the true nature of heroism -- Return is a significant letdown.On the plus side: it has some enjoyable action sequences and fun special effects. Also, particularly with some brief scenes added at the end after the prequels were made, it manages to do a respectable job of drawing the narrative threads to a close.On the minus side: the Jabba the Hutt episode at the beginning is overstuffed with wacky creatures that are not as interesting as the filmmakers seem to think, and is simply not compelling enough to justify all the space it takes up. (Princess Leia's infamous slave girl costume during these sequences, however, does get the fan-boy seal of approval.) The principle aliens that show up later on are too cutesy to take seriously, especially when they suddenly 'get religion' at a critical point in the narrative. Perhaps most disappointing, the beginnings of a deeper and more challenging characterization of Luke from Empire seem to have been largely abandoned in favor of rather slapdash moral drama. When the forces of evil try to trap Luke in an emotional vice near the end of the film, they are so heavy-handed and obvious about it that it's quite hard to take them as seriously as the logic of the story seems to demand. (I have a similar problem with Darth Vader's conversion to the Dark Side in Revenge of the Sith, although that film has a far more convincing tone overall.)If you're just in it for the gosh-wow, and love the wacky critters, you'll probably enjoy it. It does also feature the Millennium Falcon, which has to count for something.But, yes, in case you are wondering, I find even The Phantom Menace to be a significantly deeper, more compelling, and overall much more enjoyable science fantasy film experience. Give me Jar-Jar over Ewoks (they were supposed to be Wookies, dang it!) any day of the week. Besides, Menace has Qui-Gon, the most spectacularly pointless fusion power plant in the history of cinema (or whatever it is -- but notice how similar it looks to the interiors of the Death Star and to the underbelly of the Cloud City, also settings for crucial light-saber duels; I believe Lucas has dreams of this place), and an evil emperor (to be) who is a convincingly diabolical threat to everything good in the universe.


                
Ewoks!!!Pants. Over rated drivel. A re-hash of the first two. With Ewoks. Furry little rodents! Thank God Lord of the Rings has finally displaced this mediocre trilogy.Nuff said


                
This could have been a great film and could have brought the Star Wars trilogy to a find end. Unfortunately, Hollywood had to bring in the Ewoks. Cute, furry, little singing and dancing critters who's only contribution to the film was to give the retailers something to sell really made the final installment of the star wars trilogy a film to be avoided. Had they simply left them as an alien race that helped Luke and his friends they would have been fine but Hollywood and the licensing groups got together and turned them into something entirely unnecessary. Unfortunately, the Ewoks caused this film to fall from what it could have been to what it ended up being: A commercial for action figures and teddy bears.


                
I mean. This movie is toys first. Denying this after the whole set piece with the most annoying mini bear gremlings ever is just pathological denial.Other than that, you have the biggets ever villain ever ultra unredeemable villainest ultra savage villlain ever..... REDEMPTION!
This of course shows how mature is the movie: There is not pure evil and pure good.. its all nuanced! Even the extremes!
.........................................
Oh no, wait a minute... there is Evil... BUT IS PALPATINE! So yeah, forget about that nuance that I was talking about.. There is evil... nevermind I guess.But this movie has more things like... ANOTHER DEATH STAR! Awesome! Really original guys!Sadly other than those this movie contains the same tropes:-Startroppers can't hurt the good guys even when they are 20 vs 3
-If something really impossible happens: ITS THE FREAKING FORCE!
-Improved dialogue: Its not vomitive anymore. That's it. Its awful, but not vomitive.


                
it contains the only scene that saves the whole trilogy -- princess Leia in a golden bikini on a chain. The scene where they escape from Jabba the Hutt and Leia jumps back and forth in that skimpy outfit -- you can turn it off right there, afterwards -- it's just bore, bore, bore... Better yet -- you can skip the first 2 movies completely -- won't lose anything...


                
this movie is easily the worst of the trilogy. and it's not just blind hate... i really wanted to like this movie especially after how entertaining the previous ones were even though i've been warned that this one sucks. and yes, this movie is terrible and boring. almost everything is bad 1. characters: the characters are just a shadow of their former selves. Darth Vader isn't intimidating anymore, emperor pal patine is just a bad generic villain. actually the whole empire is just terrible now. Han Solo,Leia or Luke aren't even 1% as entertaining and interesting as they used to be, they are just boring. 2. the effects: the special effects used to be among the best in these star wars movies. in this one, they are the worst imaginable. this movie even uses some terrible CGI, though not a lot of it 3. the story: the story is completely boring and not much happens. the first 35 minutes is main characters running from the awful Jabba The Hut. then there is something about the empire making another death star (hmm where have i seen this before???) then they get to the Ewok planet, a bunch of teddy bears are able to defeat an army force of storm-troopers with laser guns (they are the most incompetent here) then the empire is defeated for good. though there is one good moment. it's near the end when Darth Vader is almost dead and he talks to Luke. this is a genuinely emotional moment. and then the movie ends with a musical number. way to ruin the only good moment in the movie. summary: complete crap. worst of the series. don't watch it... seriously
