Every time I tell people how horrible I thought Return of the Jedi was they give me this puzzled look and say, "but it's Return of the Jedi! You can't hate Return of the Jedi!" However, this movie really bothers me every time I see it. The creativity of the first Star Wars made it a great movie, and the shocking twist in Empire made it quite possibly the greatest sequel ever. Yet this incredible scenario presented at the end of Empire was wasted in a movie full of rehash. First of all, could Lucas really come up with nothing better than a SECOND Death Star??! And just like the first one, the movie ended in an all out assault on it. Luke and Vader fought with light sabers (again!). Not to mention, in a desperate attempt to recapture the emotion created in the audience after Vader said his famous "I AM YOUR FATHER", Lucas made Leia turn out to be Luke's long-lost sister. Give me a break! A little competition between Han and Luke might show some semblance of conflict among the good guys. Just because it's sci-fi doesn't mean it can't be somewhat realistic in character presentation. Vader's unmasking was disappointing. Instead of Lon Chaney unmasked as the phantom, we got Uncle Fester with acne. Carrie Fischer can't act worth $#\&*! Although I could go on and on, I'll give just one final reason. Three words: Ewoks! Ewoks! Ewoks! I hate those furry little muppet wannabes. They were added for one reason and one reason only, so Lucas could line his pockets by making Ewok stuffed animals, talking Ewok toys, Ewok lunchboxes, and even an Ewok TV show! The bottom line is, this is the most OVERRATED movie in the history of Hollywood!!!


                
If you enjoy movies that look as though a bunch of people randomly threw on some old clothes and masks and began mumbling then this movie is perfect for you. Maybe they had a low budget- if so then I apologize for this review. However, if this is the producer's idea of comedy and sci-fi then he is way off base. This is not to say that the movie was a complete disappointment. Some scenes were quite humorous. I still cannot decide whether I was laughing at the wit of the script or laughing at the poor attempt at a fight scene. So far I am leaning towards the second one.IF you enjoy cheap looking sci-fi films I highly recommend this movie. If you are like me and would rather settle down with a more amusing movie I suggest you look elsewhere.


                
Sweet jeepers.  Just saw this the other day.  Put simply, RotJ is a rotter. You know the plot, and others have said most of what I would say had not others already said it.  Let me fill in some o' the blanks with the following POINTS:1.  Uses the word "operational" way too much:  "Fully operational battlestation," etc.  Different characters use this word, which repetition reflects poorly on the script.2.  Speaking of the script, it sux.  I mean the plot, dialog, everything.3.  A mistake made in Empire as well: "thy" (Darth Vadar to the Emperor: "What is thy bidding, master?") is not a term of respect.  Rather, "you," the plural form was an honorific until it came to replace "thy" entirely. Stupid.4.  Again and again DV and Emp keep blabbing about the power of the Dark Side.  Repetitious and inane script.5.  As we are now experiencing in Iraq, blowing up a fleet or taking out a leader does not guarantee immediate victory.  It is ridiculous that the Empire would just be done after the new and improved Death Star is blown up. Even in EIV Grand Moff Tarkin et al. have considerable power, even more so than Darth Vadar, whose religion they openly mock.  Apparently, however, in the books and whatnot this idea is pursued (that is, there is a rump Empire that keeps going).6.  I don't mind the Ewoks so much as how they are used.  These teddy bears could not have defeated Storm Troopers.  Period.7.  Han's and Leia's romance is firmly established at the end of Empire. The continuation here is extremely weak.  Ford looks old in this movie and has totally lost the nice edge he had in Empire.  Sad.8.  No final confrontation between Solo and Fett.  Passing up low-hanging fruit like that is cinematic incompetence.  Pathetic.On the positive side....9.  The lightsaber fight in Jedi is the best of the bunch, although it could have been a lot better.  (Note to Lucas: it's OK to show the whole fight and not cut away.  Thanks.)10.  The acting by the Emperor fellow is quite good.  He looks good.11.  The wizened advisors in purple (or whatever they are) to the Emperor is a nice touch.  The Emperor's chair is cool.12.  The whole story of the new Death Star, Vadar's dissatisfaction with the pace of construction, the Emperor's visit to the place, etc., all were good story elements--not quite used to their full potential.It's sad that RotJ was such a bad movie.  But it's even sadder that movies ten times worse were to follow....


                
Spoilers: I remember looking so forward to this as a kid after loving the first two movies. They had previews for new characters on the back of the action figures boxes I'd get at Toys-R-Us and I'd eagerly wonder what the blacked out Ewok characters would look like. Must have really been something special! I even remember how they switched the name around as "Revenge of the Jedi." This was just going to be THE movie of the summer, and waiting in line to get in while hearing the thunderous noise of the climactic battle as the audience of the screening just wrapping up applauded enthusiastically, I was just SO excited. When I saw it even as a kid I knew it was somewhat of a disappointment, watching it now as an adult...Uhgg! Now I see how Lucas went so wrong with the abomination of the prequels, all the threads started to unravel with this Turkey. (Though Return of the Jedi is still much superior to those aforementioned prequels which had a plot harder to follow than Dune.) First of all are notoriously unbearable Ewoks, even as a kid I HATED them. No adult could possibly find anything watchable about the whole Ewok sequence on Endor. The Emperor is ridiculously "comic book" evil, tyrants usually have charisma and are more like gangsters than lunatics. The choice to add another family revelation by making Leah Luke's sister is stupid and ruins the relationship from the first two movies. The original Cantina scene with the various aliens was creative, here Lucas has gone overboard with a new bizarre rubber masked actor or puppet cropping up every minute. In some respects this whole thing is nothing more than a commercial to sell action figures to eight year olds. And the Climax: Another Deathstar? Lucas, you already did that before, but considering the fecal ideas he spewed out in the prequels, perhaps a rehashing of the end of the first movie was the best we could hope for. After all, to sum up the cinematic ideas going through Lucas' head during this period: Howard the Duck. Don't even get me started on the vandalism Lucas did to the Original Trilogy with the CGI additions to the new copys of the Star Wars movies for sale. The original 1977 print is a piece of American History, to alter the imagery that swept the nation that summer is akin to someone painting over the Mona Lisa.Still Return of the Jedi it did have it's moments. The Jabba the Hut character is ubiquitously reknown and to this day everyone knows what your talking about if you refer to any gluttonous tard as "Jabba the Hut." The chase scene through the Redwoods is also quite memorable although the excitement came to a quick end with the ridiculously infantile Ewok scenes beginning moments later. The final showdown between Luke and Vader was also a glimpse of what this movie could have been had the same people who worked on The Empire Strikes Back had control over this thing. On the whole, a disappointing, childish end to the first two movies.
This movie wastes what was a great villain in Boba Fett,and Harrison Ford's Han Solo character is hardly used.In 'The Empire Strikes back',Han Solo was a captain and yet now he is suddenly a General(?)as is Billy Dee Williams character who wasn't even in the army.This is bad writing and makes the film look amateurish.Luke Skywalker's main strategy is to get captured and then fight his way out(pretty silly writing).And the teddy bears,with their spears and stones,defeat the villain's army which is armed with heavy weapons.This is a very disappointing finale,not well written and the characters are wasted.


                
We spent years growing up with Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back.. and waited for the super finale. Then Spielberg releases this junk clearly aimed at an audience 8-12 yrs. Cute cuddly creatures beating up on trained soldiers??  Gimme a break.


                
Star Wars Trilogy Notice: watch the original theatrical version or don't bother at all. I'm not even a big fan of Star Wars, but even I can see that Lucas's "Special Editions" were a travesty.Anyway, enough of that. I couldn't get through this one. Run out of ideas? Let's re-hash some of the ones from the first film again.Ewoks. No.That flying motorbike chase was good but it went on for too long.More revelations about Vader/Skywalker/The-Other-Skywalker? Who cares? Not I.God those Ewoks. Awful. What the hell was he thinking when he put those in?Honestly wish I'd never bothered, it was so mediocre. Would rather have left the issues of the second film unresolved than suffer Warwick Davis in a second hand Bungle costume.yetanotherfilmreviewblog.tumblr.com


                
Ok, strike me down with a lightsabre, Jedi-freaks, but I could barely watch this. Why? Spoiler Alert! First of all, EWOKS! Brr...they certainly aren't as bad as Jar-Jar Binks but close enough. I personally think they were created to appeal to girls because Star Wars is more of a guy trilogy. I mean, Princess Leai is in some wooded area on some planet or whatever, and she sees these oversized teddy bears running around in what appears to be bandanas and sling-shots. What? Where? Who? But what really insulted my mind about the Ewoks was that they were able to kill Vaders henchmen (what were they again?) with stones and arrows while the henchmen are wearing hard plastic and metal. What?Oh yeah, and the ending. Vader supposedly becomes a good guy. What? And his face is powder white as I remember it. So, going to the Dark Side pales your face? Was that caused from the lack of light in his helmet or was that supposed to be suspicion of disbelief, or the mystery of science in Star Wars? Well you tell me, how could something like that be Mystery of Science in Star Wars? It isn't even in the same theme as the other MOSISWs, nor even in suspicion of disbelief. It's just idiocy that Lucas thinks the fans will call a MOSISW. Why? Because MOSISWs are words like midicholorines (sp?) or what's going on, they aren't supposed to be of your skin going pale. Or can they be? I dunno. Big hole there.Yoda dies. C'mon, Lucas, he has only been friends with Luke for half an episode, you should have made Episodes 7-9 where he would have been a more devolped friend/Jedi-instructor for Luke. Hell, Luke didn't even finish his Jedi training by this episode well enough to really call him a Jedi. Show Luke as a full experienced Jedi for more than a quarter episode, and Yoda needed to be more devolped in the originals.I could go on but I'll stop here.Nice effects though.4/10
Never saw the first two installments (star wars, empire) and after watching this movie, I have no desire to ever see the first two. Let me get this straight, a bunch of cute, cuddly teddy bears beat the Evil Empire by hitting them with logs?...er...sorry, that doesn't pass the sniff test.Why in hell did they sell out and go for a Disney type of ending?. I thought Star Wars was supposed to be 'cool'. Even all the dead people came back for the (apparent) cast party at the end. Could they be any more manipulative?. And thanks to the producers for implanting that damn eewok song in my brain, I have not been able to get it out of me head for years, it is driving me mad.


                
Several months ago, a friend of mine and I sat down and watched the special edition trilogy of Star Wars films. Not surprisingly, the original I still consider to be one of my favorite films of all time... unfortunately, the same cannot be said of Return of the Jedi (although Empire actually seemed a LOT better than I remember).Both of us were shocked at how truly bad a film this is. The blatant catering to kids is just one of the short-comings (albeit probably the most annoying), but the awful acting of Harrison Ford, the terrible dialogue, the poor storyline all add up to a movie which really doesn't stand the test of time and growing up.Does it matter?  Not really... Star Wars is still my favorite film... it's just sad when those old memories just don't quite seem to hold up.


                
Even when I saw it in the theaters as a kid, I thought this was a bit silly. Sappy stuff with the Ewoks, overlong, new creatures not that fantastical (Jabba), an emphasis on the chase scene over the dramatic thrust, a bit of self-importance, and a touch of weariness - the actors look tired and bored, as if publicly greating each other is the way to get audience cheers. Carrie Fisher really needs to quit smoking - sounds like they have too many Marlboros on that planet.  Mark Hammill is starting to look, well, not-so-good.  Not bad overall, but a clear sign of decline - not as precipitous as the next installment, but the first crack in the Jedi's armor.


                
Richard Marquand and ILM deliver a terrific film except for the BLOODY EWOKS! Hateful things.So, yes... In line with the other 5 in the original half dozen, remake it and give us decent aliens to align with for the final battle.Interesting Star Wars films CAN be made: Solo's more fun than you think, Howard managed to cobble a half-decent flick together; Rogue One was terrific; with episodes 7 and 8 I personally had the sort of Star Wars I've been yearning for.


                
The third & final instalment of the original Star Wars trilogy, Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi may not be as impressive as its revolutionary predecessors which at least had an interesting storyline at its core to fall back on once its visual encapsulation deteriorated in quality, as is the case at present, but it manages to cross the finish line before running out of fuel and is a satisfactory conclusion to the saga set in a galaxy far far away.Set one year after the events of The Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Jedi finds Luke Skywalker & his friends teaming up to free Han Solo from Jabba's captivity following which they learn of another Death Star being under construction by the Galactic Empire, this time under the supervision of the Emperor himself. With an opportunity to end the battle once & for all, the Rebel Alliance launches an all-out attack against the Empire while Luke & Vader confront for the final time.Directed by Richard Marquand, Return of the Jedi picks up the story from where the previous instalment signed off but takes its time to get moving. The whole sequence at Jabba's palace is overstretched & is at times cringeworthy. Being the final chapter, the film still finds time to meander on moments that should've ended up on the editing room floor. However, there is some solace in the fact that the arc of every character is brought to a satisfying conclusion, even if it takes a longer route to get there.The set pieces put forth by the production design team are more extravagant but the upgrades from one chapter to another isn't that big a leap, or at least it doesn't appear so. Cinematography continues to leave a positive impression with its inventiveness and the camera movements are a bit more energetic this time. Editing could've trimmed a few more moments to give its story a more compact structure & swifter pacing while John Williams once again delivers a fitting score that slightly enhances every moment.Coming to the performances, the cast of Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams & others return for one last adventure and exhibit greater comfort with the roles they'd been playing for a while. The input by Hamill, Ford & Fisher is in tune with what's expected from them while the character of Darth Vader continues to amaze, and the finale is a fitting resolution to his arc. The first half lacks the sort of excitement that was prevalent in the previous instalment but the film does make few amends in the next half to finish on a fine note.On an overall scale, Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi neither has the freshness of A New Hope nor has the shocking appeal of The Empire Strikes Back and is definitely the weakest instalment of the three. A more coherent & tightly packed narrative in addition to a better pace would've resulted in a more enjoyable experience but despite all its shortcomings, it isn't entirely the disaster it was turning out to be in the first half. A scattered final piece that has its share of positives & negatives, Return of the Jedi may not be the perfect finale but it still bows out with its head in tact.


                
"Star Wars" brought together elements from various works of art to create an eye-catching, distinctive, and fairly original film which took the world by storm. "The Empire Strikes Back" fleshed out the characters, gave us some absolutely terrific action scenes and beyond all that consisted largely of really, really great scenes and moments. "Return of the Jedi" was at a disadvantage in following "The Empire Strikes Back", not only a great piece of genre fiction, but a genuinely lasting work of art, and one which promised an incredible finale at that.I don't know if "Return of the Jedi" could have ever really been absolutely satisfying as the final film in this trilogy, but I certainly hoped that Lucas and Kasdan (who was primarily responsible for the great "Empire Strikes Back" writing-wise) would return with something other than thirty minutes of the insanely annoying (seriously, how does anyone like him?) Jabba the Hut, followed by a great action scene in which our heroes escape from him, followed by a seemingly sharp increase in the quality of the film, as the focus shifts back to Luke, his relationship with Darth Vader, Vader's relationship with the Emperor, and further immersion into the "Star Wars" mythos.Well, that's wonderful. They've righted their wrongs, the Emperor is creepy, and this is a lot of fun. Right? Ooops. I guess they weren't done with the puppets just yet. But that's quite alright, these muppets are adorable and cute and fun. Okay now. Hmmm, 20 minutes of Ewoks is a bit much, don't you think? Ah, there we go, the focus is now firmly back on Vader, Luke, and the Emperor. Right? Nope. Here come the Ewoks again. More not-so-well-shot action and puppets jumping around making noises. Er, are they ever going to go away? I mean, come on already. Ah, now there's barely any emphasis on them. Wonderful.What? There's barely ten minutes left?! That's it? Oh well, here's the epic final battle. It was great, and a fitting close to the series. The movie's ending is terrific, and fairly touching. Does it excuse the majority of the movie being made up of f***ing puppets making weird noises, and some awful dialogue and acting, not to mention the whole thing being a step down from "Empire Strikes Back" technically? Hell no. Does it excuse this script looking like it was written by a 12 year old except for the scenes with Luke, Darth Vader, and the Emperor? Hell no. Disappointment isn't the word. "Return of the Jedi" has a great ending, and a suitably epic final battle, but after two films which built up a great mythology, wonderful story, great characters, and promised a fantastic third film, we get two hours plus of f***king puppets, with a few good scenes here and there. The above barely qualifies as a review, I suppose, but I felt a rant was more suitable. The music's good, I guess.Ugh. Ugh. Ugh. Ugh. Ugh4/10


                
Jedi was not all that bad. But it is still stupid because it is star wars. Luke goes to a palace in the same desert planet from the first movie to rescue a pirate and a feminist social justice warrior. But he had no plan! Wtf? Then we are introduced to this old guy, who is the real villain. Another dull plot twist, but instead of being stupid, it was more of a random twist. Then Vader throws him down a giant hole because of Luke being his son. (Obi Wan was a liar, telling Luke that his dad was killed, but no. Obi Wan is the most wicked person in the saga!) I am glad they ended it there, but oh no, they had to make prequels.
