Six years ago, a director by the name of Curtis Hansen came out with a small time film named L.A. Confidential. Though the movie garnered several big nominations at the 1997 Academy Awards, the nation had been swept up by the gigantic and romantic blockbuster, Titanic, thus shrinking the chances of this brilliant movie from garnering any real awards. 1997 completely screwed this phenomenal film, in which three brilliant actors gave the performances of their careers.Russell Crowe plays Detective Bud White, a tough L.A. cop who bends the rules in order to bring justice to the city. He is ruthless, and unforgiving of anyone, which brings him into direct conflict with Detective Lieutenant Ed Exley, played by Guy Pearce. Russell Crowe became with this role a full pledged character actor,: the cop with a steel physique, and a vulnerable heart. He becomes so believable and real to the audience, you can not help but sympathize for his character under the circumstances.  From this role, Crowe went on to garner three best actor nominations, winning for his role in Gladiator.Guy Pearce, the little known Australian body builder, became the character known as Ed Exley, a straight, uptight detective trying to live up to the legend his father created before him. Exley has so much to prove to the LAPD, trying to show them that he is just as good, maybe even better, than his father. He plays the politics in a corrupted police department very well, and is able to use these skills in solving the corrupt and mysterious case of the Night Owl murders. This film officially put Guy Pearce in the big leagues of film, making his next appearances in Memento and The Count of Monte Cristo. He is a severely underrated actor who deserves better than what he has been getting.Finally, the ever wonderful Kevin Spacey. Spacey plays Lieutenant Jack Vincenes, a cop who gives a popular LA police show, Badge of Honor, real solved cases in return for money. Jack sees his life as an ever going soap opera, until he comes across a case that somehow has a connection to the Night Owl murders. Kevin Spacey has proved time and again his abilities as an actor, and he continues with this performance. Curtis Hansen does a wonderful job bringing this story to the big screen. His talents, although recognized, have not been awarded as of yet. I can only hope that someday, someone will give this amazing director something worthy of his talents. Highly Recommended. MJR


                
L.A. Confidential is, without a doubt, the best film of the 1990s, and quite possibly one of the best films ever made.As with any great film, it all starts with the writing.  The story is riveting, the dialogue is smart and quite funny, and the characters are written in three dimensions.The acting is phenomenal.  Perhaps a bigger tragedy than L.A. Confidential's loss to Titanic in the Best Picture race is that none of the three lead actors even garnered nominations.  Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce, and Kevin Spacey are absolutely phenomenal; it is their characters that drive this fascinating story about police corruption in 1950s Los Angeles.  We get to know these people, to understand who they are and why they do what they do, and to root for them to overcome their imperfections.The directing is fantastic.  Curtis Hanson doesn't shove anything in the audience's face; instead, he allows the audience to discover the film's nuances on their own.  (That makes this an excellent film for repeat viewings, you truly catch something new every time).  1950s Los Angeles is reproduced beautifully.  The editing is quick and seamless, the music is perfect for the film (Hanson should teach other directors how to do a montage effectively), and the cinematography is great.I can't find a negative thing to say about this film.  It's truly a masterpiece.


                
Although this movie 'flopped' at the box office at $53 million, this just may be one the smartest movies you haven't seen. With great performances from an ensemble all-star cast and a clever script, the dramatic tension of this modern film-noir classic is an absolute must-see! Told through a variation on the theme of "good cop, bad cop" with an overarching corruption angle, this film cleverly deals with issues of racism, social justice and ethics in a non-discriminatory manner. Character development is well-done and the dramatic tension is superb. If you are a fan of crime-drama and detective stories, you won't be disappointed!


                
When a film evokes an era as well as L.A. Confidential does, people take notice. It could be argued that it is easier to replicate the recent past than the distant on film,  and in a sense this is true. Costumes, language, and the necessary absence of the modern in "period pieces" make them expensive and difficult to film. But couldn't it be argued that it is just as difficult to make a film about more recent periods? I have no knowledge of how a Victorian era table was set, or what a knight really spoke like; we are subject to the directors view of reality. But what if a good deal of your audience lived through the time you are portraying, as in the case of the 1950's? I can even envision my grandfather coming back from WW2 to a booming economy, and living in the world Curtis Hanson created.The real genus of this film is that it creates not only a physical world, but one with all the politics, corruption, racism and inequity of the time. As a result we feel the characters motivations and understand their faults all  the better; Bud White, Ed Exley, Lynn Bracken and Lana Turner all live here. This film, like others that make us believe we are there for two hours (and $7.50), will endure. I was thinking a  perfect double feature would be with Chinatown, another film that will stand the test of time.


                
Truly, one of the greatest mistake the Academy has made is not awarding this film the Best Picture award. For months, I argued that while "Titanic" was a nice spectacle with great special effects, the script, the directing and the acting was all rather mediocre. However, here we have "L.A. Confidential." Perfection in script. Perfection in directing. Perfection in cast. Obviously, because Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce and Kevin Spacey all gave Oscar worthy performances, the voting was split, and therefore, none got enough votes for a nomination.    Crowe gave an invigorating performance and Bud White, a man who knows that he is not very smart and has instead relied on pure brawn all his life. But as the film progresses, you watch him yearn to put his strength aside and become self-reliant, instead of being purely muscle for the cause of justice, which has become obscured as he has had to resort to violent and debatably immoral method to preserve peace in Los Angeles. And yet, while he does make us question whether he is going to end up on the side of good or evil by the end of the film uncertain, we do empathize enough with him to hope that he does redeem himself by the end.    Pearce delivers Ed Exley as a man who is wholly set on the purest means of justice. While he follows his father into the same profession, his goals are unique; to uphold the law without having to bend or break it. And yet, his good aspiration are certainly out of place in the corrupt organization of the police of that time. He slowly becomes drawn into the graft. He becomes glory-hungry, pulling whatever strings he has to in order to be promoted or be seen in a good light by the press. And yet, he does begin to find himself giving into exactly the cause he fought against. And so, throughout the film, he struggles to overcome the instinctive nature of man to achieve power and glory. He has to be a better man than that. And so, the audience can quickly see the nobility in that. He is not perfect. But at least he tries to be.   And probably the best performance in the film comes from Spacey. Here we see what Exley might have become in a few years if he wasn't careful.  Jack Vincennes has succumb to the call of money and celebrity status. He does not care in the least about duty or about justice. It's all become simply a matter of vanity. And yet, he begins to see through his own fault. Spacey's performance is undoubtable the best, because he is one of those actors who doesn't have to try to communicate his emotions in order to communicate them (or, at least, he is good enough not to show the strings). I had to watch this film several times to really take in the impact of his role, and fully absorb his character. His key moments within the middle of the film are absolutely unforgettable. When he stares into the mirror of the bar after receiving the hundred dollar bill, that scene is a turning point for the character. And he was able to convey the message of that scene without saying a thing. And also, when asked why he became a cop, the delivery of that next line, just that, was Oscar worthy on its own.   Even aside from those three performances, it would have been totally respectable if James Cromwell or Danny DeVito  had received a nomination. Truly, this film had one of the greatest ensemble casts ever captured on screen.
This is the ultimate movie on the corruptness of the police force during the 1950's.  No one is going to make a better movie than LA Confidential, the cast is perfect, the direction is superb, the screenplay is amazing, the choice of music, the graphic brutality, the not so fine line between good and evil.When I saw this in the theatres, I came out of the theatre and couldn't say anything because I was awed. And I was amazed by how wonderful Russell Crowe and Guy Pearce were, I had never heard of them before, so I didn't know what to expect, but now I have two new favorite actors.  And I couldn't believe that Russell was a New Zealander and Guy was an Aussie.  They had great American accents.  And of course Kevin Spacey was superb as always.Any way, this is an awesome movie, go rent it if you have not seen it.


                
Hands-down my favourite American film of the nineties. Curtis Hanson shocked the world by proving to be not only a great director but an auteur with this unbeatable adaptation of James Ellroy's terrifying novel about corruption and crime among members of the LAPD in the 1950s. The hard-boiled detective story angle is brought to life so beautifully, mostly because Jeannine Claudia Oppewall's production design recreates the dark underside of the 50s to such perfection that not even a Coke bottle label is missed. Add to that Dante Spinotti's stunning lighting that rides the fine line between artistic and believable comfortably (as all period camerawork should), Ruth Myers' costume designing and a script by Hanson and The Postman scribe Brian Helgeland (I know, I don't get it either) that pares down Ellroy's mammoth plot about a multiple murder in a local diner involving a policeman with suspicious ties without sacrificing the density of the story or the spiderweb of events involved with it, and you have the best movie of 1997, not to mention the most fascinating detective film ever made since Orson Welles' Touch of Evil. The cast is all brilliant, most notably Kim Basinger as a wordly prostitute who has not only a heart of gold but a mind of steel--Basinger is so strong in her character's every nuance you'll find yourself forgetting she's even acting--and Kevin Spacey as a Dean Martin-esque detective who not only solves an important part of the puzzle, he even discovers he possesses a soul beneath his flashy suits. I just can't get enough of this film.


                
"Rollo Tomasi" is a name that anyone had seen this movie should remember for the rest of his life or at least be aware of the existence of the name, because this is the key to the spirit of this whole story. Due to the setting of this clue, there is no doubt one great movie had become a classic! As a Taiwanese, I saw a lot of Hong Kong movies about police and gangsters while I was a child, and they were all very impressive. Therefore, the particularly genre has been promoted to such high levels in my mind that I can hardly be pleased. Fortunately, "L.A. Confidential" satisfies me not only with its thoughtful scenario, but also with several great actors' performances. More specifically, the story is not just about justice versus evil, there are also many elements such as passion, wisdom, greed, friendship and of course love which all made this movie more than fun to watch. In other words, you might feel angry at this moment, shocked latter, and finally moved by their insistence on doing the right things which made us believe there are still several police worth our trust.Guy Pearce was one big surprise in the movie not because he played the leading role of the movie, but for his courage and wisdom, and most important of all, his slightly pride that caused admiration accompanied by hostility at the same time. Because the complexity he showed, we couldn't help but be deeply attracted, and that's when we built connections with the character inside the frame. Secondly, Kevin Spacey was not the one who would gain our trust at first, but no one ought to disagree with his contribution after the shocked "Rollo Tomasi" scene. Likewise, Russell Crowe twisted his role impressions only after his cooperation with Guy Pearce, but he really needed to adjust his tempers for his own sake. Such a crew made this great movie never out-of-date, not even after similar stories keep brainwashing our minds.How lucky I am to see such a classical film. As a matter of fact, I haven't found one movie that reaches the same level as it did, at least not in the genre. Thus, I just have to repeat watching the film again and again, and I believe many people are doing the same thing I do.
LA Confidential is a sprawling epic tale of crime, corruption and justice in Hollywood and the LAPD, with a cast to match. A truly gripping crime saga exposing the seedy underbelly of the City of Angels, where cops never let the truth get in the way of justice, and everyone knows everyone else's dirty secrets.Criminally overlooked at both the box office and the Academy thanks to the all-conquering and over-achieving Titanic, LA Confidential will far more likely stand the test of time to be thought of as one of the best films of the 90s, and possibly the best cop film ever.After cops give a number of inmates a beating in retaliation for two of their own being put in hospital, the career-minded Ed Exley (Guy Pearce) agrees to testify to what he saw, turning in his fellow officers. When one of the cops forced out turns up dead as a result of a shooting, Exley, hothead detective Bud White (Russell Crowe) and fame-obsessed Sergeant Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) all work to find the answers. However, as they uncover the truth, it leads to more questions, of corruption, blackmail, bribery and conspiracy.The film superbly portrays the dual nature of Hollywood; glamorous parties and beautiful people, and the seemingly ever-present crime and corruption, even in the police. Danny Devito's opening monologue perfectly sums it up - 'There's trouble in paradise'. This is not the city at the end of the rainbow, the city where dreams come true.A series of stellar performances from an all-star cast makes it impossible to pick the star, although Kim Basinger richly deserved her Best Supporting Actress. Kevin Spacey is terrific as ever, while Russell Crowe shows that Gladiator wasn't his first muscles-with-a-heart role. But the real standout is probably Guy Pearce in a career-making performance as the one officer determined to what is right and just, regardless of the potentially disastrous consequences for him. However, LA Confidential is a true ensemble piece, and everybody holds their own among the starry cast. Few will have made many better films, before or since.Curtis Hanson directs in a career-defining role, the sweeping direction echoing the sprawling nature of both the story and the city. The story is a slow-burner, gradually unraveling all the twists, but instead of clearing up the mystery, the waters become muddier as the trio of officers are forced to work together. Hanson masterfully commands the James Ellroy's source material, weaving it into a gripping multi-layered tale. The characters are extremely well developed, all three-dimensional, with no clear-cut heroes and villains. White (Crowe) in particular is the classic film noir anti-hero, the violent cop with a heart-breaking story, thinking with his muscles rather than his brain. LA Confidential is a classic 50s noir film told for the 90s, and keeps you guessing right up to the final scene as to how high the corruption goes. The two-hour running time is never felt.A superb thriller and the perfect antidote to the rash of mindless action-comedies that frequently come out of Hollywood today, LA Confidential harks back to how film-making used to be <U+0096> all about telling a story. And what a story it is. One of, if not the best film of the 90s.


                
Reading the comments, I find few viewers seemed to have read James Ellroy's LA Trilogy, on which LA Confidential is based. The Big Nowhere, LA Confidential and White Jazz comprise the Dudley Smith story; Smith is the only constant in all three. None of the heroes are in Nowhere, Buzz Meeks being gunned down by Dudley while trying to escape, having hidden the heroin. Buzz White survives Confidential along with Exley, and White does go off to Arizona, but Smith still lives and rides high. In Jazz, Ed Exley~~Guy Pearce~~and Smith do battle for the soul of David Klein, who in the end brings down Smith. Of the three, Confidential is surely the most complicated since with the heroin out there somewhere, many more players are involved.Hanson's genius is to shorten the story, eliminating Nowhere entirely, and bringing Dudley his retribution without Dave Klein being involved. He eliminates so many back stories: Exley's father is alive in the book, and a powerful politico to boot and this is just one difference, but in clarifying and making the story shorter, he almost makes it better. The murder of Vincennes is a brilliant touch, along with the code name Rollo Tomassi.Both the books and the film are pulse pounders, intense to the core. My late wife, who could never sit through any film without getting up for a cigarette, was immobilized, and by the end was screaming "Kill him" as Exley watched Smith depart. If I had one slight criticism, it would be the cleaning up of some of the language about the original suspects in the Nite Owl killings, but make no mistake about it, this is the film for the 90's, and the only 1997 Oscar nominee worth watching. Hurrah for Curtis Hanson.
LA Confidential has all of the qualities that, over time, earn a film the honorific, "classic." The story is involved and involving, and quickly pulls the viewer into trying to solve the mystery along with the main characters. The script is brisk and clever, the editing moves along at a solid pace that builds toward the end, the images of old LA are realistic and convincing, and the character portrayals are more than wonderful, they're truly memorable. It's safe to say that in many respects this film provided break-out roles for Russell Crowe, Kevin Spacey, and Guy Pearce.Crowe's Bud White steals the show -- brutal, tender, complex, and in his own way, rigidly principled, White is a powerful character whose presence dominates scenes. Crowe's earlier role in Virtuosity showed a tiny, violent piece of Bud White, but lacked his complexity and depth. Bud White showed the world what Russell Crowe can really do on screen.LA Confidential similarly makes the best use of Kevin Spacey's abilities, in his role as the world-weary, cynical, smart and smarmy Jack Vincennes. Spacey's earlier work (e.g., The Usual Suspects) is terrific and memorable, but Jack Vincennes paved the way for the Spacey characterizations viewers love in his later films (e.g., Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, American Beauty, Pay it Forward, and the less acclaimed Beyond the Sea).The role of Edmund Exley provided Guy Pearce with an opportunity to demonstrate some of his enormous range as an actor, alternately appearing naive, self-righteous, scared, street-wise, and menacing. These qualities appear in the widely varied but dynamic characters he has created in subsequent films (Memento, The Count of Monte Cristo, The Time Machine).More than reliable, the supporting cast also creates characters that are believable, complex, and a pleasure to watch. Kim Basinger's wise and weary Lynn Bracken may represent her best work on screen. James Cromwell, often cast as a failed administrator, is wonderfully hate-able as the cool and corrupt Captain Dudley Smith. Danny DeVito romps as slimy Sid Hudgens, and David Strathairn's Pierce Morehouse Patchett is subtle and believable. Patchett almost certainly brought Straithairn the role of Edward R. Murrow in 2005's Good Night, and Good Luck. Ron Rifkin, Matt McCoy, and the rest of the cast also bring realism and energy to their roles, making the film solid and believable.The story itself is compelling and enjoyable, a cops-and-robbers whodunit with several twists. The dialog ranges from moving to hilarious to terrifying to inspiring, without losing the story's consistency. The story's conclusion is dramatic, action-packed, and contains a few sweet surprises.Anyone interested in seeing the early work of Russell Crowe, Kevin Spacey, or Guy Pearce should see LA Confidential. Anyone interested in seeing a great film should see LA Confidential. It's one of those films worth owning and watching a few times a year. Which is to say, it's a classic.
L.A. Confidential, one of the best pictures of the '90s (in fact, it could have won the 1997 Best Picture Oscar: it's so much better than Titanic), is the definitive proof that there is no such thing as an "unfilmable" book: Curtis Hanson (with the help of co-writer Brian Helgeland) has turned James Ellroy's noir masterpiece (which is 800 pages long) into a 135-minute long modern classic. It's THE noir of the '90s!The story takes place in L.A., early '50s. It's a city where everything looks perfect, where everybody goes to become a movie star. But, as Danny De Vito's opening voice-over informs us, it's not as good as it looks: the "City of Angels" is actually run by Al Capone-clones such as Mickey Cohen (Paul Guilfoyle, aka CSI's Brass), and the police... Well, it just so happens a lot of the LAPD is among the mob's unofficial employees. And it's in this kind of environment that we first meet the three key players: Ed Exley (Guy Pearce) is an ambitious young man who wants to be as good as his dad and do his job properly, even if that includes turning in his colleagues; Bud White (Russell Crowe) is a disillusioned cop who not only accepts violence as part of the job, but even uses it as often and much as possible in his personal crusade against wife-beating men (as his partner puts it:"You're like Santa Claus with that list, Bud, Except everyone on it's been naughty"); and Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) is the classic "Hollywood Cop", who gets paid by tabloids to bust coke-snorting celebrities. These three men, so different, will have to join forces when they discover their respective cases, which involve corruption, drugs, prostitution and various murders, are all linked to the Nite Owl massacre...The award-winning script's focus is on the differences and similarities that connect the three protagonists and their views on the law. Hanson has completely removed the subplots concerning Vincennes and Exley's love lives (which occupied quite a bit of the book), preferring to show us only the bond between Bud White and Lynn Bracken, a whore but also the one person who truly understands the conflict and hatred that are at the center of the brutal cop's mind and soul. She's an extraordinary person, and she's played by a great actress: Kim Basinger, who was justly given an Oscar for her performance. As for the other actors, L.A. Confidential kick-started Pearce's career, confirmed Spacey's status as Best Actor of the Decade and reminded us that James Cromwell and David Strathairn are two of the best character actors around. But it's Crowe, in his Hollywood debut, who really steals the show. Forget A Beautiful Mind, The Insider, hell, even Gladiator: this is the role that should have obtained the Academy's attention.New to the genre? This movie is a good start, alongside The Untouchables. Already a fan, and excited about Brian De Palma's upcoming adap of Ellroy's The Black Dahlia? Just keep watching L.A. Confidential in the meantime.


                
I think that all LA Confidential needed was possibly the writing touch of someone like Raymond Chandler or Dashiell Hammett. But since those two worthy gentleman are beyond reach, this is as good as it will get for the modern cinema.Anticipating the film Crash by several years, LA Confidential is a period piece set in the Eisenhower era Los Angeles and its police department which has a history of corruption more than most. A whole lot of separate incident are tied together quite intricately as the cast's three police heroes, together and separately piece it all together.Three very different kinds of cops are portrayed here. First is the laid back Kevin Spacey who has a casual attitude towards the corruption he sees. He's also the police adviser to a Dragnet style show and enjoys a whole lot of perks that come with it.Secondly is Guy Peace who's a real boy scout, but is the son of a hero cop and also knows how to work department politics. He doesn't look the other way on corruption, he rises in rank because he turned in fellow officers and he's hated up and down the line.Finally there's Russell Crowe whose character reminds me of the big dumb son in House of Strangers played by Paul Valentine who Edward G. Robinson made a guard in his bank. Even in the days before the Miranda decision, Crowe made a specialty of getting confessions the old fashioned way. Certain higher ups, particularly Captain James Cromwell recognize his unique talents and call him in when needed. Like Valentine though he proves in the end to be quite a bit smarter than everyone gives him credit for.The beating of some Mexican prisoners, the massacre of six people at a Hollywood Diner, a call girl service where the girls are made up to look like movie stars, a bisexual actor killed at a sleazy motel, and a whole lot more are all part of an complex story that won one of two Oscars LA Confidential received, for best screenplay adapted from another source.The second Oscar went to Kim Basinger as one of the call girls who is made up like Veronica Lake. She gets all the men in this cast into maxim hormonal overdrive, especially Pearce and Crowe. Basinger won for Best Supporting Actress that year.Woven into the story are such real characters as mob boss Mickey Cohen whose arrest for tax evasion sets up a lot of the situations here, his number one enforcer Johnny Stompanato and Lana Turner who would shortly be some of the biggest tabloid fodder ever.Look also for some nice performances from Ron Rifkin as the blackmailed District Attorney and Danny DeVito as a sleazy columnist.Had LA Confidential not come along in the same year as Titanic it might have won a few more Oscars including Best Picture which it lost to Titanic. Still the success of Crash, a film with similar structure and themes may redeem LA Confidential.Not that it needs much redemption because you won't be bored for an LA minute.


                
This film is like a good wine - it matures with age. Every time that I've watched this movie I've liked it more and I liked it a lot to begin with.
The story follows three cops with a totally different outlook on life and MO. Very much like real life these cops are not model citizens. Bud White (Russell Crowe) dishes out his own punishment without the need for intervention of the courts. Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) is not averse to making a bit of profit from newspaper hacks whilst arresting people. Ed Exley (Guy Pearce) is quite happy to grass on his partners to further his career. The three cops may not be particularly well matched, but they work together to solve the Nite Owl murder and find something altogether more sinister.The acting from the three leads is outstanding and what makes this movie stand out even more is the excellent support from the rest of the cast. Kim Basinger, James Cromwell and Danny DeVito are all worthy of mention as is the script and the direction by Curtis Hanson. The only minor disappointment is the finish which was a little too Hollywood. A modern masterpiece 10/10


                
Almost 14 years after it's release L.A Confidential has stood up to the test of time brilliantly. Thanks in part to it's key components. First, it has one of the most fluid story lines ever delivered with spot on pacing, tons of action, and twists and turns galore. No filler, just straight unadulterated goodness.Extremely strong acting, the movie is phenomenally cast with a young powerhouse triage of Russel Crowe, Guy Pearce, and Kevin Spacey. They all have key and integral components for the wicked story as it unfolds. Finally culminating in a climax of interlocking beauty.This is one of those movies that will stay relevant for ever. It's just integral viewing, and one of the best Noir's or films of any genre for that matter anywhere. It's a classic, what else can you say besides that it should be required viewing no matter who you are.


                
Now I would like to say, it is not very often that I give a 10. Russell Crowe, Kevin Spacey, Guy Pearce, James Cromwell, Kim Basinger, and Danny DeVito, a terrific cast all in a single movie. It is a movie that I doubt will ever fall from the top movie list. It is a Detective Movie basically with the three main characters, Officer Bud White (Crowe), Sgt. Jack Vincennes (Spacey), and Det. Lt. Ed Exley (Pierce), they are all in different divisions of the LAPD and they are all working on the same case from different ends, finally they all get together and the pieces begin to fall into place. There are so many twists in this movie that it keeps you guessing until the end. So with an all star cast, an all star script, the acting was top notch, which makes for an awesome movie. In the end, a 10 out of 10. And for all of you people out there that like good detective movies, and think that you can solve mysteries right away... I challenge you to watch this and test your wits.


                
This incredible piece of work is my favorite film of all time, but no matter who you ask it ranks up there with the greatest. Hanson did a spectacular job adapting James Ellroy's novel, a complex detective yarn that is character (as opposed to plot) driven.  Presenting characters with such depth is truly an amazing feat...most screenwriters and directors would have botched any attempt to put this story on the big screen. Kim Basinger received an Oscar for her portrayal of Lynn, and while she delivers a solid performance, it's probably the least impressive in the film.  Everyone does a fantastic job, but Basinger was the only superstar at the time of release and was rewarded for choosing to participate in such an intelligent project.  The movie really launched the careers of Pierce and Crowe, and while Spacey's career had already been established, it was this role that cemented his place as one of the best contemporary American actors. Every single aspect of this noir film fits together perfectly, from the wonderful performances, the beautiful cinematography, the magnificent, amazingly complimentary soundtrack, the intriguing web-like storyline, and the expert timing and directing.  The movie explodes out of its genre, replacing the expected smoky, dingy backrooms with vivid colors.  The film brings an era to life that is normally dulled in our collective memory like an aging black-and-white photograph with an impressive effort made for authenticity.  The contrast between the deep dark depths of the human soul and the broad daylight imagery is pure brilliance. There is not a single traditional "good guy" in the entire movie, and yet it won't leave the observer apathetic about the outcome.  L.A. Confidential manages to evoke a range of emotions, exploring in depth the complex, dual human nature of many of its characters. This is a movie you can see over and over and get something new out of it every time.  If you've only seen parts of this movie, or don't remember it, go sit down with a bag of popcorn in a dark room and watch the whole thing start to finish.  And pay attention.  It will be well worth it.


                
There are 3 films that if they are on I stop what I'm doing, sit down and watch them.  Godfather, His Girl Friday, and L.A. Confidential.  This is how you make a perfect film.  Even the character names are great.  Pierce Patchet, Lynn Bracken, Bud White.  The scene between Bud and Lynn when he first shows up at her apartment rivals any Bogart/Bacall scene.This is also an amazing guy movie.  You have three representatives of the male, the slick smooth talker, the book worm, and the tough guy.  Almost every man can make himself fit into one of those roles and see the film through their eyes.  He also wishes, at various times, the he could be the other two.If it wasn't for Titanic this film would of AND should of swept every Oscar it was nominated for.  It hits every single target that it aims at.  As it stands it is the best film of the decade and in 20 years it will be regarded as one of the top 10 films of all time.


                
I can always remember "L.A. Confidential" as the first gritty-noirish-seedy movie that I ever saw in the theaters. And it makes me proud that this was the first one that I saw. We all can assume that movies about the inner workings of the police world are going to be gritty-noirish-seedy, but overall, it doesn't do "L.A. Confidential" justice to only classify it that way. Curtis Hanson created an INDESCRIBIBLY great movie here.It's 1950s Los Angeles. Tabloid writer Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito) likes to advertise the City of Angels as paradise on Earth, where you can raise an all-American family, meet a movie star, or even become one. But before too long, we get to see the police department. Officers Bud White (Russell Crowe), Ed Exley (Guy Pearce) and Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) are the main characters. White is the type who loves to help damsels in distress, but even he has his weak points; squeaky-clean Exley is the son of a cop, carrying on his father's work; and Vincennes mainly likes his job because of all the places that he gets to visit.Following a murder one day, it's up to the three officers to investigate. But what they eventually uncover pales in comparison to what anyone would have expected. You see, some things extend farther than most people realize.Kim Basinger won a well deserved Oscar for her role as sultry prostitute Lynn Bracken. A Veronica Lake lookalike, she's the type of woman who can lead you to new evidence...or might be planning something else.I can't try to explain how good this movie is. Like "Chinatown", it shows the seedy underside of something usually assumed to be pure, but never gets too full of itself to the point of being silly. Why, oh why, did the Academy give "Titanic" Best Picture when "L.A. Confidential" was nominated?


                
Every time I watch this film I love it more. What an incredible piece of film making. Once I sat with a pad of paper and kept track of what I thought was better in each scene, the writing or the acting, and I came up with a tie. Russell Crowe showed us all before "The Insider" what he was made of. Kim Basinger proved to all of us she is more than a pretty face. James Cromwell again reminded us he is one of the best character actors around. I had no idea who Guy Pierce was before this film and now I follow his career after this unbelievable performance. And Kevin Spacey...Kevin Spacey...Kevin Spacey...charming, classy, amazing, stole the movie. Rent this movie. If is wasn't released the same year as "Titanic" it would have won Best Picture.


                
Date: 27 May, 2012 -First Time Watch- Being a huge fan of book adaptations, there was no doubt in my mind I wanted to see how 'L. A. Confidential' was done. Much to my surprise, unlike most book-to-movie adaptations, 'L. A. Confidential' was fantastic. The characters came to life and were all enjoyable to watch. It's so shocking how much corruption was going on during this period of time. Personally, I loved Ed, played by Guy Pearce. He was great and it's a real shame that Guy Pearce didn't continue to pick movies like this. I think he could have been really big. This movie was fantastic and totally worth your time.10/10


                
1998 should be a memorable year not only because of the 11 Oscars sweep by the monstrous Titanic, but also because of an abandoned cinema gem that comes out and went away like a gentlemen. That is L.A.Confidential.The parallel storytelling used in this movie were never so fresh and intelligent. If you notice, the 3 cops were all portrayed out of an order, in separate scenes of reconciled scenes. This perfectionist technical undertone gave this movie a perfect presentation of a good novel in every aspect. To note, the camera moves fluently and was so rich in detail that you'd need 10 or more viewings to fetch everything intended. The mystery, although entirely implied and unfolded until the very last moments, was mounted up in a most entertaining way that the director actually achieved a balance between popular entertainment and subtle/intelligent arts. All in all, the presentation itself is a miracle and worth a viewing.Unlike most crime saga, L.A.Confidential assumed the role of a watchdog, a whistle-blower and an entertainer just like the 3 roles Crowe, Spacey and Pearce had in the story. While I recommended the Dark Knight only to those 20 years and older, I recommend this to 15 years and older because it will give them some very good lessons as a person who's about to enter the society. In other words, if interpreted properly, it can be really educating. Rarely could a detective story reflect the racial problem, corruption problem and the unhappy side of a golden age so detailed and realistically. Everything has a smell of 1950's thanks to the superb art decoration.The characters, are all memorable that I could even recite their lines scene by scene. Sargeant Bud White was all women-beaters' nightmare, but he's also a cheap asset who do the muscle job and didn't ask questions--a watchdog. Sargeant Jack Vincennes was an entertainer who enjoyed his little affiliation with Hollywood and utilized every opportunity filling his own self-filled respect and honor.Sargeant Ed Exley the whistle-blower/politician had no muscle or affiliation therefore must work his own way up to the attention of his Captain, the sophisticated Dudley Smith. For each of the 3 main cops, they've got their definitive little details, expressions and moments. Their early stories were all wrapped up in an exaggerated tone told by Sid Huggins' Hush-Hush magazine, realizing their run-of-the-mill status. Later in the movie, their interactions became some of the greatest moments in the movie history. The undertone dropped to a downright reality and dynamics, giving all the threads more fun too see. Well, I still want to talk about human nature portrayed, just that would consume all your time. So enjoy it by your self.It's been 12 years since its release and it's still ranking high in Top 64 on top 250. Another 12 years will only make it even more shiny. It's not a cult classic, but it's the greatest detective movie with a lot to think about. If anyone wants to appreciate techniques and performance, one should head for French Connection or Chinatown. If one wants to appreciate techniques, performances, musics, beauties and an up-beating story which delivers a practical/positive message using the darkest context, go for L.A.Confidential. Hush-hush! P.S. the scene with Lynn Bracken and Ed Exley was surveyed and represented in many English-learning programs, despite all the flexible usage of profanities.


                
This was not only the best movie of 1997, but probably the last twenty years. It's disgraceful that Titanic won the award for best picture. This film has terrific acting, cinematography, a great screenplay and great character development. The book was phenomenal as well and the film got the stamp of approval from write James Ellroy. Curtis Hanson and Brian Helgeland wrote a great screenplay from the book. This film could have been a disaster, but their terrific screen writing was a testament to a great book.With such a star studded cast which includes Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce, Kevin Spacey and Kim Basinger, we see some fine performers practicing their craft at the highest level. If you like a great crime fiction with many plot twists, see this film. I cant say enough about this film, only that it is my favorite film of all time. 10/10


                
A beautiful film in so many ways, and a huge surprise coming from a Hollywood studio and not being directed by Scorsese or Spielberg.The story is great.  A wonderful distillation of James Ellroy's novel.  It clarifies and simplifies a hugely complex story and still keeps its spirit intact.  It also happens to have the funniest moment in cinema last year. And that moment has historical accuracy.  Take that, Titanic.  Terrific dialogue and an insightful look at issues pertenant today such as tabloid journalism and celebrity worship.The look is dead on and beautiful, costumes lighting etc...  The locations used were great.The acting is wonderful.  Russell Crowe gave my favorite performance of last year.  Kevin Spacey was very close in his finest work yet.  No one else can be complained about.A wonderful throwback to the Hollywood that did things right and it seems to be doing is more consistently.  Primary Colors and The Truman Show being good examples.If you liked it, I would suggest going to your classics sections and picking up The Big Sleep and Touch of Evil.


                
L.A Confidential is not only a superb achievement in filmmaking, it is a lesson on taking a fresh approach at a genre that could use a revival in contemporary narrative.This production tackles corruption, loyalty and treason in an elegant, yet aggressive and sophisticated manner; at times, it would seem to exhibit the essence of a Scorsese film (minus the profanity), and that can only be a good trait. There are many themes approached in this film, making it an appropriate choice for a very wide audience as it navigates through the world of the Los Angeles Police Department and the quirks of its members and some outsiders.The story is enthralling and developed diligently throughout the events from which it unfolds. The characters are all rather captivating and all act upon strong motivations. They are forced to be true to their nature at some points in the story, and to be someone else at others, which ultimately results in rich and complex characterizations. Acting is sensational from practically every corner, especially from the leads Spacey, Crowe and Pearce.The cinematography is just gorgeous, reflecting the beauty and the beast of L.A. The editing and the pace are quite polished and the dialogue feels very natural, which only compliments an already excellent cast and a direction worthy of nothing but praise.L.A. Confidential offers something for almost everyone, yet it offers everything for fans of the genre, and it does not disappoint in anything it attempts.


                
