How does a potentially good movie - jam-packed with excellent talent – manage to stumble into forgettable mediocrity? It seemed the cast was tight and firing on all cylinders, the director was doing his thing superbly, and production (whatever they do) was more than adequate (I guess) – so – what happened? Did it seem like there were some major character-disconnects? It felt that a bit - there were moments in the story when the plot was more like a disorganized smattering of unruly lice than some kind of a storyline. Was it too long? Again – time is relative and – for me – this show was relatively too long. Predictable? Oh please – this was your typical bad cop vs. badder cop vs. baddest cop. I might be too hard on this flick – I don't know. I am probably spoiled by some of the quality TV crime drama (you know – the ones that have good writers and last an hour). LA Confidential was just not a spectacular tale, it was almost boring. Don't get me wrong – this is not a bad movie – it is actually pretty good – it's just not great. To put it another way, L.A. Confidential, is like a Chevy Corvette outfitted with a Vespa engine all flash and no guts. I apologize to those who loved the movie, but I won't lose sleep over it. This story needs to be re-buried in that woman's smelly basement – at least for me.
First off, although Kim Basinger adds some depth to her character as the film proceeds, it boggles my mind how she was nominated for a best supporting Oscar, let alone win it.  It simply shows how a little buzz from a few people can get a steamroller going.  On the other hand, Guy Pearce and Russell Crowe were robbed of nominations, both (especially Pearce) give terrific performances.  This is a story of corruption in the LA police force, and the period atmosphere and byzantine plot make this a modern film noir to be reckoned with.  The body count becomes ridiculously high and this theme has been done much better (see Chinatown) but the end result is a satisfying film.Kevin Spacey, Danny Devito and James Cromwell all add to the enjoyment with their roles.  I still think this film is hugely overrated though, #36 of all time on IMDB is way too high.  LA Confidential is overlong, the plot stretches believability at times and again, this genre has been done better.


                
Contains Spoilers What is big deal about his borefest?  'L.A. Confidential' is probably the most overrated movie of the 1990s.  The story is confusing and boring and so are the characters.  Just because the characters talk in low voices and the story is complex doesn't make it "intelligent" or "good".  All the characters are shallow and some of them act like they don't want to be there, espicially Kevin Spacy and Kim Basinger.  In the end, there is your cliched shootout where all the good guys win and bad guys die.  Russell Crowe gets shot three times, even in the face and still survives.  Also in the end the pretty girl kisses the hero.  And this is supposed to be one of the best movies of the past decade?
L.A. Confidential is one long dull confusing movie with small sparks that quickly fade and burn out, even a stellar cast including Kevin Spacey and Russell Crowe cant get past the convoluted script that makes so many twists and turns you will get a headache, the acting is good except for one person and that one person is Kim Basinger who for some unknown reason was given an oscar, I say given because her performance in this movie was not only terrible but it was one of the worst I have ever seen. If you like good movies try something else, if you like watching a movie for three hours that bores you to tears and makes you say thanks god that is over try this. 3 out of 10 stars


                
The most overrated movie since LEAVING LAS VEGAS.  Wildly improbable plot turns, especially the bedding of the hooker.  A ridiculous contraption. Take a gander at the memorable quotes page for this entry; if that looks like good writing, I've got some leftover Shane Black screenplays for sale.Comparisons to CHINATOWN indicate that, well, the reviewer is just desperate for something as good as that classic.  A double feature would swiftly reveal this to be the hollow pretender that it is.


                
'LA Confidential' the movie has very little in common with Ellroy's book. The plot has been altered, the character's motivation has changed and a Hollywood ending has been tacked on. A very intriguing story about passion, obsession and loyalty has been dumbed down to a level of an ordinary TV cop show. Screenwriter Helgeland did even worse things to Michael Connelly's 'Blood Work', but I am still shocked that this adaptation Ellroy's book won an Oscar. Still, the movie has great performances, good direction, but lacks a decent plot, character development and suspense. If you liked the movie, do yourself a favor and read Ellroy's novel. You'll be amazed how mercilessly the book was butchered. This could have been a great movie if the makers would realize that not everybody has the attention span of a goldfish and that some people can actually follow a complicated plot. Lad, grand it ain't!


                
I heard that this was a good movie before I rented it. It's about a murder in 1950's Hollywood and some cops want to cover it up and some don't or something. Russell Crowe is one of the detectives and he seems to be in fog the time. Danny Devito is a gossip columnist. I don't understand what is so interesting about this movie. It goes at a snail's pace. Almost nothing happens. The dialogue isn't interesting at all. This has to be one of the most overrated movies of all time,the same vien as Taxi Driver with DeNiro or Eyes wide - supposed to be great, but is incredibly boring. This entire movie easily could have been done half an hour.  Gave it 3 out 10, and that is being charitable.


                
LA CONFIDENTIAL 1997 (KEVIN SPACEY, RUSSELL CROWE, KIM BASINGER) DIRECTED BY CURTIS HANSON ~ THE RUNDOWN: Apart from a juiced-up cast and a slick image, there is absolutely nothing worthwhile about this vastly overrated movie. ~ Okay, I saw LA Confidential right around the same time I saw Jaws: The Revenge, and I can honestly say without joking that this wasn't much better. To back up my outrageous opinion on this movie, I have comprised a list that I will present of why this movie sucks the big one. ~ 1) The premise of the movie is just plain dull! The basic story/concept is ridiculously stupid, boring and pointless, with almost no imagination whatsoever. Nothing of what we are offered draws us in therefore making the act of watching the movie a chore. 2) The script, like the basic story is just bland. Nothing in it has any redeeming value for the viewer; no wit or humor, not enough violence to make a stink; stale, washed-up dialogue...nothing that even begins to entertain. It is very muddled, however, and does succeed at purposely confusing us to try and hide up its retarded, brain-dead story until everything falls oh-so nicely into place for the breathtaking finale...ha, yeah right! 3) There's no originality here, and once you get down to it, this is really just another Tarantino/Pulp Fiction rip-off, not even a good one that. Except, of course, there's no Tarantino! Nope, instead you get the blazing originality of Curtis Hanson, Mr. Lifetime Movie himself. 4) Not an ounce of style is to be found anywhere in the general proximity of this movie. None. That's right, none. So what if it looks good visually? It doesn't even begin to innovate in story or otherwise. Sure, it tries embarrassingly hard to set itself apart with the whole Film-Noir B.S., but the only real category it falls into is your average, commercialized, Hollywood trash category. If you think there's style to be found here, maybe you have a sixth sense for it because I couldn't detect any. 5) For this fifth point, I will draw a comparison between the movie's cast and a baseball player named Barry Bonds...they're both on steroids. Yeah, basically, the overblown acting ensemble of the movie (Spacey, Basinger, Crowe, Devito, Straithairn, Pearce) is absolutely wasted. There are great actors in this movie but their skills are wasted and not challenged at all, making their performances meaningless. The roles that they play are generic and turn these fine actors into robots for the entire length of the movie. 6) Kim Basinger is effin weird. ~ In the IMDb.COM trivia section it says how this was supposed to be a TV show starring Kiefer Sutherland. Ha. Well, I am quite confident this particular episode of pointlessness and boredom would not have made the greatest hits compilation.


                
just watched this...not very good...started out OK...russell crowe...Christmas lights...handcuffs...possible broken nose on a nice babe in a car...let's go...but then "the plot" takes over...i put the spoiler warning on because of the broken nose thing...now i think about it...her nose really was broken...but why????......you will find out...the question to ask is if this is a good movie about the endemic corruption of the los angeles police force in the 1950's or a bad movie about the same thing...i opt for the latter...it really is a pretty funny movie...not in a good way though...and it's long...now i have no problem with long movies...i loved 1900...but with this movie the first 2 hours are just a painful setup for the dumb ending...it's kinda like naked city on valium
