Give a collection of great actors a great story to work with and you are likely to end up with something rather special. Such is the case with L.A. Confidential. The boldface names jump off the page...Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe, Kim Basinger, Danny DeVito, James Cromwell and, in his first big-time role, Guy Pearce. And none of these big names are just mailing it in, here to collect a paycheck. They're all on top of their games, undoubtedly helped to no small extent by the wonderfully nuanced and utterly intriguing story.This story takes place in 1950s Los Angeles but this is a side of L.A. most people don't get to see. Behind all the Hollywood glamour L.A. has a seamy side which will be the focus of this tale. At the heart of the movie are three cops who ostensibly are supposed to be working together but who go about the business of dispensing justice in very different ways. Crowe plays aggressive hothead Bud White. Spacey is Jack Vincennes, who takes more pride in his work as an adviser on a popular television cop drama than he does in his actual police work. And Pearce plays Edmund Exley, a young up-and-comer in the department who plays things by the book. As we will soon see Exley is rather unique in an LAPD which believes in doing whatever is necessary to bring the guilty to justice. Even if it means becoming a little guilty themselves.The movie really begins to move forward with a massacre at a coffee shop. It seems a pretty cut and dried case but initial appearances can be deceiving. Soon White, Vincennes and Exley will find themselves caught up in a maze of lies, deception and mystery. It will be a great test for these very different men as it appears they may well need each other's unique talents to solve this puzzle. And quite the elaborate puzzle it is. One important piece is Lynn Bracken, a high class call girl played by Basinger. Tying together many of this complex story's strands is gossip writer Sid Hudgens who is played with appropriate sleaziness by DeVito. And in the background the whole time is the somewhat mysterious Captain Dudley Smith, played by Cromwell. Here is a man who believes in bringing the guilty to justice by any means necessary. That's all well and good if you know who the guilty are but in L.A. Confidential you're never quite sure who to believe. The viewer is guessing right along with the investigators on the screen. And in the end it all comes together and pays off brilliantly.L.A. Confidential is first and foremost a great story, with many fascinating twists and turns along the way. The film also serves as a showcase for some of this generation's finest acting talents. Each of the main characters is wonderfully unique and each of the actors involved does a terrific job in bringing those characters to life. These are complex characters in a complex tale. It's so involved that the acting had to be stellar if this film was going to work and none of the stars disappoint. Terrific storytelling brought to life by a collection of inspired performances makes L.A. Confidential an absolute winner.


                
"L.A. Confidential" is the kind of film that will make you laugh; make you gaze in amazement at its appeal, and become immersed in a murder mystery with so many twists and tangles that it could make your head spin. With one of the strongest plots I've ever seen, which is executed masterfully by Curtis Hanson, also has eye candy and sex appeal. The direction really is wonderful. The art direction is fantastic and brings you right back into the 50s. The acting is very good even if it comes off as 50s styled acting proving that todays actors are far superior than the actors of the 50s. "L. A. Confidential" even goes as far as poking fun at the sensationalized way films were made in that time period with a hilarious sequence where a cop on a show called, "Badge of Honor," interrupts a women giving him details about some crime, and he says, "Just the facts, ma'am. Just the facts."The tangled and twisted plot is engrossing and filled with seduction, cons, lies, betrayal, killings, and corruption. The acting is terrific from a slew of great actors including Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce, and Walter Cromwell plays one of the great villains I've ever seen. All of these guys have a lot of fun with their roles, and do an excellent job. Kim Basinger plays a prostitute who tries to look like a movie a star so that her pimp, Pierce Patchett (David Stratharin), can reap the benefits since everyone wants to be with a celebrity. "L. A. Confidential" is as much a look at the culture of the 50s, both commercially through television and the dirty business of police officers exposed, as it is being a stylized homage piece. This is a film that's done exceptionally well with some great lines, great performances, and a plot that will force you to watch it again and again. It hardly misses a beat. This is one of the few films that can recreate the 50s with its acting and style and still hold up with todays society. It works well as a film and exceptionally well as an homage piece.


                
L.A Confidential is a very impressive film. It has style, flow and a strong plot, not to mention, an extremely enviable assembled cast. The film is not perfect, of course, it is extremely difficult if not impossible for a film past or present to be described as "perfect."The movie tells the story of three very different detectives in a Hollywood soaked in sleaze and scandal. Although possessing starkly contrasting personalities, the three detectives have one very important thing in common; an unquenchable thirst for the truth. In addition to differing personalities, the three protagonists employ very different techniques in order to attain the coveted truth. Lieutenant Ed Exley (Guy Pearce), fuels a wave of disdain amongst his colleagues thanks to his sell-out approach all part of a relentless pursuit to get ahead. On the other hand, Bud White (Russell Crowe) displays great episodes of rage towards suspects etc... in order to "beat" the truth out of them. One of the films most interesting motifs is Detective White's constant struggle to control is ever-growing and virtually over-whelming feelings of rage. Last but by no means least, we have Detective Frank Vincennes (Kevin Spacey). Portrayed as a man with style, suave and elegance but at the same time, an admirable determination to be the best. He collaborates regularly with Hush-hush magazine editor Sid Hudgeons (De Vito) and attempt to throw Bud White of-course as he exploits his White's most glaring weakness, his lack of control for violence.The three detectives become engrossed in a desperate hunt to find the culprits of a multiple murder which occurred at the Nite Owl coffee shop.Captain Dudley Smith (James Cromewell) is responsible for some good acting, a convincing portrayal of a well-respected yet ultimately sleaze-ball of an LAPD captain, and an utterly dreadful Irish accent. Being from Ireland, it is disconcerting and frustrating to see great actors make an absolute balls of Irish accents. Daniel-Day Lewis was acceptable in "The Name Of The Father" but apart from that, Hollywood need to seriously work on their Irish accents as it is exceptionally poor.Anyway, the film arouses a lot of interesting concepts. It is captivating in the sense that it provokes questions of who will successfully unravel the murder mystery first. The film, in a way also, let's you feel differently towards the three detectives. Personally, I hated Ed Exley, which I would believe is a very shared emotion amongst other viewers of this films and I routed for Jack Vincennes despite his scandalous and rule-bending associations with Sid Hudgeons.Ignoring my physical disaffection's for Kim Basinger (I don't find her attractive partly thanks to all the hype I heard), she was impressive as the celebrity look-alike prostitute Lynn Bracken.Overall, the film has very few flaws. Referring back to Cromwell's amusingly poor Irish accent of course, but it also inconsistent in it's pace and although the ending ties up all the loose-knots, it loses it's sense of style and sophistication with a mindless shoot-out. Feel free to disagree though, that's just the way I felt when I was watching it.However, the pro's undoubtedly outweigh the con's in this neo-noir feature. The fact that IS neo-noir does make it enjoyable and a welcome change to the usual cinematography of blockbusters that are dominating the big screen. The acting is also great. The characters are interesting, scandalous and open to conflicting interpretations . I was impressed with Kevin Spacey as he is typically wonderful in his portrayal of Vincennes. Despite this, I was particularly impressed with Pearce as Exley as does a great job in making us HATE his guts but eventually splendour in his triumph. Along with this, the dialogue and chemistry is hard-worked and well adapted, as you'd expect from its Oscar nod for Adapted Screenplay.Overall, a very enjoyable watch that engages and sustains the viewers interest throughout. 8/10
Guy Pearce is so, so good. Even next to Crowe and some other more icky costars, Pearce really shines. Overall, you really have to keep on top of all the dialogue and characters to keep up, plus the script gets a bit expositional at points. I know that sounds contradictory but you'll know it when you see it.That being said, best police mystery/drama since Chinatown. Really strong storytelling on the most part and a fun exploration of interweaving narratives.


                
Based on a James Ellroy novel in Los Angeles during the 1950's L.A. Confidential delivers a knockout. Though the first time you watch L.A. Confidential you feel the intensity and high drama to find surprise after surprise in the complex and hidden plot. Then after many viewings and you already know how the story unfolds you still enjoy the great acting and admire James Ellroy for having such a fine script. So well written and directed you find yourself glued from start to finish you can't take your eyes off of it. Corruption runs amok in the L.A. police department only to be exposed by a eager young cop Ed Exley (Guy Pearce). Bud White (Russell Crowe) breaks away from the corruption to help Exley after he learns the third cop in the trio and sidekick Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) is killed by the corrupt force. I must say Kevin Spacey is one of the best actors in Hollywood today I love watching any movie he plays in. The best supporting element of this entire film is Kim Basinger as Hollywood glamour call girl (Lynn Bracken). She did indeed deserve her Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. Kim gave a performance that just brightens up the film her beauty is touching. That's the best Kim has ever looked everything from her bold blond hair and body you just name it. L.A. Confidential gives a message to me that we should all search and try to experience some purity from time to time. With corruption as found in this film and many other places hope for more honesty and truth can be experienced more. I like the way Pearce, Basinger, and Crowe beat corruption. Now that's some purity. L.A. Confidential is a great movie due to the script, cast, and message it presents, the best of 1997.


                
A top-notch dark drama of crime and corruption, "LA Confidential" is one of the most memorable films of the 1990s, thanks to an intelligent and cliche-free script, good direction, and superb acting.  I'd have to single out Kevin Spacey, who is great in everything (he even redeems "Outbreak" from total mediocrity, overshadowing Dustin Hoffman).  Here, he truly shines as Jack Vincennes, an urbane, charming, cynical, somewhat corrupt cop struggling with his conscience.  Almost as outstanding is Danny DeVito as the sleazy tabloid journalist Sid Hudgins.  Kim Basinger gives her subtlest and most nuanced performance ever as Lynn, the call girl made to look like Veronica Lake.  Russell Crowe is excellent as Bud White, the brutish but good-hearted cop, and Guy Pearce gives an utterly convincing and often mesmerizing performance as Edmund Exley, the police officer who starts out as a self-righteous, priggish, ice-cold careerist and then becomes a man of true moral conviction who also has humanity and compassion.  In a lesser but crucial role, James Cromwell is very good as Captain Dudley Smith.The plot was somewhat convoluted, and sometimes it was hard to understand how the characters grasped connections between things that weren't so readily apparent.  However, the film remained suspenseful throughout.  (In a key moment, the identity of the villain is revealed in an act so swift and unexpected that you're guaranteed to jump!) The suspense is well balanced by humor.  What is also impressive about "LA Confidential" is the character development.  Exley, White, and Vincennes really grow as human beings in the course of the film, and these changes are conveyed not only through the dialogue and through their actions but also, particularly in Exley's case, through body language and demeanor.  (I don't understand why Guy Pearce isn't getting more good roles!)Truly a wonderful film.


                
I have heard a million good things about "L.A. Confidential". And I am a very huge Kevin Spacey fan. Every performance that he gives is flawless and perfection. And I'm not just saying that because I'm a fan.But this was a little over rated for me. Maybe I was expecting too much because of all I heard. But it was just OK. The acting is great, the story is fine. It just seemed a little bit above average for me. The only thing that I enjoyed in the film was the mystery and Kevin's performance. And I give credit to Russell as well. He does just as great. I would recommend "L.A. Confidential" for a watch. It's a good film. But nothing to get excited over.8/10


                
I have watched this movie several times before today, and every time I watch it I just realize again how great this film is. This is actually a pretty famous movie, but somehow people don't really take notice of it. It's one of those movies you watched with your father years ago on VHS. You remember it being a good movie, but forgot how great it actually is until you watch it again years later. I really recommend this movie! Especially if you like movies about Organized Crime, Police Corruption & the Good Cop Bad Cop routine.LA Confidential is about three detectives of the corrupt LAPD (Big Surprise). Set in the 50s, they all use their own unique methods to uncover a conspiracy of a massacre that took place in an all night diner. What follows is a story with several twists and turns to expose who is behind this mysterious crime.The Cast also has a cool as hell, with Guy Pearce, Russell Crowe & Kevin Spacey playing the main detectives. Probably the coolest role Russell Crowe has ever played – A tough LA Cop who doesn't f**k around and beats the s**t out of anyone not playing by his rules.Kevin Spacey is awesome as always and even Guy Pearce (Momento, Ravenous) showed his acting skills & talents. He plays the good honest cop that wants justice and will always follow the correct procedures to get this. He and Russell then make the perfect Good Cop-Bad Cop team! The only lame part of this movie is Kim Basinger. I don't like her! She can't act and has an irritating face.But apart from this, it's a Classic Film. May be a tad long for some people (over 2 hours), but if you haven't seen this, it's a great film to watch of you are in the mood for a Crime Classic.I give it a 8.5 of out 10 just because the film's elements mix together so well.


                
Yep, it's true. LAC is a good old fashioned cop drama/whodunnit with excellent performances from all the cast. It's difficult to imagine how such a great cast was assembled, but I'm glad they managed it. Though Crowe and Pearce were hardly superstars then, this film certainly did their respective careers no end of good.Things which make this a great cop film:1/ Eddie Murphy isn't in it. 2/ There's no stupid ass wisecracks. 3/ The acting is first rate from ALL the cast.4/ The plot is engaging. 5/ It HAS a plot!To say much about the movie would tend to give away too much of the plot, so suffice to say its worth watching if you want your brain cells stimulated a little. One or two plot elements are a bit obvious, but as with any good film, this becomes something you wait for eagerly to confirm your suspicions, not something you just shake your head at sadly.Although there are no car chases, there is a first rate shootout towards the end of the movie which alone is worth watching the movie for. Add in the plot and great cast and you have a fantastic movie, well deserving of its place in the IMDb top 50.


                
Crooked cops. The mystery and allure of Hollywood in the '50s. Death, double-crossing, and secret alliances. Paparazzi waiting to get that one breakthrough picture. These are just some of the elements that make Curtis Hanson's L.A. Confidential one of the most exhilarating noir thrillers to reach the screen in recent memory. With a script that pays homage to the films of the '40s and '50s and may remind some viewers of the likes of Chinatown, L.A. Confidential proves that every period piece thriller doesn't have to go the way of travesties like Mulholland falls. It takes L.A. Confidential nearly two and one-half hours to spin its tale, but the time passes remarkably quickly. There's hardly a wasted moment in the entire movie, and director Hanson maintains tight control of every scene.


                
L.A. Confidential (1997) is a crime drama/mystery film that has gone down in cinema history as one of the best films ever made. It is a great film, that's for damn sure. They did so many things right with it, from the acting to the clever dialogue. The acting and the cast is probably my favorite thing about this film. Russell Crowe, one of my favorite actors, gives a fine performance here as Sgt. White. His character has depth and is interesting, thanks to the writing and Crowe's skills with acting. Guy Pearce is great here, playing a hated cop, who has just been promoted to lieutenant. I loved how he played his character and the dynamic between him and the other characters. Kim Basinger gives what is probably her best performance. This was Academy Award win for best supporting actress, a win that she so deserved. I can feel her raw emotion in every single moment of her beautiful performance.The writing is great too, I was intrigued by the dialogue, especially when it involved Basinger's character. Very smart and quick, kept things interesting. I hate a film with poorly written dialogue, it's sloppy and you wills surely lose the audiences attention. Thank god this writer knew what he was doing. The editing was done well and I adored the costumes and set designs. I suggest L.A. Confidential as an interesting crime/mystery drama.


                
L.A. ConfidentialA well set out webs of sub-plots that is ready to flip on cue with some awe-struck moments and brilliant performances, L.A. Confidential is that rare crime-drama that puts spotlight on scary issues.


                
If you like films noir, you can't miss this. The story is serious, intriguing and attach you at the seat until the end. Kevin Spacey is brilliant as James Cromwell.


                
I recently read James Ellroy's novel, and could not see how they could make a movie of it. It's huge and has three major plots. When I read the synopsis here on imdb, I rented the film. My husband, who has not read the book, and I both gave it an 8. The major plot line involving a Disney-like person that was discarded was no loss. It was a bit over the top. The movie is better without it. The characters were very true to the book, and I thought Kim Basinger was very good, but too old for the part. She's supposed to be about 28. Russell Crowe looked like a kid next to her.I liked the clear sound and the good light. It would have been very easy to make this dark and murky as has been the rage since the really fast films were invented.


                
SPOILER ALERT This film was so interesting that I couldn't stop watching it even though it was past 2 in the mid night. I had never imagined that Kevin Spacy would be killed. The film was series of unexpected scenes. What was the most impressed for me was, of course the story was amazingly good, but how Kim Basinger was beautiful, attractive, and sexy. Was she really 43years old at that time? I hardly believed how old she was. Who can resist her temptation? I envy her beauty.
Watching L. A. CONFIDENTIAL at home, about a third of the way through the movie, I turned to my sister (a MAJOR Russell Crowe fan) and said, if this movie maintains the quality it has so far, I'll have to eat my words and admit it should have won best picture.  Heck, had it maintained the quality and momentum, it would have been the best picture of the DECADE.  However, the last third of the movie degenerates into succession ofcontrivances and coincidences, and climaxes with one of the silliest shootouts in movie history. However, I'd rather talk about the pluses of this film. This is quite simply the GREATEST recreation of an era I've everseen.  From production design to set decoration to costume design to makeup, this movie is perfect.  It's all topped off like a cherry on top with absolutely beautiful cinematography (some of the best I've ever seen) Those elements alone make TITANIC's seem like cheap artifices by comparison.  I livedthrough those years and this simply WAS the fifties.  My only quibble (and one representative of the entire movie; that is, soft around the edges)is that NOBODY smokes.  Excuse me...this is the fifties, EVERYBODY smoked.  The character Ed Exley isthe best written, most complex character I've ever seen in ANY form of fiction, and Guy Pearce (quite possibly our best living actor) captures every nuance of this complex man.  Russell Crowe is terrific, alternately frightening and lovable).  Kevin Spacey is, well, Kevin Spacey...a sly cross between Humphrey Bogart and Gene Hackman, with charm to burn.  Kim Basinger is radiant; she's never looked more beautiful or desirable.  Sadly, she's underused, and doesn't have enough scenes to create new sides to the cliche "whore with a heart of gold."  Late in the film, when she "seduces" Guy Pearce, she has all the "jiggles" right (NOBODY, not even Liz Taylor or Monroe looked THAT good in those 50s dresses), but isn't allowed the sluttiness to convince us the seduction is genuine (Kim, I know you won the Oscar; but you should really watch Michelle Pfeiffer in WOLF or WHAT LIES BENEATH to see how it's done).  The scene seems weak and hollow and undercuts her otherwise fine performance. The is certainly the BEST ensemble acting of 1997.  The only false note here is Danny DeVito (see, that softness around the edges again) once again playing Louie DePalma, this time moonlighting as the editor/publisher of HUSH HUSH (the thinly disguised CONFIDENTIAL magazine).  What this part needed was the oiliness of Jay Mohr (JERRY MCGUIRE) Terry Kyser (WEEKEND AT BERNIES) or even David Strathairn (who plays Pierce Patchett).  In other words, better olive oil than lard...If you want a better constructed, less convoluted and better paced movie about police corruption, see THE BIG EASY. However, if you want to enjoy a sumptuousness feast of artistry, Kim Basinger's almost majestic beauty, Guy Pearce's and Russell Crowe's incredible performances, see L.A. CONFIDENTIAL. You'll have a REALLY good time.


                
Although most of the greatest film-noir movies were made in the 1930's, 40's, and 50's, "L.A. Confidential" breaks that tradition.  Kevin Spacey is his usual fabulous self as Jack Vincennes, a cynical cop, and Russell Crowe ("The Insider", "Gladiator") is also riveting as Bud White.  And Kim Basinger is great in her Academy Award winning role of Lynn Bracken.  I think it's her greatest achievement.Winner of two Oscars, "L.A. Confidential" is a cinematic masterpiece, and should be seen by any movie buff.  I give it a 10 out of 10.


                
Whooh boy.. how much killing and corrupting in a movie can one take !!This film is amazing, I just wrote a piece for Jerry Maguire this morning, and i mentioned in the comment, that it is one of those films which has all kinds of great elements, love, success and misery, great character development. But oh my god, this film pushes jerry maguire into the ground in a blink of an eye, if it comes to those elements. If you just look at the character of Russel Crowe, which starts off as someone who is only good in beating people up, but later when he falls in love with Basinger's character, he totally comes around, being much more passionate, and much smarter. As goes for Pierce's character, which is actually exactly the opposite turnaround, than that of Crowe's. He actually learnes to beat, and punish people.The acting in this movie is phenomonal. What i read in another comment is true. If Titanic didn't sank 90 years ago, L.A. Confidential would have scattered all the oscars. I'd recommend this movie to all of you who like Pulp Fiction. Just leave out the 'Tarantino-effect' and put it back 40 years.i give it a 8.


                
"L.A. Confidential" is a "guy thing," a well-directed, fast-paced thriller with an atmospheric feel comparable to say "Chinatown" and "Sunset Boulevard." Director Curtis Hanson brings the fifties L.A. milieu to life with music, authentic appearing sets and a story that focuses on crime and corruption, false glamour and moral disillusionment as only the City of Angels could play it. Things get a little bit comic book toward the end, but the characters and story and the rapid-fire one-liners will keep you glued to the screen. There's a lot of Raymond Chandler's L.A. here."Confidential" was the name of an "exposé" magazine published in the fifties in the L.A. area. I recall seeing it as a kid in liquor stores at some distance from the comic books. It used green lettering on its first page (the only page I ever saw), and amazing as it may be, I recall a headline once seen: "Youth Attacks/Rapes Own Mother." In this film the magazine is called "Hush- Hush," and Danny DeVito is appropriately cast as its sleazy editor and publisher.Kim Basinger appears as a Veronica Lake look-a-like prostitute and plays it like Lauren Becall from a Bogey film, but without any wit or grace. James Cromwell is the personification of evil as the morally sick Capt Dudley Smith. Russell Crowe as Bud White, the justice-dispensing cop with a brutal temper and a soft heart for battered dames, gives an excellent performance. Guy Pearce as Ed Exley, the cop with glasses who doesn't care what the other cops think is also very good. Kevin Spacey as Jack Vincennes, the cop whose thrill is to be part of the TV production "Badge of Honor" (that's the old "Dragnet" series with Jack Web from the fifties) is also good.In short, the cast is excellent and is probably the main reason this classy "shoot 'em up" is so over-rated. It was number 27 on IMDb's top 250 last time I looked. Recent movies and especially male-ID films tend to be overrated on this site. As the Internet and IMDb acquire a greater feminine voice, the ratings of thriller/action/adventure flicks will tumble.A question to ask while watching this is, was the LAPD really this corrupt? Quick answer: yes. Next question, why? Answer, because all police departments, like all governments eventually become infested with corruption and must to cleaned out or overthrown. Why? Quick, but non- illuminating answer: human nature. Even you and I, if we had to deal with criminals on the one hand and the bureaucracy of the justice system on the other, day after frustrating and cynical day, might very well take on the values and persona of our surroundings.Some authentic period piece phrases heard in the movie: "Just the facts, Jack"; "taco bender"; "just another Hollywood homicide"; "maybe that's why he's under a house in Elysian Park and don't smell too good" and of course the sleazy tabloid tag: "off the record, on the QT and very hush-hush."One last thought for Director Hanson: Here's a lyric from a fifties tune that should have made the sound track: "Confidential as a church at twilight/Secret and moving as a lover's prayer/My love for you will always be confidential to me." They used to moon over that one in the barrios, circa 1955.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
I haven't seen Chinatown, so I can't compare the two, but LA Confidential is a twisty crime drama, filled with amazing performances and a great plot.  The acting is great.  The male leads are filled with relish and are convincing.  Kim Basinger is great, though I would not have given her the oscar over Julianne Moore.  The script is amazing.  Interesting trivia: In 1995, James Cromwell and Kevin Spacey were competing against each other for best supporting actor.  In this movie, Cromwell gets to shoot Spacey.  Talk about revenge.  Number 4 on my top ten of 1997, after The Sweet Hereafter, Gattaca, and Contact.
People say that this reminds them of Chinatown, I disagree.  I think it reminds me more of Tequila Sunrise.  Both have confusing plots, both are film noir in a way and both are richly acted and very well written.  What I enjoyed most about this was the excellent performances of Spacey, Pearce and Crowe.  All three carried out their roles superbly.  When Crowe( Bud White ) was mad ( which was quite a bit ) you could feel his anger.  It was written all over his face so that when he lashes out you understand why.  Spacey ( Vinsensse ) was a bit of a hotdog in the film but he slowly changes and eventually doesn't like what he sees in the mirror.  He also has one of the key scenes in the film when he discovers the main culprit.  When he utters the name of the man that supposedly killed Pearce's father, that gave me chills.  It was such a well written scene and carried out beautifully by Spacey.  I admired Pearce's character ( Ed Exley ).  He was not so much a political cronie as he did what he felt was right, all the time.  He had integrity and he never wanted to jeapordize that, for any reason.  That is why at the conclusion of the film I was left feeling strange when the denoument carried out the way it did.  Pearce shoots the bad guy as he walking away.  He didn't defend himself in the line of duty, but he killed a man that deserved to die.  This man was a cop killer, a murderer, a rapist and a man who thought he was above the law.  Does that make it right to shoot him?  I'm sure we all think so, but for Pearce to shoot him would have taken alot.  Asking moral questions the way the film did was one of its great strengths.As for the comparison with Titanic.  Titanic was a superb film that did everything right and deserved to win everything that it did.  These are completely different kinds of movies and Titanic got its just rewards. Just because a film moves a little slowly and has film noir written all over it, it does not mean that it is a better movie than a fantasy that touches your heart.  That was also a problem in 81 and 82 when the tables were turned and fantasy ( Raiders of the Lost Ark and ET) lost out to dramatics ( Chariots of Fire and Gandhi.  I am glad that the academy has learned to recognize movies like Titanic.  To me it was worthy of best picture and best director and the musical score in that film should have won as well.  Enough about that.What I can't understand for the life of me is how Basinger won Best Supporting Actress.  She had what, thirty seconds of screen time?  Her character was well played but I have seen her character a hundred times before.  So that irks me, almost as much as the fact that none of the males won an Oscar.  Spacey and Crowe each could have been up for best actor and Pearce could have been up for best actor or best supporting actor.  Hell, Cromwell could have been nominated as well.  All I know is someone should have won an acting award in this film besides Basinger.  That was a mercy award to me.I really did enjoy this film although I think it is over rated quite a bit. It had me interested and intrigued and it left me asking myself questions at the conclusion.  But I just don't think it is as great as everyone says it is.


                
I was told that this was supposed to be one of the greatest movies ever made, so I finally went out and rented it. I had to admit it was okay, but definately not one of the best movies ive ever seen. Good story line, lotta thought put into how everything comes together, but just wasnt that great. I could name 30-40 films id rather watch again before seeing this one. I gave it an 8/10 tho for the work of the actors and directors.


                
L.A. Confidential is an uneven film, but does succeed on many other levels. The first 20 minutes of the film are very strong, you'll be thinking your in for a good ride. Suddenly, for the next half hour of the film it's uninteresting. It becomes boring with too many characters jumping from crime to crime, character to character, story to story. They just tried to jam pack too much stuff in there. After it hits the 1 hour mark, it's back in top form and draws you quickly in again, making you become invested in the story at hand. It's when the film slows down from its hyperactivity, and strings the many story lines together into one big one. The big problem here is the pace of that 30 minute mark to 60 minute mark. It's not bad (its actually kind of fun), just makes the project weaker in that time. A lot happens and it's very "talkie", and the film doesn't give the audience a second to breathe and comprehend what's going on.The dialogue makes it a little confusing. It also seems like there is crime after crime after crime, I thought to myself "Why should I care?" Though, I must say it's the only flaw. After that ridiculous second half-hour, it makes a complete 180 back to where it was in the beginning. The rest of the film was compelling, smart, unpredictable, and thrilling. The audience also becomes even mesmerized into the rest of the film. I must say, the twist and turns are very surprising, like knock you back in your seat surprising. L.A. Confidential has an excellent ensemble. Is ensemble the right word? Many people consider it an "ensemble piece". Meaning every character is a supporting character, such as movies like Crash, The Air I Breathe, Inglourious Basterds, etc. I'd beg to differ. The three cops that we follow, I feel would be the leading roles (Spacey, Crowe, Pierce), and everyone else would be supporting. Either way the film has excellent support from it's actors.Kevin Spacey, Im about to call him the Best Actor of the '90s, he is Oscar-Worthy in everything he does. He's so relaxed in the role and charming and cocky. He's the stand-out here. Kim Basinger won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her work here. Is it deserved? Very. She's great here. Her character is full of mystery and all that makes you more interested in her. Basinger's nuanced performance deserves every positive recognition it got. This was one of Russell Crowe's first performances and to be honest, it's a great breakout. His solid effort avoids the cliché his character was dripping in. Guy Pierce even warms up to you though the duration. Danny DeVito has a small, but memorable role and is as every bit as good as any cast member. So quirky an fun.The tech side of the things doesn't slouch either. The film is beautifully photographed, has lovely costumes, nice sets--especially Kim Basinger's home. It's silky and slinky; beautiful. The score keeps you on the edge of your seat and sets the mood.In The end chase shootout is nail-biting. You also get to see touching couples scenes throughout. L.A. Confidential also has a humor about itself, which makes it a rockin time. There's a gag with Spacey and Pierce with Lana Turner which is hilarious. Great entertainment! Though there may be one bug rough patch, it doesn't ruin the entire film which is technically astonishing, has a suspenseful story, and is well-acted; 8.5


                
L.A. Confidential is a Hollywood film loaded with super stars and familiar faces. Russell Crowe, Kevin Spacey and Kim Basinger are there among others. The film is directed by Curtis Hanson and written by him and Brian Helgeland, who has directed The Usual Suspects and Apt Pupil. The film has been praised as one of the best movies ever and so on, and I think that as an entertainment film this is perfect, but as little more than entertainment, it is not THAT great.There are many characters here, and finally their relations solve and it unfolds that nothing was/is as it seems. The film is set in L.A. some 50+ years ago, and there are gangsters and tough policemen, prostitution and hunger for money..Sounds like some Scorsese film, but Confidential is not as personal and great as Scorsese's work, but it manages at least to be pretty nostalgic. The acting is, of course, the best available and during the film's long running time (approx. 130mins) I really didn't feel myself tired or bored. The film is extremely stylish and directed with great skill, so there are no technical flaws in the film. The end scene at the motel is very moody and even reminded me of Ringo Lam's Hong Kong classic City on Fire with all its blue colors and holes in the wall. L.A. Confidential looks great and director has done great job.But there is no particular message or themes in the film, and it becomes somewhat empty viewing experience. Of course themes of greed and corruption are present, but the film doesn't concentrate on them too much and thus isn't too rich in content, but probably they didn't want this to be too difficult for the mainstream audiences..L.A. Confidential is easy to take because there isn't huge need for brains and the film seems to be more entertainment than serious and personal cinema. But it is still enough stylish, at times intense and gorgeous looking so it can be recommended, but don't expect this to be too demanding and challenging film. My expectations were little too high after all the praise, but after all, I'm glad I'm still not disappointed. 8/10


                
