I'd be lying if I said mounting the Dekalog was a breeze, it wasn't. But it was designed to be seen over a period of months, not days like I did, and I would probably dissuade you from watching it in a row. A significant obstacle for me lies with the format: ten different mini films that don't interconnect in meaningful ways, each one under an hour so it feels like a Sissyphian struggle of having to start again from the bottom just as you were getting to the top, and each time we go back down we start anew with a different set of characters and story.The upside of the TV format is that Kieslowski had the opportunity to work out different variations with a unifying form. The unifying idea across the 10 Dekalogs is potent; we leave with some insight on the destructiveness of what it means to inhabit a story when reality is more complex and elusive, as well as some measure of realization about this complexity of inter-dependent forces at work behind the stories. The form they developed was a narrative that is made concave and called into question. Time and again certainties of drama are blown away by revelations that demand a change in viewing. There are two tendencies at play in the work, one a filmmaker's, the other a writer's. Kieslowski's proclivity to visually recall edges, different ways of dreaming. The other tendency is that time and again this recollection is reduced to two characters forlornly baring themselves to each other in a room, explaining or avoiding to. Bergman. One releases emotional energy from characters into the air, the other drains it away in words and somnolent pauses. At times it feels like Kieslowski is just stylizing the morals of a script, but at other times it feels like he's writing his own paths with the camera.By itself it's no masterpiece in my estimation. Even with 10 hours to spare, it simply surrounds and repeats motifs. But if this is where Kieslowski apprenticed for the Three Colors by repetitively hitting the same limits and would be now ready to effect a real change in viewing in feature form, that would be time well spent. I came to this as preparation for those films myself, viewer apprenticeship you might say. I'll be going ahead there to find out.


                
