I would have hoped more people would have seen this superb collection of 10 short films, now that is available on video and DVD and has played on the Sundance channel.  If you haven't, you are missing out on 10 superb masterpieces.  Yes, they are slow-moving and some of them are very depressing, but what did you expect from this director, Adam Sandler?  The acting, writing, direction, and music are all near perfection.  2 corrections to make from the earlier reviewer, these films are not in black and white, but in a very muted, monochromatic color.  Also you should see them in sequence as 2 of the earlier episodes are referred to in the 8th and 10th episodes.


                
I thought Dekalog was a very interesting approach on various individuals' different personal struggles that oftentimes are self- inflicted or inflicted upon them by a loved one. I can say Kieslowski successfully utilized the ten commandments' themes and applied them to a contemporary setting, while also mixing in his own themes that he finds ways to correspond with the respective commandment. In the case of this, I found each part less of an episode, and more of its own individual television movie, which combined form an even better film. The title is listed on IMDb as a TV mini-series, which I suppose is fair despite me seeing this listed among the best films ever for some reason. Anyways, here are my brief thoughts on each episode: Decalogue 1: I am The Lord Thy God This one is either the best or second best in this series of television films. It is beautifully filmed and very well written. Also this alone proves children can act under proper direction. Applying the idolization of science and indifference towards spirituality is an interesting way to start off. This one also may be the most religious to its core in what themes it presents and how it is executed. It's fantastic. 10Decalogue 2: Thou Shalt Not Take The Lord's Name in Vain This one is really good, albeit slow. I wasn't as drawn to this one as some people were, especially in comparison to some of the other episodes, but it's still really great. I think acting is one of the least interesting aspects of filmmaking, but in the case for this chapter, its just too well done not to comment on it. This one also features some very nice and memorable motifs and imagery. Maybe drags on a little to hold everyone's interest, but it does help set the mood. Great writing for some great characters. 8.5Decalogue 3: Thou Shalt Keepeth the Sabbath Holy While still under competent writing, editing, and performances, this chapter wasn't as interesting to me as the previous two but still a memorable watch for positive reasons. It is also maybe my favorite Christmas movie after Brazil, interestingly. I think it plays well with theme of the respective commandment and showcases some negative effects the holiday season can have one those who are lonely. Pretty good. 8.0Decalogue 4: Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother This is a fantastic film with fantastic character interactions and dialogue. It pushes boundaries by exploring taboos within families. The film covers respect in a father and daughter relationship as well as near incest and the role that family ties and obligations override feelings and desires. 9.0Decalogue 5: Thou Shalt Not Kill Even though I am strongly against capital punishment, I interestingly found this film's argument against it to be the least interesting aspect of the film. This is such an amazing film with some shocking scenes and peak of emotions. I am looking forward to see A Short Film About Love as its allegedly more intense. 9.5Decalogue 6: Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery This chapter is a masterpiece in every technical way, I can't imagine A Short Film About Love topping this as it might be perfect how it is. This part definitely has the most interesting characters (though Decalogue 5's criminal character is also great) and expertly explores themes of obsession, stalking, lust, and heartache. This one is so beautiful. 10Decalogue 7: Thou Shalt Not Steal Unfortunately, Dekalog drops in quality ever so slightly here on out. But its hard to surpass its expertise in the first six episodes. Chapter 7 is pretty good even though my initial thought suggested otherwise. The film may be somewhat more slow and less eventful, but it makes up for it in character interactions and dialogue as well as its cinematography. I like it. 8.0Decalogue 8: Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness This one was just frustrating, it wasn't really bad in any technical way; this chapter is just not as strong. It could be more me watching it at the wrong time, but this film frustrated me. As gorgeous as the cinematography and overall form was, I just was not drawn to the story. I don't find anything particularly wrong with its screenplay other than just not allowing many interesting event to occur. I think at least that's my opinion, I had troubles following this chapter for whatever reason and that bothers me. This thought isn't very developed, but I also might think that this chapter's use of the commandment is somewhat contrived. I don't know for sure. I have mixed thoughts on it. I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy watching it, it was more so its legacy on me. 6.5Decalogue 9: Thou Shalt Not Covet Thy Neighbor's Wife This is a good movie with some interesting themes regarding relationships and the important role that sex plays within them. The characters are complicated and the first and third act are quite strong, I just wasn't particularly invested in the second act. Overall, it's good. Watch it. 7.5Decalogue 10: Thou Shalt Not Covet Thy Neighbor's Goods As great as this chapter is, I still wish Dekalog ended on a somewhat more stronger note in terms of intellectual stimulation. However, it's no doubt that this chapter is a blast to watch. It is the most light- hearted and humorous. The emotional connection to the characters allows the audience to more laugh at the character's misfortunes and antics than feel moved, saddened, or disturbed as previous chapters did. It's wonderful. 8.5


                
Kieslowski devotes ten short films to the lives of residents of a communist Warsaw housing collective. Each episode meditates on a different sin in the Ten Commandments. I admit that certain episodes are pretty great. Can't say I think the whole cycle warrants its laudatory place in the cinematic cannon. Parts 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 are memorable, the rest forgettable. Perhaps, the lack of consistency- given the focus on time and place- contributes to the meaning of the work. Any collective, any group, has days that are meaningless and days that are profound, days you remember and those you forget. If there is a God, and there is in Kieslowski's universe, He appears in those places we least expect to find Him. He is there when we are most alone and most honest.


                
