I have never been affected by a movie the way Saving Private Ryan affected me.  That movie really took me out of my seat in the movie theater and practically had me believing I was really in the battle with John Miller. When somebody was dying in that movie, it felt as if you could almost feel their pain.  Speilberg did an unbelievable job of putting realism into this movie with the camera-work and everything else.  Simply amazing.  An all time great.


                
It gives a million reason why no one should go to war and one very powerful reason to go to war. It is a soul numbing realistic depiction of what our grandfathers, fathers, uncles, brothers and sons have faced in humanities darkest moments. Not just in WWII but in any war. No one can see this movies without being altered in some way. No one should miss it with the EXCEPTION of those war veterans that have already been there. The surround sound puts the audience in the middle of the battle. Steven Spielberg has out done himself and effectively held up a mirror to civilization for events to which we should all be ashamed of, rather than appalled at the movie for its real life depictions. I suggest that this movie be made standard view for congress as well as the President each and every time the question of war comes up. This movie would not stop future wars but I would hope the objectives would be much more clearly defined. I say this as a US Marine.


                
It's been over a year since first seeing Saving Private Ryan -- it's a worthy effort by Speilberg--his best since Shindler's List by far. You've probably heard about the amount of violence, blood, and gore and that's all true--it's got the Viet Nam movie style violence (and then some) but it's not gratuitous. Were it sanitized like early WWII movies, modern audiences probably wouldn't take it as seriously.The movie has that trademark Speilberg style--the structure is all tied up and unified from beginning to end, the emotional symbols abound, the music swelling when he's working at your emotions, the hand held camera that worked so well in Shindler's List to give you a feeling of participation, camera angles and periods of silence to disorient you (like Shindler), suspense techniques learned from Hitch... It's a movie that stays with you for a period afterwards.Hanks will be the early front runner for Oscar after this flick--Academy members like him AND it IS his best acting job ever. While Speilberg will likely be criticized for attempting to manipulate the audience's emotions while keeping a distance from the inner core of his characters, Tom Hanks reveals a really complex military leader in this story, and does so without overacting--somehow it comes from within. While you may not empathize deeply with many of the platoon, you will still feel something because of the relationship that is formed with Hanks.After the initial set-up, you will have the opportunity to participate in the D-Day operation and experience the horror of it. Those who have been in a real war can comment about how realistic or not Speilberg captures its chaotic horror in this scene.In my case I again feel very lucky that my draft number was high, so I never had to face Nam like many of my classmates. Speilberg reminds us brutally in "Saving Private Ryan" that we All have a debt to pay to the brave souls who have sacrificed so much for us. What Tom Hanks does with his performance is to remind us of this debt in a very personal way.


                
Without looking, I am sure other reviewers here have headlined their article "Best War Movie Ever Made"" and I agree. However, before briefly discussing the film, let me just say if you don't have a decent 5.1 surround sound system, you aren't going to fully appreciate this movie (DVD).It's a great film to start with, and sitting in a room surrounded by five speakers with bullets flying from all directions around you - as in that spectacular 22- minute opening scene or in the final 45 minutes of action against the Germans in tanks - is an astounding movie experience. The sound in this film elevates it even higher.The visuals are outstanding, too. I've never seen so many grays, beiges and olive-greens look this good: perfect colors for the bombed-out French city where the last hour takes place, perfect for the faces and uniforms of the gritty soldiers, for the machinery, the smoke-filled skies, etc.My only complaint is the usage of Lord's name in vain 25-30 times, but, hey, when you consider it's tough men in tough times, that's what you are going to hear. In real life, the profanity probably was worse than the film. It's hard to picture the brutality of war being any worse than you see here, but it probably was. This is about as graphic as it gets. The violence and gore was shocking when this film came out in 1997 and still is when watched almost a decade later. It's unbelievable what some of the WWII soldiers went through, but that can be said for any war. I believe the purpose of this film was to pay tribute to the sacrifices these men made, and it succeeds wonderfully. Hats off to Steven Spielberg and to Tom Hanks, the leading actor in here, both of whom have worked hard for WWII vets to get the recognition they deserve, not just on film but in a national memorial.Anyway, language or blood and guts aside, this is still an incredible portrait of WWII. The almost-three hour film is riveting start-to-finish, especially with that memorable beginning action scene, probably the most dramatic in the history of film.As "entertaining" as those action scenes were, I found the lulls, if you will, to be even better. Listening to Hanks and his men discuss various things as they look for Private Ryan, was fascinating to me. Hanks is just superb in here and once again shows why he is considered one of the best actors in his generation.The most memorable and powerful moment among the "lulls," is the shot early on of the Ryan mother sinking to her knees on her front porch as she realizes she is about to get disastrous news from the war. Moments later, Harve Presenell, playing Gen. MacArthur, eloquently reads a letter by Abraham Lincoln that is so beautifully written, so profound that it is quoted near the end of the film, too, and I never get tired of hearing it.This is a man's movie, and shows the horrors of war as few others ever have. To say it is "memorable," just doesn't do it justice. It is the greatest war movie ever made....period.


                
The opening beach assault sequences were the most violent, realistic, and upsetting filming I've ever seen; looked as though the thing was actual combat footage. The shushing noises of rounds cutting through the air was the most chilling part of all. Perfect portrayal of the insane stupidity of war and the anguish of all who enter this most foolish of enterprises. A must see.


                
An amazing and compelling insight to warfare. Umbelievable camera shots/angles bring World War 2 to life especially for the US troops on D-Day. The use of flash bullets, and color saturation just add to the effect of a killing ground that not many people survive to come back from.


                
The greatest battle in the twentieth century took place at the shores of Normandy, and it was fought by courageous soldiers who spilled their guts and payed the ultimate sacrifice for freedom.Out there in that beach, Dog Green Sector, Omaha beach, hundreds if not thousands of courageous American soldiers took and kept a vital position for an invasion to liberate the old continent. Their warrior spirit allowed them to gain a bitter victory.Too many young Americans died in that battle for making possible to send other people free. This source of American pride moves me in so many ways. We love the American heroism and we share our admiration for the greatest warriors: the American soldiers.This movie, starring a great American actor, Tom Hanks, in the role of Captain Miller, 2nd Ranger, shows the American attitude and the struggle they went through to achieve one of the greatest American victories in world history. It is not easy to understand the huge victory it was for America and world freedom to win the most important war in history. I will always love America for that.Other fantastic American actors like Vin Diesel and Giovani Ribisi play an awesome performance as heroic kind-hearted soldiers in the face of evil, showing all the heroism we can expect from an Army Ranger.All in all this movie is a must-see and it is worth to buy the DVD. The fantastic soundtrack and the emotional flag-waving at the end of the movie make your eyes to water-up. You will never forget this excellent Hollywood production and the wonderful story told will get you speechless for a while.


                
Saving Private Ryan is, without a doubt, the best war movie ever made and one of the best movies of all time. I wasn't sure what I would think of this movie before I saw it. I heard the gore and carnage was too much, and I heard the story and action was great.When I finally did see it, I loved it. The gore wasn't as bad, in my opinion, as everyone said it was. I thought the battles scenes were fantastically done. They were entertaining to watch, but with a certain sadness to it. I also think the moments of reflection among the soldiers was very good too. You got to hear their thoughts about the enemy, the soldiers and the war itself.The acting was great, especially by Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks certainly deserved the Academy Award for best actor, even though he did not get it. Matt Damon also did a great job as Private Ryan. Watch for a great cameo-like performance by Ted Danson.The storyline was interesting. Most of all, it showed what the war was like and how horrible it was. Some of the American soldiers were killed before they even entered the battlefield, some before they could even fire back, and some went down in a blaze of glory. Either way, you felt pity for the Americans and hatred for the Nazis.The mission the soldiers were on was to find a single man, Private Ryan, and bring him home, because all of his brothers were killed and he was the last male survivor of the family. You, along with the soldiers in the movie, will always be thinking about whether it is worth it to risk eight lives to save one man. Many things happen through the film that will keep changing your mind about it.If blood, guts and gore bothers you, you really should not watch Saving Private Ryan. Otherwise, I recommend going out and buying it right away. You will not be disappointed.


                
Steven Spielberg's masterpiece. Tom Hanks most magnificent performance. Winner of 4 oscars. Unprecedented true to life combat photography. Dynamic 3 hour long story that elevates this movie into the best tribute to all those american soldiers who died fighting for freedom in Europe during World War II. This is THE ultimate depiction of D-Day when the Americans freed western Europe. What a tragic, yet glorious epic war classic!The story is literally about the rescueing of a private called Ryan, played by Matt Damon, from behind enemy lines. Tom Hanks has to rescue the guy with a team of specially selected soldiers, among which are Giovanni Ribisi and Vin Diesel. Their journey to find and rescue private Ryan is a long and bloody one. But the true spirit of this movie lies in the fears and doubts in the minds of the soldiers. This isnt a gung ho funny action movie, this is how it really could have happpened, with all the bleak and twisted soul shattering fears that soldiers have to conquer mentally. The photograpy is stunning. Like I have never seen it before. Seen it many times now and it bewilders me every time how they have achieved such a level of true to life war combat photography. Even if you might not like the story, which I would find hard to believe, the action photography on itself is worthy of an oscar, which it deservedly got.The soundtrack is dark and glorious. The sound effects are just sonically blasting my ears when the tanks start rolling. Editing is done with a fever pitch that keeps me glued to the screen. I can go on and on about the superb technical skills with which this movie was made, but the most important thing is that this movie has a got a pulsating righteous heart at it's core. This movie touches me profoundly. Only a few times during the last 40 years, have I ever been this fascinated by a war movie. Incredibly impressive!


                
D-Day. Operation Overlord. What we say here cannot do justice to what they did on that day. Tom Hanks and his patrol must recover Private James Ryan before his mother gets her fourth flag delivered by an Army chaplain. It all makes perfect, illogical sense to kill many to save one. After surviving the Normandy landing, Hanks is volunteered to put his men in the line of fire again and again. Just to save one man. Or is it?A bridge is saved, a town is secured, a bigger battle is won..All because Hanks saved one shoe for one horse...Beautifully realistic to make the atrocities of war invade, assault, and overpower all five senses. You feel the bullets whizzing past your head. You see the man looking for his arm after it was blown off is shoulder. You smell the burning hatred for the Nazis as one US soldier yells to his comrades "Don't shoot them..let them burn." It is too much to watch..but you have to see it.


                
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of Steven Spielberg's most haunting and visually stunning films. As the film opens, you see an elderly man (Whose identity is not revealed until the end), standing at a headstone, in tears. Why? You soon understand the story as we go back in time.It is D-Day, June 6th,1944. You are soon caught up in the battle on Omaha Beach. And it is INCREDIBLY bloody. Soldiers are shot, drowned, blown apart or on fire during the battle on the beach against the Germany army. One of the soldiers fighting is Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks, in one of his best performances), who fights bravely, but you can see the terror that engulfs him. His hands say it all: an uncontrollable shaking.Soon after the battle, Miller is given a mission: seems that 3 of the killed men were brothers. A fourth is behind enemies lines and needs to be rescued and sent home to America. With his team members accompanying him, Miller starts his search for Private Ryan (Matt Damon).This is not an easy mission. Every single man knows that they may not survive the trek through the countryside of Normandy. Pvt. Reiben (Edward Burns)believes that Pvt. Ryan is not worth saving, at the cost of their lives. But with courage and determination by the team (although some members do lose their lives), they find Ryan. However, Ryan refuses to leave because a bridge in a bomb shattered town needs protection from the German army. With the assistance of the surviving team, they take a stand against the army. It is at this point that the surviving team members understand the importance of a lingering question through the film: will their sacrifice make a difference? By taking a stand to defend the bridge, the answer is obvious: yes.The performances of the actors are powerful; Including Hanks, Burns and Damon, you have Tom Sizemore, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Giovanni Ribisi, Vin Diesel and Jeremy Davies. John Williams, who always works well with Spielberg, provides a powerful score. The battle at the beginning of the film is one of the most heart wrenching scenes in cinematic history (And is not for the squeamish). It is a very moving film, and you will need plenty of tissue before you watch it.
This movie is so powerful. I couldn't watch it without crying, jumping, gasping, screaming, laughing, and cringing. It brought you through a whole array of emotion.I couldn't help but give my entire being over to each character as a stunning performance was drawn by each actor. Simply amazing. I can't describe it any other way.Easily the best war film I've seen. None was more realistic... Amazing amazing amazing.Recommended to anyone who enjoys historical fiction.LOVED IT!


                
**** out of ****
Five years can really put a lot in perspective. At the time of its release, Saving Private Ryan was the talk of the summer. It introduced a new gritty style of war filmmaking that was only occasionally glimpsed at before. The acclaim was virtually unanimous, I'd never seen so many critics place one specific film at the top of the year-end-best list. Five years later, SPR has suffered a minor critical backlash, not too dissimilar from Forrest Gump or even Titanic (two movies that I largely adored as well). It's now considered the most overrated war film. Forget critics or the Razzies, immense popularity can do more damage than those two combined ever could in droves.The question is: how good is this movie? I've seen it three times. Twice in theaters and another time on DVD, after it became a perennial punching bag for Spielberg haters, who came to see it as all that represented what was wrong with the popular director. For me, nothing's really changed. It's still a harrowing experience, I still find myself quivering and shaking by the film's conclusion, but I'm not unwilling to concede the film's faults. Five years (of which I've become a more demanding, even pickier, moviegoer) and three viewings have made that clear enough to me.Most people probably know the film's basic premise, so I won't go into a detailed explanation. Tom Hanks stars as John Miller, a WWII captain who leads seven men into enemy territory to search for a Private James Ryan, whose three brothers were killed in combat. Their orders are to relieve him of duty and bring him back immediately. Unsurprisingly, many obstacles hinder their search, to the extent the men question whether finding the private is worth the sacrifices it will take to reach him.The central premise is what keeps the film standing out from the rest of the genre. It's rare to see a war film driven by plot when it's usually a random series of events, typically battle scenes, that hold these movies together. The premise is simple, but it's effective. Whether eight lives are worth risking to save one is enough to spark a debate that probably won't reach any satisfying conclusion. Everyone's got their own opinion on the matter, myself included, but it's to the film's credit it at least made me question the topic. Viewers should at least be open-minded enough to absorb the film's moral quandaries, they're partially the glue that holds the film together.The camaraderie and interaction among the eight soldiers is that other piece that completes the film. There's an equal mix of humor, tension, respect, and pathos between these men. Robert Rodat's script lays out each supporting character nicely, they may initially read like stereotypes, but the performers bring them to life. With that said, SPR boasts one of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen. Among the eight soldiers, there's not a single weak performance in the lot. Even the annoying Jeremy Davies comes through, mainly because his character's supposed to be annoying (and, at one point, the lone voice of sanity in, ironically, a world that deems his actions cowardly)(spoiler: oddly enough, the film later goes on to show him kill the man he earlier defended, what this is supposed to speak out about his previous actions, I'm not entirely sure, other than war can lead to extenuating circumstances).That's not to say I liked every aspect of the film's storytelling. I'm not sure whose idea it was to give us those flashback bookends, but while they weren't grating, I'm not sure they're necessary, either. I even see the point of those scenes, Spielberg clearly wants to tie in our feelings in the present and connect us to the past. In that sense, the scene works, and you do question who the old man is in the beginning, but one gets the feeling it's somewhat superfluous.  Spielberg's greatest criticism has been his need to display sentimentality. SPR is no different, there's a bit of emotional manipulation in the final moments, but to say it didn't affect me would be a complete lie. I was endeared to the characters, and their deaths were shocking, sobering, and saddening.The battle scenes are virtually without peer. The furious intensity of the combat footage surprised me. Prior to SPR, Platoon was the most intense war film I'd ever seen and the battle scenes in that film almost look plain in comparison to the work accomplished here. It's gritty, bloody, uncompromising, and disturbing, exactly the way war should be. The level of violence has been repeated over the years (most recently in 2002, when Black Hawk Down, We Were Soldiers, and Windtalkers all aimed for the same level of graphic realism), but has never been quite used as effectively as it has been here, a lot of that having to do with attention paid to plot and character.In the lead performance, Tom Hanks feels like an initially odd choice to play a U.S. captain. For some reason, I keep picturing Harrison Ford in this role (and who knows what he could have accomplished with it, especially after seeing his interesting work in K-19), but Hanks is fine. For all intents and purposes, he delivers a great performance, perhaps the most powerful one of his career, but Rodat's script puts a few too many John Wayne-ish tendencies into Miller. The man achieves three-dimensional characterization mostly because of Hanks' touches.The ads and trailers clearly show that the platoon finds Ryan; I think I would have preferred not knowing that going into the film, might have added to the suspense and certainly would have given an extra edge to the moral questions surrounding the plot. Matt Damon's performance as Ryan is quite good, but yet again, Rodat's script makes him into almost a cartoonishly unselfish and honorable character. But Damon is convincing enough that some of his more one-dimensional actions didn't bother me much.First-rate direction and acting go a long way in covering script deficiencies, and while Rodat's script is definitely the most flawed aspect of the film, it's still a well-written story of well-developed characters who risk and sacrifice their lives not only to save a man, but so that we could enjoy the freedom we almost take for granted these days. Lauding heroism in war movies is an easy sell to mass audiences but tough to win over the critics who generally hold the opinion that war produces no heroes. Maybe not intentionally, but it's undeniable that the men who fought were braver than I could ever hope to be.
Anyone who disagrees can run their car into a wall at a fatal 150mph. This is the greatest war movie ever made. 10 Reasons why. 1. Great Cast 2. Great Story 3. Great Set Design 4. Great Introduction 5. Great Closing Scene 6. Great Sound Effects 7. Great Realism (People die in war, not everyone lives in this one) 8. Great Score (by John Williams) 9. Great Purpose 10. Because I said so. This movie is so good that I bought the DVD. I don't buy many movies for three reasons. 1. Most movies get boring after you see them twice or more. 2. Rarely is a movie worth the 20 dollars. 3. Only a moron would waste money on a movie he or she would only watch once then throw it in a cabinet for the rest of his or her life. Anyway...this movie rocks, end of story.


                
Saving Private Ryan is a top WWII film and I've seen it a dozen times. As the film starts we are presented with a hundred or so ships coming across the sea. Suddenly violence erupts and soldiers are slaughtered on the D-Day Assualt. In the assualt, Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) leads his platoon up and around the German lines for a flank attack. Across the ocean, a mother receives three KIA letters in the same day but is promised that her youngest son, Private Ryan (Matt Damon) will be found in France and sent home. On the Normandy beach, Captain Miller and his platoon will be sent on a suicide mission across France to find Private Ryan and battle across the German lines. Through the whole mission the soldiers are pushed to the limit with the death of comrades and questioning of the mission.Steven Spielberg works his magic again with the presentation of one of the most honored war movies in film history. Tom Hanks is strong, smart and above all good as Captain Miller. There is also a surprise with one of Vin Diesel's first roles as Private Caparzo. The violence is brutal, bloody, and well crafted. Each character is interesting and their fears and weaknesses are each expressed in the film.Saving Private Ryan. Starring: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edwards Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel, and Matt Damon.4 1/2 out of 5 Stars
i first saw this movie on T.V. one night with my father, but only saw bits and pieces. I decided to rent it one night and watched the whole thing in my basement. From the start to the finish i thoroughly enjoyed the movie.i had seen a couple other world war two movies, but none of them compared to this. it was interesting how Spielberg made everything look like it was back then, with the costumes, weapons and scenery!!! overall, this movie seemed like one of the best out there, and i personally think it's spielbergs best. If you haven't seen it yet, then i HIGHLY recommend you go out and rent it some time. It's a great movie and definitely worth watching!


                
I can not understand those who view it as an 'America win the War' movie. That is not the point of most of the war movies out there. Yes, they may use American actors and show American fighting, but look past that and see the terrifying experiences of war and the fear of the people back home who suffer the emotional trauma. 'Saving Private Ryan' I felt gave a visual look at war, it gave the best feeling of what war would be like that any movies have given, but I don't think that any movie ever will be able to to give the exact fear that is within the people when they are in the middle of a battlefield.An excellent movie, dignified, moving and intelligent (not a word used with many Hollywood movies) acting with a director that has shown everyone how it SHOULD be done.


                
This is truly the best war movie i've ever seen!!! Eerytime I watch it I cannot stop crying, I get goosebumps only by thinking of it; what makes it so special is that "Private Ryan" seems to have learned the lesson: "EARN THIS!", it seems that he truly respected a dying man's wish. About the scenes in the movie, I played the computer game "Medal of Honor - Allied Assault" and I was surprised to see a lot of the movie scenes in the game (Normandy, Sniper city - Caparzo, The bridge) or vice versa. I don't have to tell you that MOHAA is my favorite Computer game ever. All the respect to the genius of Steven Spielberg (I mean it's like he was there)Bottom line: if you haven't seen it yet, YOUR GREAT LOSS


                
.............................................,..............from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FLNumbing shock<U+0085>on a cellular level<U+0085>motivated me to return to the theater a week later, to experience it again. I was not in the least disappointed. Indulged myself by acquiring the DVD soon after its release and reliving the experience on numerous occasions! In RYAN, Spielberg succeeds in getting inside the viewer's head by immersing us in his ingeniously structured cascading time-lapse glacier of chaos, resulting in a 2½ hour free-fall rush into overwhelming impotence. RYAN seers the hell of war into every pore of your psyche, like no other war movie before or since. Watching it is a delightful exercise in masochistic pleasure.Certainly, anything but war friendly, Spielberg's 1998 classic, the highest rated war themed film in the history of cinema (#33-IMDb Top 250 today), only makes oblique reference to the diabolical nature of the Nazi juggernaut. RYAN tenaciously and consistently drives home the only "shades of gray" nature of the nuts and bolts, day-to-day, moment to moment decision options available in the heat of battle! I offer, as an example of this, various moments of on screen interaction with German prisoner of war, nicknamed "Steamboat Willie"<U+0085>Just watch, eventually you will understand! Also, I think a special note of recognition is due to Denise Chamian<U+0085>If the name doesn't ring a bell, don't feel bad<U+0085>she did not register with me either! Her name appears for The CASTING Credit of RYAN. Superb job, Ms. Chamian!(Minority Report/Big Fish) She has been nominated on multiple occasions by the Casting Society of America<U+0085>but RYAN seems to be her only win! (An extremely well deserved one, in my opinion) The Ensemble cast also received a Screen Actors Guild Nomination in that category. After having seen RYAN at least 10 times, I stand firmly by this accolade: One of the BEST Ensemble performances ever! To anyone out there who hasn't seen RYAN, maybe because of its War or Action genre label<U+0085>This is one hell of a humanistic Greek tragedy that you simply must see! To those of you who have seen it once or twice, but who haven't in years<U+0085>.Please give it another look<U+0085>You won't be disappointed in the least<U+0085>RYAN only gets better with each viewing! 10*....ENJOY!/DISFRUTELA!


                
Even thinking about this film gives me the chills , well,like practically everything Mr. Spielberg has done in his career , lifting the American movie into the cinematic heaven . Hopefully , many movies are still ahead of him , the greatest artist ever, no doubt !There is nothing new to say about Saving Private Ryan , after so many years , except that perhaps it ought to become the must study subject for anyone interested in military history or history as such , because ,friend,it cannot go any gorier than this , that is, any more realistic than this ( watch Rambo 4 , When Trumpets Fade , Windtalkers ). Saving P.R. has somehow created a new genre of films , that is ultra-realistic war movie that transcends anything solely written, in fact , as has always been the case with Mr. Spielberg, literature gets its visual manifestation, where even Shakespeare would pipe down and bow in reverence ! Even 10 is not enough , simply no numerical quality, unit , exists to describe the sheer power of this cinematic experience , not even the designation 'film 'itself can do this ! Angelic, stratospheric , out of this dimension , Mona Lisa in cinema !


                
Saving Private Ryan is a military movie based during World War II. The movie starts with the invasion of Normandy at what is now known as D Day. Captain Miller, who is played by Tom Hanks, leads his troops onto the beaches of Normandy against the Germans. Once they are able to take the beach, they learn of story of Private James Ryan. James and his other four brothers are scattered throughout Europe battling in World War II. The United States Headquarters learns that all of James's brothers have been killed in action, leaving James the only sibling to survive. The United States Military learns that his mother will be receiving all news that all three of his brothers have been killed in action. In a plot to give his mother some type of comfort, the Military sends Captain Miller and his troops on a hunt to find Private Ryan and tell him what had happened and to get him back home.The theme of the film is courage. Throughout the film the soldiers show tremendous courage in their journey from the beginning until the end. The soldiers had to go through one of the most horrific and bloody battles from World War II and had to show tremendous courage to make it and take the beach. After they took the beach they had to go on a journey in order to find Private Ryan. They had to search throughout Europe to find Ryan while going through several battles and their own battles with each other. They lost many men including Corporal Caparzo. All of those men lost, just so that they could get Private Ryan and send him home to his mother.Lighting and sound effects were two major techniques used in the movie to enhance and capture the attention of the viewer, and to create a very lifelike impersonation of what those scenes were like in real life. When Caparzo was shot by a sniper the scene was very dark, it was raining and there was little visibility for the soldiers due to fog. The surround sound of the rain made it very intense and made it feel as if you were right there. The sound of explosions going off at every corner captures the moments of war that make it horrible to be in. It makes you after these scenes make you think to yourself what it would really be like in a war like that and if that's how it really was.Saving Private Ryan is one of the best military movies of all time. The courage that these men faced with themselves and to find someone that none of them knew was extremely heroic. They made it possible to help with a grieving mother who had lost not one but three sons in the heat of battle in World War II. This movie is a must see so that we can try and understand what these young men and women had to go through and sacrifice in order for us to live in freedom.


                
This film is an absolute masterpiece. It shows that war isn't always glamorous. Steven Spielberg won a Best Directing Oscar for his work on this film and the film went on to win four others. It is gritty and bloody and it shows that wars aren't won by weapons but by soldiers. The cast shine as the group of soldiers tasked with finding Private Ryan. Along the way they encounter the harsh truth and real meaning of war. It boasts impressive battle sequences and the stylish cinematography makes the film truly beautiful. The opening beach sequence is possibly the greatest opening scenes in movies. Tom Hanks is spell binding as the commander who has no idea about the harsh truth of war. Overall a truly amazing film.


                
Up until this day, there had never been a time where I was awestruck or shocked or amazed after seeing a movie. Never. Then, I saw Saving Private Ryan. This movie, without a doubt, is the best movie I have ever seen.Saving Private Ryan is a very accurate presentation of World War 2. In a lot of the parts, I felt like I was actually there. It was all thanks to Spielburg's camera-work, which showed some scenes of the movie from the view of a soldier. I felt like I was running along the beaches of Normandy. I felt like I was with them in the final battle (won't reveal specifics). That's how good it was! Now, even though this movie is really good, it is not for the faint of heart. The first scene of this movie (D-Day) contains gratuitous amounts of violence and gore. They do not hold back on the violence. So, unless you think you can handle it, I would not recommend seeing this movie, because it does have some very disturbing moments. Another thing they do not hold back on is swearing. If soldiers shouting out the f-word constantly doesn't appeal to you, then you might want to skip this movie.Besides all of that, this is a great film! I can't think of anything wrong with it at all. I would definitely recommend this movie (if you can handle the gore and language).


                
War is Hell! This movie rocked. The opening scene of the movie was the best on the Omaha Beach. The action kicked ass and the battles of the entire film was phenomenal but not only that the plot was as great as can be. About Capt. John Miller and seven soldiers looking for just one other soldier who all of his brothers were killed and return him back home. The movie was also deeply sad and I kept feeling sorry for the soldiers and I always felt that I wanted to just go into the movie and fight for U.S. This is the best war movie of all time and it will remain the same unless some other comes up and overpass it but for now this is a masterpiece!!!10/10!!!Highly Recommend


                
Winning 5 Academy Awards Saving Private Ryan is without doubt one of the greatest war movies of all time. Director Steven Spielberg does an excellent job with this film. The choreography,  film editing, sound, and directing are superb. Specially the D-Day scene, which veterans called a precise re-creation of the real landing on Normandy. Along is the powerful cast of Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg and Vin Diesel which makes the movie even better. The greatest war film of all time and one of the best films over all.


                
