War films can be broken into two basic categories; the propaganda film, which celebrates bravery and patriotism; and the anti-war film, which shows the suffering and futility of war. The most extreme propaganda films are usually produced when a war is threatened or actually in progress and either demonize or belittle the individual enemy soldier. This is useful for both inspiring the home front and for assuring it that there will be an ultimate victory. While these films play well with a wartime audience they appear somewhat silly when viewed in a post-war environment. An exception to this war-in-progress concept was is "Saving Private Ryan". Cloaked in an anti-war facade, this film was more typical of what would have been produced in 1944 (its setting) than 1998 (its year of release). Under its thin anti-war facade of realistic looking destruction, Private Ryan breaks with the characterization elements that are essential for classification as an anti-war work. Almost by definition anti-war films use a faceless enemy ("Paths of Glory") or portray the enemy soldier as sharing in the suffering and futility of war ("The Enemy Below"). Often they are portrayed as victims of a fanatical leadership and the audience is invited to identify with or at least understand them ("The Longest Day"). This is because after a war, both the victors and the vanquished have an incentive to portray their enemy as brave and determined, otherwise victory is hollow and defeat is humiliating. Not so in Private Ryan; if the German battle performance and basic infantry tactics shown in the film were representative of what was actually practiced, a single allied division could have occupied all of Germany by the end of June 1944. The final battle scene alone makes the viewer wonder how, facing such a totally inept enemy, the war could have gone on more than a few days after the D-Day Landings. Among the most obvious:A sequence where American soldiers run back and forth in front of a Tiger I tank without drawing the fire of the tank's machine guns. These tanks had internally operated machine guns, which would have easily cut down these soldiers. Knowing this the soldiers would not have exposed themselves to this fire. Tanks entering an urban area ahead of infantry, driving down the middle of the town as if on parade. Instead infantry would flank any defensive position on the street and secure the area immediately ahead of the tanks so they do not come into range of anti-tank weapons. These tactics were validated during early fighting on the Russian front and became operational imperatives for all Panzer units. A Hitler Youth dagger found in the trench right after the first bunker is taken on the beach. The men in these bunkers were mostly older second-tier draftees and Ukrainian conscripts. Normandy was not expected to be the invasion target and it's highly unlikely that a member or former member of the Hitler Youth would have been assigned to these marginal units. But it was an excellent way to make the audience less squeamish about the brutality inflicted by the allied soldiers when these German units attempted to surrender.So just what is "Saving Private Ryan"? The first 24 minutes are a high budget remake of the "Longest Day" whose less expensive landing sequence conveyed more tactical believability about the process of securing a beachhead. The next 90 minutes are a mistake-ridden, choppy, and contrived remake of "The Big Red One". Ultimately, this overlong odyssey said less about patrolling behind enemy lines than "Kelly's Heroes"- a counterculture comedy whose serious scenes and character development were superior in almost every way. Then there is the finale, a total rip-off of Arthur Pohl's "The Bridge" (1949), which focused on a handful of recently conscripted German schoolboys who fight for control of an inconsequential bridge during the last weeks of the war. They were at the bridge because of a series of accidents and they naively stayed there because of their youthful idealism and sense of duty. Like Private Ryan, most do not survive the engagement. What is notable is not that Pohl was able to make a much better film for a fraction of the cost (that is not particularly unusual), but that he was able to convey more perspective four years after the event than Spielberg could manage 50 years later.But these criticisms of Private Ryan are based on the assumption that Spielberg's intent was to make a worthwhile war film and there is simply nothing to support this assumption. More likely Spielberg's agenda was make money while subtly refuting post-war portrayals (such as "Das Boot" and "Cross of Iron") of the German soldier as something more than the sub- human creature of WWII propaganda days or the cartoon villains of his own "Raiders of the Lost Ark" series. The genius of Private Ryan is its success in packaging this sick message inside a commercially successful film. At the time of its release and its almost universal acclaim, this aspect of the film was largely unrecognized (and unexamined) by both audiences and critics. In this respect it owes less to the war films it shamelessly plagiarizes than to early 1950's cinema, where McCarthy-paralyzed Hollywood directors resorted to subtle themes that went undetected by studio executives and regulators. Only recently has its status begun to erode as individual critics more carefully examine its elements, away from the euphoria that surrounded its initial releaseAlthough "Saving Private Ryan was popular, remember that the "Rat Patrol" ran for 58 episodes, watched by television audiences who were also entertained by similar silly nonsense.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.
Great film is an illuminating thing: it shines its light into the dark recesses of humanity, revealing the greed, hatred, and hypocrisy that fester there. Bad film is often just as revealing: its existence and reception serve as a mirror reflecting the hearts of its intended audience. Saving Private Ryan is a classic example of the latter, in the flickering light of its propagandistic glow, the American people stand revealed for what they really are: stupid, self-absorbed, morally unsophisticated rubes ready to be fleeced by the first charlatan who comes along and tells them what they want to hear."Saving Private Ryan" is typical Steven Spielberg fare: a big budget spectacle, bereft of style, filled to the brim with childishly heavy-handed moralizing and peopled with facile "characters" who exist only as cardboard cutouts for the ensuing morality play. Even the film's underlying subtext is an old Spielberg standby - America GOOOOOD, Nazis BAAAAD. The plot of Saving Private Ryan revolves around a simple moral question: is saving one life worth potentially sacrificing the lives of many? This fourth grade ethical dilemma is played out for nearly three hours over the background of the brocage of Normandy in the hours and days immediately after the D-Day landings, and is handled with Spielberg's usual wandering attention, ham-fisted lack of subtlety and babbling pop psychology. Spielberg being Spielberg, there's never any doubt how the question will ultimately be answered (hint: with saccharine sentimentality in front of a tombstone - because, obviously, the same scene wasn't manipulative enough when it was used to close Schindler's List). The film opens with thirty minutes of unremitting carnage as US soldiers assault Omaha Beach. This opening scene has been hailed for its savage realism, but it is in truth one of the more cynically manipulative sequences in recent memory, full of irritating, disorienting jump cuts, pornographically Gibsonesque attention to gory detail, camera tricks and special effects artifices, all accompanied by a deafening soundtrack designed to overwhelm our capacity to think about what is being portrayed on the screen and to push us to simply immerse ourselves in its reductive US vs. Them POV. When I saw this film in the theaters, the audience cheered when the first German soldier was killed, then cheered again when American troops murdered surrendering Germans in cold blood: this, I'm sure, was Spielberg's intent.Having bulldozed and buried any hint of the moral ambiguity of war, Spielberg gets around to the heart of the movie. It has been discovered by the War Department that one Private Ryan (Matt Damon) is now the sole surviving son of a family who has sent five sons to war. Unfortunately, Ryan was a part of the paratrooper drop that preceded the Normandy landings and is missing behind enemy lines. In a moment of supreme hokum (complete with a quotation of a letter by Abraham Lincoln that wouldn't feel out of place in a Ken Burns documentary), Army Chief of Staff Gen. George Marshall (Harve Presnell) decides that an effort will just have to be made to save Private Ryan.At this point, Saving Private Ryan becomes just another motley-crew-of-experts flick. A team of caricatures is assembled: the tough-as-nails seargent; the feisty Italian; the pious Southern sniper with Talent on Loan from God (if the historical setting had been Vietnam, I'm sure this character would have been replaced by Cuba Gooding Jr. as The Magic Negro); the REMF pussy - all led by Tom Hanks in the role of Tom Hanks, Captain Everyman. Call them the Sanitized Seven. Battles ensue. Some of the caricatures die (does anyone really remember which ones?). The Germans never miss an opportunity to remind us how EVIL they are. One wehrmacht man - having been saved from certain death at the hands our intrepid heroes by the earnest pleas of the REMF - returns only to slowly and sadistically stab an American to death. Oh those tricksy Krauts! In the end, Ryan is saved and Tom Hanks is dying. But it was all worth it. Cue the graveside maundering. USA! USA! USA!The problem with Saving Private Ryan is the problem with everything Spielberg touches. More broadly, it is the problem of the American commercial cinema. Lacking the courage of any real conviction, it cannot offer any challenge to its audience. Instead, it panders to that audience with easy answers, impressive effects, a soundtrack that booms and tinkles in all the right places and a nice mom's apple pie pat on the back for every red blooded American. What's missing is even the faintest glimmer of awareness that the world doesn't break down neatly into heroes and villains, cowards and the courageous, us and them. In the place of subtlety, it gives us spectacle, in the place of art, it delivers technically proficient propaganda.
Spielberg just about had it here, at least for the first half hour or so. He looked at the bone-crunching, grisly history of D-day and had the movie to put it on the screen with some respect for honest reality. Then, with his Hollywood sellout lack of vision, Spielberg decided to throw it all away on patriotic fantasy. The 'true' story the film may be based on has some chaplain in France discovering Ryan after word was passed along that his brothers had all been lost and the lad should be shipped back to America so his mother still has one child to work the farm. Or, the story could be straight out of the writer's head but it hardly matters. The premise itself strikes the viewer as utterly ludicrous after a half-hour of complete slaughter, the seas red with human blood and gore. We are expected to believe that an army chief is sitting in his office and worrying over Private Ryan and his family while the assault on Normandy is costing thousands upon thousands of lives, while the allied bombers are missing their mark up and down the coast and Hitler's machine guns are just mowing down allies like grass. What romantic rubbish and so typical of Hollywood. And the portrayal of the German prisoner is morally offensive. The German people have never been less human than Americans, even when they were lead by an evil leader into a war.  To portray them as Spielberg does the prisoner, a bumbling idiot who later becomes a murdering snake, hissing shhh as he slowly sinks a huge knife into an American chest, is low-brow, hateful stuff. But nobody is going to notice. Believe me. In fact, we love to see the world in black and white, simplistic terms.  Here come the Oscars for Spielberg. Americans (and my own Canadians too) are generally not prepared to see the truth about themselves. Capital 'D' Denial reigns supreme, especially at the box-office. Spielberg's big budget is spent to further anesthetize us while claiming to be trying to do justice to the truth. If he'd stayed on the beach at Omaha, he'd have a nine out of ten. Instead, he rates several points less for this updated version of that old T.V. series called Combat. Please see Amy Taubin's review at the following URL. It's much more articulate and generous than mine. http://www.villagevoice.com/ink/film/30taubin.shtml


                
Spielberg has once again lost the plot. This was a terrible war movie covering no new ground, but instead recycling the same old war issues in a dull manner. The opening scene was spectacular for five minutes and boring for the next twenty minutes. Enough is enough. In typical Spielster fashion the movie was too long, and the Spielster had way too much money in his budget. I would love to see him use some creative material like his 70's movies such as "Close Encounters of the Third Kind". How humiliated the Spielster must have felt after comparing the superb "The Thin Red Line" next to his babbling mess.Sorry Spielster, 2 out of 10.


                
I have read most of the comments about SPR and I must say I agree with those who resent and loathe the film. I went to see it last week, and I was terribly disappointed. I was disappointed mainly because of the: 1. The sentimental awkward frame 2. The vomit-inducing score 3.Rotten dialog 4. Moral hypocrisy But most of all I was disappointed by the predictability of the plot. We all know from the beginning who will die and how. It is no surprise that Tom Sizemore.. dies last followed by Hanks..maybe this is the love-story of the film? When the best buddy dies Hanks literally throws himself at the bullets. American films don't really need women basically it's all about bonding in the forceful wilderness.. if it isn't Indians it's Germans and the rest of the world doesn't exist not even in Europe.I know these comments may be a trifle vengeful or sarcastic but I love movies I am not one of those freaks who only watch French films and thinks everything else is crap.But I HATE to be disappointed when I've had such great expectations. I totally agree with the comment on the motivations of the geek character shooting the runaway German. What was that all about? Wasn't the point of his release to show that the geek was more humane than the rest of them? The knife scene seems rather erotized to me two men so close to death(and not the little one I may add)and penetration, whispering ..slowly, slowly in German. I find this extremely disturbing where does this fit in? I don't have much else to say but I have lost my faith in Spielberg's abilities(What's the point of having a sniper citing from the bible?)As far as I am concerned he hasn't made a thrilling scene since Dreyfuss built that mountain in his living room in close encounter, and that moment is far more realistic than any scene in SPR !!!! What is the difference between this film and other violent films that earn money? The plot structure is exactly the same, the characters are the same, the music is the same. (The moral is the same pasted nicely to a waving American flag) The only difference is that something similar (so realistic...)happened in the past. If people can become wealthy this way I have given my support to Spielberg's bank account for the very last time. The best war film ever made is still STALINGRAD!!!!!!!!!!! But I guess no American will know this before someone makes an American version all I can say is : I hope it wont be Spielberg..
When it came out, Saving Private Ryan was lauded for it's "realistic depiction of war," and for its "attention and sensitivity to the common man caught up in the sway of forces far beyond his control." It was supposed to be a story about the men more than a story about the war.Unfortunately, it was none of these things.The message of this movie seems to be that war is a very deeply affecting and moving experience, as long as you're an American. Common everyday plain old American Teachers, as shown by Tom Hanks' character, are sent into the fray and forced to become fighting men. We are shown, however, that the humanity of that Teacher is still there, even as he is fighting the "Evil Bloodthirsy Germans."And this is where my problem lies. How can a movie that uses cookie cutter Nazis, that treats German soldiers as simply "the enemy," even make the claim that it is a realistic depiction of war? Somehow, only the Americans in Saving Private Ryan have a human component, the Germans conveniently having lost theirs. Compare this with the Japanese soldiers shown in The Thin Red Line and you'll see that Saving Private Ryan's praise for being an understanding and sensitive picture of that war is little more than a joke.Now, I'm not saying i do not understand why the Germans are depicted as so flat. If I were Jewish and had family members who had been in concentration camps, I probably wouldn't be able to depict Germans in anything but a dehumanized capacity either. Having said that, however, the dehumanizing of the enemy, the labeling of a people and the flattening of their character and humanity, is what allowed the Germans to kill so many Jews.
This movie is anything but a realistic depiction of the Second World War.


                
Stupid is maybe the wrong way to describe it. But after hearing SO much about it and reading here that it´s the "best war movie ever", I was sorely disappointed.First of all, the "great exciting 30 minutes" beginning nearly gave me an epileptic seizure with all that jerky camera movement. I´m glad I watched this on DVD and not in the cinema, because I could turn on the subtitles, otherwise I wouldn´t have understood a word of what the characters were saying because of all that BANG! BOOM! EXPLOSION!The plot. Well, the ridiculous plot has been discussed to death here by many others, so I won´t get into it. The "great surprise ending"? I saw that coming from the beginning, but maybe that´s because the movie isn´t called "Saving Private Ryan", but "Der Soldat James Ryan" over here. That reminds me, the Germans, when they were speaking german, were pretty horrible (I watched the original english version) - I doubt those were authentic Germans, which is strange because Spielberg usually thrives on authenticy.Finally, there was too much comedy (especially that "Here, I am James Ryan" thing, that was so weak) for a serious war movie. I can do with the bickering of the soldiers among each other, but this movie was a bit overdoing it - it´s cool in an Indiana Jones movie, because hey, Indy´s an action COMEDY, but here, it didn´t work.
I will be blunt 2 out of 10. The only people who will rave about this are Americans who have won this war but the First and every other war that has happened (just watch U-571 if you don't believe me and to think in really life and not films it was the British that got the Enigma machine!). Steven Spielberg I would just like to say how believable the first half an hour was with the scenes on the beach. Someone as young as me can only imagine the horrors of what those brave men (that is British, Australian, French, Dutch etc) went through in both World Wars (to me and the trenches of the First would be the most horrific). These behind the scenes men would not care about one person and other men could not be spared to go and find him! I know for a fact they do not as my Great Grandmother had to endure something similar in the First World War! I also wonder if these script writers do any research or care about history? The answer is no.


                
Instead of me picking this the best war film ever, I choose it as the most overrated film of all time.  An entire squadron would not be sent into uncertain territory just to bring back one man who really had no purpose to be saved.  There were several others out there just like him, I'm sure. All of the people who didn't deserve to survive did. This movie was just a load of it.  Definetly not Spielberg's best and not Hank's best role.  Anyone who picks this as one of the best movies ever needs therapy.


                
Tom Hanks and Co. sneak across battlefields to bring home the titular private, while staying one step ahead of Col. Klink and Sgt. Schultz.This has to be the most over rated film in recent history. The Germans are portrayed so flatly that they may as well have saved money on actors and used cardboard stand-ups. But check out how kind hearted those U.S. soldiers are! They spare the life of an enemy!! They risk a dozen men for the life of one, who may not even be alive!! What?? Are these tears on my keyboard as I type this?This film is one that *appears* to be portraying humanity at it's lowest and highest...but in reality it is a sham, perpetrated by a Spielbergian wizard, pulling his levers behind a curtain of propaganda. At it's best, this movie is a pro-war advertisement masquerading as patriotism for humanity. At it's worst...well, look around, you're soaking in it.I'd refer anyone who is interested to read Howard Zinn's essay in his book "Howard Zinn On War". He talks a bit against this movie in a way I could never do, because he was there.


                
The basic techniques of this film are sadistic gore and portentous heroic cliche. It is a revolting mixture. Dozens of times, we see the faces of people realizing they are about to die and then brutally slaughtered. As often as possible, cruelly and whilst attempting to surrender. All except the hero, who dies like a hero in an opera. And then the American flag flutters over the screen and the dewy-eyed veteran remembers.Perhaps this is 'realism'. but so what. we choose what we want to watch and what should be put in movies. And regarding the last battle sequence, do armoured divisions really attack one at a time? Perhaps this is why the Germans lost.
The audio engineering and sound effects are the best of any war picture ever.  This is among many valid reasons why SAVING PVT RYAN is a must-see movie.  However, do not expect perfection.  Do not expect this film will live up to all of the hype.Briefly stated, members of the WWII generation spoke with a formality not captured in SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.  Unlike Hanks et al, Rock Hudson, Jimmy Stewart, Earnest Borgnine, and many old-time actors served in WWII.  Even more future writers, directors and Hollywood producers served as well. Their later film efforts accurately captured the feel of the times.  The difference is rather striking.  Please view any movie or even a TV production created by members of the Greatest Generation and see for yourself how it compares to RYAN.    As unlikely as it may seem, one can even hold out "Hogan's Heroes" -- a light TV comedy set during WWII created in the early 60's by men who had experienced WWII -- as a Hollywood production better capturing the essence of WWII era interpersonal communication.  The characters in HOGAN naturally and automatically interacted with each other with the yes sir's and no sir's, personal respect and greater formality common in the 1940's.  Looking further, any Hollywood film produced in the 40's and 50's captured the essence of the day even better.Where a lightweight TV comedy succeeds, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN shockingly fails.  Characters in RYAN interact with the casual ease of 1998, and NOT with the formality common in the 1940's.  Rather than appearing to be part of the Greatest Generation, the actors in PRIVATE RYAN seem to be following the motivations of modern Hollywood producers who know only today's post Viet-Nam contempt, scorn and cynicism.  Speaking of cynicism, the subplot of the General's high class transport plane was completely made up in SAVING PRIVATE RYAN -- made up by a post Viet-Nam Hollywood.


                
The opening scene promises much and it's great and dramatic. But far from realistic. It can't be possible to shoot the Germans using a mirror. I can't help but wonder where are the British in this film? Americans didn't won the war all by themselves.The way Germans are portrayed is stupid. To one dead American there are 5 dead Germans. How could the Germans invade almost half of Europe if they are so lousy fighters? Visually the movie is great but the story is unbelievable and the whole movie is way too patriotic. Why would anyone send many men to save one guy? It would have been much easier to contact private Ryan's superiors and send the guy back home. And the scene where captain Miller dies is just a big cliché.


                
Spielberg has claimed in interviews that one of his purposes in making Saving Private Ryan was to specifically honor the soldiers who fought that war; a noble sentiment. But being a film buff, you'd think Spielberg would be familiar with the constant stream of films from the 40's through the 50's into the 60's and beyond including TV shows that did just that. It makes me wonder if he had another purpose in making Saving Private Ryan.He does. In the excellent series of interview DVD's put out by the American Film Institute titled The Directors, in the episode devoted to Spielberg he claims that he wanted to make Saving Private Ryan with a documentary style eschewing the Chapman Cranes and Steadicam approach to big budget film-making. He wanted the film to look exactly like a war photographer would have shot it had he been at Omaha Beach.Clearly, one look at the opening beach sequence shows he succeeded in that desire. But if Chapman cranes and Steadicams are not realistic, is artificially slowing down the film OK? How about de-saturating the color out of the film to make it almost seem black and white? What about heavily manipulating the soundtrack? Does war really exist in Dolby 5.1 Sound? I mean, what are we REALLY watching here? What has Spielberg done with Saving Private Ryan other than simply add an element of "Chainsaw Massacre Movie" gore to the war film, a genre that is surprisingly non-gory. But the thing that annoys me most about Saving Private Ryan is something that is no real fault of the film. It's the way so many people fatuously praise the film as being "realistic". A bunch of different critics even stated that this film "avoids all the clichés" usually associated with WWII films.Avoids clichés? Have any of you seen it? Well, lets just start with the squad who goes after Private Ryan in the film, do we have the tough, but decent guy from the Midwest? Check, Tom Hanks! Do we have a vaguely ethnic type? Check, Vin Diesel as Caparzo. How about the young coward who later on shows courage? Check with Jeremy Davies character. What about the wise guy from New York? Check with Ed Burns. Did we forget the country boy sharpshooter? No, we have Barry Pepper as a cross kissing sniper. You may just as well have cast Anthony Quinn, Wally Cassel, William Bendix, Lloyd Nolan and Richard Jaeckel. Certainly, John Wayne would have been perfect for the Tom Hanks role.Staying with realism, does Spielberg even get the facts of Omaha Beach right? The real plan was for the men to secure the beach and then have bulldozers knock down the sea wall. Tanks would then blast through German fortifications and then the men would follow the tanks. What really happened was that the water and tides were unexpectedly strong and the men were washed completely off course. That's why they landed directly in front of German machine gun nests; they certainly weren't heading there on purpose. After suffering terrible human losses and with the water being too deep for the tanks, (only 2 of the 29 tanks ever made it), the surviving men waited at the sea wall for five or six hours until German fire had died down and then they climbed up the sides of the bluffs, double-backed and attacked the Germans from behind, eventually over running them. That's what really happened. I found that out by simply looking this battle up in the Encyclopedia Britannica. Apparently, that is something no one at Paramount Pictures did because that is not what happens in the "realistic" Saving Private Ryan.Spielberg presents the Omaha Beach slaughter as if this is what happened all over on D-Day. Again, not true, in fact, troop casualties were much less than expected. Yes, more than 2000 soldiers died at Omaha Beach, which saw the fiercest fighting and was a terrible slaughter, but a fifteen miles down the coastline at Utah Beach, they suffered less than 200 casualties and even less to the north at Juno and Gold beaches. I'm not trying to be disingenuous here. I know Saving Private Ryan was about this specific group going into this particular battle, but overall, what was presented in Saving Private Ryan is not what most soldiers faced that day.But what is really unforgivable to me, if you watch Saving Private Ryan, is you will get no sense that anybody other than Americans were involved in this action. Remember, it was called The Allied Invasion, not The American Invasion, which might explain why Saving Private Ryan is hailed as being accurate over here, but in other countries, notably Britain and Canada, who also lost soldiers that day, they find this film laughable.Nobody minds that Spielberg fudged things historical in order to make a dramatic movie. But pretending you didn't is wrong. And yes, just because Paramount Pictures says this is the way it happened, don't make it so. Saving Private Ryan is clearly a well-intentioned film and was made with skill and care. But, ultimately it is nothing more than a feel good picture, full of flag waving banalities and video game style violence. It is World War II: The Ride. Steven Spielberg has made a gripping and entertaining film with Saving Private Ryan. But that's all. Let's save our Medals of Honor for those who show bravery in an actual war.
I'm no expert on the Normandy landings, but I know enough to know that the opening scenes of the movie, so highly lauded as realism, were pure hokum. Though there may have been some landing craft whose occupants were slaughtered as the doors opened, and whose few survivors were then further decimated on the beach, less than 10% of those who landed on Omaha Beach were injured or killed. So what was the point of showing the fountains of blood? We know war is hell. Showing it realistically is gruesome enough, without stretching the truth.The movie went downhill from there. The next three hours were spent tediously watching a single squad of a men walking all around 400 square miles of France asking whether anyone has seen Private Ryan. How ridiculously absurd. Again I must ask, what was the point? It stretched credulity beyond the limit.I think the biggest reason I was so disappointed in this movie is that it was so highly acclaimed by critics when it was released. I can't imagine why.


                
The movie starts out with a recreation of the Normandy landings.  Plenty of gore, some humor which may have been untintentional.  The US army platoon shows they know how to stay alive, use cover, not take foolish chances, etc. The whole landing was better shown in "The Longest Day" without the gore but this first sequence was effective. Next the platoon is asked to find 1 particular solider. At this point the boys seem to leave all their brains behind. They decide to fight to the death over some meaningless bridge, commit one act of  stupidity after another. This would make some sort of sense if they were green troops but they spent the whole first half hour showing how good they were at fighting. Everyone  I know thought the whole last section of the movie, irritating, stupid, or worse. How it got such a high rating is beyond me.  After you sit through it once you will never want to see it again.


                
This is literally the worst movie I have ever seen and I hate myself for seeing it. The four soldier leads are all just empty shells each with one dominant characteristic - we have the alpha one, the quiet one who tries to fit into a war dominated environment (and fails), the stereotypical beta character and the obvious soon-to-be-dead. The only female actor that has more than five minutes of screen time is a man and he is closeted, whose character doesn't seem to have two brain cells to rub together, and therefore correctly represents (in the eyes of those sad individuals who stand behind this piece of s**t of a movie)the entire male population. Ironically, he still manages to kill every German he meets because he's non-nazi. This movie is just bad and I would tell you to avoid it like the plague, but if you're anything like I am, all these bad reviews are probably just making you want to see it even more. Do so at your own peril.


                
The first half hour of Saving Private Ryan is excitingly filmed, graphic and horrifying. The rest of the movie is maudlin, bloated, badly plotted and with some of the least compelling dialogue it has been my misfortune to hear. A movie that starts and ends with the US flag is likely to put non-American viewers off side. It would appear that the only people involved in World War II were the Americans, a few cowed and unimportant French peasants and pantomime German villains. A psychiatrist friend of mine assures me that this movie is a classic illustration of the isolation caused by post traumatic stress disorder, but her husband agrees with me that the movie is just rubbish. The Thin Red Line, which was so overshadowed by this farrago, was of a poetic beauty that is rare in US cinema. See that instead.


                
I gave it a vote as high as 3 merely because I believe that on technical merits alone, it was quite good.  However, as far as its entertainment value, it had none whatsoever for me.  I found that I could not see past the violence and gore...  It therefore, as far as I was concerned, had no plot, no character development, no nothing.  Many will disagree with those statements, but note that it's not that the script was without those things, or even that the actors necessarily did a bad job, but simply that the violence was just too strongly present.I remember hearing that the director wanted this to be a movie that would "show how war really was".  Well, I've never been in a war, nor do I have any desire to fight.  If this movie gave me the feeling of being in a war, than if I am ever in one, I will become a mindless drone.  I will be almost completely without emotion, my biggest feeling will be one of disgust. I do not feel, though, that this movie has made me feel any differently about war...  I still think it's a horrible thing. The movies that have made me feel more strongly in that direction are those that have drawn me in to the characters lives, and then ripped those lives apart.  Just a few such examples are Platoon and Schindler's List on the serious side, and just as potently Good Morning Vietnam and Life is Beautiful on the comedy side.


                
I can't believe that this movie is number 5 in the all time list, as voted by nearly 7000 people in this register.You are all mad!  This movie will basically be forgotten in 6 months time. Sure, if you think that a detached arm, quivering on the D-day beaches is great cinema, then I suppose you may like think this movie good.  Otherwise, think about it... What is the story?  Not much of one Realistic? I suppose, but nothing that Full Metal Jacket, Apocalypse Now and a host of others don't have... this is just another one of those attempted "ground-breakers" which will be copied by everyone.  Believe me, shortly people will be saying "Saving Private Who?".  If you want to have quivering body parts and open wounds, watch any of a host of horror movies from about the 1950's on. Tom Hanks for an Oscar?  You have to be kidding.  Forrest Gump was a better role.  The man has next to no personality in this role, and his portrayal doesn't help.


                
If you don't like typical American movies, playing cheaply with human emotions: go and spend your well earned money elsewhere.Or leave the theatre after the Rangers have captured the beachhead, because that is the only original input Steven Spielberg has made with his overrated Saving Private Ryan. Maybe your local theatre is showing an old WWII classic ?!


                
This movie starts and ends with shots of the American flag which points to one of its biggest problems. It purports to be an anti war film but this rubbish. While it may show the horrors of war in graphic detail, it ultimately is a celebration of militarism and heroism. Sure, heroism doesn't mean it's a pro-war movie but this movie goes beyond that. It's little surprise that the military are among the biggest fans of this movie. It may not celebrate war as a something good, but then, I can't think of any film that does outside of propaganda movies. If you want an anti war movie that shows heroism and mateship without celebrating the military, watch "All Quiet on the Western Front".It does follow the standard American war movie characterisation rather faithfully. The Germans are universally evil, other nations are either non-existent, villains or locals who get saved by the Americans. Well in this case it is not that far from the truth, without the Americans the war would have gone on much longer than it did and the Germans were villains. But all these facts are distorted and stereotyped in a bad way here. For example, the only German with a sizeable speaking role turns out to be a total coward and backstabber who repays the Americans who saved his life by shooting them. There are a couple of good points to the movie though. It does deviate somewhat from the standard US heroic movies in that it shows that Americans committed war crimes too, like shooting soldiers who had already surrendered. There are also some quite powerful scenes that are as good as any Spielberg has done. Best among them is the scene where a father in a French village tries to pass his daughter to one of the soldiers to save her. This single scene can probably verify this movie's claim to show the horrors of war somewhat. The landing in the Normandy is good, although somewhat overrated. I wasn't there so I can't comment on the realism but it felt like this was close to what it was really like. Many people were upset that the movie only shows Americans fighting the Germans, but for once, this is not really a valid argument since the various armies fought in different areas and would have had very little contact amongst each other. The movie really goes downhill towards the end though when the troop actually find Ryan. Instead of being glad to be out of this hell, he wants to stay there to help out his comrades. Very anti war indeed. This is where the movie turns totally Hollywood and looses all claim it may have had to a somewhat realistic portrayal. A number of people had died already in trying to find Ryan and his decision to stay there costs another couple of people their lifes yet the movie makes him a total hero for it. Steven Spielberg is capable of making great movies, this isn't one of them.The acting is not particularly good and leaves out no cliches. Tom Hanks was actually nominated for an Academy Award for a role that Pee Wee Herman could have played better.Finally, the salutation scene in the end is totally stomach churning.


                
The movie starts off in blazing hell, 15 minutes of stahlgewitter, men screaming, scattered and dying in a visual assault of maimed bodies and detached limbs. Without a doubt one of the most shocking and memorable depictions of war ever shot. Unfortunately the movie takes a big dip from that point on. Instead of showing us the absurdities of war, something the plot could well have brought across, Spielberg laborously evolves the movie around trusted values like male comradeship, loyalty and heroic patriotism, blasting the genre of the american war movie 30 years into the past. Combined with the effort of Hollywood's most pretentious actor, Tom Hanks, and a criminally tacky score makes this one of the most pathetic war movies ever made.Terrence Malik's "Thin Red Line", which it incidently sunk at the box offices, shows what this movie could - should have been.


                
This movie was overall a great movie. --BUT-- (big scary letters) But only the first 20 minutes were actually historic. I know maybe it wasn't meant to all be historic but doesn't a war movie usually have to be like the real thing? The actual Omaha beach scene at the start is the only real historic event, the rest is all fictional. Thoug I cannot reveal why it is not all fictional I can still tell you that whatever the movie describes and/or you think it is, war is not always actually like what you see.War is gruesome, painful, depressing (x 9222845363), terrible, and basically it is one of the most horrible things that can ever happen. Dying is not horrible, as everyone is meant to die, but the pain and agony and all the other things that go along with war is.So basically I'd like to stick to more historically accurate movies.Also, America FORGOT (OR MAYBE JUST DIDN'T WANT TO INCLUDE) THE COUNTRIES THAT DID MOST OF THE DIRTY WORK!!!!! LIKE CANADA!!!!!!! LIKE GREAT Britain!!!!!!!! HOW CAN YOU FORGET THEM TOO???????????????????????????????????????? Also, the movie was incredibly corny. It was not true AT ALL except for the first 20 minutes. It's like they say about North American cars and European cars: THEY ADD MORE GADGETS AND TAKE AWAY ALL THE QUALITY!Yet we must remember the ones whom actually fought. Lest we forget.


                
Saving Private Ryan, features one of the most corrupt moral structures in the history of film. Over the last quarter century, only one movie, also radically overrated, is even more pernicious: Forrest Gump. What do we make of the fact that Tom Hanks is the protagonist in both?That IMDB members rate it so highly reflects poorly on the judgment of the population of "serious" film viewers, given the extraordinary array of wonderful films made over the last century.The film has one sensational feature: the opening sequence. That is enough to make the film memorable, but it does not make it good. Platoon also has a terrifying jungle version of a battle sequence, if not so extensive, but that is integrated into a much better movie.The first, and essential problem: the plot is completely fallacious, which is worse than being simply made up. The Allied venture in WWII was far too serious an enterprise for a whole platoon to be sent out on an improbable, indeed fool's, errand across country to "save" one person while risking them all in an non-essential enterprise, particularly when modern communications obviated the necessity for any such an action.Second, though it follows standard practice in representing the American population with a mix of backgrounds for the platoon, other than the sainted Captain Miller, played by Hanks, only one person is identified as having an educated point of view though his role back home is apparently clerical, namely Corporal Upham, the translator, and he is painted from the beginning as the coward.This fact is made abundantly clear during the utterly unnecessary, indeed unwise, assault on the machine gun installation, which puts the lie to the value of their venture when they ignore it to engage in an action that could undo it altogether. Upham, seized with fear, cowers behind as his buddies take the nest. He joins them in time for the debate over the fate of the surviving German, pictured as a nasty customer. He invokes abstract moral principle, arguing that the German should not be summarily shot (Germans being murdered in cold blood are actually shown in the background in scenes of the mop-up just after the beaches have been secured), and thus they decide to let him go since they cannot take him with them.Jump to the final series of sequences. Private Ryan is found. The good Captain Miller is shot and killed. By whom? By the nasty German soldier they let go earlier, that's who. About this time, that miserable wretch Upham is further demonstrating his utter lack of character by cringing on the staircase of a building while a fight to the death is being going on between another of his buddies and another evil German, who kills the GI with his knife after an agonizing struggle. Soon he has visually abased himself further by cowering in a ditch. Moments later, he is confronted by the evil German who has killed Miller, and another German soldier. They have been taken prisoner (at least as I remember it). The moment the German recognizes him, Upham shoots him point blank, as if to silence a truth and commit the murder he had forestalled near the beginning of the story. We are left to make sense of that, but no interpretation could be a positive one.The only real lesson of the movie: rules - morality more generally - do not apply to war. If someone is in the way, take care of him. Kill or be killed. If you don't, you will pay. The good side is good regardless of what it does; also, in this stupid plot, regardless of how senseless it is.Finally, Saving Private Ryan is the surest realization of the Achilles heel that has dogged Spielberg all of his career: his impulse to the maudlin or safe, accept that here he is dishonest the moment the plot kicks in and continues to be right to the end. He would have been a truly great director but for this fault, which tainted such memorable films as Schindler's List and the endings of Minority Report and AI.


                
