The greatest war movie ever?  Come on, folks, who are you trying to kid. While SPR is certainly a technical tour de force, in emotional, spiritual, historical and narrative terms it stinks, for the same reason most of Spielberg's films (with the exception of Schindler's List, marvellous) stink:  the man has no vision, and little or no artistic integrity.  (Why else does he churn out rubbish like Jurassic Park II? I'll tell you why - money.)SPR is dishonest, silly and trite, an insult to the men who died in the real D-Day landings.  The story premise, as others here have pointed out, is risible, the framing device unnecessary and stupidly sentimental.  How anybody over the age of 9 can rate this film higher than genuine masterpieces such as Paths of Glory, All Quiet on the Western Front or Cross of Iron is beyond me.  Still, a lot of people who visit this site think Star Wars and Lord of the Rings are the greatest films ever made, which probably explains something.Watch the first 20 minutes, and then switch off.  Pants.


                
This was a piece of fictional propoganda showing how only the Americans (and, I think, the Germans) were involved in WWII.Utter Baloney!The series Band of Brothers put together by Spielberg and Hanks was tremendously real and honest. Their consciences must have been guilty over the movie. They more than made up for it with the series.


                
Any movie that opens with a lengthy shot of the American flag has got problems.In general, I thought it superficial, poorly written and poorly directed. Spielberg has a penchant for thrusting his movies upon his viewers, spoon -feeding them morality in doses of banal righteousness. I personally don't go to the movies to be treated like a schoolkid and taught a lesson so elementary, vague, and though ultimately true, trite.Those who see Saving Private Ryan as a revelatory view of war obviously slept through High School History. War is gruesome, war isn't fun, war sucks. Glad to see the truth Spielberg, but dizzying freehand camera shots, pointless music (the music sucked throughout), and timed successions of loud booms gave me more of a headache than visceral enlightenment. About 5 minutes into the D-Day scene, when the cacophony of camera shots and dead bodies reached its apogee, I asked myself:  "Why did Spielberg put this in? Did he have any real reason except to embellish the gruesomeness of war? Does this really contribute to the movie?" I found the answer to be no.Then there's the plot and characters ... wait, what plot and characters? Here are 8(?) men meandering through French territory wondering why they are all such damn stereotypical and superficial characters. There's the bookworm, the Italian, the Southerner, the Jew, etc. In the end I can't feel very much for any of these characters  cause they're not even human to me; they're typecasts. Even Tom Hanks (who does a worthy job), remains distant and emotionally inaccessible (due to poor writing). (So we know that his hand shakes and he teaches English. BFD) Spielberg could take a lesson from, say, John Sayles, about character development.Then there's the plot. From the title, I expected there to be more focus on Saving Private Ryan. Instead, the group wanders through Normandy and the hunt for Ryan becomes unimportant and adventitious. The movie's impetus is seriously lacking, and I accredit this to poor directorial focus. Spielberg had problems finding a point to direct the energy of the war to, and instead directed it towards some vague moral standard. Unlike, say, Apocalypse Now, where the search for Brando has a singular focus on him, the soldiers wander aimlessly and haphazardly stumble upon Ryan in the most obtuse and anticlimatic fashion possible. On their way they go through a perfectly crafted sine curve of battles and traumas, discoveries and enlighenments. And as soon as I saw Ted Danson I couldn't help but drift to place where everybody knows your name and guys in pasty blue uniforms named Cliff down Heneiekens. Now THAT'S poor focus.In the end I could predict flatly what would happen. Yes, it's a true story, so Spielberg was limited, but the presentation was just too flat. The ending  is so utterly pitiful and righteous I wanted to puke. "So, this is what the movie came down to?" I thought as the American flag waved me goodbye. "War is bad. America is good. Death is bad. Life is good. " Drink Bud.


                
Oh, come on, this flick is nothing but patriotic filth! The first twenty minutes are an accurate and meticulous portrayal of the Normandy landing, and the cinematography is just beautiful! But the story, the plot: forget it! I believe it is very unlikely that any superior in the military would send a whole platoon on such a BS assignment! And when they finally find Matt Damon aka Ryan he heroically wants to fight on and not leave the battle field! Ridiculous. This is popcorn BS for the masses and it makes me angry how Spielberg exploits an actual event in history to make some entertaining, overly corny and almost nationalistic movie out of it! I think that Spielberg displays a lack of responsibility, because this movie has the following messages: 1.Americans fought bravely against the Nazis and all of them believed they were fighting for a worthy cause. 2. American men are young and handsome, and if not, they are smart or wise. 3. All Germans are bad Nazis and ugly, too. 4. The Americans are superheros. 5. There was no anti-smut's within the American army. Well, people believe what they want to believe, and the more simplified the message is, the more they are willing to swallow it. If you want to take a deeper look into the real character of the American army, read books such as Mailer's The Naked and the Dead, but refrain from Spielberg, who is nothing but a lowbrow trying to look smart.
First of all I have to say i like the special effects of this movie, that's why it gets 3 out of 10. What does this film show us ? Steven Spielbergs "Masterpiece" of a war-movie "shows" us how history can be changed just to show German peoples as backstabbing, chicken-hearted and dumb. OK, the war has been lost, GOOD, I'm glad Germany lost that war. But the film does not display the truth. We all know Americans are the best soldiers, best humans, everyday when they wake up thinking about how to save the planet this time because they are the best peoples on this planet. So you see that soldier running to the bunker because he is an American, always ready to risk his own life for Worldpeace. If its the bad Russians, Japanese or Germans, we need to save this planet from them. I have one question. Who will save us from these intolerably Americans ?


                
Much has been made of the "realism" of this movie because thecombat scenes are graphic, intense, and more accurate in therange of detail than much of what came before it. But as much wasmade of the "authenticity" of this movie because of the attention todetail made in its preparation. For instance, Spielberg bought upthe last stock of original legging and strap material to make part ofthe uniforms, real M-1 rifles, searched exhaustively for the beachappropriate for shooting that was absolutely closest to theappearance of Normandy in 1944, and so forth.But let's think about that. What's the point of having an "authentic"cartridge belt, except that the audience knows about this from thereviews, planted press stories, etc.? A replica can be made to lookmore like the authentic thing than the authentic thing itself, giventhe aging of the intervening years. But this was a sort of formalisticpost-modern exercise engaged by the filmmakers to convincehimself and the audience, before even seeing the movie, thatwhat they were seeing represented the "truth".<potential spoiler follows>The opening scene of the aged Ryan, walking the graveyards ofNormandy, reflecting on the sacrifice of so many of his comradesjust so he could walk there with his adoring grandkids, is a classicexample of Spielberg heavy-handedness. He has to inject atone-deaf repetition of the 'why we fight' message into thebeginning, end, and middle of this movie to show that it was 'allworth it'. Spielberg, being a literalist, has every character in thesquad pontificate on the subject along the way to locate PrivateRyan.Why? Why do eight guys get themselves killed just to save one?Well, the needs of the one sometimes outweigh the needs of themany. Frankly, Star Trek III made the point somewhat more subtly. Or is it the words put into Tom Hanks' character's mouth, "I'm justfighting for the right to go home to my wife"? There's no elucidationof this point here, just a ham-fisted morphing flashback andflashforward to hammer home the point 'hey, this is connected tothe present' leaving the viewer to connect up the soundbyte dots.I won't go into the many war movie cliches this film engages in.Because Spielberg put together the celebrated first 20 minutes ofthis movie, some of the most stunning combat sequences put onfilm, does not excuse him the rest of the movie's repeated use ofB-movie props and stereotypes. Even the use of "documentary"film techniques in the combat sequences is a bit too precious: it'sreferential to real film of real combat, but hardly 'documentary'.Documentary evidence shows things that happened: this filmuses the technique to try to convince the viewer that a fictive,simplistic interpretation of war, the whys and the whats, is "reality".The verisimilitude of the visuals of the combat sequences doesnot make it "real". Using authentic materials from World War IIdoes not make it "real".  At the bottom of this movie is one versionof a fairy tale about war.For that reason I think 'Private Ryan' is a dangerous film, becauseit's become the primary historical education for most people aboutD-Day, World War II, and American participation in the mostcataclysmic event in history to date, and it's about as "true" to thatcomplex history as John Wayne was to the history of the West. Anexciting, hard-hitting action combat sequence that gets theapproval of veterans sixty-years removed from the events as being"like what it was" isn't history. It's constructing a virtual reality thatthreatens to overtake, engulf, swallow, and become history, like apod person in Invasion of the Body Snatchers.I am left mostly wondering what Sam Fuller could've done withSpielberg's budgets.
The first 30 minutes are great but after that the movie makes little sense. Aside from the totally ridiculous plot, the actions of the characters is pure hollywood fiction. The way they walk around nonchalantly, the bars on Hank's helmet (why not a bull's-eye), and the ridiculous notion of a sniper going anywhere near a bell tower are the things that bothered me the most. Why would they face overwhelming odds to save a bridge that the engineers could rebuild in a day? Denying it to the fleeing Germans would have been the priority. Faced with the odds that they were up against even a corporal would have had the military sense to blow the bridge before the Germans arrived and have everyone safely on the other side. Hey Spielberg, What's with the neo-nazi skinhead German soldiers? I have never seen a photograph of a WWII German soldier with a haircut remotely resembling this. I realize that actual soldiers were used as extras but you have to assume actors were given the speaking/close-up roles. Expected much more from all of the hype <U+0096> sorely disappointed by all the Hollywood glam.


                
I successfully avoided this until seeing Band of Brothers, which raised my previously low interest in Spielberg productions; having seen one too many of his mawkish, sentimental pieces of malarkey. Instead, it turns out it was wise to skip this for almost a decade.A troop that has just landed at Normandy is diverted to move 100m into France and find a single private whose value has just gone up. And sure... they walk the whole way (never even hitching a ride) They encounter provisioned troops every fifteen minutes along the way (any of which would have been more efficiently tasked with the mission.) and they find Ryan not alone & lost behind enemy-lines (maintaining radio silence, or in imminent danger); but amidst another platoon (also provisioned) and ready to take on a mission against 4 German tanks and about 80 Germans. Really... what a bunch of schlock!Why do people make up stories to tell about WW2 to show their respect for those who fought it? Make up characters? Invent a phony mission that never occurred? What? ...the hundreds of thousands of personal stories that exist didn't have enough dramatic range? This is a brazen slap in the face to all who fought. S.P.R. is just so much retrograde 1950's storytelling, and Spielberg doesn't have it in him to recognize cinematic cheese when he smells it. There's so much time for soldiers pouring out their hearts & having profound discussions that it's a wonder they even had time for a war. Spielberg is only a shade subtler than flashing subtitles every now and then that say, "CRY NOW!" and "WAVE THE FLAG!" I'm as susceptible as anyone to patriotism, but come on. The 3 stars I gave it are for the battle sequences. Every time the action slows & Spielberg needs to come up with something dramatic he delivers a pile of corn... and earns a barrel of lemons. Structurally this feels like a grab-bag of scenes made for an even longer movie. They find private Ryan almost effortlessly.And what's with the all-star cast, Hanks, Giamatti, Diesel, Damon, Danson, Hines, Ribisi... I can't imagine any of these guys are WW2 figures because they're all so overexposed in the current timeframe.I didn't need this giant pile of malarkey and all it's cheap sentiment to make me feel a debt to the Allies in WW2. I have reality to do that.
Spielberg is a highly competent director, who has a brilliant knack for making the right film at the right time. This has resulted in a number of his works being over-hyped to the point of the ridiculous.Saving Private Ryan is most certainly one of those films. Here we have a thin and totally implausible story, shallow characters, lack of historical authenticity... yet a reputation (confirmed on this board) of being "the best war movie of all time."Let me refute that view on just a couple of points.First, we should be clear that, while the opening D-Day sequence is certainly Spielberg at his best, it is by no means the best -- nor the first -- big-screen depiction of the realities of war. In fact, it's largely a rip-off of the equally good, and much earlier, beach-landing sequence in Cornel Wilde's 1967 tour-de-force, Beach Red. Spielberg modernizes the visuals very effectively, but does not improve on that earlier work, and in fact, echoes many specific sequences within it. (Wilde's film is also far more powerful in the rest of its story.)Second, aside from Private Ryan's many other weaknesses, I find most glaring it's unintentional irony. What country in WW II - other than the USA - could in its wildest dreams enjoy the luxury of bringing back one son merely because his siblings had died??? I can only imagine the jeers that must greet this idea when the film is shown in, say, Russia -- where tens of millions died, with no such convenient reprieves and nowhere to flee in any case. Or in England, where whole families had no choice but to soldier their way through the Blitz. The fact is, the soldiers of the USA were relatively unique in having a safe haven to return *to.* Saving Private Ryan not only manages to forget that fact, it somehow tries to make American troops seem the more heroic for it!I say the irony is unintentional... In fact, I long wondered if Spielberg had *meant* the story-line of Private Ryan ironically. But a recent interview on TCM convinces me that he did not. That's a shame. Done deliberately, this could have been a deliciously vitriolic statement on how the powers-that-be manipulate fighting men in the field. Instead, it's more like a slap in the face to the very men it attempts to honor. I have no idea how prevalent the "Private Ryan" reprieve really was; but presenting it without context does a disservice to the entire force.On the positive side, there's no denying the production is well-mounted. I give the film 3 stars, chiefly for the technical brilliance of the opening sequence - and for the presence of the always-watchable Tom Hanks.


                
First, the good things: this is a technically well made movie, with some impressive shots (specially at the beginning). The acting is standard good. And that's it.The plot is (at least) weak. And the chance to turn the whole thing into an interesting irony about war, military, etc., planted when the protagonists wander themselves about the reasons to save one life risking seven or eight, is missed when we see this general "really" convinced about returning to this one mother his last son alive, right after a scene of memorable butchery.All the chances to make any serious statement and provoke debates about war (or anything) are missed in front of this kind of caricaturesque characters so common in the mainstream movies.


                
The film may have been more than well-done gore-fest if any of the characters had been remotely interesting, I may have cared whether or not their lives were worth risking.  Their mission didn't seem any riskier than anything else they may have encountered.  There was no dramatic conflict.  The character-developing monologues were nauseating and the stories they told were recycled workshop material.  The true story upon which the film was based was totally undermined, and Spielberg's point of view is uncommitted, self-involved, and pedestrian.  He quotes Abraham Lincoln instead of exploring the issues, and asks for approval at the end. Frankly, the emptiness of the story, characters, and treatment wasn't worth the pain of the opening scene.


                
If you have read any of my posts then you might have detected a slight pro-military bent. Then you probably think that I liked "Saving Private Ryan". Think again! It stank. I muted the first 20 minutes of the movie where they depict with gruesome relish the effects of concentrated machine gun fire and artillery explosions on the human body. I preferred spending my time reading a book to watching that. Once that carnage was over I was treated to typical foul language, but nothing I haven't heard in my tour of duty. That I could have forgiven. But what they did with the story-line was absolutely dreadful.Clearly the people who wrote this script have no sense when it comes to military behavior or military tactics. For instance, the troops were going to mutiny to the command decision by their captain to attack a machine gun nest. Well I would too with an IDI*T like Tom Hanks' character leading a charge in broad daylight directly into the line of fire of said machine gun. Even an English teacher turned captain would have more sense than that. Then they captured a German soldier. So what do they do with him? They blindfold him and tell him to walk 1000 paces before taking off the blindfold... Well what a surprise when he turns up later to fight against this squad and tortuously slowly impale one of squad soldiers with a bayonet. All while one of the squad cowers in fear while his fellow soldiers are getting massacred around him. What a nice way to depict the soldiers. Oh and then the same cowardly soldier somehow finds his courage in time to capture some German soldiers (including the previous released prisoner) This time however he "cold-bloodedly" shoots him (revenge?)... I won't even bore you with the stupid decision for a light infantry squad to hold a bridge (instead of blowing it) against several tanks & armor with infantry support. It was a stupid movie and I am only feeling better now that I am able to give vent to my frustration at having watched it. I'm only glad that I didn't pay any money to watch this crud. I hate movies that blank me off when I watch them. THERE! 3 out of 10
Being interested in history enormously and loving films with an historical background, I was very interested in this one at first. But I really think this film is the very reason, I started to dislike movies about WWII. American productions dealing with this topic always include a lot of bathos, but this one was too much after all and I have no clue how come, so many critics are amazed by it. The description of the events is horribly one-sided and unrealistic that I can only recommend to watch "Das Boot" or "Der Untergang" (downfall) instead to get a realistic impression of what was going on back then.I still voted with three because the performance by Tom Hanks as a soldier suffering from Parkinson was quite good and interesting. I'm thus still waiting for a film showing the events on the American side realistically.


                
I was unaware of the furore this film caused because it got passed over for best picture by the Academy. Having watched both I have to say I think that for once they got it pretty much right. Sure, the landing scenes are awesome - they really are. They are the most graphic and horrific depiction one could imagine being translated onto screen. And, as a Brit who has also been to the beaches in question, I felt extremely humbled and thankful for the incredible sacrifices made. But this is a film, not a vote on the actual perfomance of the heoric men who fought to rid Europe of evil. And I'm afraid the second half of the film gets progressively worse until we are left with a silly tale about Tom Hanks saving the world. This is a real shame. The gravitas of the first part of the film deserved better treatment.


                
I won't rate this picture as an Academy-awarded. First sequence is too boredom. We know how they were killed.It was too long like a rush-film or a Russian war-movie the title of which I couldn't remind. If I were the producer, the Normandy scene would be cut into 6 or 10 minutes. It will be a fair length for the movie. The plot was too much elaborated and empty. Anyway what is it that Tom Hanks' right hand dindle. Why did he tingle like that? Had the writer and the rest of staff forgotten this matter? Goofs!! but the production-works are marvelous. Thus I rate it 4 for them.


                
the 3 points i gave this movie are all for the landing at the beach. the movie itself was just the usual Hollywood nonsense that thanks to big names (like Spielberg, Hanks and Damon) and big advertisement was successful. i admit the acting was good, but it still doesn't give this movie any importance.


                
After the first 20 minutes or so of incredibly gut-wrenching special effects, Saving Private Ryan becomes a rather simple (and simple-minded) war movie with a cliched plot and cardboard characters. While Tom Hanks and the other actors do a reasonable job, there really isn't much meat for them to chew on, acting-wise.After leaving the theater, my initial impression was "wow, what a great movie." But 20 minutes later, I realized that I was basing my opinion on the spectacular opening act, which really presented a realistic view of a large scale offensive.But that's about all the movie has going for it. The first act leaves the audience stunned, and Spielberg uses the diversion to traipse through the rest of the movie with nary a thought of actually doing anything remotely original or interesting. At the end, I really didn't care if Ryan was saved or not.


                
This movie is a disappointment in comparison to Steven Spielberg's previous films. It just did not have the magic of movies like Shawshank Redemption or Schindler's List. I think people are just so used to commending him that they are unable to realize that this isn't as stirring as some of his other great accomplishments. People need to start thinking for themselves, instead of letting others think for them.


                
Yes, the opening sequence is breathtaking.  Once it's over with though, the movie is a tired rehash of every WW II movie cliche.  It also features perhaps the most dreadful score of John Williams' career.


                
Special effects aside, this movie is too full of heroic and unrealistic portrayal of soldiers. War is not supposed to make sense and Spielberg's attempt to make it look gritty and touching fails terribly. This is pure Hollywood. Nothing artistic or Schindleristic about it. What a dissapointment.Only the opening sequence makes good. As for the rest of the plot about "saving private ryan"", it's just stale and too formulaic. I'm sickened and disgusted by this movie.Go watch Grave Of The Fireflies. Now that'll tear your heart in two.


                
In the aftermath of D-Day, Tom Hanks and his platoon of soldiers are sent off on a glorified PR-mission into harm's way to "rescue" and bring home the last surviving member of the Ryan family.Steven Spielberg can be a truly great director, but Saving Private Ryan is an increasingly tiresome and nearly unwatchable trudge through war movie clichés. After the harrowing opening recreation, the film slides inexorably downhill into a rut from which it never emerges. For all of the heralding by critics and fans of what a great film this is, it is predictable, mind-numbing and finally butt-numbing.A minor history lesson. While it is true that in events where an entire generation of a family enlisted and all but one died, there were efforts to extract and return the soldier in question home. However, extraction often meant waiting for the soldier or his commanding officer(s) to be in contact and then make appropriate arrangements for said soldier to be removed as soon as possible. Try as I might, I can find no historic evidence that documents what happens in this film, in that an entire platoon of men are placed in constant life-threatening situations in order to extract a single private for a glorified PR stunt.Spielberg often has problems with conclusions, especially in his more serious endeavors. That is definitely the case here, which features a wraparound, which opens at Arlington Cemetery with the aged Ryan and concludes there as well. The entire segment is badly directed and heavy-handed.The script itself is almost ridiculously slight, particularly for a near 3-hour running time. The men in the platoon are all marching clichés reduced to types seen in a thousand other (and in many cases much better) war films. Each actor pretty much fastens in on one character trait and allows that to suffice for a performance. Hanks fares best as the everyman leader and Tom Sizemore is adequate as the second-in-command, but they have given very similar performances elsewhere. Worst performances come from Jeremy Davies, who overacts hysterically in the final third, and Edward Burns, who somehow manages to make his character supremely unlikable.For the duration of the film, it hits the same tedious notes. The men trod through the ugly war zone, one of them confides something personal and is then subsequently obliterated in an often painfully protracted geyser of gore. The platoon's slog resumes, someone else confides a personal story and then said person is annihilated shortly thereafter. Over and over again and again...until a handful remain to find their quarry. Given that their losses do not endear the survivors to their quarry, it comes as no surprise when they finally face Private Ryan (solidly played by Matt Damon), who is such a congenial, aw-shucks, Middle American nice guy, that not only are the surviving men immediately charmed by him, but when Ryan refuses to leave his post, our survivors defy their orders to extract him immediately and stand by him in the chaotic final onslaught.There is pretty much nothing in the way of surprise in the film and everything unfolds in a slow and tortuously predictable fashion. About the only surprise is how needlessly and relentlessly brutal Spielberg is with the violence. After the opening moments of horrific carnage, I think everyone gets the whole "war is hell" scenario. Unfortunately, Spielberg never ratchets back the violence - releasing free-flowing blood, gore and body parts at the camera.Worse, the film is incredibly ugly to look at. Many WW2 veterans recount the beauty of Europe during their service, yet the entire color palette of this film consists of mud brown, bleak greys and depressing blues (and of course dark red blood). Spielberg also over-utilizes the now too common place Shake-cam 4000, in which the camera jitters all over the place like its got palsy or is afflicted by St. Vitus's Dance, which I gather is supposed to provide a "you are there" authenticity, but instead generates motion sickness, migraines and frustration.A really tiresome and criminally overrated viewing experience. By the climax, when the elderly Ryan questions whether it was all worth it, you may well find yourself responding negatively.
I am still trying to understand why people love this movie. It is about 3 hours in length, and it feels as if every scene is the same scene over and over again. I understand, that it's a war movie, and that there has to be a decent amount of war in it; but the story was just so shallow, and soo boring. I am not a hater of war movies, but this war movie in particular, to put it simply, was just a bunch of noise, with guys wearing green, marching through battlefields for 3 hours. Watch the movie "Hacksaw Ridge"! That is a real war movie, that will make you stand out of your seat and applaud at the end of the movie.


                
Saving Private Ryan. This movie is considered a classic? But i ask you what is classic about something so gay? The answer, everything. To review this movie in a positive and energetic manner would be troublesome and false. This movie had a bad script, bad special effects and contains one of the worst scenes in history. The scene is the one where the sniper gets shoot through the scope. TERRIBLE. The story is so predictable and the character development it poor. Tisk Tisk.Tom Hanks. His worst acting performance to date. Compare this performance to his best work (Turner and Hooch) and you see that his acting is terrible and embarrassing. I felt ill after watching this movie and it wasn't because of the cheesy gore. Tom Hanks, hang your head in shame.To sum up and reiterate, this movie is terrible, dry, predictable, sloppy, riddled with editor's mistakes and a complete misinterpretation of World War 2.For a good WW2 movie watch the classic, Hercules in New York.


                
I knew going in and it being Spielberg that there wasn't going to be much variety, but wow there is almost none. Most of the movie is focused around of course "saving" Private Ryan. And yet it almost feels like the movie is more about how much Spielberg is at his old tricks. Most of the characters are one dimensional and hardly get any development other than Tom Hanks who is as always golden. The worst of them though is Matt Damon (he's Pvt. Ryan). He's stereotypically arrogant and seems like the type of guy who's all talk and no walk. It makes him pretty much impossible to like and leaves you with the desire to shut off the movie once he's on the screen. As for the story, what story? Most of what should be story is hampered by more arguing and attempts at comedic, more lighthearted moments. In the middle of war? Really? And the film being nearly 3 hours feels so padded and stretched out that it's like watching a 90 minute movie in slow motion. So if you want my advice, skip this and rent Full Metal Jacket.


                
Sorry, I couldn't get into this movie. Too unbelievable. First, three brothers are killed within hours in 2 different fronts (one in Utah beach, of all places!) And I guess they were all struck by the same meteor. And then, didn't they have radios in that war? Why didn't they just send a radio message to the 101 to locate Ryan and send him to the rear? That would have been more logical than to send some grunts to look for the proverbial needle in haystack. Anyway, this is the most interesting Spielberg film I've seen, if only because it shows his shortcomings as filmmaker. Let's be clear: there are really two movies here, rather three, which show his inability to cope with 160 minutes of good, consistent, cinema in just one swoop of a movie. The first film is, of course, the reenactment on the Omaha landing, the best part of the whole and the only one worth seeing. Excellent cinematography, especially the hand--held--camera trick, which is mostly appropriate here but which later became annoying as Spielberg seems to have fallen in love with it, to the point of using it in even the most trivial sequences. Anyway, good film overall (But what's the point, when I can watch authentic footage from Iwo Jima, Tarawa and so on?) The second movie is interesting, because you can compare it to another film with an almost identical plot: AN. In both we have a military team who goes looking for a man in a war ravaged land, with Hanks playing here the role Martin Sheen played there. And with the difference that in this case they go to save Ryan while in AN they go to kill Kurtz. Put both films together and you'll see why AN is a masterpiece while SPR is just a wannabe. The first thing Coppola did when confronted to his plot was to set a strong link between Willard & Kurtz. In AN, Willard is regularly informed about Kurtz; Kurtz is ever present, he's like a cloud hovering above the boat. In SPR instead Ryan is just an abstraction, he's mostly irrelevant in the plot, he doesn't exist. That is why this (second) film threatens to fall apart from the beginning--as Spielberg failed in establishing such a link--and why he had to recur to diverse, rather random, elements to keep the story afloat. This explains the episodic nature the movie takes, with the addition of elements disconnected from each other, which served no useful role in the plot; for ex., that absurd tug of war around the French girl. Or the foul up about the wrong Ryan—which I'm told now it's funny. The attack on the radar station is also gratuitous, as it doesn't give us any additional info on the context. This brings me to the subject of the context itself.I see that the most vocal critics of SPR here are the Brits, which feel cheated of their role in that war. I would ask them: what war? I don't see any war here, just a landing and then some random shooting. You wouldn't even know there's a war going on, as NO context is given. There you got another difference with AN. But Hanks and his men are no much different than Willard and his crew in that boat, they constitute a universe apart from the war, independent from it, but inserted in it anyway. But there we see Coppola's genius too; he doesn't lose the least occasion to keep tensions high in the group, by giving a sharp edge to each member especially to Willard and making them constantly collide. In SPR instead, added to the almost total absence of such edges, Willard's equivalent is played by the last actor I would have chosen for the part. Hanks can only play all around nice, honest guys. He's so nice that, even when he caused the stupid death of one of his subordinates, he didn't cause any turmoil in his platoon. So nice I didn't even feel sad for his death, knowing he was going straight to Heaven.If the second film is at best uneven, with strong sequences--Wade's death--alternating with bad ones--tug of war for the girl--the third film is a waste of time. That 45-minute battle served no purpose, as nothing new is added to the mix. In most war movies men go into action with still unsettled issues between them--as Mallory & Miller in GON--or with themselves--the "coward" who has to prove himself for ex., but not here. We already know these guys are heroes, we have seen them for the past 2 hours. We also know they are 100% loyal to their chief. So what's the point in showing them for almost an entire hour still doing the same...?BTW, the only reason why there were so many casualties in Omaha is that the yanks refused to use specially designed British tanks-the Funnies-- that could have saved many lives.The waste of time, the cartoon Germans, the superfluous flag cost the movie 3 pts. 3/10.
