Every once in a while, I go back to watch films that were celebrated in their time. These have to be films I saw when they were newly nested in their warm buzz, and which were conveyed as if they were a privilege. This is such a film, one that can perhaps serve even as the exemplar. It was touted as (at last) a serious film by Spielberg, chapter two of his "real" film which marketed the holocaust. It had Hanks, who it should be recalled was more uniquely respected then than now. It dealt with a sort of real history with direct pulls on patriotism and something called valor, in a way that would make Sinatra and Wayne blush (or at least hiccup). And its first 20 minutes was chocked full of effects that worked and conveyed a meaning of confused dread. It moved us all <U+0097> how could it not? <U+0097> and allowed the filmmaker to lazily move through an ordinary story, staged as if it had a different production crew.Seeing this again in my own context and with the objectiveness of distance, I am amazed at how effective that opening section is, and how typically bad Steven the rest is. That first part is tense, tight and close. It is horrible without forcing us so close that we recoil. You know, one of the biggest challenges in film-making is to introduce the audience to the world they will live in for perhaps a few hours <U+0097> the film and the long tail of recalled experience afterward. Usually the filmmaker has only a few minutes. Some <U+0097> especially when a strict genre film is coming <U+0097> can even do it during the title sequence. We are prepared for this entry voyage; it is part of the contract we make when allowing a filmmaker to transport us. I cannot recall a film that took this much time to prepare us. Perhaps "Pan's Labyrinth," but that setup was disjointed. So I have to admire Spielberg's craft in putting together a session that has impact, though it is all tone and no narrative. And I have to admire his ability to understand and exploit that twilight area where we are primed for such a thing. And then 20 minutes in, we start to ask why, why engage us? Why open us to be ready for something that matters and serve us bread?Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
I would have given "Saving Private Ryan" a higher score had it looked at more issues abundant during WWII (they could have focused on the various roles that each country specifically played in the war). But don't get me wrong: watching the movie, you can literally feel the bullets hitting you. Tom Hanks commands as strong a performance as we can expect him to, and the rest of the cast also does quite well.I guess that if the movie has any problems, it's in the characters themselves. Aside from the fact that the movie pretty much makes all Americans out to be good and all Germans out to be bad, the Americans are basically clichés. They're all wholesome, hard-working guys out to make something of themselves. Moreover, there's the wise-guy New Yorker and the cowpoke Southerner, and Pvt. Ryan comes from Iowa (read: America's heartland).But otherwise, it's a very good movie, and it goes to show what an incredible director Steven Spielberg is (although I still wouldn't have given the movie Best Picture; I would have given that to "Life is Beautiful"). Also starring Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Matt Damon, Ted Danson, Paul Giamatti and Dennis Farina.


                
When I first saw this film at the cinema I was, like everyone else in the world, blown away by the opening scenes and then mostly entranced by what followed. Upon re-watching it these years later, the overall effect has been lessened by familiarity and, possibly, by being Speilberged out after watching Munich last week! The battle scenes are still excellent <U+0096> visceral, terrifying and all too real <U+0096> conveying the calamitous confusion of war in a way seldom matched in the movies. When the action slows down, so does the film, and this often leaves you feeling a little disinterested as the characters lack of back-story and overly obvious attempts at making them look good (Woo! I've saved a child! Boo! I've been shot!) seem to jar with the realism attained elsewhere. It's still a cracking film though, and the weaker bits have actually stood up better than the strong bits in my opinion (although maybe I'm just more tolerant of schmaltz as I get older).


                
Considered by many to be a fantastic film, I feel I must have missed something. This film is certainly a good film by any standards. (The camera work is well done, backdrops are excellent and the opening scene on the beaches of Normandy is one of the most memorable in cinema history) But the film does suffer from a couple of failings.Firstly, it is strongly and unapologetically patriotic. The film beings and ends with the American flag, and the in fact, the Americans appear to be the only people in the film. The only appearances from other nationalities are the Germans, and the only character seen is a back-stabbing monster. In contrast, the American soldiers are all rough diamonds, and each death scene for an American character is a tear-jerking moment of sadness.Secondly, the plot. After the initial scene, the plot becomes somewhat silly, going increasingly downhill until the surviving half dozen characters end the movie fighting a battalion of soldiers and a squad of tanks. I really don't understand how anyone can watch the end of this film with any seriousness.In conclusion, I'd say that the only way this movie deserves the high regard it seems to have is if after watching the opening half hour, the movie was switched off. None the less, I would recommend viewing this film, as its qualities do outshine the flaws.
I wish I could view this movie like the average moviegoer. In that case, I would probably have given it higher marks. However, I was in the Army and know that dialogue such as is in this film would be highly unlikely, no, impossible, to have been said in real life.The hierarchy in the service is very clear: privates do not contradict, interrupt, defy, or in any way address their superiors as is depicted in this film. I found a number of scenes to be pure Spielberg fantasy. The scene in which Hanks doesn't provide the full name of the 'Ryan' he is searching for, which results in Hanks delivering the wrong information to the wrong 'Ryan', is hard to swallow. The scene with Matt Damon protesting when told he is being taken off the front lines is also hard to believe.The scene where Oppem (or whatever his name was) protests against shooting the POW is absurd. No way that would have ever happened. Some of the other unlikely aspects of the film: Tom Sizemore throws his .45 caliber pistol at the German; four soldiers pull the pins on their grenades and drop them in the tank turret, yet none of them detonate. The scene at the end when Tom Hanks starts firing at the tank with his .45. In real life, he would have been dead by then after being shot in the back with what amounts to a high powered rifle. The scenes after the Germans bring their 20 mm. cannon into action also didn't get very far past the GI's first encounter with the fearsome weapon. After it annihilates about six or seven GIs from one short volley, one wonders why the Germans didn't make quick work of the rest of the GIs after that.The dialogue was also a bit too pristine for my tastes. In reality, GIs curse up a storm. These guys were a wee bit too polite and wholesome. Platoon gave a much more accurate account of how GIs actually behave.These criticisms aside, the action scenes are well staged and evoke a healthy pulse pounding for the viewer.


                
To be clear; I like the Normandy beach scene<U+0085> they're actually quite brilliant. But the first and last scenes are those on the cemetery with the old man and his family. Why are those scenes there? They are totally obsolete. I don't need to hear the old man ask his wife if his life was worth it. If the movie itself didn't make this clear then the movie failed<U+0085> and the movie didn't fail.I saw the movie "A thin red line" a week earlier, and at first I was disgusted by Saving Private Ryan. It just doesn't have the same weight. But then again, you shouldn't compare these two movies as they are totally different. And when I saw this one a few times at later stages this became clear to me.The story itself is quite simple, and rightfully so. A bunch of soldiers are send to save a last of four brothers. It needs to be simple; it's the little things that make the soldiers so unique. The little stories of Matt Damons, Tom Hanks and other characters make this movie. And the comradery between the men is portrait very good as well. It's not poetic, but men which are fighting (and trying to survive) in an unforgiving war.I don't know, maybe it's just me. I just got a bit of a beef against Steven Spielberg lately. When the plot has been clear he seem to insert several more scenes that explain the plot again and again. He just needs to stop this. It makes the movie unnecessary long and dull. He does this with most of his movies in the last decade. And don't get me wrong, I got nothing against long movies, but the length needs to fit the movie.Just cut the first and last scene and all will be fine.
I'm usually a big fan of Spielberg,but in this film he comes across as a bit to anti-German,he may have his reasons and i think he has made them clear in Schindlers List,and i understand his feelings.But i think for a big epic like this it would have been better to have an unbiased portrayal of Germans so the film would have been universally admired,instead its coming across as anti-German propaganda especially when there is so much American flag-waving.Being English i have the same problem with Braveheart,Scots=good English=bad,this is really one dimensional character study,which just teaches people to live in ignorance,we all need to learn to move on.Surely its better to make films every culture is going to relate to,flag waving just promotes arrogance which leads to looking down on others.The other big problem i have with this film is that the Brits are not mentioned,or if we are i must have missed it,i must have blinked.This was a decisive battle and i know like thousands of other Brits we were involved,so whats the big idea?It would be like us making a film about the Somme or Ypes and not bothering to mention the Canadian and Australian involvement,that would be unforgivable.


                
Considered by many as the best war movie ever made and considered by most as one of Spielberg's many unforgettable classics, 'Saving Private Ryan' in its 150 minute run time tells the story of a group of soldiers who have been sent by the American government to find and recover a lone soldier after his brothers were wiped out in war.Being released in the year of 1998, when movies like American History X and Shakespeare in Love came out, it is an absolute "spit on the grave" insult that this movie did NOT win the Best Picture award, instead being handed to movies of lesser kind such as 'Shakespeare in Love' However, that being said, there is so much I simply love about the movie. The acting is great with Tom Hanks pulling off another blinder of a performance! The rest of the cast all do a great job. The writing is great, often being witty and clever and Spielberg's direction is almost perfect! What do I mean "almost" perfect? This scene is everyone's favorite scene when dealing with the movie and is regardedas a great scene but this is one scene that I do NOT hate but do NOT enjoy much either. That is the Omaha Beach scene that drags on for 20 minutes. 20 minutes of depicting what war feels like. I can understand it being 10 minutes, that would be a blast of a start but the scene really pulled me out of the movie early on but thankfully recovered after the quest had begun with such amazing scenery, brilliant cinematography and superb special effects along with some great action scenes and very emotional scenes as the movie progressed. Another thing that adds to the greatness of the movie is definitely the characters as all soldiers who were focused on in the movie were very interesting, especially Capt. Miller. Another part I enjoyed was the ending scene, though it may feel a bit cheesy and corny, I found it reasonably emotional and the scene does make you feel its worth sitting through a 170 minute movie.I can say in conclusion that this is a movie that I would easily recommend to anyone. There is no doubt in my mind that this is a classic and that it will live forever. The reason I had to drop one point off my rating is simply the 20 minute beach scene at the start of the movie which dragged on and threw me out of the movie, but I can easily tell that everyone else will love that scene. So, go ahead...Watch the movie! Great film, a classic and perhaps the best war movie ever.
I've just seen Saving Private Ryan for the first time and, as occurs when I first see a film, I quickly check IMDb to see what the Haters and Lovers of the movie say in their reviews. First, the Haters.Any time any movie portrays America as savior of Europe in World War II, the result gets panned by these groups (and if they're not yet organized, they should be as they deserve each other): (1) America haters from any country, notably (a) Germany ("we weren't ALL bad") or (b) the UK ("we carried the burden until the tardy self-interested Yanks decided to enter war, which by the way was almost won when the US came in"), and (2) hard leftists everywhere (how the left is anywhere entitled to credibility is utterly beyond me). Hey Germany! You WERE bad! Hitler was constitutionally elected and brought to power by the German electorate, only too happy to see the Jew (and the occasional Bolshevik) blamed for everything afflicting Weimar Germany. Hey UK! We love you, but sometimes your hard right and hard left are hard to stomach. Pssst! You, our British cousins, had LOST the war by 1941. It was over, ended, caput, stick-a-fork-in-em done. Winston well knew how critical it was that America enter the war - which it did, and which it won. We are delighted that winning the war was largely an effort of the English-speaking world, but it was the English-speaking world's largest country that led the way, turned the tide and won the war. Stop with the idiosyncratic reasons why, exactly, the US simply joined an already successful enterprise. She didn't. Britain was sunk and defeated, with precious little industrial capacity left - industrial might had to come from the US and Canada, but mostly the US. Saving Private Ryan isn't "propaganda" - it contains critical truths, and sometimes truth makes for excellent propaganda.


                
Saving Private RyanBy Daniel Rosado Directed: Steven Spielberg Cast: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel,Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Matt DamonSaving Private Ryan is movie about a captain and his men going on an unusual mission to retrieve a soldier and send him home. This movie takes place during World War II, and is quite different from other war movies you might have seen in the past.When you first see Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks), he's trying to invade a beach with other soldiers dying all around him. Everywhere you look there's a soldier either being shot through his helmet or someone blowing up. Medics, such as Irwin Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), desperately try to save the soldiers, but many of them also get killed. When the first battle is finally over, you see dead men of all ages, some missing limbs, you also see the water near the beach has turned blood red.Miller and the survivors (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies) of his crew are later on given a mission to find a Private Jason Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), and send him back home to his mother. His three brothers have recently died and he was the last of the Ryan boys.Private Richard Reiben (Edward Burns), along with the other men, feels that risking their lives, to save one man is very unreasonable. But no matter how much they complain about the mission, Miller tells them that it's their job to complete it.When they do find Ryan, (the real one) he refuses to leave. He said that his comrades were his new family and he wasn't going to abandon them. But Miller wasn't taking "no" for an answer, he decided to have his crew help Ryan complete his final assignment. All of the actors put on good performances for the movie. They really did seem like the type of people you would see go to war. And when one of them would die, you wouldn't feel like "There goes another character dying", you would really feel what the soldiers felt when they would lose a comrade.Saving Private Ryan is movie unlike any other you might have seen in the past. You really do see what the real soldiers had to endure during WWII, and why you honor them for what they did.3 out of 5 stars
A visceral and engaging film, with powerful battle scenes, that presents a factually- and emotionally-biased view of the war. It's a polished endeavour, worth watching, but it loses marks because Spielberg just *has* to patronise the audience by showing Ryan as an old man. Had he not done so, I think that the movie would have been far more effective as both a creative endeavour and a moral message.The film is clearly designed with the American public in mind - there are no British or other Allied forces at all in the movie, and the French civilians and German soldiers are essentially stereotypes. The film itself is both well-scripted and -cast, but I can't help but feel that its protagonists are essentially precisely deployed character-types designed to elicit set emotional responses in the audience. The lack of emotional ambivalence in its story and characters lends a sense of superficiality to the whole affair that makes the picture, in my mind, remarkably forgettable.I would say that the movie is a fine example of Hollywood product. It has all the necessary elements of a classic film. However, scratch the glossy surface and I think one will find a disappointing lack of depth and a disappointingly familiar lack of respect, on Spielberg's part, for the audience's ability to think for itself.


                
This is, of course, a popular film. I happen to own this DVD, but at the same time there are only a few scenes that stick out as spectacular in the genre of war films. The few well done battle scenes were the reason I bought this, but some of the glaring faults are what would lead me to give this film a 7 out of 10, rather than 10 out of 10 as productions like Black Hawk Down and even Band of Brothers deserve.First, one of the most obvious problems with the film starts right in the opening scene. We see all these dirty faced, rugged looking men on their way into what is certainly the scariest moment of their lives. Then suddenly we see baby-face Tom Hanks with his smooth skin clean shaven and groomed like the son of a politician. It creates a contrast right there in the opening scene that is disruptive to the mood and becomes disruptive later on in the film as well. Don't get me wrong. Tom Hanks is a great actor, but he looked 100 times more rugged in Castaway as he did in this film.Secondly, was Vin Diesel. OK, so people like him. Don't get me wrong here either. I'm not going to claim that he lacks intelligence outside of his films, although I know he did drop out of college but that's not relevant. However, in his films it seems like he always plays characters who don't display an IQ higher than 70. I'm not so sure this is how the characters were written as much as it is how he plays the roles. His acting is unnatural, stiff, forced, and lacks realism. He just comes off idiotic in all of his movies. He became known in the film world for a film he wrote and directed, I believe. Maybe he should try his hand at that instead of trying to be the next Arnold Swartzenegger, because he's not buff enough and he's too awkward as an actor to play that role.Third, as I said before, the film has some great battle scenes, which is why I bought the DVD, but we have these moments that would best be described as superficial moments in the film. For example, these moments that seem like they are in place only to demonstrate Tom Hanks witticism, or moments that make the Nazi soldiers like idiots. Those scenes seemed unrealistic and annoying. Contrast this with Band of Brothers and you'll see what I mean. It's a serious film. Not a film that requires moments of dry humor. Spielberg dropped the ball on those aspects of the film.Good film, but as a war film, not nearly as good as Band of Brothers, Platoon, or Black Hawk Down.


                
This movie has a truly amazing opening 30 minutes. We follow Captain John Miller (Hanks) and his men during the d-day landing. A lot of the techniques used during this opening sequence have inspired many other directors since.
The only trouble is the movie has a lot to live upto after the opening sequence. We get down to the main story which is Miller's orders to find Private Ryan and return him home to his mother who has lost all his brothers in the war. Whilst the remainder of the movie is ok and Spielberg shows us why he is a great director the rest of the movie never quite lives up to the opening. 8/10. (10/10 for first 30 minutes then 7/10 for the remainder)


                
I saw this movie is included in the Top 250 and to be quite honest, I just don't understand why. The most realistic warmovie ever made? Perhaps because of the special effects (those first 20 minutes are indeed horryfying) but the sole reason why that is like that is just because "Saving private Ryan" is the kind of warmovie they don't make any longer, but believe me, if "The longest day" or any other warepic would have been made these days it would have been exactly the same as this Spielbergmovie. Surely not a bad movie at all, even worth your time (and even more than that) but Spielberg tries a bit too hard to make it an anthem to those who lost their live in one of the biggest tragedies the world has known, but then again every war is a tragedy (I see no difference in a soldier dying in France or somewhere in Palestina). Spielberg is not afraid to show the cruelity of war and if you are softhearted you will close your eyes more than once. Good movie, even a bit more than that but just don't overrate it as well.


                
First of all, the framing device for the movie is not just sappy but downright manipulative and quite frankly impossible.  Anytime you frame a flashback like that, you have to stay (mostly) within that characters frame of reference (I can't think of a single example that stays 100% in first person--it's just not possible or practical).  How can Ryan look back in time on someone else's life, while he's somewhere else?  I certainly doubt that Hanks could have told him his life story so quickly.  Spielberg's no idiot, so he knows that this isn't possible, which brings us back to the manipulation factor and the chance to have a "surprise ending" in the worst possible sense.  I'd like to think Spielberg was trying to emulate the experience of war (and not knowing who's going to live or who's going to die) by making the old cliches of war movies (that the hero will live) work for him.  Because Spielberg makes us believe that Hanks' character isn't going to die (we think he's the old man), then supposedly we'll be more shocked and have more emotions when he is killed, as if we were experiencing war in real-time. For me this didn't work, because by Bull-S*** alarm started blaring.  It has a high intolerance for lies, and that is pretty much what the framing device does.  It promises one thing, but gives just the opposite.If Spielberg had not included the framing device, I would have given the movie a 9/10 instead of 7/10.  Why he felt he needed one, I don't know, since, even beyond my other complaints, the framing device doesn't add anything to the movie that couldn't have been done (and better) while we were still in 1945.By the way, did they bury all of our dead in France in that graveyard?  I thought that one was for those who died on the beach that first day (but I'm not sure).  Hanks was pretty far in by the time he died.One final point: the "evil", backstabbing German captive thing worked all right as propaganda (and even better as a lesson in mob violence) back when Hitchcock directed his extraordinary Lifeboat in 1944(?), but when stolen and put in Private Ryan, it just seemed like a plot device--he would just as likely have been grateful for being spared.  Or, as a hypothetical situation in which Germany invaded America, it is just as likely that an American would do exactly the same thing as the German.  At least in Lifeboat, the issue is thoroughly explored, while Private Ryan uses it merely to show how the weak-willed, peace-loving, prototype-hippie linguist learns that killing people in war is necessary.  Whatever happened to the less pro-active attitude from Catch-22?
Watch for first 20 minutes. after that just a casual money spilled storytelling.


                
The best thing about SPR is the Omaha Beach sequence. That was very realistic, as well as being factual. The rest of the story is fictional, only somewhat realistic, and rather unlikely. First of all, the WWII US Army would never have wasted a Ranger Captain who was a company commander to lead a SQUAD of soldiers. They would have assigned a platoon sergeant, or at most a 2nd Lieutenant. I can believe they might send a squad of regular infantry to find a single soldier, but using Rangers is a stretch. Rangers are more highly trained, and would be used for an important military objective, not a "P.R. mission". There were some touches that I liked. I liked the way Tom Hanks portrayed Captain Miller as a normal guy who's approaching burnout, and is starting to get the "shakes". Also the way he kept a certain amount of distance from his men until they were down to a small group. The part about the company having a "pool" on his prewar occupation, and it turning out to be a teacher. The way the sniper, Private Daniel Jackson (Barry Pepper), quotes Scripture to calm himself and steady his aim. The running "FUBAR" joke. However, the end really bothers me. Having Captain Miller laying a heavy guilt trip on Private Ryan (Matt Damon), as he dies is unrealistic melodrama. Finally, much has been said about various 'tactical errors' made by both the German and American forces in the movie's climactic battle. Steven Spielberg responded, saying that in many scenes he opted to replace sound military tactics for dramatic effect. Shame on you, Steven! Neither Robert Rodat (writer) nor Steven Spielberg (director) have ever served in the military. In fact, Spielberg attended California State University, Long Beach, to avoid the draft for the Vietnam War. So this is the kind of UNREALISTIC war movie made by someone who went to college to avoid military service. I don't think it helped that Robert Roden had to rewrite the screenplay 11 times before it was accepted.In the words of Sam Fuller, "The only way to make a truly realistic war movie is to fill the theater with smoke and flame, the sound of explosions, and to have someone shoot the person sitting next to you." Amen!
Saving Private Ryan is well-filmed and well-acted. But it is thematically a mess, and on that count is wildly overrated.The complaints about this movie on these IMDb comments are two: one that it is properly speaking an anti-war film, and the other that it indulges in crude nationalism. Both complaints are on the mark, but it should be noticed that they are not quite consistent with one another. Saving Private Ryan, in the tradition of Vietnam movies like Platoon and Full Metal Jacket, focuses on the human cost of war. But its moral, that we must earn the sacrifice those bold men made for us so long ago, sits rather uncomfortably with the focus on the cost. After all, how could we earn the loss of these men and the grief of their mothers? By living well? By being good people? It doesn't make sense. How could you make your life worth the sacrifice of so many others?Perhaps the point is that we ought to be grateful to the men who fought and died for saving our lives. But this doesn't make sense either. The war in Europe did not properly speaking save our lives. Wars are rarely if ever fought to save lives. They are fought to conquer and to defend against being conquered. But being conquered does not amount to being killed, and it might well save lives to surrender. Spielberg does obliquely refer to the Holocaust in the film. But he must know as everyone does that the war was not fought to end the Holocaust.Perhaps Spielberg is tacitly assuming some flag-waving boilerplate about how they fought 'for freedom', and we ought to be grateful for that. I don't deny that 'saving Europe for liberal democracy'<U+0097>however we understand that--was a noble cause. But it would be impossible to tell from this movie that this was the point of the war, and it might well be impossible to believe that such a cause was worth dying for once you had properly taken in its message: that war is the senseless destruction of mothers' sons.War movies traditionally fall into two types. One type focuses on the heroic cause the soldiers fought for, in which case you will want to glorify war. You will want to make your soldiers look strong, noble, and make our hearts melt with admiration for them. Otherwise how can we encourage others to fight for such (often abstract) causes? Most classic WWII movies fit this mold. And given that most of us think WWII was fought for a good cause, this makes sense. The other alternative is to focus on the human cost of war, as Vietnam movies and WWI movies typically do. But it isn't a coincidence that Vietnam and WWI are thought to be pointless wars. The idea of such movies is that nationalism and social habits can lead us to sacrifice our children for nothing. By shocking us with the horror of war, we are encouraged to mistrust martial impulses. Saving Private Ryan tries to take from both traditions, and ends up with a garbled mess. WWII was a noble cause that could not have been worth the sacrifice. It might be argued that each type of movie neglects some important truth that the other type captures. Perhaps some great filmmaker will successfully ennoble the causes of war and at the same time capture its horror. Perhaps someone already has. All I know is that Spielberg has not.


                
An interesting feature of Steven Spielberg, probably the most reliable hit maker outside the Michael Bay realm of idiocy, is that he often seems very clumsy with things that are the furthest away from the technical aspect of his films. There's often a quality of naiveté that simply would make the film more interesting and adult if it just was cut.Saving Private Ryan has one such annoyance. And that is a rather common one; claiming a war as one side's story. In Private Ryan, this would be the bookend scenes which serve no purpose to the story, but to cram the supposed message down the viewer's throat. Every country has had its wars, it is insulting to millions to claim the story of human suffering in war is exclusive to one person, one side or one war. Also, Schindler's List has similar scenes that begin and end the film, although they are not as bad.While everything in Private Ryan is technically as good as it will ever get, the story and the characters seem out of place. The only properly fleshed out characters are Hank's mysterious captain and Davies' inexperienced clerk that obviously serves as the characters most people can relate to. The rest of the characters aren't that memorable if you think of them as personalities, not ranks. And, Tom Sizemore plays a sergeant here, the believability coming from the fact he's played the same role about a zillion times. There are a few interesting cameos with Ted Danson and Dennis Farina.The story, while a typical "road movie with soldiers" at least is not as standard as a retelling of a battle, is nowhere near Apocalypse Now or other movies treating soldiers as passers by. It's near to a typical Hollywood version of a war mission and something you could imagine John Wayne doing. This obviously was the purpose, making an old fashioned war movie, but it clashes with the realistic battle scenes.The battle scenes. They simultaneously make battle look like something horrible, something you want to be a part of and actually instantly create a bunch of clichés. Details such as the exaggerated sound of a M1 carbine running out of ammo (a very common detail if you watch a WW2 movie made after this OR even better - play a WW2 video game), the scene in which someone is talking and suddenly is hit to the head, the scene in which the viewer (situated in the middle of the fighting) can't hear anything because of shell shock. Whoa.Interestingly, this movie proves the quote: you can't make an anti-war movie and not make war look even more sexy in the end.I'm not saying Saving Private Ryan is a bad movie. I'm just saying a lot of its flaws are glossed over thanks to the execution and respect to war veterans (who I of course respect as well, not depending of the side). Essentially, a similar film with better characters, similar technical awesomeness and fact instead of fairytale is the miniseries Band of Brothers, another project from Hanks and Spielberg.


                
Steven Spielberg made his second historical visit to the time of World War II (following up from his acclaimed Schindler's List) with this tale of a group of American soldiers, assigned to find Private Ryan, the sole survivor of a family of brothers killed in the war.The group assigned to find him are world-weary Captain Miller (Tom Hanks); his right-hand man Sergeant Hovarth (Tom Sizemore); sniper Private Jackson (Barry Pepper); wise-guy Jew Mellish (Adam Goldberg) and translater Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies), a bookish sort who's never been in battle...This ensemble is played by a gallery of seasoned natural actors. Tom Hanks gives probably his most subtle performance as the besieged Miller, capturing the dizzy tiredness of a man who's sick of fighting. Sizemore is fine as Horvarth and Pepper, Goldberg and Davies are good in their various roles, giving their stock characters a distinctiveness and humanity. Matt Damon is given the pivotal role of Private Ryan, and plays him in much the same way as he played Will Hunting: a petulant, obnoxious moron who does not engender much sympathy.The story, especially with reference to recent world events, feels like a US propaganda tool. Watching it, especially if you're uninformed of history, you'd think the Americans were the only ones fighting the Nazis. Other Allied Groups (the British, the French and the Russians) are never seen or referred to any way.Where the film really succeeds is in its portrayal of wartime battle, surely the most realistic depiction committed to film. The film is shot in harsh realistic tones, with a lot of grey and brown. The grime, blood and gore of combat is far from overlooked.The opening attack on Omaha Beach is excellent, and you can feel the frantic, fearful adrenaline of the soldiers as they rush into the line of fire and are randomly picked off one-by-one. The Germans who surrender in eventual defeat are randomly shot dead. The concluding battle to defend the bridge is even better as the characters we've come to know over two hours are decimated or worse than that changed by their ordeals. However it is not the guns and bomb battles that really convey the wasteful nature of war. It is the hand-to-hand combat scene Mellish has with a German soldier while Upham cowers on stairs. The German gets the upper hand and slowly forces Mellish's knife into his stomach, gently rocking him to sleep as he does so. This is what it ultimately boils down to: the savage nature of fighting, and possessing (or losing) the will to remain on your feet and stay alive. It is this reality, encapsulated in that scene, that the film captures so very well.It will not stand up as a historical document (few war movies do) but in bringing the realities of wartime battle home to a mass audience, "Saving Private Ryan" is a must-see.
So this film is a really good film. Heartfelt and a brilliant Tom hanks performance but the amount of American propaganda and the last bit with the American flag made me go down to a 7 which is a shame


                
Now i know people are going to just despise me for saying this movie was not spielbergs best. Don't get me wrong, i love spielbergs work and i love tom hanks and matt damon but this movie although beautifully shot and with some of the most intense action sequences ever portrayed in a movie i feel as though the characters lost me. They did not grip my interest i did not care of them as i normally do in a movie such as this. I felt myself not caring when characters were killed which really disappointed me. Spielberg tries to make you care for them by overly long scenes in which they talk about their past i however found these scenes boring and had didn't have me caring any more. This movie is about a squad in world war 2 that is sent to save a man who had lost all his 3 brothers in the war. Since he was the only son left in his family the government made a decision to send a group of men to go save the last remaining son (Damon) of course on the way they lose men and face trials of humanity.Even though what i said above i still highly recommend this movie to everyone. Its just that i have such high expectations from spielberg and hanks so in my opinion it was kind of a let down though i may be the only person on earth who thinks so. So by all means go watch this one friends


                
I spent the better part of this movie in awe, thinking this was the best war movie I'd ever seen. There are no heroes or villains on both sides. Just poor men trying to stay alive.The Americans have faces, the enemies have faces. Compare this to a movie like Top Gun for example: You never see the enemies' faces. Therefore they must be evil, right? The whole idea collapsed like a house of cards at the end. Suddenly the Americans turned to heroes and the enemies turned to villains. I still don't understand why they did that.This movie could have been great. The way it is - it's merely good.


                
Tom Hanks did a superb job in portraying the poor hapless fellow charged with "saving private Ryan."  Only to be killed in the end.  Many scenes of war fighting with all one expects, such as enemy snippers, machine gun nests and mine fields.  The enemy soldier Hanks benevolently lets go in one such scene is one who helps to kill him in the end. Private Ryan, played by Matt Damon, only coming into play in the latter part of the movie, to me some what of an anticlimax, is insistent he doesn't want to be rescued, but chooses to fight to the end; of the movie that is. Admittedly this movie is about the character played by Hanks, with Damon as an after thought.  The Pvt. Ryan character could of just as easily been played by a trained chimpanzee for what it added to the overall movie. While I liked the overall movie, I was noticeable disappointed by the Pvt. Ryan character.


                
Captain John Miller: James... I'm here to tell you your brothers were killed in combat. They're dead. Private Ryan: Which one, sir? Captain John Miller: All of them.This is the most realistic war film I have ever seen it relay shows the horror and point less ness of all wars not just world war II.People say that it is hared to sit though the first hour but I think that if you don't sit though the first hour you are missing the point. The first hour is war. War is death blood and murder and the rest of the film is the aftermath the affect war has on inveigles.Every single member of cast and crew should be commended on the quality of this film.Ps. I also think that George Bush and Tony Blair should be treated to a private screening.


                
