I really liked this movie ! the realism was extreme, what is, I think a good thing. I do not like Spielberg (since i was 14-15 yrs old anyway). I think this guy would be better in doing commercials for TV than making movie - just my humble opinion. But if we forget some flaws the movie is pretty good ! T. Hanks was also very good in it ! he got my respect.now, some stuff was bothering :near the beginning, why spielberg was making the little french girl say " i don't like those american soldiers ! -sob- " Are those US dudes will stop one day to think that the french are genetically antiamerican ? that's ridiculous ! I hate set ideas !The german soldiers look dumb and wanting very eagerly take some US slug in the map ! Come on, guys ! The germans are just there to be shooted, they act stupidly what cost them their life, they have no survivng instinct ... i don't buy it !The landing scene seemed ended a little too fast and easily to match the reality i think (IMHO)Of course, there may be a little too much US patriotism for the average european viewer, we are not used to it anymore in our countries (self-glorification, i mean) but after all it's an american movie and they did change the fate of Europe and the world, so ... let them do it.anyway good movie, i give it a 8/10.= you should at least see it once ! >


                
Words cannot describe the greatness of this film. Hell, if I type a long review of this film, it might take away the film's credibility. So I'm gonna keep this review short, sweet and simple.ACTING: Superb. Likable characters and they put you, the audience, smack dab in the middle of the war. Tom Hanks is outstanding. Notable mention is Jeremy Davies who does a great job portraying the contrasting soldier, Upham.DIRECTION: Excellent. Frenetic camera movement, thrilling and extremely realistic action sequences. Spielberg is masterful, as always. He manages to show the audience how nightmarish war really is.STORY/SCREENPLAY: Storywise, it is uplifting and inspiring. And during historical moments, it is accurate and realistic. Screenplay slips into sentimental state during times, but we'd look over that.CINEMATOGRAPHY: Mesmerizing. At times we look at the horrors of war with the nightmarish (there goes that word again) display of a blood-drenched beach and war-torn cities. The color modification really helps the effectiveness of the cinematography.MUSIC: Is put into places where it should be. John Williams does a fantastic job once again.OVERALL: In short, definitely in my favorite movies list, and on the critical side, one of the greatest movies ever made. This film deserves to be owned and watched by film lovers.9.966/10Delton


                
Saving Private Ryan is a WW2 film that begins on the Normandy beaches of France on D-day, June 6th, 1944. The first 20 minutes are the most intense and graphic depictions of war I have seen. The D-day beach assaults will never be recreated so elegantly ever again. The noise, carnage, and chaos overwhelms and deeply disturbs the viewer. Unlike anything I have ever seen.So far through the film you have been following Captain Miller(Tom Hanks) and his company on the beaches of Normandy. After the intense battle the US Army counts its dead. Three brothers were killed on that same day in Normandy. The 4th and youngest brother is James Francis Ryan(Matt Damon), and he is not reported dead but his whereabouts are unknown. Private Ryan is a paratrooper who jumped behind enemy lines as a paratrooper the night before the landings. He is the last of the sons that his mother still has. The army wants him found and brought back home to safety. Captain Miller is now given this task to find Private Ryan and bring him to safety.Captain Miller now travels across battle torn French country side to find Private Ryan. But he does not travel alone. He travels with seven of his own hand picked men from his company. On their journey they face hard struggles. The mission becomes deadly and now the question is why risk the lives of eight men to save the life of one? The men do finally find Private Ryan but Ryan does not want to abandon his fellow comrades who he has been fighting and holding out with. So now Captain Miller and his men stay with Ryan and the troops he has been fighting with in this bombed out town waiting to hold out until relief arrives. The Germans are advancing on the town with many more troops and with tanks. Captain Miller and the rest of the men are vastly outnumbered but are going to try to hold on. What develops is one of the most graphic and disturbing final stands I have ever seen in a war movie.Spielber masterfully directed the battle sequences. The battle scenes attacked your senses. The special effects were mind boggling to say the least. The scenes were so realistic and brutally graphic. So much blood and carnage that truly disturbs the viewer. War is shown as what it is. Nasty!!!!!!!!! The acting was very good all around except from I think Matt Damon. But Tom Hanks never ceases to amaze me as he turns out one great performance. The film also stars Tom Sizemoore and Edward Burns as part of the rescue mission. Throughout the film there are many great cameos from actors like Paul Giamatti and even Ted Danson. Overall the acting was very good.The dialog was for the most part realistic but at some parts not as much. Captain Miller's character seemed to know to much about all the other operations that were happening in France. And some of the lines, although not many, were a little cliché.I felt the film to be a little biased towards the Americans which I hate to see in movies. Spielberg seemed to convey the Germans as evil jerks. German soldiers were just like the American soldiers. There is a difference between the German Army and the Nazi SS. So I was ashamed to see the German soldiers representing evil. War should represent evil, not German soldiers. Both sides are committing unforgiving violence. Not just the Germans.Saving Privazte Ryan is a very good film. Everyone should at least experience it once, especially if you are a WW2 buff. Very educational! Not the best movie of all time but still very good.


                
...if Spielberg had resisted the urge to tack a big set piece on to the last 30 minutes.Imagine watching the same movie except this time it ends at the point that they catch up with Private Ryan.Up to that point Spielberg had shown such restraint and subtlety it was disappointing to see it had been thrown away for a silly crowd pleaser. The first 30 minutes of Saving Private Ryan clearly demonstrates the sheer horror of war as well as the lives that are wasted in a way that no previous movie had even attempted.The last 30 minutes on the other hand seem to follow the usual approach, glamorising the whole experience with all the usual heroics and bittersweet sentimentality that we have seen in a thousand war movies before.Still having said that, this is still an excellent movie and is well worth watching.


                
The movie has a lot of gratuitous scenes of violence (Don't need Hollywood to show me that war is a violent activity). The movie has a lot of stereotypical characters (Don't need Hollywood to portray soldiers as being foul-mouthed and grimy). The movie has a pretentious story (Don't believe that even the U. S. Army would risk 10 soldiers to locate one, and an enlisted solder at that, in the middle of one of the biggest operations in the history of warfare). But what saves this movie from being a complete dud is Tom Hanks's portrayal of Captain Miller. Hanks's performance is not just wonderful, it is superlative. Captain Miller is a civilian who now finds himself in combat and the conflict between his civilian background and military responsibilities is what this movie is about. Because of this conflict, Captain Miller suffers, emotionally as well as physically. We observe how Captain Miller goes through a process of breaking down as his situation becomes more and more untenable. And when the private in question is found, yet refuses to leave, Captain Miller begins to completely unravel as he realizes that his mission has failed and that the men in his unit who died - under Captain Miller's command - had died in vain. Captain Miller literally becomes a nervous wreck, but nevertheless he fights on, courageous and strong till the ultimate moment arrives marking the end of Captain Miller's life. For Captain Miller is a hero and his character is symbolic of every citizen-soldier who answered the call to duty, and made the ultimate sacrifice for their country.
The beach scenes are absolutely fantastic, and I'm not sure if I did breathe at all during those sequences. The sound and the effects are amazing, the use of small hand cams gave the whole thing a documentary feeling of the hell that met the men who landed on the beach. Sadly after that it is not too good, and the film quickly becomes a standard Hollywood WW2 film, with heroic Americans and stupid German soldiers. A better story and less sentimentality (everyone understands that young men being blow to pieces is a tragedy and this need not be pointed out by the director. The price for freedom is high)would have given this film a 10/10. I think the men who laid down their lives on the beaches in the fight to free Europe deserves more than this.


                
Where to begin? I have to say that 'Saving Private Ryan' is a modern masterpiece, and that negative criticism is basically aimed at opportunities which failed to make this the greatest movie ever made.The plot is simple - Captian Miller, played by Tom Hanks, and his squad of soldiers are given a new assignment following the Normandy Invasion: to find Private James Ryan, played by Matt Damon, who happened to be a paratrooper of the 101st Airborne.The War scenes, despite being truly upsetting and gruesomely realistic, are visually fantastic. The attention to detail by Spielberg is fantastic. The full frame is filled with explosions and whizzing bullets, not to mention with the main subject. However, there is not ONE British soldier in France. Not a single soldier. This definitely doesn't overshadow what I personally think is one of the best movies ever made.The movie has no message. The movie is more sentimental, acknowledging the past, and what our older generation went through in order to keep our country safe, as well as to protect our current, or their future generation. We all know we owe it all to those soldiers. All we can do is mourn our losses, and appreciate, with all of our hearts, the soldiers that made it back home. And, in a way, this film brings people together. Don't watch this with elderly family members otherwise you'll embrace a several sad, and soppy moments.The acting is brilliant. Watching soldiers cry is extremely disturbing in my opinion. They fight against their will to survive in order to complete their mission and fulfil a strategy. And when you are told to duck, you DO duck! Fantastic movie. If you liked Band Of Brothers and felt Thin Red Line could of been better, you'll faint by the effort poured into this excellent film.Pocket yourself with cash and Rent it now.


                
This Academy Award Winning Best Picture of 1998 contains the grittiest, most graphic war scenes I've ever seen on film. On top of that, the film quality is pristine and the high-speed equipment used to shoot the movie is nothing short of groundbreaking in the war genre. That being the case, does the artistic quality of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN automatically overshadow/surpass the other movies of 1998 like American History X or Run Lola Run for example? Perhaps so.Still, as I attribute the entire 8 stars to artistic merit, the last two gaping empty stars must be addressed. The premise that the movie is based upon, namely the mission of bringing back one soldier to his mother mandated by the war department, is simply something I cannot swallow. What's the word I want to use to describe how I feel about the impetus for the movie? It's not cheesy, nor is it saccharine. I feel as if it's an insult to my intelligence. Let me spell this out word for word...First of all, I simply don't understand why history has been racked with so many wars. I'm not rabidly anti-war per Se. I just want to understand why the people of one nation collectively want to kill the people of another nation. IMDb is not the place to discuss such issues at length, so let's assume for now that wars are fought for any of a million reasons: defense, propagation of freedom, power, resources, territory, maybe the utter lack of something better to do.Now here is my gripe with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, which otherwise is a masterpiece. If the war department is focusing all of its energy and machinery on the above mentioned war objectives, is it plausible for them to really care about one kid or his mother? I am curious how the parents of American soldiers killed in Iraq feel when they watch this movie. I just cannot for one second believe that the American defense department would go to such lengths for any single individual.Rather than swallow this implausible premise hook line and sinker, I would more enjoy a film that exposes the real modus operandi behind bloodthirsty war machinery. Platoon or Apocalypse Now are considered classics, and rightly so given the grimy mood each depicts. But despite is technologically phenomenal production, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is too heavy with the flag-waving patriotic Dreamworks score and tells a story you'd only find off the shelves of Disney Corporation -- one that is sugar-coated at the core and just plain fantasy.JYjimboduck-dot-com


                
The 1998 movie "Saving Private Ryan" is one of the all-time great war movies. While much of the movie is a fictional account, the premise behind Capt. Miller's mission is based on a true story. That is the story of the Niland brothers - Edward, Preston, Robert, and Frederick - from Tonawanda, New York.The two middle brothers, Preston and Robert, had enlisted prior to the beginning of the War. After America entered the war the oldest, Edward, and youngest, Frederick, known as Fritz to his friends, joined up in November 1942. Because of the tragedy of the Sullivan brothers aboard the USS Juneau earlier that year, the brothers were split up and sent to different units around the Army. Edward became an enlisted pilot, with the rank of Technical Sergeant, of a B-25 Mitchell bomber flying in the Burma-India-China theatre. Preston was commissioned into the infantry and assigned to Company C, 22nd Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division. Robert and Fritz both became paratroopers. Robert served with Company D, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division. Fritz joined Company H, 501st Parachute Infantry Regiment of the 101st Airborne Division. U.S. Army paratroopers are dropped near Grave, Netherlands while livestock graze near gliders that landed earlier. This was the beginning of Operation Market Garden during World War II, which resulted in heavy Allied losses. As fate would have it, three of the brothers found themselves preparing for the invasion of mainland Europe.However, before the brothers could start their "Great Crusade" to liberate Europe, Edward was shot down somewhere over Burma. He was listed as Missing in Action, but this usually carried a presumption of death at the time, especially if he had fallen into the hands of the Japanese. Then, in the early morning hours of June 6, 1944, Robert and Fritz joined over 23,000 Allied paratroopers in cracking Fortress Europe. Although Fritz's unit, 3rd Battalion, 501st PIR, was supposed to be the division reserve, the misdrops meant they were thrust into action in ad hoc groups. These forces were able to secure vital causeways, bridges, and locks allowing the 4th Infantry Division, and Niland brother Preston, to exit Utah beach later that day. U.S. Soldiers of the 8th Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division, move out over the seawall on Utah Beach after coming ashore. Other troops are resting behind the concrete wall. Elsewhere, Robert Niland had landed outside of Ste. Mere-Eglise with the rest of the 505th as part of Mission Boston. After the 3rd Battalion was able to capture the town early in the morning, the 2ndBattalion linked up with it to establish a defensive perimeter. When a strong German counter-attack came from the south, Robert Niland and the rest of D Company's 3rd platoon were left to guard the northern approaches to the town in a small village called Neuville. When two companies of Germans came at their position, they fought tenaciously to hold them off to buy time for their comrades to the south. When the position became untenable, Robert Niland, along with two other paratroopers, volunteered to stay behind and cover the platoon's retreat toward Ste. Mere-Eglise.While manning a machine gun in the face of the German onslaught, Robert Niland was killed in action. That very same morning, Lt. Preston Niland led his men onto the shores of Utah beach as part of the seaborne invasion of Normandy. Though casualties were relatively light for the men of the 4th Infantry Division on Utah beach, the battles beyond would be much tougher. Despite having made if off the beaches, the men of the 4th Infantry Division still had numerous gun batteries of Hitler's Atlantic Wall to clear. The task of capturing the Crisbecq battery, which had already sunk the destroyer USS Corry, fell to Lt. Niland and his men. On June 7, Niland led his men against the German position. During the heavy fighting Niland fell mortally wounded. The rest of his unit was repulsed. The battery would not fall until several days later to units of the 9th Infantry Division. The Niland brothers' parents received all three notifications in a very short amount of time. Their only condolence was a letter from Fritz informing them that "Dad's Spanish-American War stories are going to have to take a backseat when I get home. "Fritz was unaware of the fate of his brothers. When the War Department received word of the tragedy orders were dispatched to return Fritz Niland to the United States. That task fell to the regimental Chaplin, Father Francis Sampson. Sampson located Fritz, who had been searching for his brother in the 82nd and began to paperwork to send him home. Returning to the United States in 1944, Fritz served for the remainder of the war as an MP in New York.This article was written by James Elphick and originally appeared on WeAreTheMighty.com


                
This review contains spoilers.Saving Private Ryan is directed by Steven Spielberg and stars Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks plays a ranger captain that leads a squad into enemy territory to rescue a paratrooper whose brothers were killed in action. Saving Private Ryan opens with an aged Ryan that visits a memorial. The story then transitions to the D-Day landings that sets up the arc of the story. Ryan's brothers had all died in the various U.S. Army campaigns in World War 2. The higher ups in the United States army assign a squad to rescue the last sibling, Ryan. The squad embarks into France and behind enemy lines, encountering French civilians, paratroopers, and enemy patrols. Finally the squad reaches Ryan's location and does a last stand.Saving Private Ryan is a visceral look at World War 2 from the perspective of the United States Army. From the beginning of the movie, the images and sounds pull no punches at portraying the grittiness of war. Saving Private Ryan earns its R rating with the level of gore in the film. Events in the movie are also written well with everything flowing organically. The directing is good at portraying the action scenes, but the drama scenes being great elevate this movie. What separates this movie from others in its genre is its more personal look and portrayal of war. I saw the main theme of sacrifice being used by the movie with the characters commenting and even lamenting their fallen comrades. Is the mission or your country worth sacrificing yourself for?Saving Private Ryan does have some inadequacies. History fans will notice a lot of inaccuracies which will annoy them. Some scenes seem superfluous and not entirely necessary.Overall, Saving Private Ryan is a solid movie and helped define a generation of war movies set in World War 2. I would recommend Saving Private Ryan.Three stars out of four stars.
After the most amazing recreation of a war epos in one shot (or how to compress a wonder movie like The Longest Day in 20 minutes), Tom Hanks graces us with a personal travel through Normandy based in personal weakness and group strengths. How a literature teacher, with experience in summer basket teams, can cope with the horrors and unsensical situations of a total war? Just following the logic of the situation: field manual up to the core and thinking that every life lost represents ten saved. "Angels on our shoulders" will grant us the possibility to earn a full life. Do we deserve it? Only a row of marbled crosses will be able to answer... Why then not a 10? Simple... I have seen German War graveyards... where each cross is shared by 3 persons per side. With people from early 50's to those that barely reached 18. War is hell for all... not only for Private Ryan.


                
"Saving Private Ryan" is the best WW2 film out there. It starts off with a memorable 25 minute opening sequence which is arguably the best scene in a Spielberg movie. It is highly realistic for its time and it's tense from beginning to end. At the end of the sequence, it shows you a dead soldier from the "Ryan" family. Later we find out that 3 of the 4 members of his family died and Capt. John Miller (Tom Hanks) and a group of 7 soldiers are sent to bring the remaining brother back to his family before he dies as well. With an unforgettable story, the plot is quite moving even just thinking about it. The movie was also expertly shot and acted. Every action scene is realistic as it is bloody. After soldiers are killed off, it makes the soldiers question if the mission is worth it and it often creates conflict with them. The final battle has a big buildup and carries on for just the right length.The ending is tragic and it gets me every time but its emotional resonance sticks with the viewer after watching it. This is one of the best films of the 90's due to its impact on the viewer.


                
This movie was an immense gathering of suspenseful, action-based, dramatized scenes. I saw this film when it came out but I was just a kid. I saw it again and again for years to come only to like it more every time. The rawness and originality in the art of the battle scenes is just amazing; the gore, the sadness, the cinematography, it's all there. I'm not even a big fan of Spielberg's work and aside from Schindler's List, this is the only other film that I love by Spielberg. I give it a 9 for its long driven awesome plot with WELL developed characters(main, supportive, etc.) and gruesome battle scenes. The use of foreign languages when needed was also there. An overall well written work of art.


                
Steven Spielberg's 1998 war film, Saving Private Ryan, is a monumental picture. It portrays the rawest, most real-feeling, vision of war that I have ever seen. Though the grave portrayals and subject matter exclude Saving Private Ryan from being a traditionally entertaining film, it is still very engaging. It falls prey to some issues characteristic of war films and some issues characteristic of Spielberg films, but those do not take away Saving Private Ryan's claim to greatness that it rightfully deserves.There is not an ounce of blood nor spray of bullets from beginning to end that doesn't feel real. Many highly violent films lose their impact entirely when the special effects are less than convincing and when character deaths feels too complicit to the story. Thankfully Saving Private Ryan has incredible, mainly practical, special effects, and the film is not afraid to kill even its most sympathetic characters in addition to literally boat loads of extras. The opening flashback to Omaha Beach is an incredible feat in cinema and likely the best subjective view of warfare caught on film. When the doors of the boats open and German machine guns mow down the U.S. soldiers without a moment's hesitation, it is truly shocking. For one shot the camera is in the position of a soldier near the back of a boat, his comrades in front of him. The doors open and all the soldiers in frame are ripped of their lives by an unstoppable hail of bullets. The fact that I would be dead if were there is effectively disturbing. Some other shots take place underwater. Down there the screams of the dying, pounding of artillery, and incessant chatter of machine guns are muffled. For a second I felt calm and safe, before a couple bullets penetrated the water and the soldiers beneath it, calming their struggle and causing plumes of blood to rise to the surface. The scene continues in this fashion for an extended time as it follows a group of soldiers fighting their way up the beach, eventually to victory for that specific skirmish. The Omaha Beach scene sets the mood for the rest of the film, and the final battle of the bridge matches it, providing a nice bookend for the rest of the story to play out between. Some death scenes are truly disturbing. They force you to look at your own mortality right in the face. I should mention that the direction is superb. The audience is able to achieve a new perspective on war from Spielberg's outstanding ability to link action and build a sense of omniscience coupled with harsh subjectivity. I didn't detect a false move in the entire film. While the film is a true achievement, its reliance on shock causes its impact to decrease with subsequent viewings (I've seen it thrice), but I still recognize it as a great film. One thing that detracted from Saving Private Ryan, conflicting with the realism, was its sentimentality, driven by John Williams' seemingly ubiquitous score. The sentimentality felt out of place and left a bad taste in my mouth. I could almost call the film cloying at times. Thankfully, during the parts that really matter there is no music and no forced emotion, only what happens right before your eyes which is enough to change you by itself.War films tend to be very pure. Many times they are almost exclusively about survival, an objective, and the non-romantic relationships between the soldiers. Saving Private Ryan fits into this category. For me this excludes a certain aspect of cinema that I crave. It excludes a sense of culture, artistry, and beauty. The film is too raw for my liking. Whenever the characters come to a new town they find it in a state of wreckage. The once beautiful architecture is reduced to rubble and potential strategic positions. Of course Saving Private Ryan relies a great deal on realism and the decision to maintain its purity as a war film certainly contributes to its realism. Nevertheless my complaint stands.For what is essentially an existential film, Saving Private Ryan manages to the fill its running time with engaging scenes, one after another. There are many incidental, almost arbitrary, occurrences. The taking of the French girl, the knocking down of a wall to reveal a platoon of enemy soldiers. The list goes on. Yes these scenes are sufficiently engaging even if each one does not contribute to a central story thrust. More than that they add to the sense of mayhem and disarray that surely accompanies soldiers embroiled in such a conflict. Whereas I might be tempted to label this style as fluff or meaningless in other films, the existential mode fits Saving Private Ryan very well.Saving Private Ryan is a great film. It is an achievement in cinema and also fascinating to watch. While a few issues prevent me from calling it a masterpiece I can confidently say that I will watch it again someday.33/40
*Note: this review is a mash-up several reviews written by students in an English class at Lycée Henri Cornat in France.During the Second World War, the Ryan family loses three sons and one is missing. Three of them died in the fighting. One of them is missing in the Cotentin: his name is James Ryan. Their mother receives a telegram telling her about the death of her sons. Captain Miller's mission is to find Private Ryan. This absence of action gives me a patriotic impression, which may be a little bit ridiculous, especially when the camera is focused on Tom Hank 's eyes (an excellent actor to me because of his great career). The trailer depicts the soldiers as courageous and brave heroes: it remind of famous French saying « un pour tous et tous pour un » that is to say soldiers are very united.One of points I appreciate is that the trailer doesn't show any frames of the film at the beginning but only archived to the WW2. I think it's a good thing because the trailer doesn't spoil the film. But at the same time after seeing the trailer I don't really know if it was focused on the action or on the military brotherhood. Here, the soldiers are shown as brave, courageous and self-sacrificing. They are depicted as heroes. We find brotherhood, loyalty, and friendship. They are portrayed as heroes because, we can see and suppose that they 'fight' with the suffering. In the end of the trailer, we see a dark landscape with a hill and only a man who is a soldier because he has a gun. There are clouds, and the sky is dark. In the closing image, we can see clouds: it may be to show all the soldiers who had lost their lives, and it reminds us that death is all around.This amazing representation of WW2 stresses the emotional dimension of war. If you want to see a movie about war only, don't watch this film because the most important in the story is the mission of some soldiers and not the fight against Nazi Germany. Overall, we can say that this trailer makes people want to see this original film about the war. It's not a shocking trailer, and mainly the touching side is shown. A war film for girls?!
Steven Spielberg's World War II drama, Saving Private Ryan is more of a drama than a war film. The war in Saving Private Ryan is the stage, setting up a playground for a number of individuals caught in a singular situation, forced to make singular choices. As a character quotes in the film, "War educates the senses, calls into the action the will, perfects the physical constitution, brings men into such swift and close collision in critical moments that man measures man." Saving Private Ryan is about all that. It explodes into life with an assault on the senses, will (or the lack of it) drives characters and the story along with them and collisions are aplenty. The strength of Saving Private Ryan lies in its characters, who are more than mere foot soldiers in this theatre of war. The film starts off with the landing of an US battalion at Normandy . Soon, the storyline swings to an unpredictable path and the viewer is engaged in the thoughts and actions of a group of men whose paths, both literally and figuratively, are laden with uncertainty.However, the reason that Saving Private Ryan is a remarkable chapter in cinema history is not just its storyline, characters and their acts, but the theatre of their play itself. Spielberg brings out the ferocity of war to tremendous effect. The viewer is bombarded with gruesome sights and shell-shocking sounds. The violence is captured with immense skill, but true to what is perhaps one of the themes of the film as well as its maker, is never glorified or even rendered aesthetic.As for the performances, nearly the entire cast is terrific, rendering the movie's exceptional circumstances a credibility which wraps the viewer in its web.The setting of WW II has deeply influenced cinema and directors from lands far and wide. In the gallery of those films, there are quite a few masterpieces, most of which are united by the fact that they are more than mere war films or war stories, binding in tales of the human spirit. Saving Private Ryan, effortlessly, belongs to that top drawer.
Steven Spielberg once again won a best directing Academy Award for this powerful film(based on fact) that opens with the D-Day invasion on Normandy France, and the battle to secure the beaches as the first step toward liberating France. The battle itself is the most realistic portrayal of actual battle conditions ever put to film, so authentic is the chaos, violence, and impact bullets and explosions would really have on limbs and bodies(no sugar-coating or censoring here!) that it is both fascinating yet disturbing as well. Tom Hanks plays Capt. Miller, who is in charge of the platoon, and once the beaches are secured, he is ordered to locate and return home a Private Ryan(Matt Damon) because he has just lost three brothers in battle, and the Army doesn't want the bad publicity of a grieving mother mourning all four sons. Though he and his platoon are astonished by the order, they obey it, and the rest of the film is their journey to find Ryan, and still fight the war.The first section of the film on the beaches is so powerful and realistic, that the search for Ryan almost feels anti-climatic, yet this film still works because of the realism and superb storytelling involved, though the prologue and epilogue lack the dramatic fireworks they were aiming for, they are still moving enough.


                
To everyone else, Saving Private Ryan would be a career defining film, both a critical success and a box office smash, but for Steven, it's nothing more than another stone in the pillar of greatness that is Spielberg, - just when you thought he had laid out all his cards on the table, he finds a way of surprising us again and again, as with each passing of a decade, he is constantly reinventing himself. With the like of; E.T, Schindler's list, Jaws and close encounters of the third kind, he has successfully cemented himself as the greatest living directors in the world. And Saving Private Ryan is testimony to that, a truly gripping and harrowing war film, unparallelled in the last 20 years. Blending breathtakingly stunning cinematography, skilled and controlled camera movements and sublime storytelling that is now regarded as a staple of all Spielberg films. But not too forget the help he received from an almighty performance by Tom Hanks, star of such films as; Toy story (1,2 and 3), Forrest Gump and most recently Cloud Atlas. From the gecko, we see instantly know why Spielberg won an Oscar for best director, as near the beginning of the film when the troops land on Omaha Beach on D-day in the midst of a horrific and bloody tug of war with the Germans - In a scene lasting for a staggering 24 minutes, but I would have gladly sat for another 20 on top, due to the share epic that it was. From the start of the scene, the camera work is somewhat very unstable, Spielberg's use of hand-held camera movement during the scene, helps add the effect of confusion and a rush adrenalin, so from the very start we are almost swept into the scene and immersed into the carnage. The instability of the camera movements perfectly reflects the total and utter chaos that the soldiers experienced. And I love this, because it showing us rather than telling us through 10 minutes of the soldiers talking about how bad the war is, making it far more captivating – a smart move from Steven. It is also interesting to note that the opening sequence is filmed in de- saturated colours, emphasising the negativity of the situation, making it seem more morose. This visual pathetic fallacy continues with the dark, stormy weather, making the death seem all the more cold and devoid of emotion. I could easily just review the opening sequence, because it was just that good! It should be taught at film school as a manual on great cinematography. Eventually amongst all the anarchy we discover the dead body of soldier with Ryan written on his backpack. Then fast forward a few days later, Army Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Marshall (Harve Presnell) reveals to Capt. John Miller (Tom Hanks), that all three Ryan brothers from the same family have been killed, and he tells John to find the fourth Pvt. James Ryan (Matt Damon), so his mother can have at least one son alive, so she doesn't have to go through that pain of knowing all her sons are dead. John Miller then brings together a troop of trusty soldiers to aid him in this quest. Consisting of; Cpl. Upham (Jeremy Davis), Sgt. Horvath (Tom Sizemore), plus privates Mellish (Adam Goldberg), Medic Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), cynical Reiben (Edward Burns) from Brooklyn, Italian-American Caparzo (Vin Diesel), and religious Southerner Jackson (Barry Pepper). What follow is a heart wrenching journey for both us and the men, as Spielberg cleverly draws out of us all, the colours of the emotional wheel as we've; Laughed with them, felt regret as some of them die on their journey, we have been scared as the ever looming Germans approach, we felt anger, frustration and the occasional breathtaking triumph. But what the performance I love the most out of that list of talented actors a superb performance is was performance of Tom hanks, outside the storytelling and the cinematography, it truly stood out for me, from the first time he pops up in screen, during the being on Omaha Beach, When we move on to one landing craft in particular, through a series of close ups we see the share terror in the eyes of some of the soldiers, then we shift to a close up of Tom Hank's hands shaking, and from that moment you could tell this was going to be a stellar performance from Tom, and he certainly didn't disappoint. Because he was just playing the character, he was living the character. As he's attention to detail throughout the rest of the film, helps us believe that is a hero who plays a good front for his soldiers, but is as sacred, and consumed with a feeling of trepidation and fear, just like the rest of them. To conclude, cinematography, Spielberg's geniuses and Tom hanks performance, are the most vital areas that needs to be covered when reviewing a spectacular film such as Saving Private Ryan, but most Spielberg, because without his brilliance and nonchalant camera angles, Saving Private Ryan may not have ever won 5 academy awards, or never would have become a modern classic, as it unfortunately came after the superb likes of; The Deer Hunter, Platoon, Full metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now, so the academy could have thought there wasn't another worthy story to come out of a War film due to the amazing stated, but Steven breaths ingenuity and intelligent filmmaking, to add new life to the war epic, standing up tall next to the greats of the war genre.


                
This is my second favorite World War II movie after Schindler's List, which was also made by Steven Spielberg. Saving Private Ryan is captivating and also shows the whole events that war carries, the movie is well acclaimed for its graphic realistic depiction of World War II; since I wasn't there during it, if this is what war looks like<U+0085>, I pray to God that there is no World War III.The movie is about a United States Army Rangers Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) and seven other soldiers under him as they search for a paratrooper, Private First Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), who is the last-surviving brother of four servicemen and has been ordered by the President to be brought home as his family fears losing all five sons to the war.There is just one thing about this movie that cut my attention, after Hanks character Captain John H. Miller, drags he crew through the war losing many on their way in crude ways all in the name of finding Private Ryan, they finally found him and Ryan refuses to go back with them, claiming he doesn't need saving. Miller and the remaining of his crew then joins Ryan's course. If I was Miller I would have knocked him (Ryan) up the head and drag him home.Saving Private Ryan is a War Epic film, done by Steven Spielberg, who has been involved in some World War II films before this, like Empire of the Sun and Schindler's List. To prep the guys for the film the cast except from Matt Damon were sent to a ten days "boot camp" for training and work on the film set to prepare them for their roles. The reason Damon was excluded was for the other cast to develop a form of resentment towards him, which will help in their reaction to him during filming.Critically noted for its portrayal of World War II, this film was released to a high positive acceptance and earned a whooping 11 nominations in the Academy Awards, going home with just 5, including winning Spielberg his second Academy Award as a director. The movies cinematography too has to be praised the movie shots during the world War II fight on Omaha beach is a classic to see, that scene has been noted as one of the greatest TV scenes of all time.Saving Private Ryan was also a commercial success, making more than 6 times its 70 million production cost and its home video sale was massive.This is a movie that I can bet my name on that you will enjoy, the depiction of the war sequence the sad end to lives during the war, the repercussion of cowardly behavior all added to the drama and the fun you will get while watching this war classic.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Haven't seen this one since it played in theaters. I didn't think all that much of it then. It actually improved a bit on re-watch, though I still find that my problems with it back then have not at all disappeared. My main problem is (and was) that Spielberg really seems to think this film is some deep anti-war statement, some extremely important existential story, and it's just not. At heart, this is very much like the WWII classics The Story of G.I. Joe and Battleground (both directed by the great William A. Wellman), about a group of fairly stereotypical and not all that well defined soldiers who risk their lives for a greater purpose. Sure, they are constantly asking the question "Is it worth it?", but Spielberg's (painfully corny) wraparound story, with Private Ryan visiting Arlington National Cemetery, answer that question with a resounding "DUH!" Not to mention that the whole existential crisis (why should eight men be sent to die for one?) is a fabricated one, anyway, as it is, after all, fiction. And, during the film's release, we were told over and over again by everyone involved with the film and very gullible film critics that this was an anti-war movie (one of them who could see through that just saw fit to tell us how much more awesome Joe Dante's completely forgotten Small Soldiers was, so he seemed kind of like a crazy homeless person yelling at a wall). Yeah, it's so not that, either. The proof, twelve and a half years later, exists in the slew of WWII themed video games, all very clearly inspired by the film, that have ruled consoles in the past six or so years. I clearly remember Roger Ebert saying that this was the first film that did not make war seem fun, but damned if people aren't having a ton of fun shooting up Nazis on their TVs. I'd guess that Saving Private Ryan has done more to recruit new soldiers than any Army of One commercial ever has.So, yeah, it misses several of its main aims. However, while you can castigate Steven Spielberg for misunderstanding his context, you can't say a thing bad about his technical work on the film. Sure, the hand-held aesthetic that he uses in the battle sequences has inspired a lot of very dire copycats over the past twelve years (try not to laugh during the big battle at the start of Gladiator), but it was pretty brilliant at the time, and it really puts you right there. War might be fun, but it's also damn scary, and I found myself shaking with some tears in my eyes after the gigantic beach storming that opens the film (I try to forget the Arlington sequences exist) finally comes to an end. The slower, more personal moments aren't the best (partly due to the variable cast, which ranges from fantastic (Jeremy Davies) to acceptable (Tom Hanks) to terribly annoying (Edward Burns and Paul Giamatti)), but they're mostly fine, and always beautifully shot. I love some of the smaller moments of the movie, especially the slap that the little French girl gives her father when the G.I.s are able to hand her back to him, after the extraordinarily tense sniper sequence. All in all, while the film is kind of a mixed bag, I do think that the impressive moments far outweigh the overall ponderous nature of the movie.


                
I admire this film on many levels. The acting is absolutely superb especially the performances given by Tom Hanks, Vin Diesel, Matt Damon and all the supporting actors as well as the other leads, I don't have preferences but I only mention these off the top of my head. The direction by Spielberg is confidant and calm when it needs to be but also ferociously intense when there is a need for it. For every explosion and gun-fight there is a quiet moment between the characters which is just as worthwhile if not more and Robert Rodat's screenplay is pitch-perfect. Janusz Kaminski is one of the finest cinematographers alive and he brings the story alive in exquisite detail. The first twenty-minutes which show the famed D-Day landings is one of the most spectacular and haunting pieces of footage ever caught on film. There are many reasons I love the film but what brought the film down for me was essentially the story. There was no lack of it or too much of it and it was interesting but when Spielberg is fighting for believability in these shots I did not believe it with the story as a back-drop. The story goes that after Damon's brothers are killed around the globe on the same day the army wants to send him home to his mother and sends a group led by Hanks to find him and send him home. While something that is decent. I'm sorry but the government is not that decent and I didn't believe it for a second which constantly brought the film down.


                
Saving Private Ryan a film that has been hailed by many as one of the most realistic WW2 drama's to date, both in its context of battle and of its initial atmosphere, few WW2 drama's are unable to capture the harrowing battle that was of WW2, but Saving Private Ryan incorporates the power that churns your stomach as minute after minute you will see soldier's being instantly blown to pieces.As you most probably know Saving Private Ryan is a Steven Spielberg film and Spielberg himself admitted that he has a self-obsession with the WW2 context, as many of his earlier films such as the Oscar scooping film Schindler's List and Empire of the Sun are typical examples of films that are to do with WW2 and by in large they have very similar elements in common with each other.Saving Private Ryan has quite an unusual storyline for a WW2 picture but it does stand out, basically after the historic D-Day invasion on Omaha Beach, a Captain who goes by the name of John Miller must go along with seven other men to search for a missing soldier known as Private James Ryan who's three brothers had been killed in combat and for most of the film you will be seeing sequences of how the men proceed to find him and what they must risk to get to him. The storyline is successful in leaving a huge impact on the viewer(s) but for the most part the storyline is not that attractive, for one thing viewers just prefer to see Saving Private Ryan for its action and realism rather than for the fictional story that has been laid out in it.But even though this film possesses a disputable story there are actually a host of notable actors in this film that do a good job of backing up the film's rather sensitive storyline, Tom Hanks gives a riveting performance as Cpt. John Miller, well as the film's main supporting actors Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore and of course Matt Damon in the role of Private Ryan give some very excellent portrayals of their characters in the film's premise.All throughout Saving Private Ryan is an excellent film, it includes some very realistic physics in terms of its action and the characters themselves really stand out, but unfortunately the film's storyline can be quite slow and offhanded and appears to be a little too innovative and overrated, but if you're seeing Private Ryan for the first time then the storyline might be the source that will entice you to watch it to the bitter end.


                
After the D-Day invasion, Captain Miller (Hanks) an his squad of seven other soldiers go through Normandy to find James Francis Ryan, whose three brothers were killed in action. As the squad searches to find Private Ryan, they asked the inevitable question, why are they risking their lives to save one soldier.Saving Private Ryan is the best film to react the D-Day landing. It is both horrific and gruesome. It really shows how the landing took place. Unfortunately, the film never gets better than the first 20-25 minutes.The plot is good and is something I have never seen before in a war film. The characters are also very good, though it seems like Speildberg just threw in every military job there is in this film. The Motley Crue includes a sniper, a medic, a linguist, and many more.The directing and dialouge is very well done. It just seems like it takes itself a little too seriously at times. It also seems like some scenes drag on a bit to long.In my opinion, Hanks does a fantastic job, as does everyone else. The only one I thought didn't act as good was Matt Damon as Private Ryan. He has a fairly short role and didn't live up to it.All in all, it is a great war film with good directing, a good cast and a good premise. Its just too bad that it dragged on a bit to long and took itself too seriously. Other than that, it is a great movie to watch if you need a war fix, just don't expect anything revolutionary in the genre.8/10


                
It's nice to see a film that depicts the value of human life as fragile as it actually is, during times or war. This movie, with its' phenomenal cast, brings the characters in the movie to life, and sends a message to the audience that war is, in fact, unpleasant. This team of Army rangers set off to save the life of one man; tells the story of their journey and how hope is a driving force that keeps the team alive. With its realistic war violence sequences, the movie does a good job at making the audience feel compassion and empathy, as though part of the story themselves. This was the most memorable movie I've ever seen to this day.


                
As always, Spielberg at it's finest. In order for someone to be able to fully encapsulate all the emotions and little aspects involved in war, one has to be out of this war. All the scenes in the movie were crafted in such a way, that viewers get the ability to feel the psychology of those who go through war. Blood scenes including the cruelty of war give you the insight of real war, where everyone is ready to kill and fight till they die. Amazing work from the perspective of cinematography. However, the scenario is somehow weak. They could have picked a better one that will convey more meaning. Good movie, overall.
