I'd heard a couple of startling things about this film before seeing it. I'd heard that many veterans were having a hard time getting through the film without breaking down. I'd also seen interviews with veterans who'd seen the film and found the film to be incredibly realistic and consequently difficult to watch. Intriguing comments, since we all know there is no shortage of films about war from this century.There are not many films that I've seen that have actually made me physically react to the action on screen. I'm not speaking of the three-dimensional variety either. What I mean to say is this film had me contorting and cringing at the gripping, horrifying action on screen. Somehow the extreme violence can be justified as the whole world knows that this is an important chapter in human history and a startling, graphic depiction only adds more weight to the seriousness of the subject matter. I'd have to say this is probably one of the most important films of the 20th century because of its frank approach to one of the darkest periods of our time on this earth. I am always deeply moved and fiercely proud when given cause to consider those that gave their lives to protect our way of life and liberate those that already suffered dislocation, imprisonment and attempted genocide. These soldiers were truly noble and deserve our deepest gratitude. This sentiment is a common one, and will go some lengths to explain why this film has meant so much to so many.Even with the attention to detail and care taken into how it was shot to accentuate to the fullest degree its realistic approach, it is still hard to imagine what it must have been like to be part of a war. But this film goes a long way to help your mind get around it. It's hard for me to say what kind of impact the cinematography would have on someone watching it on the small screen of a television versus the big screen, but from my perspective, this film really does benefit from a theatrical presentation.What "Saving Private Ryan" does extremely well, is show the world the harsh reality of war without pulling any punches. The story about a squad of soldiers sent to retrieve the surviving brother of three dead soldiers is told with competency and due reverence from all perspectives of the characters involved. It is an uncommon and intriguing drama, but it serves as an excuse to describe a setting, rather than the other way around. The story manages to move us through all sorts of different landscapes and scenarios, giving us an unforgettable glimpse of a world unknown to most of us, and terrifying to those who are familiar with it from personal experience.
Steven Spielberg makes a unique motion picture in regards to the D-Day invasion of World War II just in the gritty reality of the detail<U+0085> For more than twenty minutes he revives for us the landing at Omaha beach<U+0085> No one was prepared for how horrific it really was<U+0085> No one understood what was going on: The terror, the chaos, the maelstrom of bullets, the near-deafening explosions<U+0085>You really got a sense of what these guys had to go through<U+0085> Within that perplexity, the focus settles on six soldiers under the command of Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) after they've survived their terrible hours breaking through the first line of German defense, they're given a strange perilous mission, to find one man, Pvt. Ryan (Matt Damon), a paratrooper who's somewhere behind German lines<U+0085> For them, it's an abstruse order, but they have to get it done<U+0085>Throughout the film, Spielberg's attention to detail is amazing<U+0085> For me, the most chilling scene in the movie is the death of an American officer<U+0085> It's one of the most intimate<U+0085> It's also a slightly confusing moment because two German characters resemble each other so greatly<U+0085>Toward the middle, a German soldier called "Steamboat Willie" is introduced<U+0085> By the end of the film, he has become the 'bad' German<U+0085> Later in the movie, another German is involved in the final fight<U+0085> He takes part in an exceedingly painful scene of hand-to-hand combat with the American soldier<U+0085> The two German soldiers have similar short haircuts and black uniforms<U+0085> Because they looked so much alike, many of us have believed that they're one character<U+0085> They're not, and the distinction of the two is very significant<U+0085>


                
I will just start off with saying that this is an excellent movie. Tom Hanks' character is superb as he again proves that he is one of the best actors still going today.The direction is magnificent, bravo Steven Spielberg who shows that war is absolutely not glamorous. Spielberg can enthrall audiences like no other.The battle on Omaha beach was powerful ,extraordinary stuff.We start this movie with the attack on Omaha beach, D-day 1944.Captain John.H.Miller(Tom Hanks)leads his regiment up on to the sands meanwhile being bombarded by Nazi gunmen.When Omaha Beach is seized by the American and British forces John is asked to embark on a mission to save a soldier who's three brothers had just died and who now has a ticket home to his grieving mother.John agrees and begins the task of saving Private Ryan all the while his regiment wonder why they must risk their lives to save one man.This is a great movie but very intense and powerful.The battle scenes are superb.A definite must see for any lover of great movies.Go watch this movie one of the best in its genre. 10/10 - Unmissable


                
Steven Spielberg (Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, Jurassic Park) deservedly won the Oscar for directing Schindler's List, and he did it again with another World War II film, this time in the battle itself, he was also won the Golden Globe, and was nominated the BAFTA. Basically the film starts with the fantastic opening on Ohama beach with Captain John H. Miller (Oscar BAFTA nominated, and medal for Distinguished Public Service Award (highest US Navy Civilian honour) winning Tom Hanks) and his troops struggling for survival against the Nazi Germans. After surviving this, they are given a special mission that they don't understand the significance of, to find one man and bring him home. They are now on the search for Private James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), and when they eventually find him, he doesn't know why he is needed to get home. This film may have its annoying chats and breakaways from battle, probably why it's four out of five stars, but this still sticks closer to the truth than fiction. Also starring Tom Sizemore as Sergeant Mike Horvath, Edward Burns as Pvt. Richard Reiben, Barry Pepper as Pvt. Daniel Jackson, Adam Goldberg as Pvt. Stanley Mellish, Vin Diesel as Private Adrian Caparzo, Giovanni Ribisi as T-4 Medic Irwin Wade, Jeremy Davies as Cpl. Timothy P. Upham, Ted Danson as Captain Fred Hamill and Paul Giamatti as Sergeant Hill. It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Film Editing and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Makeup, Best Music for John Williams, Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best Picture, it won the BAFTAs for Best Sound and Best Special Effects, and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Make Up/Hair, Best Production Design, the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, and it was nominated for Best Original Score and Best Screenplay. Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Tom Hanks was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, it was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest War Films. Very good!
After scrolling through alot of the reviews I see you guys giving. 1/10 HERE ..1/10 THERE..I asked myself how the hell can you be so ignorant..Or maybe the doctor dropped you on the floor when you came out your mommas womb. Saving Private Ryan was not only a well casted work of art. It is one of the only movies to existence that visual provides the horrible anguish of war. DRIVEN by an outstanding performance from Tom Hanks. Its Brutal...Violent...and undoubtedly the most realistic demonstration of war we have ever seen on the big screen. Though this story in the war may be fictional. The war in this story is not. 9/10


                
The movie is awsome. I love telling friends about World War II because most og them just joke about the war, And the story of Normandie is the battle I am most interested in. And when I saw Saving Private Ryan it was a special movment. I loved the movie in the first 5 mins. The movie gave me a picture of how the war was. It gave me a picture of what Omaha Beach mite have been like but it also gave me a picture of real brotherhood. I have said to all of my friends to see it because it really good. I love the movie and I hope the people that watch the movie is gonna love it just as much as I did and do.
The genius of Steven Spielberg is that he always knows exactly where he wants to take his audience, and then takes them there. If he wants to tug at our heartstrings, he'll make us fall in love with a brown and wrinkly space visitor we might otherwise find grotesque. If he wants to make us inch the blanket up over our eyes, he'll crank up the grim orchestral music and put us face-to-face with a toothy Great White. And if he wants us to truly understand an entirely different kind of horror, he'll show us small children leaping into a pool of outhouse waste to escape their murderous Holocaust captors.Spielberg continues what he does best with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, a film so graphic in its Second World War battlefield depictions that many veterans have called it the closest thing to being there. The explicit scenes of gushing arteries, severed limbs and faceless corpses come fast and furious, numbing us into the reality of the setting. In fact, if we didn't know Spielberg as a serious artist with noble objectives, we might be tempted to call him a shock artist obsessed with blood and guts and gore.But we do know about Spielberg. We know he would not take us down such a rocky road without a reason. In SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, the obvious rationale is to help us understand not where he's coming from, but where the men we will ultimately spend nearly three hours with are coming from. It's in this hell on earth that Cpt. John Miller (Tom Hanks) and his small group of soldiers (fine actors like Edward Burns, Tim Sizemore and Barry Pepper among them) must not only survive with sanity intact, but carry out orders. And not all of those orders make sense at the time, if ever. Case in point, Hanks and his men are sent to locate one Pte. James Ryan (Matt Damon). Pte. Ryan is no POW, but a soldier still serving somewhere within the vast U.S. Forces -- if he's still alive, that is. During the Second World War, with a communication system that is a technological dinosaur by today's standards, it's a mission ordered said than accomplished.The mission is a tough sell not just logistically, but emotionally. Pte. Ryan is sought so he can be sent home to his mom, who has just lost her three other sons virtually at once. As he himself admits, Pte. Ryan has displayed no more courage than his fellow soldiers. Why should he get to leave? Indeed that question crops up in the minds of Hanks' soldiers. Why is one man's life worth risking those of a group of men? they ask. It's an interesting angle for a film about heroes. We often think of soldiers doing the job with no questions asked, happy to put their lives on the line for their fellow GI. We forget they are rational humans.And therein lies one of the biggest strengths of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN. It's a very human story told in extreme circumstances. It covers all the traditional bases -- inner turmoil, terror, carnage -- but has a level of sophistication absent from most other war films, particularly those inspired by The Last Great War. Hanks isn't Patton, but a schoolteacher who secretly cries at the enormity of it all. The enemy fighters don't have horns, but uniforms and feelings just like the Americans. The soldiers are heroes, but reluctant ones.Spielberg is a master at telling the story of war and men. SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is not his best, but it certainly comes close.


                
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of those movies you can't believe didn't win the picture Oscar. That didn't stop it though from reaching such a huge audience and touch the lives of millions. The movie has one of the best introductions ever put on screen. The attack on D-Day is immensely powerful and painfully well directed. Steven Spielberg knows exactly how to make this movie strong and action-driven while focusing on the psychology on the characters and the cruelty of war.The movie is about 8 men searching for a soldier by the name of James Ryan (Matt Damon), who's the last of four brothers still left alive. After the attack of D-Day most of the soldiers still suffer the war syndrome and seem very doubtful of finding one person in a whole war-zone. Back at home, Ryan's mother gets a letter about three out of four of her sons dying in war, and begs the soldiers to find her last one.It's a beautiful film that depicts war as it should be. Vicious, disgusting, violent, heartbreaking, unfair, and tragic. Spielberg's use of the hand-held camera is almost breathtaking, as he gets right into the action and swings left and right to create a sense of realism and panic. His incredible editing and beautiful cinematography is unforgettable and is strongly influential.Tom Hanks gives an incredible performance as Captain John Miller, a dedicated and loyal soldier who's on the verge of losing his mind. The pressure from being a captain and enduring the worst attack in history sends him in mental torture, trying to covering his pain and suffering from the rest of the soldiers.The story doesn't focus on the heroic aspect, but rather the truth about war. Spielberg knows that even though you get to know the characters, they have a chance of dying. There is a unique subtlety in that these characters seem to have the drive to save private Ryan so they could go home.Definitely one of the best directed films in a long time, "Saving Private Ryan" is a bright gem in recent film-making. Robbed of the Picture Oscar, the movie is a true representation of D-Day and post D-Day. It's a movie that inspires above all else.


                
The story happened in the Second World War. Private Ryan's three elder brothers were killed in battles. The US army decided to send Ryan back to home to alleviate his mother's pain. Captain Miller accepted the task, though he was not satisfied with it including other members. It was said that Ryan was in German-dominated-France-area. Every team member knew its hardship.The opening battle that happened in Omaha beach was fierce and unforgettable. The similar scenes also occurred in wonderful TV series Band Brothers. When Miller led seven people to execute the mission, that reminded me of The lord of the rings. Of cause the task in TLOTR was more difficult.Life is precious. However a war can easily kill many people. The war is ruthless so that you must be cold-blooded or get killed in battlefield. Peace is really what we should cherish.An excellent thought-provoking war drama. 9/10
I went to see this film back in 1998 with my father, who is a WWII veteran who happened to serve in the Pacific Theatre, on Iwo Jima. While on line, he struck up a conversation with another veteran who did happen to serve in the European Theatre, and they discussed old times. But near the end of the conversation, my dad said, "For what? For what?" Something that still resonates with many WWII vets who are still alive, and saw that war was not the prettified heroics pumped out of the Hollywood studios, but a very real, bloody and bewildering hell, fought by the young and vital, male and female alike.The premise of the film being a young man who has already lost several brothers in the service, being saved by a platoon unknown to him has its basis in fact. During the Second World War, many families had several sons who either enlisted, or were drafted, and went into different military units. The five Sullivan brothers, all of whom were lost during the sinking of the USS Juneau, were the most famously representative of this tragedy, and after the war, the practice of multiple draft recipients from one family was eliminated. Does anyone remember the scene where Private Ryan's mother sees an Army car pulling up to her porch? The serviceman and her local clergyman approach her, and she sinks down, struck by the horrible reality they are about to convey. The terrible simplicity of this is deeply moving.There is also a brief scene in the beginning showing a secretarial pool for the Armed Services, where letters for medals, both posthumous and for the living, were typed and sent to families around the country. My mother worked in one of those pools, and it was not an easy job to deal with day by day.Some have asked - why no British soldiers here? This is an American platoon on the Omaha beachhead, not one of Montgomery's units. The daily dangers and horrors of war are vividly portrayed. The deaths aren't pretty, and some of the characters aren't pretty, but that's the way war is (and was). You were in a unit with all types, from different states, and your common goal was to survive - kill, or be killed. There were gloryboys and cowards, and some are shown here.The only maudlin note (and Spielberg can't seem to resist injecting some sentimentality here) is when the mature Ryan, visiting the military cemetery with his family, stops at the grave of his commanding officer John Miller, and asks in tears, "Am I a good man?" In other words - why them, and not me? Why am I here, outliving everyone? It doesn't seem justified to him.There are some terrific performances to take in : Tom Hanks as John Miller, Matt Damon as Pvt. Ryan, Tom Sizemore, and Vin Diesel, to name just a few.The sacrifices of our fathers, uncles, and grandfathers' generation were exemplary. They were the lucky ones who came back to lend their voices to history, and without them, many of us, including myself, would not be here. At the end of the film, I sat there, next to my dad, who was also in tears. I would say, "God bless them, one and all."
Saving Private Ryan is the first movie that's kept my eyes glued to the screen, no lie, for at least 30 minutes straight. The opening scene in this movie is incredible. I've never been in war, but after seeing this movie, I know, I just know, that that's what war is like. It's gotta be. Steven Spielberg is amazing in this movie. The performances are amazing. Everything is so well done. Sometimes the camera gets a little too shaky, but you gotta picture it through the eyes of someone who's actually there.I usually get bored with war movies, because it's usually the same crap. But this movie sticks with me. It's gotta be hell to be a soldier. The combat scenes were excellently done, and even though the opening was extremely gruesome and gory, it just had to be that way. The movie is a little long, almost 3 hours, but it's worth the entire watch. The ONLY scene I thought was a little stupid was when they (spoiler) found the wrong Private Ryan and he started crying cuz he thought his brothers were dead. But aside from that, this is the best war movie I've ever seen. Make sure you see this movie! FUBAR!


                
Spielberg mines a sullied gem with this bloody classic. A family film, I say, a demonstration of brotherhood and integrity. For me the decision to seek Private Ryan based on the mother's loss simultaneously undermines and glorifies the honour of war. And it is in this background that Hanks delivers a compelling performance worthy of many rewatches.The violence in this film is stark. So many examples you can think of - from the escaped German prisoner's revenge, to the sockbomb victim - show the arbitrary nature of violence. But the quieter moments between are tender and contemplative - Fubar anyone? Not a realist film, like Platoon or Full Metal Jacket, but art to provoke, like Jar Head and Apocalypse Now.


                
The first 20 minutes of this film is a brutal glimpse into the violence and complete uselessness of war. We see people getting gunned down, limbs getting blown off, people blown in half, guts everywhere, it is not a pretty sight. It's this, and many other things, that make this one of the greatest war films I've ever seen.Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) and his men are sent on a mission to recover Private James Ryan (Matt Damon). Along the way many hardships are faced and overcome between these men.That is pretty much the plot, but the movie is more than plot. It is a journey through World War II's harshness and a journey with these men. We come to care for these men. They aren't given huge amounts of development, but they don't need it. The actors really make us care for these people, as does Steven Spielberg's skillful directing. This is definitely one of his best movies.It is also a lot different. If any of his movies contain violence, there is very little of it. This, however, contains some of the most graphic violence I've ever seen. It truly shows the violence, dirtyness and uselessness of war. It doesn't offer anything but pain and misery. John William's score also creates a very suitable mood.The only reasons I have for deducting the half a star is because of the very start and the very end. The American flag flapping in the distance was a little too sentimental for me and I found it unnecessary.4½/5.


                
"Saving Private Ryan", is one of the most pivotal moments in both Steven Spielberg's career, and the War genre in motion picture history.It follows United States Army Rangers Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks), and his squad (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Adam Goldberg and Jeremy Davies) as they search for Private First Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), who is the last-surviving brother of four servicemen.Most notably to be said about the movie, is the depiction of the Omaha landings. Basically, it was a war re-enactment consisting of 1500 extras and 30 or so amputees. Spielberg did not plan ahead in terms of storyboarding, but instead decided to place the camera where it was best suited for spontaneous reactions. Admist all the amazing locations and bombed out villages, every soldier is relying on one solid emotion to get through the war, hope, which comes in the form of the missing Private Ryan. Unfortunately, that hope is tested as inevitable casualties will demoralise and divide the squadron.This film covers pretty much all aspects of war. The tension, nature and sadness of it all gets stripped bare, as all stones are turned and the end result is one of poetic beauty. However, I never really found myself caring whether they found Ryan or not. Though the ending can't help but feel forced, it's certainly touching and has a lot of patriotism in mind.Final Verdict: Definitely one of Spielberg's finest. I look forward to watching "Band of Brothers" (2001), and seeing what this man can do with more running time. 9/10.
Steven Spielberg was the only director's name I knew for a long portion of my life.Mainly because I was a narcissistic young lad and due to his first name, I presumed he must be brilliant.But he spells it incorrectly.'Stephen' is spelled with a 'ph' not a 'v'.Anybody worth their salt knows that.Saving Private Ryan is a lot like it's director's first name - it's a near perfect film.The only blemish on this entire movie is the opening and ending ten minutes, the two scenes featuring the old man revisiting the tombstones at Normandy. They are totally unnecessary to the plot of the film and hokey as all get out.Otherwise all of the narrative which takes place during World War II is sensational.Sure the scene where they storm the beaches on D-Day is a marvelous sight to behold, but don't let that detract from the scenes that follow. It's all good stuff.Tom Hanks leads a cast of fantastic characters including Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore, Vin Diesel, Adam Goldberg, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Barry Pepper, Matt Damon, Dennis Farina, Ted Danson, Brian Cranston and Paul Giamatti.All deliver exceptional performances throughout.If you've been keeping SPR in the back pocket like me, let it out anytime.You'll enjoy this film.But stop reading here, I'm going to spoil a few things.Vin Diesel is very good in this movie, and it gets a little dusty when his character dies, but it seems like there is some ADR (additional dialogue recording) shoved into the scene directly preceding.The only portion of the movie that may ruin the suspension of disbelief is here, when Vin takes the daughter. The scene is a bit unbelievable, it only lasts a second, but something is lost to the viewer. I think the ADR might be part of the reason.Speaking of, when he's laying there and takes out the note for his father, I'm almost certain there is ADR because his lines do not match up with his lips or body language.Anyway, if I were to criticize that scene, I'd be nitpicking. It still gets dusty no matter what he's saying.To address my earlier criticism, you might argue that the 'bookends' (the scenes in which we see Matt Damon all grown up, having fathered at least two generations) are necessary to provide redemption to the deceased characters.This is a fair point, but I don't think we need this kind of handholding. I don't believe anyone would have wondered whether or not he went on to father children. Almost all of the characters are heroic (especially Private Ryan) and we know that he's alive at the end of their mission.They are required to give him another chance, and that's made apparent by his survival during the film's climax. The viewer can presume he will make the best of the life they've sacrificed for.But this is all semantics. Leave the scenes in, for all I care.Saving Private Ryan is a fantastic movie.
Saving Private Ryan is a great film. The film's second scene, which is based on Omaha Beach on D-Day really makes the whole film 10/10, as if it wasn't for that scene, I would have probably given it an 8/10. This is because of the action in the scene, as Steven Spielberg shows a good example of what happened to the soldiers that day, and what a struggle it was. Other than the D-Day scene, the film is still amazing, as it provides lots of drama, such as the scene with the tense sniper game, and the parents daughter being taken. Also the part in the destroyed town, which is a big part of the story. Altogether Saving Private Ryan is a spectacular film, and I would recommend it to anyone.


                
The fact that it didn't win Best Picture is outrageous. It was great from start to finish. The opening scene with the old man crumble in front of headstones is emotional. The music score by John Williams is amazing. That image became the opening scene of Saving Private Ryan, directed by Steven Spielberg. The film tells the story of a mission following the D-day invasion. The movie starts Tom Hanks as Captain Miller, a soldier's soldier, who must takes a small band of troops behind enemy lines to retrieve a private whose three brothers have recently been killed in action. It's a public relations move for the Army, but it has historical precedent dating back to the Civil War. His mission to find Private James Ryan (Matt Damon) and bring him back to the United States so that it can save the family's bloodline and help softly the mother's grief. Some critics of the film have labeled the central characters stereotypes. If that is so, this movie gives stereotypes a good name: Tom Sizemore starts as the deft sergeant, Edward Burns as the hotheaded Private Reiben, Barry Pepper as the religious sniper, Adam Goldberg as the lone Jew, Vin Diesel as the oversize Private Caparzo, Giovanni Ribisi as the soulful medic, and Jeremy Davies, who as a meek corporal gives the film its most memorable performance. I understand the everyman quality of the average soldier. There were also a lot of actors that you wouldn't have thought for once, playing soldiers as supporting characters such as Ted Danson, Bryan Cranston and Paul Giamatti. Who knew they would be playing soldiers in one of the greatest war film ever. I like how the characters were written with everyday blue-collar Joes. It gives the movie realistic. They are brave while scare. Good, but also bit morally reprehensible. A great scene toward the middle of the film represented the questioning of their own morals when it conflict the attitudes of the war when the group captured a German Soldier. All of them has to debate if they should just murder the man or set the man free. It's toward the middle of the film, that the violence of the film dies down enough, to get a few character development. It was strong enough time to make them seem like people with the amount of screen time they got here. Some people thinks that the movie glorified war or it's over patriotism. I think some critics seriously misinterpreted this movie if they think it glorified war. In movies that glorify war, there are ridiculous outlandish characters that simply don't represent the soldiers who fought in war. In Saving Private Ryan, the characters are down-to-earth-ordinary. This movie also shows that in war, there are no heroes who are guaranteed to survive. It portrays war as what it is: violent and ugly. As pure hell. As for patriotism, I don't believe that the film is patriotism. There are scenes of American soldiers being as crude, cowardly, or just mean-spirited as some of the German's soldiers. I don't think the Germans are portray unfairly. About the fact that there were no allied forces shown was due to the fact that it is an American film presented to an American audience. Would it had been nice to see a British soldier in the film? Yes, but it wasn't needed in the film. The film made younger generations understand what happened that day and the sacrifices that were made in order to win that war, while also telling the dangers and how bad the war really got. The film was balance between pro war and anti-war themes. Yes, there were a few historic accurates that wasn't corrected, but overall, many people have call this film to be the most realistic and maybe the best war film ever. The first 20 minutes horrifically and realistically depicts the Normandy Invasion. The visuals are grainy, de-colorized, and filmed in a first person aspect that convey an adrenalin driven that been never witness in a war film before then, and since after Saving Private Ryan, many directors have used for their war films. The audio is astounding, and actually had me flinching during the harrowing first twenty minutes of the film. Exceedingly realistic and recorded in perfect three dimensional, positional audio that firmly plants you on that horrific beach landings. After this movie came out, I saw an interview with several D-Day survivors. They all said that the invasion sequence was the most realistic portrayal they had ever seen. It was like they were there again. That is strong praise from someone who would know. Every teen aged idiot who fantasizes on war by playing console games needs to watch this film. Show them how it really was. It's not what it is. Overall: It is a must-watch. It's a story of normal, average men forced into extraordinary and terrible situations due to war and how they survive it.
After the D-Day invasion of Omaha Beach, Ranger Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) is tasked to put together a platoon of his choosing and find a paratrooper from the 101st Airbourne named Private James Ryan. With the platoon of his choosing (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, and Jeremy Davies) sets off in treachorous wartime France to find Private Ryan amongst a field of full of enemies and a split up 101st Airbourne.World War I is often considering "The Great War" or "The War to End All Wars," but few military conflicts have caught the hearts and minds of the American, and the world, consciousness the way that World War II has. For the first time during a war, films were made about the war as early as 1939. Some of the greatest war films and TV series have been based on World War 2 from The Sands of Iwo Jima to Flags of Fathers to Band of Brothers. At the end of the 20th century, with a career full of highly critically and commercially successful hits under his belt, Steven Spielberg took another turn at the war film (following 1979's 1941) with Saving Private Ryan.Saving Private Ryan is arguably the greatest war film ever made. The opening thirty minutes of the D-Day invasion is possibly the greatest scene ever committed to celluloid. But it's not just the harrowing scenes of war time that make this movie so great, it's the character building, the camaraderie between the soldiers, the devotion to duty, and the bravery of these men in combat. This movie truly depicts why World War 2 soldiers were possibly the greatest soldiers in US history.One of the great things about the casting in Saving Private Ryan is the fact that they chose actors that look like everyday men rather than picking men that look like action heroes, and because of that the acting in this movie is amazing. Tom Hanks gives a wonderfully authoritative and still understated performance as Capt. John Miller. Vin Diesel hasn't been this good since, and Barry Pepper as is sensational as religious sniper Pvt. Daniel Jackson. Even Jeremy Davies as the green Cpl. Upham makes you feel for his character despite his very obvious flaws as a soldier.The one thing that drags this movie down though is Spielberg's slavish devotion to sentimentality. The bookends to the film are completely unneeded and drags down what is otherwise an utterly great movie. Don't get me wrong, a former soldier's sentimentality for the one's who died to save him has it's place, I just feel as though that should have been more reserved for the former soldiers watching this movie remembering those who died with and for them then on the screen in this movie. Rather, the movie should have just been devoted to remembering the bravery and camaraderie of the men who fought in the war.Overall, though, in the scheme of things, despite the minor flaw that I have with this movie, it is definitely still the greatest movie in my mind dedicated to the men who have served our country. I don't just recommend this movie, if you haven't seen this you need to watch it, and now that it's out on Blu-Ray this is the perfect time to pick up this movie and watch it, or to watch it again.4.5/5


                
OK first off let me be clear on a few points: I rarely, if ever, write reviews. Second, I am not American, I'm a proud Canadian. I'm not enlisted in our military, nor am I a veteran.Saving Private Ryan has turned out to be, in my opinion, one of the most moving films in the last 40 years. So realistic that Veterans of the War and in particular Operation Overlord (or Operation Atlantic for the Canadians participation on June 6, 1944) have a hard time watching the movie.Now, the events that the 8 soldiers in the movie participate in are an amalgamation of several different events that happened to different people throughout the real war: While Charlie Company, 2nd Rangers Battalion did participate in Overlord, they were at Pointe du Hoc, not Omaha Beach as depicted here. The rescue of Sgt Fredrick Niland was not done by a group of rangers, but rather by a French chaplain. Bridges were a common point of contention and it was not unheard of to see a small group of soldiers defending such an important transportation artery.Saving Private Ryan takes these events and more and weaves them into an incredible story of the courage and honor that has left me stunned time and time again. Unlike so many movie characters these days, I see a depth to these characters. Mellish is a Jew. Miller is a schoolteacher. Jackson is a Christian. And of course the somewhat nerdy Corporal Upham.On the other side we have Steamboat Willie, unfortunately the only German (being German does NOT make him Nazi) soldier we see a whole lot of. It is likely that, like the Americans, he is only following orders, as the Nazi Regime in those days "recruited" as many able bodied soldiers as they could - including POWs, like the Czechs.In addition if you think that the blood and gore is an attempt to provide "entertainment value" to this film, then maybe you need to look up the real WWII. In contrast SPR is much more sterile in that respect than the war really was. War is a bloody, horrible, terrible thing, and SPR comes very close to that reality. Blown off limbs, spilled guts, and blood are unfortunate realities.If your looking for a film to watch for entertainment value, don't bother with this one. If, on the other hand, you want to watch a movie that is a worthy tribute to our Veterans - American, Canadian, British - this one is well worth your while. Start to finish, this film gives me a sense of pride to think of all those people in our military who fight so hard and put their lives on the line just so ordinary people like myself can stay free and live our lives the way we were meant to. My hat's off to those people, with a heartfelt thanks and prayer.One last note, I have heard of this film (and even the real Operation) being paralleled and compared with the computer game Medal of Honor: Allied Assault (or MOHAA for short). Let me be crystal clear on this point: It was a good game (I played it) but it was just that - a game. If you die, you can start over until you win. The same was not true for all the people that gave their lives during this bloody campaign. None of them had a health bar of 100 and a start button for another chance at the battle.My hats off to Steven Spielberg and the Cast for such a superb effort!
I've seen many war movies , in fact War is the genre that interests me the most . However , Saving Private Ryan is a movie that stands apart from all others . As soon as the film starts you know that the movie is something special , there is something different in this movie as compared to others on the same subject . Spielberg not only manages to depict the brutality of war superbly but also manages to blend this with the mission given to 8 American Soldiers . If you're a fan of Warfare and violence then the first half hour of the movie will be enough for you . It is an absolutely sensational and gripping depiction of what these brave men must have gone through . Tom Hanks is brilliant as usual , playing the role of Captain John H. Miller flawlessly . Some of his conversation scenes with the other soldiers are very well projected by Spielberg who again shows how good he is as a Director . All in all this is one of the best movies I have ever seen and certainly the best when it comes to a movie about War .


                
Saving Private Ryan is (in a word) outstanding. Spielberg thrusts the viewer into the Normandy campaign and you need a strong stomach to endure this. The attack on Dog Green Sector, Omaha Beach is arguably the most realistic movie portrayal of battle (notwithstanding that breakthrough actually took over three hours).A brilliant innovation is the colour reduction (over 50%) which makes you really believe it is 1944. Music is used to great effect in moments of calm. The brutality of battle is clearly demonstrated as is the sadness of loss of life, yet the campaign is necessary to end the tyranny of Hitler and Nazi ideology.The storyline is a real strength and the characters & acting are superb. Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) carries out his mission hoping to return to his wife; only his shaking right hand alludes to the inner turmoil he struggles with from soldiers dying under his command. He is well supported by Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore), who maintains discipline within the squad.But some cannot contain their doubts and even anger that eight lives should be risked to save one. Though every man has a mother, you cannot help feel that Ryan (Matt Damon) must be saved out of decency. Ryan himself selflessly stays to defend his outnumbered "brothers" in spite of the disaster to befall his family. Finally, "Steamboat Willie" humanises the Germans when pleading for his life. Befriended by Upham, he is released, yet returns to battle. His death shows that men who could otherwise be friends will kill each other in war.Only a few historical inaccuracies detract from the brilliance of SPR. Often outnumbered, the Germans conquered most of Europe by 1942 through tactical skill in battle, something missing in their clumsy attack on Ramelle. And tanks had bulletproof glass over vision ports, so driver and radio operator could not be killed so easily. A role for the British was lacking; sadly a Hawker Typhoon could not be used to bomb the Tiger tank. In fact, a good knowledge of WW2 history is important in order to place this film in context.Overall, this tactical and human story within the carnage of WW2 is a must see for anyone who watches war movies. And don't miss the message in Captain Miller's last words!
=== CAN CONTAIN SPOILERS === This movie is one of the most beautiful movies ever seen. As a fan of WW2 based movies I've seen a lot of such movies, but none of those movies can be compared with the beautiful story of a group soldiers in search of a soldier, named James Ryan, who they don't know, and never saw, willing to give their lives for the job, to find him. in the meantime, a bond between the soldiers exists. one by one their comrades die, only to save one unknown one who is maybe already dead...I can tell you a lot of this movie, but the best way is to find out yourself and watch the movie. you'll not regret it. it's only not suited for people who can't stand blood in movies... think about the first 30 minutes of the movie (Omaha Beach). If you like the turmoil and especially the drama part of WW2, then I'll recommend you to watch this superb movie. And of course, it's directed by Steven Spielberg :p (hope that my first review is alright) :DNow, the only thing I have to do is to watch Band of brothers :D
I've long been a fan of war films but for some reason it took me eight years to finally get around to watch this, the often undisputed classic war film of all time. Why? Not sure really – I'm not the world's biggest fan of Steven Spielberg, although I'll admit that he's made some good films in his time. Still, it was with some excitement that I sat down to finally watch this lengthy epic of a film, in the best format possible – widescreen DVD, 52" television, and surround sound system. Unsurprisingly, I was blown away by the production.At the heart, the film recalls dozens of other war films from THE DIRTY DOZEN to THE LONGEST DAY. A squad of men are sent on a suicidal mission, facing almost certain depth. Where the movie excels, however, is in the extra depth and layers that Spielberg adds. The characterisation is strong, the dialogue harsh and heartfelt. Technically, the film is perfect. The colours are faded and washed out and the hand-held camera-work is ten times better than that seen in the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy. Sound effects are excellent, the best I've heard, especially the incredibly suspenseful sound of tanks approaching at the film's climax. All these technicalities combine to make the battle scenes some of the most desperately realistic I've seen. The opening twenty minutes on Omaha Beach, which show the infamous D-Day landings, are everything you've heard: exhilarating, utterly depressing, disturbing, exciting, and gruesome. This is certainly the goriest war film out there and it's all portrayed in a matter-of-fact way; blink and you really will miss it. People explode, lose limbs, and bleed copiously from wounds; only strong stomachs need apply.The acting is uniformly great, as you'd expect from the calibre of cast on view. Tom Hanks has never been better as the shellshocked hero, with unforgettable mannerisms – the shaking hand still haunts me. Tom Sizemore arguably steals the show as the gruff sergeant, and his larger-than-life persona is well suited to a role than the one he plays here. Edward Burns and Adam Goldberg put in solid performances but it's Jeremy Davies who the film focuses on throughout – a rookie, green-faced communications officer thrown straight into the hell of warfare. The viewer understandably sees the film through Davies' eyes and the subsequent journey is everything you would imagine it to be. Additionally, the film boasts great turns from actors in lesser roles – especially Barry Pepper as the sniper and Vin Diesel at his best. Lots of familiar faces pad out other roles, some in cameos: Dennis Farina, Ted Danson, Matt Damon, Giovanni Ribisi, Paul Giamatti, the list goes on.Despite the near-three hour running time, the film never slows up or stops for a minute. Every second is crucial and beautifully crafted. Things culminate in a set-piece climax, a fierce ambush in a bombed-out French town. Our heroes attempt to destroy a brigade of Nazi troops and their vehicles and heavy guns. It's sprawling, explosive, upsetting and, by the last frame of the film, incredibly moving. So, in retrospect, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is everything everybody says it is. Spielberg's best film by far and one of the best war films of all time.
Summary: 4,413 men recorded dead in what is known as the turning point of World War 2, the day of days, D-day.... Until Saving Private Ryan there has not been a film that has come close to showing an entire audience through a cinema screen just how tragic, terrifying and real this war was. Saving Private Ryan is story about a group of eight men led by Captain Miller (Tom hanks) who have been assigned to bring one man home to his mother. A mother who has lost three of her sons due to this war, and to lose a forth is inconceivable. A story of courage, bravery, friendship, brother hood and belief there is hope for humanity where all hope is lost. Until Saving Private Ryan there have been countless film adaptions of World war 2, but few have attempted to bring the harsh reality of war home to the viewing audience, and make you feel as if you are there. Well, Spielberg has certainly achieved this. For the first 27 minutes of the film, we witness one of cinemas most historical openings to a film, but also one of histories most tragic and important moments - D-day. You find yourself stunned into silence once the landing crafts door spins open, as instantly you see young men mowed down by German mounted machine guns, the sound of land mines, mortar fire and screaming all adds to this horrific moment. Ignorantly you find yourself questioning, and wondering why people are drowning? not running? and not firing back? But then you remember you are sat in a cinema or at home and will never experience the shear fear and loss of humanity in moments like that.Like all directors, Spielberg is certainly not perfect, and there are moments throughout this film that 'lack' information, and are in some respect "Hollywood" such as we only witness the Americans running up Omaha beach (but never hear about Juno, Sword, Gold, Utah), and granted the majority of the soldiers storming Omaha were Americans, but where are the rest of the Allies who assisted in the Omaha landing (after all U.S.A won the war didn't they?). Regardless of some minor factual eras, this opening is none the less a cinematic master piece (which won him the Oscar for Best Director). Steven Spielberg not only aimed to show the needless, countless and horrific violence of this war, he also has tried to show us as an audience that in these dark times, humanity will find a way, and that is the basis of our story (although a fictional story, it is a heart felt and beautiful story, that will leave you on the edge of your seat throughout). Saving Private Ryan is a film that has been noted, and criticised as being needlessly violent, bloody and chaotic. You cannot argue that violence, blood and chaos are entirely apparent from the get go, but you certainly cannot say it is needless. Spielberg has masterfully encapsulated a time in history where everything that was 'right', was most definitely not. Cpt Miller, played by Tom Hanks, who in an Oscar nominated performance (which lets face it, you wouldn't expect any less) will embark on the mission of finding Private James Ryan (Iowa) the fourth brother, to bring him home to his grieving mother. Tom hanks is accompanied by an all star cast of seven men: Sargent Horvath (Tom Sizemore), Private Reiben (Edward Burns), Private Jackson (Barry Pepper), Private Mellish (Adam Goldberg), Private Caparzo (Vin Diesel), T-4 Medic Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies). If this cast alone isn't an incentive to see the film, the story of their journey for humanity, justice and to risk eight lives to save one will have you by the throat throughout. As far as war films go, I can honestly say there has never been one so close to the bone that you are left speechless, and feel as if you are a witness to something you have only ever read or heard about. Each characters struggle for survival and to simply make it back home will remind you how lucky you are, but find also make you feel like you are part of this mission. One of the most powerful moments in this film, comes early on when the head of the US Army hears about the mothers loss, and decides it is right to bring the fourth brother home. Spielberg has included a letter Abraham Lincoln once wrote to a "Mrs Bixby, in Boston" during America's most tragic of wars, the Civil War. Although a letter written years before World War 2, it is written by one of Americas most iconic and notable presidents who's vocabulary and inspirational writing is still ever apparent today. The letter gives us a sense that somewhere in the mist of all war and unspeakable violence it is the families of these young men and women who are giving their lives that really matters. "Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov. 21, 1864. Dear Madam,-- I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle.I feel how weak and fruitless must be any word of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic they died to save.I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.Yours, very sincerely and respectfully,A. Lincoln"
Saving Private Ryan is beautiful. It's emotional. It's violent. And it's probably the best movie set in a war ever made. It is a truly epic. Spielberg's directing here is phenomenal. Every cast member give great performances, making every character memorable. The set design is also marvelous. As I said earlier, this movie is violent. And not just over the top violence that you may find in a Quentin Tarantino movie. This violence is very real. It's horrifying to watch hundreds of soldiers die in the Ohama Beach scene. But without that brutality, this movie wouldn't have worked. It needed to affect its audience. It needed to provide a realistic look at World War II. And it worked.


                
