The Jinx; A documentary about the deaths of a handful of people starring the main suspect who is interviewed after having served time for one of the killings as he maintains his innocence. Stretched out over six 45-minutes episodes, the documentary basically tells the story of Robert Durst's life with Durst himself collaborating the story entirely apart from having anything to do with the deaths and killings that make the story interesting. After three episodes, this repetitive dynamic becomes quite a drag. Glued together with archive footage and private family footage of the man's past, we basically get treated to the blather of people involved in Durst's life or in the lives of the people he presumably killed and law enforcement officials involved in the cases. The term blather is not used lightly here. There is surprisingly little sappiness to be found in the comments made. The documentary never makes a case for why the viewer should care about any of these people or their viewpoints, or what Durst himself has to say or lie about the deaths of the victims.People get killed all the time, Durst very probably was involved in all of the cases presented, yet denies this. It shouldn't take 6 plodding episodes to document this.4/10


                
This is, with little doubt, the most boring piece of idiocy I almost watched entirely. I understand that there must be some significant difference between me and the general public in the USA. For sure, I cannot understand how a poor person in America can vote on anything but the communists, out of spite if for no other reason. John Steinbeck wrote that the poor in America look at themselves as temporarily embarrassed millionaires and if that is possible then I guess the raving reviews that this film has gotten is possible too. Somebody has to issue a warning, so I'm doing it. If you buy this film, you cannot blame me. Where lies the fascination that some people seem to have for this garbage? Are they surprised that there are killers in a system of competition, in which only the most evil can succeed? A good person cannot see his fellow human beings as opponents and subsequently a good person has no chance to make it in the USA. I guess, most Americans don't know that. What could have been told in half an hour or less, is stretched out to more than 4 hours (or was it even 5?). Every idiot has their say. The only thing that could have saved this film - well,almost - would have been if he was innocent without a doubt and the guilty person would have been somebody you never even heard about before.
