Spoiler Alert. This is my first review. Normally i wouldn't but no one has reviewed it and i think members might read this as an indication of it's appeal. Do not be misled, this is well worth your time.I went into this due to the relatively high ratings and comparisons to True Detective. Having watched it i would describe it as more "Serial" the pod-cast. I was thrown off for a minute or two as i realized it's a documentary but was soon convinced, very convinced. Imagine a documentary that plays out like a great fiction movie. The truth is stranger than fiction here.I won't ruin it for you by going into story details. This is a journey that's best experienced first hand. Trust me on that. If you're the kind of person that insists on knowing what it is before watching it, here's an interview of the director on the latimes.com: http://lat.ms/1wz0PndFrom the cinematography alone you know you've found quality cinema and can now schedule your weeks ahead :-) It is well directed by Andrew Jarecki (Who made Capturing the Friedmans (2003). He also made "All Good Things", which is also about Robert Durst. Jinx is well written where it is. The journalism aspect of it is on point, the lack of bias by the interviewer is refreshing. It allows one to explore the characters objectively. Going from episode to episode one does not know what to expect; the surprises keep coming. I love how each episode resolves intelligently but leaves one looking forward to the next.If you're like me and refuse to see any series that scores below 8 on IMDb- I recommend Jinx for you. Do not waste any time; run towards it.I am from Joburg SA. City Of Gold&Gunpowder.
I had never heard of Robert Durst before finding out about a 6 part documentary that HBO had done while listening to ESPN 1000 in Chicago. It was a pretty strange way to hear about a TV series, but I'm sure glad I did. The Jinx is a disturbing look at a once accused murderer who ended up getting away with several crimes. Now of course I say that now that I have seen the series. So I have a pretty good idea whether or not he did what he was accused of. But the impressive part about Andrew Jarecki's approach is that as bad as this person is to us, he paints the picture in a way that there's a possibility that what we think may actually be wrong. He tells us what he thinks in the later episodes, but he does so after years of research, and even after meeting the man himself.The early episodes give us an inside look at the actual process done by the police and law enforcement officials in each case. It was nice getting the complete background before we saw Robert Durst on screen yet. I believe it was episode 3 that we found out Durst reached out to Jarecki in order to tell his own story for the series. It immediately smelled rotten. As much as I think he did kill the 3 people, and maybe even more, Durst was a fascinating person to watch. He's a smart man, and even though he blinks way too much like people are saying, I don't think that was a dead giveaway. He's a very strange person that perhaps could have just been in the wrong place at the wrong time? No, I highly doubt that, but I'm glad Jarecki still interviewed people from both sides. I also didn't find the recreation scenes to be distracting like I do with most documentaries. The whole process of filming and interviewing was handled really well.The final few episodes were really chilling as Durst slipped up on the microphone and accidentally said some things that could be held against him on a later date. Fortunately, I think Durst is currently on trial or arrested for something if I remember reading correctly. Anyway, Jarecki gave us a unique documentary here that serialized something that I didn't think could really be serialized. It was a compelling and disturbing look into a possible murderers life, pre and post crimes.+Jarecki's directing style +Took its time and gave evidence for both sides +Recreation scenes 9.0/10
This is a documentary which follows Andrew Jarecki, as he pulls together the story of Robert Durst, who is suspected of killing his wife along with two others.Robert Durst is part of the Durst family, a prominent property investment force in New York. Andrew Jarecki interviews Robert Durst extensively, along with other key players. He and his team are party to the uncovering of new evidence for these old crimes.Amazingly, the tension is built and sustained then built again and again - I am sure whether to congratulate Andrew Jarecki as incredibly lucky for the revelations he gets to reveal, or his mastery as a film maker.I believe that this series is a rare combination of both.Highly recommended.


                
Groundbreaking HBO miniseries about Robert Durst. Directed by Andrew Jarecki, who previously directed the Durst-inspired ALL GOOD THINGS (2010). The show follows the reclusive real estate scion through three unsolved murders with plenty of history and mystery—all of which Durst himself became a suspect in—as well as taking some time to detail Durst's complex early life that could either explain his eccentricity<U+0085> or perhaps suggest his ability to commit the crimes in question. The documentary incorporates in-person interviews and phone conversations over the course of many years, all building up to a historical finale.***½ (out of four)


                
I really enjoyed this documentary and find this story fascinating. The one detail the filmmaker missed is this: The reason Robert Durst sent the cadáver letter is bc he was concerned about Susan Berman's 2 dogs NOT about her. He did not want her dogs left unattended with her dead body for several days. Look at all the photos of him with dogs, including on his wedding day when he is holding the husky.He cared about animals but not people.
I saw " All good things" a few years back and was curious about the alleged suspect, Robert Durst. Later, I watched several news programs about him also. And it was only natural to come across this title eventually.I watched two similar crime series on Netflix, "Making a Murderer" and "The Staircase". None of them were convincing to me. Both suspects in these two cases were convicted as murderers. However, those two film makers indeed tried to portrait their innocence, otherwise. Especially, the suspect in "Making a Murderer" is undoubtedly guilty . The film makers somehow misled audience to believe suspects' innocence with their bias directing skills. This one is neutral and journalistic. The main focus of this documentary is on Robert Durst entirely not on any particularly alleged crimes he committed. The history of him is very well to depict his psychopathic personality. He got away with those murders because of his wealth and connections. When he agreed to participate this documentary against his lawyer's cautious advises, he wasn't aware that his fate was about to take turn for worse. This also coincided with those analyses of psychopathic behaviors. Despite of all the complexities of psychopath, Robert Durst is a real life psychopath who is now behind bars because of this film. I would say so far this is the best outcome anyone could hope for.This is a good journalist work. It did not only have its entertaining value but also serve justice for victims. What could be better than that? I would recommend it.


                
Mr Durst is a stone cold killer. As the series progresses one can make up from the circumstantial evidence that he is a muderer. I cannot understand how this man, especially in America, got away with what he did. He should've at least been charged with dismemberment and identity fraud and other minor charges. The fact that he cut up someone after killing the victim in self defense doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Normally you would call emergency services after that would happen? He is not much different from Ted Bundy. A crafty sly psychopath who is intelligent and lucky.It was a very interesting documentary and the interviewers were really good at exposing him in the end. I would like to see another follow up about what will happen to Durst now he is suspected of 3 or more killings.
What I loved about The Jinx is that it uses the information the filmmakers have about Robert Durst to tell a very serialized, compelling story. I do agree that it manipulated its viewers with the way it narrated the facts but that's the simplest yet clever way to tell the viewers and it doesn't change much about the truth about Durst and his involvement in three murder cases.


                
The Jinx is a slow-paced but absorbing documentary that lures the viewer in and maintains that grip to the very end.
It reflects on the US judicial system and affluent US society at a wider level through its gentle yet intrusive interviews with a New York misfit from a wealthy Manhattan property family regarding the disappearance in 1982 of the man's wife; as well as detailed interviews with her friends and family. The story continues to unravel from there & is told (somewhat) in reverse.
The undertones of psychopathy and consequence against a backdrop of affluence are only hinted at in the series.
This documentary should be watched by every US citizen.


                
I'm not sure why this series isn't as well known as Making A Murderer. What an amazing insight into the story behind an accused killer who is such a strange and curios character. It's only a short series, but OH so worth it! I really like how the director and producer really probe Robert Durst with some real, juicy questions!


                
