I have long enjoyed the apolitical stance of the show. It seems as though the team has gotten old, legit political, and ruined the show. I have started and quit mid-show on at least half of this years episodes. Completely unwatchable and thoroughly un-funny.


                
This TV show used to be awesome with a lot of good adventures but the last episodes were very bad , so bad that i had to stop watching the show I changed my 10 star rating to 1 star just because of last season they made one of the funniest comedy shows into boring not funny cartoon Pc principal is very bad character and cartman and randy are not awesome as they were used to I know a lot of people will still like this show but i know a lot of guys that agree with me that its not that good anymore


                
You really gotta evaluate the times you live in when even South Park, the only remaining voice of reason of today's TV (let's call it that) caves under political correctness and starts pandering to women (not all, just the hateful and insecure ones who need to be patted on the back and called "smart and funny" every 5 minutes).I've gotten used to the fact that my "male privilege" is to be the only one who's allowed to be bullied, called anything, hit, having to work hard for everything I have, and see men portrayed badly in all TV shows and advertisements while those same pander to women, and being quiet about it. But when the last little shred of "equality" goes down, you know it's over, and society is at an all-time low. Men are cucked and take anything, women are insecure and always need the media to put men down while glorifying obnoxious behavior;2016 was a horrendous display of where humanity is at. The media kept lying about the 2016 election, and inexplicably - South Park went with it. Who needs facts when you can make some up, right? No one fact-checks anything, it's on the internet or your favorite TV channel, so it must be 100% true!South Park tried to have a continuous storyline for once, which was one of many things that went wrong, because the whole plot was flat out ridiculous. Even bottom-tier shows like Family Guy made me chuckle more this year.One thing's for sure, I'm not buying the new South Park game nor will I keep supporting what went rock bottom in pandering flames this year after 19 years of me praising and advertising it. You think you know a show. Family Guy started good and turned into a liberal PC mess, but I'd never wager South Park would go the same way. It was really sudden too. Gotta admire the laughs this show gave us in the past because that's it, it's over, and it clearly won't be cancelled with dignity, I can only imagine what goes on next year will be even worse and in compliance with the hateful, insecure nature of SJW culture.


                
One of the most overrated, discarded carp carcuses ever to stay on television for eleven years, South Park is.....well suffice to say for now that's what it is. This review is not critical from a religiously moral standpoint<U+0096>perhaps somewhat from a secular moral standpoint<U+0097> but more of a simple dismissal of the alleged holiness that so many hapless, misguided, dead brains assign to it.First, the show's satirical bent is overflowed by the n<U+0096>viro sewer sludge of crude humour. Again, I'm certainly not offended in any way by the content, but rather just pointing out how much of a played out platitude this whole crudity thing is. I recall Monty Python doing this humour in the Meaning of Life and also many, many others before south park; those I enjoyed very much. For I like crude humour, the right kind and in the right doses, but South Park's reason for being is to wallow in the crudity. Granted there's a little originality I suppose to, say, growing a d<U+0097> on a mouse. I heard of the idea of growing organs on other parts of people's bodies; it's apparently a type of surgery that's been around since ancient Egypt. They give it the twist of being<U+0096>surprise!! What else!! A d<U+0097> (their other options were clitoris or prostate). Any satire on the show gets crowded out by this tiring crude aspect<U+0096>which continues on a terminating continuum of crudity started by many in the past, and merely pushed to more extremes along the continuum by Stone and Parker. But the crude humour in something classic like the Meaning of Life was somehow adult appealing; South park's humour is strictly juvenile<U+0096>the stuff that makes fourteen year olds guffaw out their moronic rotting teeth. I swear Stone and Parker would be the kind of idiots to laugh for days at images like Type O Negative's 1992 album cover for "the origin of feces". Apparently, they haven't left that mentality behind in the jr high smoking pit, it seems they would still laugh listlessly and mindlessly at such images. Aren't these guys middle aged men now? I think it's time to grow up boys.Some things just become extremely predictable in this show. Like the episode where Paris Hilton is enveloped by the S and M guy's rectum. On the surface it seems "WHOA!". But really, you would expect that. Yes, of course the gay, pan-sexual S and M guy is going to be the one with the biggest rectum to do something like swallow someone "whole" with it. Horray! You begin to know what to expect from this show after just a couple of viewings<U+0096>I mean in the way that the creators think that you won't expect, but anyone with a clear perception would. It's all low standards, low expectations, and low pangs in my gut<U+0096>not from any alleged disgusting imagery, but indeed from the platitude of it, and the annoyance that all they can do is think of more ways to slip and slide along the continuum of crudity.Another thing about the crudity is that it ends up the only thing that is often 'discussed'. I work with people who often talk about South Park (no, I currently don't work with the most enlightened people, I know). They talk about the mouse with the d---, or the rectum swallowing, or the guy who gave the aids virus to someone out of some petty revenge, or the lurid details of Mr. Garret's sex change, excrement coming out of people mouths, blah, blah, blah, yawn, yawn, yawn, and so on <U+0097>and then they leave break and go back to work with that dumb jaw hanging, clueless, zomped out, ragbag, mono expressions indicative (words with the d<U+0097> sound keep popping up (whoops) in this review for some strange coincidence) of the deadened, hollowed out, and sad existence that they surely must lead (and no I don't feel spite for my co-workers<U+0096>actually feel very sad for them<U+0096>it's depressing being around them<U+0096>if only they could open their minds a little bit but leave the sluice gates selective so that this south park sludge can be filtered out. My take anyway<U+0096>hee hee).This show has long run its course. It was good when it first came on when I was a jr. high school student, but it has been going on far too long, and far too many people are left guffawing mindlessly at the stupid, supposedly disgusting, actually tired, imagery, missing what paltry satire there is completely, and then leaving with an instant expression of doom, hatred, and contempt on their visages, with those ill feelings being passed on to the rest of humanity. Perhaps it is because after eleven years of staring at horrible construction paper cutout animation, people have come to mimic the look, and look blander and deader and less animated than the show itself. That's perhaps the most effect this show has on people<U+0096>and subconsciously, it makes them angry.Let this show go far south and park itself deeply under thick layers of ice somewhere around Antarctica. Hey, maybe it could even get some new material. Let's see, a penguin people pull fish out of another penguin's vagina or anus, then eviscerates the fish to eat it, but discover the fish have excrement instead of guts. Then tack on some cheap satire about the whiny people who complain that their food is being grown in kiln dust and raw sewage or something. It took no time for me to think that up<U+0096>and that's about the time it takes to think up material for South Park. Yuk, Yuk, Yuk.
After seeing so many of my friends, classmates and colleagues excited about this franchise I've finally decided do give it a go and try to watch it although I wasn't so warmed up for it. Since no book can be judged by its cover, there for no TV show can be criticized just by rumors or by watching only 2-3 episodes and I'm no exception. So I've forced myself to watch at least one season as my friends told me just to give it a fair chance to see will I find it amusing as much as everyone talked me about it. I had not, not a slightest bit. Why? I'll try to be as shorter with this text as I can, so that no one falls asleep while reading it. So...here goes.By reading my title someone will probably think that I'm some "fine nurtured" person who is grossed out by loads of swearing, vulgarity and ironical morbidness of this show. It's not like that at all. Why I gave it such low vote is not because of constant badmouthing during episodes. No, it's 'cause of it's thematics. We all well know the world we live in is worst than hell itself, we're all well aware of awkward and ironic society that we can see each and every day, we know about constant nonsenses that's been delivered to us through media, etc, etc, etc. We got the point already. I'm not gonna say that each animated feature should talk about "good vs evil" or something behind the mask just to satisfy crowd. Of course not. But neither it should be like this. It is not as smart as it's treated and if you turn your brain for a second, you're realize that this what's put to irony and laugh here is actually more to cry than to laugh about. Haven't we all been fed up by this world's dirt in our everyday lives. I watched the show as I've spoke...ho, I understand it's meanings, understand that the idea is to put our human stupidity to laugh and by doing that make us viewers laugh at ourselves and the society we live in. Right? Figured it out by watching one episode. That's okay, but why repeating it all the time, what's the point of it if I may ask? Will it really make us feel all that better if we're just going to laugh at ourselves and the world around us, will we make things more right and better just by laughing at them. Honestly I don't know how any person who calls itself intelligent could find this amusing. By this I really have no intention to offend anyone. Obviously this is the easiest way of dealing with problems and that's exactly and IMHO the only thing that this show manages to point out in somehow funny way. It shows personality of the majority. It shows how most of people're enjoying and laughing in massive amount of irony and sarcasm. It's showing that most of us is actually no different than the ones that this kind of show puts to laugh. If you know what I mean. And for that and only that I'll give it a credit, but again, it has no deeper meaning than this and it surely won't make us any smarter.Overall...this show is greatly overrated. It's nothing more than average and sometimes even quite dumb sometimes and by this I don't have an intention to offend anyone.


                
The last two seasons have been really awful. I used to be looking forward to seeing the new episode, but recently I've been turning off my TV half way through. It's become to focused on, all the boring and tedious, problems from real life. I don't even get the jokes anymore. S19E01 Who / what's a PC and whats up with their attitude? I don't live in the US and this pop-culture is tedious.S19E02 More on the American election? This episode is so full of self righteous comments. S19E03 was more like a commercial than anything. Who's the guy from whole foods? Come on! This belongs on Family Guy. IT IS NOT FUNNY! I had to turn off my TV. This episode was just unwatchable. I can recommend the first 14-15 seasons of South Park. They're actually pretty good. But personally, I'm done with South Park


                
I've only seen 3 episodes of this and not once did I laugh. First of all the so called "mature" content and subject matter is ironically juvenile, in fact juvenile is a completely relevant term for this. Toilet humor, gratuitous violence with (fake) blood and gore, exploitative sex, and excessive heavy swearing, I see no humor in that. The artwork resembles that of a 1st grader's art project and even the voice acting is juvenile, from the four main kids to the celebrity cameos. Some have said that there is some good stuff in this show, but that's like trying to find gold in a pile of rotting fish. Don't get me wrong, I do occasionally like irreverent humor such as SNL, Harold and Kumar (juvenile but not to the total extreme), Daily show to name a few. It's just that I don't approve of comedy that's totally exploitative and random for no apparent reason other than try (unsuccessfully) to make someone both laugh and think.


                
Awful anti Trump episodes shows the makers are clearly Democrats.. They even said they were going to tone down the anti Trump propaganda. But nope yet again more of the same... He nukes Canada over nothing and has half an episode where hes Pennywise the clown. They are no different than all the main stream media's bashing Trump at every opportunity.. Becoming what they originally started off South Park to be controversial.
I'm an all time South Park fan in the sense that i enjoyed their show starting from my early teen years. The show also formed my own 'dark' humor to some point and i do thank them for that. However, it has become clear that this show has run its course. Maybe i'm getting 'too old' for South Park but it is abundantly clear that they have run out of ideas. This current season (21) has some of the worst writing i've seen of the show. I don't wanna go into detail (since I'm a bit lazy) but you should check for yourself if you agree. In a nutshell, they can't comment on social/political events anymore in a clever and comprehensive manner nor do they have the ability to write stand-alone episodes that are entertaining at this point. A constantly farting opiod dealing elderly woman might have been fun a few years ago, but now it falls short in comedic value. The fact that she has urine stains on her dress is almost a stigma of the aggression, frustration and desperation the creators have in dealing with their writers-block. I'm referencing the latest episode here btw. Maybe its because we live in a 'Trump era' that makes South Park loses its punch or inspiration. Maybe i am getting too old. In any case, South Park deserves a great finale and i really hope they go out with a bang. Worst case scenario..they continue on this path of mediocrity and operating as a shallow shadow of its former self...


                
Exactly the kind of dumb as dirt American humor that I cannot stand. References of current events that people laugh at to let the other idiots in the room know that they understood what was intended to be a joke, but what never was simply because it is not funny. Genius? Not at all. Painfully annoying? To the fullest extent. This is what stupid people watch when they want to express their knowledge of current events and world events by laughing in a social context at referencial jokes where not one drop of humor is to be found. It's like the guy at the table who is in no way amusing but when he says something that was intended to be funny people laugh. Not because it was funny, but because it was intended to be funny and they're afraid of being perceived as stupid for not laughing so they laugh. Then the idiot keeps telling more jokes. THAT is 'South Park'.


                
I use to watch South Park around the early 2000's when it doesn't focus its episodes on pop cultured related items or what is in the news (e.g - Britney Spears breakdown in 2008 and Writer Guild Strikes of 2007/08 or the 1% protests of 2011). Yes South Park had done some pop cultured episodes around the early 2000's like the Queer Eye show, but they've made it in a hilarious way and that they've made original episodes, like the Towelie and yes they've made some pop cultured reference in that episode too, but they don't focus on that completely. When you look at the episodes between 2006 - 2012, like HumancentiePad, that is nothing by the craze of the Apple iPad and the movie 'The Human Centipede', which have nothing in common! So why make it comedy? Plus in the 'Coon and Friends' special, there is Cartman and that monster thing killing Justin Beiber, what is the joke in that? Everyone hates Justin Beiber when other places, like the internet, did that as well during the whole overrated 'Beiberfever', it's not original anymore. South Park's pop cultured episodes were funny around the early 2000's. The episodes nowadays just rely on pop cultured comedy to make it funny. The show has its day.
A part of me wants to say its for kids but then again there's so much rude annoying shrieky screechy-voiced profanity that its not really for kids. But in a sense, yes it is for absolute worst of the worst in the preteen/teen crowd. Heck to think there's even been preteens and kids that have seen this show is scary. Can't imagine what the inner workings of their mind must be like.If you don't want your kid to see this, just change the channel of course. Same as any other irritating program. But we must seriously ask ourselves, how did this show ever get on air? It's not funny, it's not even amusing where you smile without laughing, or laugh on the inside...it's just lame. Ear piercing voices that just speak objectionable nonsense, just like the schoolyard kids. It's the worst of the schoolyard making its way onto TV. And now many kids are learning from it as we speak.Like heck my family watched Barney Miller and 3's Company when they were growing up...they watched REAL shows. Can't these people make a real show? What about Dragon Ball Z and stuff? I guess there's no class anymore.0/10


                
South Park is a comedy(If it can be called that) for people who have no sense of humour at all. It gets its laughs purely threw crude language and sick story lines.Kids would find it funny because of the bad language as kids don't know the meaning of funny, but for adults to like it I would seriously question them. There is no intellect at all in this programme and Family Guy is a complete class above this.I would not recommend this at all to anyone who hasn't seen this. Would be a waste of 20 minutes. The rating of South Park on IMDb does not reflect the programme at all.


                
This show is not funny at all. It is badly written. The hummer is awful. It just gross and stupid. I can not believe this show got an 8.8 . I can not believe people think this show is funny. I think comedy is easy and this proves my point. Do not watch this show. It is an awful show. I need more lines and I am running out thing to say. This show is pooh pooh. There is a character in this show that is a taking pooh pooh. That is proof that this show is not funny it is pooh pooh. Stinky stinky pooh pooh. Do not see this show. This show is a waste of time. The acting in it is awful. This is a very stinky pooh pooh show. Never watch this show it is overrated carp. Do not see it. Life is to short. Never see it.


                
Having the ability to create comedy that results from presenting issues in an intelligently sarcastic way still does not conceal this fact well enough: This show has a very conservative and manipulative agenda. It is packaged so well that it has gone over most fans heads and they have swallowed it altogether. The show tries to take a self-righteous completely falsified neutral role and pretends it criticizes anyone and everyone. But when you take a closer look, you realize the producers/backers have very clear standpoints. After you start seeing this, the show becomes very annoying.I actually agree on some of the absurdities around us that the show points out well, and that is their strategy to lure fans in. If you agree with some of it, you will watch all of it, and laugh of the other horse sh""t that gets thrown in here and there, until one day you don't find the horse sh""t stinks as much. It is actually so acceptable you would bring it home for dinner. Three types of fans of this show in my opinion. I have met all three types. - The easily manipulated ones that think it is intelligent, well meaning, neutral comedy. - Airheads who think it is a funny cartoon and enjoy the funny voices and most basic comical aspects. - The ones that agree with the show's (not so perfectly) hidden attitude in the first place.Southpark, I don't appreciate your opinion being shoved down my throat, cowardly disguised as satire. You can be very good at making fun of things but you could still be a huge a-h""le. No thank you for me. I have stopped watching. But here goes a bit of advice so you can keep your fans: Infantile "I will show stuff other people won't so that makes me reeaally cool" stops being funny after a couple of seasons. We have all seen stupid things like butt rape and rats eating face or vomit and poop and so on. It's no big deal. Kenny dies, you can do racist and sexist jokes, we get it. It's just boring. Think of something else or shut it down.


                
I used to look forward to watching South Park because I found it original and hilarious. Nobody does a better "Cartman" impersonation than me.Now, I refuse to watch it. I haven't watched it since they mocked the Virgin Mary ( a statue where fart sounds came from the rectum ). Enough is enough. I was troubled when they mocked disabled people, African Americans, Chinese people, gays, the Pope, etc....Yet, I still tuned in occasionally. Mocking the Blessed Virgin and showing Cartman screaming, "F--- Jesus" did it. No more Southpark.Mocking Christianity is safe. Nobody will hunt you down and slice off your head. Not so with Islam. I don't think it's funny to mock people with disabilities, mock people for their ethnicity, or for their religious beliefs. In Hitler's Germany, Jews were mocked before it turned really ugly. Enough of Southpark. It's a nasty show, cloaked in comedy.


                
When it comes to extremes on a particular spectrum, I hate certain television shows targeted towards children like "Barney and Friends", "Dora the Explorer" and "Teletubbies" on one extreme, but when it comes to the other extreme of the spectrum, "South Park" is a perfect example of a show targeted towards adults I hate.The Bad: 1. The characters are extremely annoying, especially Eric Cartman, a character I hate with a passion. As a child, I wanted to brutally kick him incessantly and strangle him to death for how annoying and detestable that character truly is. Bart Simpson from The Simpsons may not be the best role model, but at least he is likable in his own right. Eric Cartman is an even worse role model than Bart Simpson, also a much worse role model than what a lot of people consider to be bad role models, The Disney Princesses are better role models than any of the characters from South Park, and that is saying a lot. And the Disney Princesses are not bad role models to begin with. But I digress. There is nothing to like about the characters in South Park. 2. The series take an incredibly hypocritical approach in tolerating one extreme of the spectrum, but not the other. Examples of television series that meet the balance of not being too politically correct and not too mean-spirited are The Simpsons, Futurama, Shaun the Sheep, Fawlty Towers, Timon and Pumbaa and any Disney television series. What is even worse is that they are unapologetically relentless with their vulgarity, which is already really hard to bear. 3. The title location is very boring and uninteresting. Unlike Springfield from The Simpsons, where the season changes from various episodes, South Park is a mountain town where it is eternal winter. 4. The animation is an eyesore, both with character designs and background designs. The character models are nothing short of hideous and it is enough of a reason to hate the characters, which is the salt in the wound of their annoyance. 5. The humour and humour style of Trey Parker and Matt Stone and this series is incredibly immature to the point of being pathetically lame. Even more family-friendly shows like The Simpsons, Futurama, Shaun the Sheep, Fawlty Towers and any Disney television series, to name a few, are much more mature in their humour than South Park will ever be. 6. The voices in the series are very annoying, especially Eric Cartman, one of the most annoying animated characters of all time, in my opinion. I do not like the voices of Trey Parker and Matt Stone, either. In general, I do not like Trey Parker and Matt Stone.The Good: 1. The only positive thing about this series is that it challenged the stereotype that animation is only for children.Overall, South Park is just as annoying and bad as Barney and Friends, Dora the Explorer, and Teletubbies. The only difference is that this show is on the other side of the spectrum and is targeted towards adults. Being a satire and comedy targeted towards adults does not excuse it for being annoying and detestable. Even Family Guy, another series I dislike, is much more tolerable than South Park, because at least it tries to balance not being too politically correct and not being too mean-spirited.


                
It tries extremely to hard to be offensive and they preach about nothing wayyy too much. Just a bad show and the only show (growing up because I was about to enter the 2nd or 3rd grade when this show came on air) my mother wouldn't allow me to watch. I could watch horror movies and even semi-porn movies but now...now I know why I wasn't aloud to watch this show. It's stupid and pointless.This is possibly one of the reasons why people hate America. Because they hear about crap like THIS on television and the suburban high class spoiled little rich kids whom watch this.PLAINLY...this...show...sucks...A$$.I hope to GOD it gets cancelled.


                
This show has caused me hell with the stupid ginger clan. I get bullied everywhere I go. Everybody calls me Gingy ginger. I have had it. How the hell is this show still on the air seriously. The FCC approves of this crap. But they give family Guy hard time. This show sucks and don't even get me started on the African American jokes. Who the hell writes this stuff.a clan of racist white people. This is the worst show ever. They should really take this off the air. And then you have all of the racist Jewish jokes.I have had with this stupid show and I hate all of u people who bully other people and your bullying is based off this show I hope you burn in hell.
Oh my freaking god this is the stupidest, most racist, most horrible, most pathetic, most terrible, and the most retarded show on this planet! A 1/10 would be very very generous to give this lame show, YET IT GETS AN 8.9/10?!?! What the f*ck is wrong with the people who love this gay, retarded show?!?! I wish this show was never EVER created and I'm gonna throw the biggest party on the planet when it gets canceled forever. I'm so sick of this show. I wish Trey Parker and Matt Stone can just get fired already. I want to plunge it's rating down to a 1.1/10. Find this useful if you want to help me plunge this show's rating all the way down to a 1.1/10.


                
Propaganda is a term that's bandied around a lot but I think in South Park's case it's a fair term. The stories are almost all about some real world political or social issue and so the stories are only a means to an end of promoting ideas, as if we all haven't heard the arguments for this, that and the other for the last few hundred years anyway so on that level it's filler basically. Mercilessly and insensitively mocking religion, thinking ginger people don't have souls (even though it was black haired people who carried out almost every atrocity in history and I have never come across a red haired person prejudiced against dark haired people) and being shocking just to grab attention rather than to hammer home a message in an effective way plus thinking that just because you've mocked something that means it's automatically wrong and funny are all common ideas on the internet and guess where these foul ideas came from? If you said anything other than South Park then guess again. Sure there were some good ideas in there (civil partnerships are indeed a convenient way for wishy washy politicians to get out of taking a position on gay marriage, you can't just shuffle the homeless from one city to another) but also some not so good ones; (they accuse the anti- tobacco people of making up research even though it's been well documented that the tobacco industry spent decades and millions of dollars doing faulty research). As is common in the west people say they're not religious but only ever criticize Christianity. Now I don't know about other people but if I were an atheist I'd find the idea of one, human-looking God far more rational than multiple ones with animal heads. The politics and the politics alone are what makes this show popular; even a solid defense of authoritarianism (if that were possible) would never have been as popular in a country like America or a place like the internet.


                
Many of my friends at my high school watch south park and think that it's the funniest thing on t.v . I myself have watched it numerous times and think that while it can on occasion be quite entertaining it is often disgusting, offensive, and simply awful. Now many of you are probably saying now "lighten up its a animated TV show, all the jokes probably go over your head thats why you don't like it" ERRRRRRRRR WRONG! One of the few episodes I enjoyed was "Make Love, not Warcraft" having wasted a year of my life to that game I found it simply hilarious and frightfully accurate about how it takes control of your life. However, on the other hand the episodes about the passion of the Christ, the one where Cartmen gets a inheritance and buys a amusement park, and the n-word one are simply disgraceful as are many others but these are just some extreme examples. The one about that passion of the Christ simply bashes religious beliefs, is strongly anti-semitic (for those idiots who are like "what does that mean" its a word for being discriminatory towards Jews), and does not accurately portray what happens in the film or what the message the film tries to convey. The episode where Cartmen buys the amusement park I found almost as offensive. First, its wasn't funny.... Second, when Stan (I don't remember if it was kyle or Stan) gets a ulcer or tumor or something on him and hes in the hospital dying and his parents read him a story from the bible about a guy who was extremely devoted to god and the devil bet god that if god cursed the man that he would no longer believe in/be devoted to god. God did this and took away all this guys wealth and killed his family etc. but the man stayed devoted. In south park this is where the story ends and Stan or kyle is like "OMG thats so awful" or something to that extent and renounces his belief in god. The thing is that while most of the story is actually in the bible they decided to cut out the end...after seeing that this man was so devoted to him God blessed him 10 times over, making him the richest man in the country, making him powerful, giving him a beautiful wife and many kids etc. , I'm so goddamn sick of people trashing religion like that. Then the kicker, the episode which basically just involves saying the N-word 2,000 times over 30 minutes. Now, I'm not African-American but I found this episode simply revolting so that after around halfway through it I switched off my t.v and vowed never to watch South Park again. If you guys want to watch real comedy and satire watch The Daily Show or the Colbert Report. Or if you are into animated stuff then check out family guy, which is even funnier and much less offensive.
My other review got deleted, was IMDb playing a prank on me?Anyways, why do people find this trash funny? I have many reasons why this show is really pathetic. Why in the world would anyone find AIDS funny? AIDS is a deadly disease, people. And it also has racist jokes that people would NEVER find funny. I wanted to kill the creators for making a joke on Aspergers (My best friend has that condition). I also hated Coon and Friends. It's like an extremely poor man's Fantastic Four. And Terrence and Phillip remind me Breadwinners and Sanjay and Craig with all their flatulence jokes. And they trash celebrities people like. South Barf (Nickname for South Park) also ruins childhoods, too. I 100% think the creators of this show are going straight to HELL for eternity because they make fun of Santa Claus and God. How can people like this abomination?! All these reasons will tell you why people should hate this garbage.Bottom line, this show is stupid and retarded. It's nowhere near funny. Don't delete this review IMDb, don't let the South Park fans fool you.


                
With our lives, we have been designed with purpose and the ability to achieve that purpose through goals and achievement. Our focus with our purpose should be on others first and then ourselves. In this TV series of South Park, you see anything but purpose. Four Kids - Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny - go around in their town of South Park with meaningless lives. They criticize everybody and everything, they do things for their own benefit, and half the time, they don't even like each other. This series portrays a very individualistic model that is seen in our culture today. I have even watched episodes and have seen the purposeless life, always wondering why they do things. Why have a purpose in our lives, when we can do whatever we want to do and not care? South Park is the best example of living life with no purpose and not achieving the potential that you have. It becomes all about self. God created us with a special design and purpose and the will to achieve that purpose, but it comes to the choice of the person. If we follow the South Park model, we will find ourselves wondering around aimlessly in our world, doing whatever the trend sets. However, if we follow the idea that we were created with a purpose and can will ourselves to achieve it, we will find ultimate happiness and satisfaction. Our purpose is simply to serve God and others around us, which goes against the individualistic mindset of South Park. Why live aimlessly for ourselves, when we can live ultimately for God and others?


                
This stupid, pathetic show is yet one of the worst shows I've ever seen in history! And how the hell did it get an 8.9/10 and The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl got a 3.4/10?! The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl is way better than this stupid, lame, gay, pathetic, dumb, and unfunny piece of crap! It should end up like Breadwinners, which is a lot better than South Park. That show's rating used to be a 7.5/10 but then it dropped all the way to a 2.5/10, why, because everybody hates that show for no reason! South Park should be getting a 2.5/10 and should be canceled right freaking now! The South Park creators seriously need to get fired!


                
