Unfortunately the cons outweigh the pros in many of the situations.Now a lot of you who don't agree with me will argue that I hate it because its not politically correct or that it uses a lot swearing (etc.). But that's really not the case. It's more the fact that it has fallen into a rut of nothing but non-PC jokes. At times this causes the show to feel stale, forced, and a one-note show.A good example of a stale moment is the coffee moment in the recent "Les Bos" episode. The slowed down action is a parody of the movie 300, i get it. But it takes so long for her to get up and do a joke that in and of itself isn't too strong itself really bogs down the show.Also, its not the fact that they are using satire that turns me away from the show (I am a huge fan of Mr.Show, which does not have an episode without it), but more the fact that they hit it so hard every single episode. What they satire is actually very good, but it is presented so blatantly and with no subtlety that it loses all its charm with trying to make its message. Essentially, it's message is a good one, but they beat you over the head with it way to much.I guess the thing I really don't like about is not that its not PC or that it swears so much, its that its comedy isn't presented as well as it could be and its monotony of material wears thin after a while.Final Word: Comedy is stale and bludgeons you with its political incorrectness until you laugh. It's funny, just don't cram it down our throats.
I don't understand. I just don't understand. How can a cartoon made in 1997 get so much air time. I used to like it when I was a teenager. It helped me pass biology, but now it is just painful to watch these days. It is unbearable. I found out about the grating voices and how far they can outdo themselves. They go over the top with their jokes. They milk it up until the cow ran out of milk. Do they stop? No. They go on and on and on. They rip off the cow's udder, cut open the cow and rip out it's innards and run around the place splattering them around. It becomes unbearable and uncomfortable to watch. Heiefer Lopez annoyed me big time (that I would race for the remote and press the mute button and be grateful for it). Season 13 was the worst season ever! Apart from "The Pee", where a flood of urine destroys a water park, "Dead Celebrities" was the last episode I watched. Ike sees the ghosts of dead celebrities, and gets possessed by Michael Jackson's ghost! The climax to this episode is a complete eyesore. He has to enter a child beauty pageant and win. I am very grateful for the still button in my remote. I just press still and all I get to see is a still image (like a background), and hear all the action and leave it to my imagination. Seeing Ike in his school clothes, sleepers, dressed as a pirate, dressed as a president. It's cute. Seeing him in drag, it's like a cake, except replace the icing and sprinkles with trash, mud, dirt mold and impure water. I can't eat the cake! This image is to my eyes as this cake is to my mouth. Cartman is annoying now. I have to say that Stan Marsh continues the tradition of such great comedians such as, Oliver Hardy, Spanky, Moe Howard, and Budd Abbot. This show gets too much airtime on Comedy Central. I used to like it as a teenager, but as an adult. By the way, this has been, "Matthew Rambles."


                
I first heard of 'South Park' when I was 11 and saw some of its merchandise in a shop. My mum warned me it was a rude cartoon and she was right, which is one of the reasons I don't like it. Unfortunately when I was 12, I shared a room with my sister who was three and a half years younger than me and she insisted on watching 'South Park' in our bedroom (she even wanted to disguise herself as a 15-year-old so that she could see the movie!) so I had to put up with the many profanities it contained (that my mum warned us to ignore), Kenny dying in just about every episode but coming back to life and pure crudeness whenever she watched it. Nowadays I have a housemate who likes this show and still I had to put up with him watching it when we were in the lounge, although one episode he watched turned out to be pretty decent because it paid homage to 'The Simpsons' and other animated sitcoms by having lookalikes of Bart Simpson and probably the Griffin family from 'Family Guy.'Besides the swearing, Kenny's deaths and crudeness, the other thing I didn't like about 'South Park' was the way the characters walked - it looks as if they had their legs and feet stuck together! Mind you I quite like its cut-out animation look and I found Cartman's rendition of 'Poker Face' funny as well as part of the episode where Stan wants to join a boy band against his father's wishes (the part where Ike is auditioning and whenever one of the main four as a judge says, "Next one," Ike sings another song instead of making way for the next auditionee and Wendy sings a song full of word play is the funniest part) that happened to be on when I was flicking through the channels one night. Another episode that stands out is the one where Wendy and her friends play Truth or Dare but that's the only part I can remember from that episode when my sister watched it.Overall this is a mostly rubbish cartoon that has an interesting animation technique but otherwise has very few redeeming qualities. 3/10.
