I've got a question for all of you REALLY big SOUTH PARK fans:  Is this an acquired taste or if you don't get it that first time, you'll never get it? I think I may be the latter because I've watched the show twice and both times it didn't do a thing for me.  I just don't think that the show is as clever as Stone and Parker or maybe even the fans seem to think that it is. I saw the part about Janet Reno dressing like the Easter Bunny to get some immigrant children out of a house which aired shortly after the Elian Gonzalez raid . . . tain't funny!  I've got nothing against foul language, but that in and of itself isn't funny nor is the fact that it's coming out of the mouths of babes, so to speak.       I WILL say that I like the animation style of the show.  It reminds me of those home movies that kids used to send into the TV show "Zoom" back in the Seventies. It makes it look as if the show actually were produced by children . . . that is, until they open their mouths.  When it comes to adult-themed animated shows, I'll stick with the king:  "The Simpsons". Sometimes, there is something to be said for subtlety.


                
South Park is yet another of those shows that, in my opinion, is outrageously, conformist. In spite of its subversive pretensions, South Park, is, in my view, really little more than a mildly amusing, reiteration of mainstream values. The kind trotted out by big corporations,the mainstream media and big government, politicians. With a few rude little cartoon characters, swear words and some toilet humour thrown in, to soften the blow.As such I tend to label this kind of satire, deeply superficial. Like so much entertainment today, it makes a lot of noise but if you are paying attention, you may find it really has very little to say. What a shame. Four out of ten from me.


                
I think people can sometimes be too hard on the notoriously offensive 'South Park', quickly ready to point out its offensive jokes without understanding that it's satire and meant to reflect negative aspects of real-life modern society. I have to concede that though I find the crass humour disgusting and tasteless, 'South Park' does raise quite a few good points on topics such as radical environmentalism, violence and misogyny, to name a few, and it never tries to sugar-coat any situation. However, I personally just don't really like it, which may more or less be based on my own sense of humour and my own preferences. As I mentioned above I don't like crude humour; I find scatological humour, fart jokes and sex jokes to be obnoxious and childish. I don't like the animation style; it's clunky, painful to look at and it appears cheap, though this might be because the creators are trying to preserve the show's original style. The characters annoy me, their voices are like a drill going through my head, they have no redeeming qualities, they're not lovable or easy to relate to in the way that characters from King of the Hill or The Simpsons are, and although this might seem petty and shallow, I find the characters' physical appearances to be ugly, bulky and awkward to view.As for its reputation for "inappropriate content", oh yeah, if you have a low tolerance for racism, jokes about mental disabilities ("retarded"), gay jokes, 9/11 jokes, jokes mocking women's rights, jokes mocking men's rights, basically comedy that outright mocks anything serious, valued or important, you're probably going to hate 'South Park' with a burning passion. That being said, it's best not to be too quick to judge it based on these things alone, because there's an underlying commentary beneath it all, and its "politically incorrect" satire might teach you a thing or two about your own everyday actions and opinions as a human being. It covers touchy subjects like religion, politics, mental health, sexism, etc. in a juvenile and mocking way, but there's always a deeper reason behind this.
Sorry for the South Park fans, but I'm not a big fan of crude humor. It's just as pathetic as Napoleon Dynamite humor because I don't understand the point of their jokes. I think it's so "middle-school", ignorant, and childish that it may be the best thing ever created, but it would the best thing ever for a 14 year old on probation. Think about, man, I seriously don't like South Park. Another reason I gave South Park a 4 out of 10 is because it's humor is a little dry and inmature. Who the hell finds a kid getting killed in an accident funny? Plus, if people think South Park is art, then where have you been. South Park is not art, it's just as trashy as Jerry Springer or other sleazy, disgusting, crude, offensive crap on television that people are warped by.
The first time I saw an episode of this show I hated it more than anything! I thought it was the biggest train wreck I've ever seen but then I gave it another chance and started from the beginning. I absolutely loved and adored it! It was funny, random, f*cked up, cruel and with a perfect amount of political satire. It was perfect until season seven, then it just became lame, it tried to much and it was just plain boring. But I sat through every episode until season 12, then I just couldn't do it anymore! Every episode was complete torture. If I only had to grade the six first season I would give it 10/10 but now I can only give it 4/10. And then I'm being nice!


                
