The newest season of South Park is absolutely awful. Not only was it garbage but there was so much potential for it, but they wasted it all on the US election and memberberries (Which are more annoying than Jar Jar Binks). Those could've easily been their own episode but Matt and Trey just decided to reuse the same jokes over and over again. There were so many things they could've destroyed this year but they didn't. Where was the Harambe episode? Where was the Music.ly episode? Where was the Pokemon Go episode? The jokes weren't even funny thisseason, I probably only actually laughed maybe 3 times, which is horrible considering I used to laugh every second of every episode not too long ago. I give the season 20 5/10 stars and everything else 10/10s, expect for seasons 18 and 19 which get 8.5/10 stars.


                
The early days of South Park were so random and funny. That has changed and became a political cartoon making fun of political errors. Whilst not as great it's still funny and follows a way better storyline now.


                
South park has just been on the air way too long and they've run out of ideas and talent. I remember fondly such episodes as "Cancelled", "Goobacks", "imaginationland", and the zany, ridiculous original episodes that earned them the catchphrases and cadences they would eventually just repeat throwing in obscure insulting pop culture references and basically what amounts to stupid cartoon hazing. They took the fact that their audiences applauded such episodes as the one they parodied jersey shore to mean that this was somehow their niche as "cultural ambassadors" constantly telling people how to feel on pop culture issues, and their show lost its depth and diversity and became a breeding ground for just plain horribleness, the worst of which, and damn near unwatchable is the episode "i never should have gone ziplining". But i can't say i'm not without my fond memories of what south park used to be.I do have a theory as to what led to this, as we all know Trey Parker and Matt Stone have not been with South Park for a long time, leaving South Park in the hands of writers who tried first to use their own original ideas, but would later try to perfect the recipe for success used by their predecessors and ultimately fail miserably. There's also a certain pessimism that comes with their own particular brand of parody, and this is even recognized by the writers later in such episodes as "raising the bar" and "you're getting old", where the entire premise of the episodes is basically a sociopolitical statement about their own experiences and the lengths they've stooped to to try and market content. I get it, its better than the rest of their recent episodes and i think its very big of them to admit that but its not necessarily what defines good television and if they're going to keep it on the air the least they could do is bring back good plot and original, 3 dimensional characters. So basically the verdict is, watch this show, but do not watch anything after season 13, and you can preserve in your mind a worthwhile show that would be probably more towards 8.5-9 stars. I'm crossing my fingers and still watching in case they haven't jumped the shark for good, but its gotten pretty bad, worse than lost final season plothole bad, so i'm not expecting much unless Trey and Matt get more involved.


                
The show itself is good and I highly recommend to watch it if you like some dark humor.


                
South Park was a great, great show back in the day. Its satirical, clever humour, its hidden gags, its characters. This was a show ingeniously constructed and was far and away the best cartoon back in the day. Seasons 1-6 are the best in my opinion, that was when the stories were at their peak and the jokes were most fresh. Personal favourites were "Pip", "Cartman's Silly Hate Crime" and "The New Terrence And Phillip Movie Trailer".Seasons 7-11 were watchable, but lacked that definitive edge that the first 6 seasons had. After Season 13 finished, I stopped watching; the show had gotten too ridiculous with its plots and the show had lost a lot of its humour.I feel the reason why South Park went on a steady decline when the 6th season finished was not down to lack of ideas or originality in their episodes, it was down to character development. Cartman was affected the worst; in the earlier seasons he was a spoilt, cynical egotistical character that was the center of all jokes in the show. He was a brilliant character and whenever he spoke, you could guarantee that a joke was soon to follow. Slowly though, he transformed from this childlike character to this evil, spiteful character that had a lack of apathy for his friends and the other South Park residents. I also did not like the replacement of Pip Pirrup. Pip was a great character and had a lot more potential that his replacement, Butters. Pip was my favourite character in the show; he was a caring, happy-go-lucky character that also possessed a mean streak when taunted by another character. He was a very solid, dimensional character and his presence drew in an international audience and I'm still confused to this day why he was pretty much ostracized from the show. Butters is a weak, generic character who offers little in terms of plot development or storyline. I also don't like how they pushed Kenny out of the main gang as well, he was a great character in his own right, a fearless, brave character who is willing to fight for his friends; the juxtaposition of the gutless Butters. Giving good characters such as Officer Barbrady, Mr Mackay, Big Gay Al, Chef, Jimbo and Ned less air time and promoting characters such as Randy Marsh (the most overrated character in the show) was also a big mistake.Overall, the first six seasons are easily a 10/10, but the ones after are less funny and have weaker story lines, which is why I give this a 7/10.


                
When I 1st overheard this show, my kneejerk reaction to the abrasive-seemingly pottymouthed juveniles was "What the "F" is this!?" That's probably what a lot of people think when they overhear it being watched by me. Eric Cartman's raspy voice laced w/ expletives, & Kyle or Stan saying "Shut up Fat@$$!". What brought it around was that the main thing they ripped on was not the voice of reasoning, or traditional values, but political correctness, sacred cows, & demogoguery. Namely things that deserve to be ripped on. The general impression of the show is not that it liked conservatives, but it hated liberals more. The main way it ripped on conservatives was all the redneck(bad conservative stenotype)overtones.This "cartoon" is an ironic exception to my agreement w/ statements that classic 60's cartoons like Underdog, Jonny Quest, The Flintstones, Secret Squirrel, Fat Albert(70's?) & the like monopolized on teaching good moral values. Southpark may not be as wholesome(understatement of the century), but it ultimately teaches good moral lessons, at least in the sense that it UNteaches bad ones. I think the episode that brought me around was "Sexual Harassment Panda" & the way it ripped on reckless litigation. The one where Eric Cartman was busted for a hate crime because a boy he hit was black was also good.The kid's influence brought reasoning about in these episodes. There was one where the kids were helping Gloria Alred pass laws to force the Boy Scouts to accept a homosexual Scout leader. I thought SP was going to lean to the left. But it was the rejected homosexual who was the voice of reason, saying that the Scouts had the same right to free expression as he did & he didn't want to use force of law to make the Scouts change their religious base.


                
I'll get the obvious statement out of the way. This show is not,I repeat not for kids. (Personally,I wouldn't even let a "teen" of mine watch it.) ..but....speaking on a more mature and intelligent level about the show,if you put aside the vulgarities (that being harsh language and certain things that even I have to cover my eyes for)the show really is quite good and downright funny.In fact,even without "pushing the envelope" as they say,this show would still be great. What I really do like about the show is despite the kids' attitudes,they are still portrayed in an innocent 8 year old manner. It's somehow cute to watch these boys get totally confused about what the adults around them are talking about.One example is Eric Cartman thinking that boys start to turn into men by having a period like women do. (He gets this idea because he bled in a certain manner I'm sure viewers out there know about.) The other boys believe him and wait for their "period" so they can be more grown up.On the simpler level,when they get that innocent look of pure joy on their face it's funny to me,when they get big dumb grins on their faces because they see a girl they like. Spoiled brat & bully Cartman getting sent to juvenile jail and breaking down and crying,"I want my mommy!" was not only funny but actually touching. Showing that he's not as tough as he thinks he is. The simplest thing that makes me laugh is just Timmy saying his name over & over (I'm not sure why.) The little boy Butters is also innocently hilarious and mixed up as well as the boy known as Tweek (a kid with an anxiety complex brought on by too much caffine.)I definitely crack-up when Stan is forced to be in a basement with Pip,Butters and some 1st grade boy,while the adults are at a party upstairs. The 3 "Melvins" (as Stan calls them) sing this silly song,"Tippy-tippy too too,la-la-la". It never fails to make me laugh!The adults are sometimes as clueless as the kids and seem to not handle situations in a mature manner as grown-ups should. If they could though,it wouldn't be South Park. If the show didn't poke fun at the famous,it wouldn't be South Park. Those folks out there who wont tolerate the fouler things about this show,it's simple,don't watch but also don't complain about it because if it's truly not for you that's fine but don't try to preach to others. Different people like different things.Currently,the show has gone into syndicated (and edited) reruns and I'm catching up that way (I've really only had cable once but just for a year)I didn't get to see the shows when they were first on but now,I do like them but for the humor and storyline that's lies within the things people complain about the most. The show is funny,period! Want simpler comedy?,watch The Coby Show. (END) 7 out of ten stars by the way.


                
I absolutely loved South Park when I was about 4 years younger than I am today. I still love it as much. But, in my opinion now, it's kind of going downhill, because all they are doing now is making fun of recent history, which in my opinion, is starting to get very old. When South Park first started, and when it amped up into it's 5th season, the episodes I thought were very brilliant, and normal. Most of them are hilarious, some have their disappointments, but most of it is very entertaining. When it first started, it was crappy animation, nothing but cheap cutouts of construction paper, but the gags were hysterical. But as the show gained popularity, and raised more money, the show was able to afford more advance animation. At least they kept the shows style the same, such as the eyes and expressions. During the eighth and tenth season, I got kind of disappointed, because they kept making episodes ripping off current events, which isn't wrong, but it is when you keep doing it. I liked it when Trey Parker and Matt Stone were making stories of their own, having to do nothing with events going on now. But now that's all they do, instead of just making up a story about an event they made up. They might have done it sometime around the eighth and tenth season, but I always see stuff on South Park the same as what I'm seeing on the news every week. But if your a true South Park fan, you might not care, which is fine with me. If you like it, then keeping doing so. But I recommend if you're buying the DVD sets for the show, buy all through season 5, I don't recommend 6 and through.


                
South park presents a simple premise: "Everyone will laugh, everyone will be offended. No one is off limits." Seemingly, the show delivers on all fronts. The comedy is unrelenting, with hilarious voice acting. The gross out humor is abundant. Yet, when the last component of the premise falls flat. Many episodes suffer from forced and painfully biased satire, which can make some episodes very unpleasant to watch. In truth, some ideologies and political parties are picked on far more often, while some are not mocked at all (Note: to maintain political neutrality, I will not name the show's biases). That said, the show is undeniably funny, and the animation style and voice acting is charming. Not a terrible show, but certainly far from perfect.


                
Unless you're the most easiest going person with no personal strong beliefs one way or another, chances are at some point you'll be offended. If you don't take yourself seriously and love to laugh out loud, South Park is for you!


                
Ok it's a funny show but you have to not take yourself seriously to watch this and not hold any strong values. Otherwise you will be disappointed. The creators provide their own personal bias on issues through comedy and it can be very polarising.


                
I agree that the writing is hit and miss. Sometimes they will make a point through satire and other times it's almost bigoted material with little research on the topic


                
I liked this series even though I was offended at times. But looking back a lot of the jokes lacked education/research about topics while trying to send subliminal political views


                
This show deals with very controversial topics like it is a joke. I respect how South Park depicts these topics it is just that some topics are way sensitive than others. I really love the fact that this show makes fun of religion almost always. This show makes me laugh more times than not. I would love if the show was more realistic. They really made this show hilarious with the George Zimmerman episode and how if he killed a white kid he would of received the death penalty. I also, like how this show called the "stand your ground" law out for what it is. I also, loved the seventeenth season to this show I think this show will be around for a very long time coming still even on its twenty first season.
It's a show that can stay current because each episode is made that week. It's satire is spot on and even though it has some material I find a bit offensive, it has material I can agree with as well. The crude humor is not for everyone, but it's a well made show. Long as you can take the jokes at face value, you can enjoy it. I don enjoy how the creators goes after everyone, without being afraid of offending anyone group, as they hit each group equally, rather than focusing on one side as most shows do. My personal favorite episodes are; Make love not Warcraft, Eek a penis, and Trapped in the Closet. A close 4th would be Cartoon Wars multi part. Good show, far from great, but worth watching. Not suitable for kids, which makes it that much better.


                
