I was a fan of the "V for Vendetta" graphic novel, and Alan Moore disinheriting the film was a bit discouraging. But he's always been a little crazy. The film version is everything I could have possibly hoped for - gripping, chilling, intense, exciting, heartbreaking. It gets Moore's music if not his exact words; elements are slightly different, subplots removed. But the idea - as V himself would be so proud to say - remains the same.The plot is surprisingly complex and nuanced, and I don't want to give anything more away than the previews already have. Suffice it to say that a masked anarchist (voiced by Hugo Weaving) must save a young woman (Natalie Portman) during his attempt to expose corruption in the government. Weaving is perfectly cast, using his formidable physicality and imposing voice to give gravitas to the insanity of the character. Portman has gone from child to teen star and is finally emerging as a talented, adult actress following her Oscar-nominated turn in "Closer". Here, she gives her best performance to date as the orphan Evey. John Hurt is characteristically impressive as the enigmatic government leader, and Stephen Rea gives a wonderful supporting turn as the police inspector charged with finding V - before it's too late.The Wachowski Brothers' former protégé, James McTiegue, takes on the directing duties here and helms an enormously impressive first feature, using every trick in the book in a manner reminiscent of his mentors' breakout hit "The Matrix". Unlike "The Matrix", McTiegue allows the story to be more of a focus than the action, and as a result the film is a tense and emotional thriller, with outbursts of spectacularly filmed and choreographed action. Showing more maturity and restraint than the Wachowskis, McTiegue doesn't show off, and his trickery isn't self conscious. When slow-motion overtakes a late action sequence, it seems as natural as breathing. The late cinematographer Adrian Biddle (the film is dedicated to his memory) does an outstanding job, Oscar-nominated Dario Marianelli's score is a fantastic accompaniment to the piece, and the visual effects are astonishing, terrifying, and deeply moving, especially in the climatic moments in Trafalgar Square.With solid acting, great action, and fantastic technical wizardry, it sounds just like another "Matrix"-style ripoff. But the biggest difference in "V" is that it is a story of real ideas - not a fantastic, science fiction creation, but a genuine examination of the human condition. The power of fear takes center stage here - the fear of war, of disease, of famine. Fear is a basic human nature, and has been exploited as a weapon - a method of control - for centuries. And for those who would use it, a masked man waits in the shadows to carry out your sentence. The verdict? Vengeance. "V for Vendetta" is a must-see.10/10


                
I am speechless. I just came back from the theatre, where I watched 'V for Vendetta'. There are three main elements in the movie and it excels on all three of them.First off the dialogues and script. Intense, witty, honest but not patronising, intelligent but not pretentious. That's the first level at which the movie surprises you. You don't except such high level of script from an action movie. But it is slowly revealed to the audience that V for Vendetta is not just an action movie. The story is filled with current events and has a definite strong political sense.Secondly Hugo Weaving's performance. It is definitely what grabs you from the start. He delivers some of the hardest lines with incredible charisma. His performance shines throughout the movie and honestly he sounds as good as any of the best actors out there. He should be nominated for an academy award.Finally the visual part. Incredible, yet no "Matrix" effects used. Everything looks beautiful, dark yet vibrant. The cinematography is top notch. The final battle scene brought tears to my eyes.Do not miss 'V for Vendetta'. It's one of the best movies of all time, an eternal classic.10/10


                
V for Vendetta is still after all these years one of my favorite movies to watch, and I find it as relevant today as it was whenever it was released in 2005. It is a story about a freedom fighter whose goal is to take down a totalitarian government that uses fear and deceit to control its people. To do this, he knows that one man is not enough to accomplish such a monumental feat and that he will need to use something that cant be silenced, hurt, or killed. he sets out with the goal of planting the idea of revolution in the people because, as he says in the movie "Ideas are bulletproof." 
One of my favorite things about this movie is that the main character is wearing a solid mask. It is a fantastic display of acting, both voices acting as well as physical. I guess you could say that I found myself not liking the character as much as I loved the idea of the character. The writers and director did an amazing job of drawing me into the storyline by mirroring enough of the world we live in today that I felt that the world I was watching on the screen could very easily enough being the world I live in one day. I saw myself in many of the characters and identified with their blind devotion to their country, their developing distrust of their government, and their inner conflict of trying to rationalize the two. 
Hugo Weaving plays the leading role of V and delivers and an unbelievable performance from behind a mask. Natalie Portman plays the role of V's sidekick, love, and accomplice. Stephen Rea plays the detective that is hell-bent on finding out the truth even if that means he must accept that all his life he has been on the wrong side. Many other great actors help director James McTeigue bring The Wachowski Brothers V for Vendetta to life. It is definitely worth your time. Please watch and enjoy this movie,
"Remember, remember, the fifth of November, gunpowder treason and plot. I see no reason why the gunpowder treason should ever be forgot." I've never read the graphic novel, but I don't think you need to read it to appreciate the movie. I saw the film last night at it's World Premiere at the Berlin International Film festival. Though it became a little weighty in the middle (one part seemed to drag a little) other than that it was a great experience. The story was so topical that I got seriously emotional during a lot of parts. Weaving did an excellent job with the mysterious title character "V", creating a poetic, intelligent, and compassionate yet ruthless character. Portman always seems to surprise me, except with her Star Wars character. She portrays tremendous emotional range and transforms completely throughout the movie. This is one of those movies that really sticks in your head long after you watch it though... and it continues to stir and grow.


                
But Also because all the miscellaneous rightists and racists are irritated by its bravery and morality.Went completely in the right direction as compared to the usual right-wing claptrap.


                
...I am well aware that my summary line invites several retorts, and given the nature of my comment those retorts may very well be resoundingly, unanimously negative. If I say "This is one of the Best films I have ever seen..." One would think the immediate response would be, "Then you must not have seen many films in your time, dear boy." Butoh I have, and it has been far too long since there has been something up on that screen in the darkened theater that I enter to leave this boring, monotonous existence that had the capacity to inspire. To see the possibilities of what might be, what could never be, and what could happen if the leaders of the world keep things going in the directions that they are headed. V For Vendetta is just a film, yes? But it is also a wake up call of which there are not enough in this time we live in. It speaks directly to the hardship that we endure but seldom take notice of because we are distracted by things that do not matter...upon leaving the theater I saw people, teenagers mostly, the very people who should be pro-actively questioning the methodical erosion of this thing called government in the modern age, react with complete apathy. Most try so hard to be so outwardly different from the rest that they do not realize that in doing this they become just like everyone else; oblivious. We as a society do not want to see films like this, we do not want to acknowledge the atrocities going on in the world, all we want to do is play our video games, watch reality television, spend our money on clothes, jewelry, entertainment. Things that for all intents and purposes we do not need. These are the distractions that keep society from pondering in the wee hours of the night what they can do to prevent true injustice. The evils committed by those that govern are far worse than any fiction the cinema can dazzle us with these days. Yes this is a truly great film and one that I will cherish for a long time. I can only hope that its message finds a wide audience that is open to seeing things from another perspective, in a uniquely human light. In the end that is what the film is about...being human. Having the capacity to choose weather or not to recognize the evils of society and take a stand to make things better than they are. The film of course takes this idea to extremes but for the viewing public dramatic examples are needed to awake them from this artificially induced state of being we call existence and say, "I see there is wrong, and it is my duty as a human being to do what I can to make it right." To the makers of this unique and wonderful film, I salute you.


                
It's been quite a few years since I first saw V for Vendetta. I didn't see it at release, because I was far under the age demographic at that time, but I managed to catch up to the film at around 2011-2012. Not sure the exact year, but I was a teenager at the time, and I loved the Matrix (still do), and heard that V for Vendetta was written by the Wachowskis, so I thought I'd give it a shot.It blew me away in many ways, and I credit the film as being part of the reason I became less homophobic and bigoted in many ways. It was the first time I saw homosexuality in a direct and positive light in the media, and it helped me immensely in establishing my more left-leaning views in the Christian world I was raised in.It's for this reason I have a very deep and personal relationship with this film, but I love the film at a more enjoyable level as well. This film oozes with style. Everything from the cinematography and sound design, to the ways characters speak and act. The rather sparse use of fight scenes (in comparison to other action films of its ilk), opting rather to use political thriller tropes and character development, surprised me the first time I watched it, but even though the film wasn't as action packed as films like The Matrix or Equilibrium (both of which have massive third act spectacles) the action I feel is much more effective and emotional than either of those films (ironic, since Equilibrium is about emotion). While short, the final fight scene between V and Creedy's men is an incredible burst of ecstatic visceral action that makes the entire film worth it.You can say there are three main characters in this film. There's V, the titular anarchist vigilante, Evey, the young woman who is kidnapped, and slowly falls for V in a more violent twist of Beauty and the Beast, and there's Detective Finch, a government employee tasked to finding and unmasking V, and during this task discovering that his beloved government isn't as noble as it may seem. Each of these characters is given a fair and due amount of screen time, and they each have a full and satisfactory character arc. I find how well written and edited this film is to be incredibly impressive, and writing this I want to watch the film all over again just to appreciate it more.There is something to be said, however, about the differences between the film and the original graphic novel written by Alan Moore. I haven't read the original comic, but judging by Alan Moore's distaste of films inspired by his work, and the fact that he refused to watch the film after reading the script, maybe this film isn't for fans of the original work. There's a great comparison video by CineFix on Youtube comparing the film to the novel, and they are very very different from each other. One notable difference is that the portrayal of V vs the dictator Sutler is much more nuanced and less Black and white in the novel than in the film, and that is a very well deserved critique of the film. I do not claim that V for Vendetta is the best film ever made. I haven't even scraped the surface of world cinema and cinema history to ever make that claim. However I can definitely say that V for Vendetta is, at least for the time being, the most personally meaningful movie, and the most enjoyable movie, I have ever seen. Mad Max Fury Road did get close though.
'V for Vendetta' will no doubt be remembered as being one of the most well-produced films of this decade for its powerful script, strong character depictions and the sheer excellence in terms of quality. Loosely based on the DC Comic, the film is set in a totalitarian Britain where the BNP-like government who run the country with an iron fist that they make Thatcher's Tories look positively warm and trustworthy. Then emerges a vigilante in the form of V, a man deformed by fire and the governmental experiments that have given him enhanced strength, who is determined to free the UK from dictatorship by blowing up the Houses of Parliament. Evey is the young woman who is unwittingly embroiled in his plot and soon understands what just it is that motivates V so.The acting in 'V for Vendetta' was top-notch and, along with the well-written script and apt soundtrack, gave the film the essence to engage the audience and make them feel-- for better or worse-- for these characters. Although her accent was wobbly in places, Natalie Portman delivered a strong performance as Evey, depicting the character's growing love for V and the realisation that the time for her to fight has arrived. Stephen Rea also deserves a mention, as the detective who begins to grasp just how corrupt the government he has supported really is, as does Stephen Fry who proves he can do much more than play bumbling characters in his performance as Deitrich, a protester who hasn't quite grasped just how far the government will go to shut their opponents up. John Hurt's Chancellor Sutler was very terrifying as the dictator who couldn't give a toss about his people so long as he remained in total power. However, above all, it was Hugo Weaving's absolutely brilliant depiction of the lead character V who dominates. Without ever seeing his facial expression, he exudes the pragmatism, charisma and intelligence of the character with a twist of revenge-driven madness.Entertainment-wise, the film doesn't fail with it's apt soundtrack and well choreographed fight scenes that do remind you that this was based on a comic book. Yet 'V for Vendetta' maintains the ability to leave the audience shaken and chilled at the thought of how easily a Western country can be ensnared by tyranny when a corrupt government is allowed too much power and goes too far. The elements dealt with are all the more disturbing with the state of the world today. I imagine it will touch a deeper cord with Britons like myself (it would have been interesting to see more on how Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland had fared in this new world though) as it is so rare that a Hollywood film is set in the UK. It's always simpler to pretend these things could never happen here so it is a sharp shock to see such a dark future located in familiar surroundings of home.I highly recommend this film to all as it will leave you both entertained and pondering matters raised in the storyline long after the credits have rolled up.


                
The movie V for Vendetta promotes a government in which the people decide what is best for the country, and their livelihoods. Throughout the film, it becomes clear that a close to perfect form of society is when the government is scared of its people, not the other way around. In addition, the concept that love can overcome evil is evident. The hero of this film is a woman named Evey Hammond, whose goal is to help a man called V to take down the over oppressive, and corrupt, government. However, just like any hero, Evey has a flaw, and that flaw is fear to take action since her parents were killed for rebelling against the government. Evey was captured and tortured by the government to reveal the identity of V, but she never did. After a long period of time, and being constantly tortured, all her options seemed exhausted, but she rids fear within herself and accepts her fate. She would rather die then let the government stop the revolution. Luckily, it was actually V who captured and tortured her to see if she was truly loyal. The final showdown results in the death of V, however, with her new found strength, Evey completes the final step in the revolution in which the parliament building is blown up. Evey conquered her fear, and she now knows she has the power and the courage to change the world. With the parliament building destroyed, the people are now taking back their freedom, and will most likely form a government in which their voice matters. 
The movie includes a few main scenes that, when looked at together, are important in proving the message of the story: any injustice only takes a single person, willing to risk everything, to spark a world altering revolution. To reveal the corruption of the government, the viewers witness the police's attempt to rape Evey. The very people who are supposed to protect the citizens are the ones causing the most damage. In addition, a scandal in which the government purposely infected children with a deadly virus that only they could cure is shown. This proves the corruption of the government, and, now, all there needs to be is the rebellion. V's single man invasion in a TV building allows him to be known throughout the country, and, this simple act gains him followers, more fighters. The releasing of the mask, hat, and cape that he wears to every citizen might just be the most influential scene because this act gives the citizens something they never had before: a choice. Lastly, the final scene where thousands of citizens gathered, dressed in V attire, and push their way through the police to witness the destruction of parliament. I agree with the theme portrayed in this film because it shows how humans, though extremely different form one another, are able to come together when the time calls for it. I believe that this is a hopeful movie that lets the viewers know that they have more power than they think; a government cannot function without the support of its people. In all honesty, I would not have portrayed the movie any differently. The film was extremely intense, graphically violent, and painfully realistic; however, this intensity was needed to get the point across that there a corrupt government needs to be stopped. 
The redemption that is portrayed in the film coincides with biblical truth in that they both end with the sacrifice of one to free the many from the evil. In the same way V risks his life so that the rest of the country may live in freedom, Jesus died on the cross so that the entire world could be saved and washed from their sins. Although the biblical truth is a much larger scale, the concept is the same. However, the movie departs from biblical truth in what actions V does in order to achieve freedom for the people. V takes on a more hateful and violent approach in which he assassinates corrupt government people, and bombs the parliament building. On the other hand, Jesus takes on a more humbling approach in which he basically shows kindness and unconditional love to all. Although V for Vendetta condemns evil, it also allows the viewers to think that the only way to destroy evil is with more evil and violence. The intense violence in the film contradicts V's ultimate goal which is to rid of the violent and corrupt government. V is fighting fire with fire, but he is doing what he feels is right and what he sees as the only way to achieve freedom. 
This connects to the worldview of post modernism because the idea of breaking from the traditional rules, or the rules of the past, and doing what you believe in, or what you feel is right, is promoted. The film does not directly explore this worldview, rather, it reveals this concept through V and his actions. V wants to create a world in which people have the choice to choose what to believe in. In addition, he does whatever actions he deems necessary to achieve his goal. Similarly, post modernists believe that people should have the right to believe what they want, and do whatever they want, and that what they do is their choice. Given this mentality, I think that the writers are trying to say that humans should never be forced to believe in something. What we choose to believe in is our choice, and each person should respect one other regardless of their beliefs. If one thing is for sure, people typically do not like to be told what to do because for some reason we like choice, and how we live reflects our beliefs. This obviously does not reflect the teachings of the Bible. The Bible is pretty clear that in order to get to heaven, if you even believe in one, is, in summary, to accept Jesus as your Lord and Savior. V for Vendetta neither denounces nor promotes the Bible or Christianity. V does not care what you believe in, he cares that you were able to choose you beliefs without any pressure. This is, however, similar to the Bible in that people have the free will to choose what they believe(you can believe in Jesus or not); there is no outside pressure, at least there is not supposed to be any. The Bible lays out its case to all who are willing to listen, and people can accept or deny its teachings; V is fighting for exactly this, the ability to choose. Christianity is not portrayed in this movie because this is not a movie about religion, but it does indirectly comment on religion. It reveals the dangers of religions and how they can turn into corrupt political systems that take away a persons choice. Every religion is guilty of trying to pressure others into their belief, or there will be consequences. The film calls out any guilty of this sort of pressure, and it basically comments this: people need to make their own decisions, and if there is disagreement, oh well, it was their choice, not yours.
Overall, V for Vendetta is not the most child friendly movie. It is extremely violent, in more ways than one, and the negative elements greatly out weight the positive. Some negative elements included an attempted rape, multiple murdered, lots of gun violence, torture, and encourages dangerous behavior. This movie definitely teaches that it is acceptable to do an measures necessary to fight for a cause, even if people's well beings are at stake. On a more positive note, the final message of the movie is inspiring. It teaches that it is ok to be different, and that people should have the free will to decided who they want to be; it inspires individuality. Even with a beautiful message at the very end, this film should not be recommended to everyone because of the negative elements states earlier in this paragraph. In this day in age, I think it would be acceptable that the minimum age to introduce this movie would be 13. At this age, children are beginning to be introduced to the real world, and they are just starting to figure out who they are. I think that this movie is a good introduction into teaching kids that it is okay to believe differently than others, but, most importantly, that people should not be judged for believing in something different.
This movie belongs to its own category. Brilliant!


                
I saw this movie yes today here in Denmark, and i didn't know what to  expect, because i haven't heard of the V or read the Comics from  publisher DC comics.  But was i in for a BIG treat, this movie is so superbly acted by all  the actors, especially Natalie Portman performed according to me to an  Oscar nomination next year.  The movie is perfectly put together, so if you haven't read the comics  you will be on the edge of you seat the whole movie. Its really that  good folks.  And lastly, the visual effects is fantastic, and the action scenes is  nothing but spectacular.  Watch this movie :-).


                
A master piece movie from a master story teller Alan Moore...I don't even wanna spoil anything..Just go and watch it...And you will understand V...


                
It is the year 2020. England is reigned by a fascist government, ensuring safety at the expense of freedom. How did it come this far? Not by a hostile takeover it seems, the British voted for it. But they voted under the influence of the most powerful force in the world - Fear. Some may argue that love is more powerful, but even love can be conquered by the fear of losing someone dear to yourself.This is the scenery that is painted by James McTeigue. But there is one who opposes it: V. Wearing a Guy Fawkes Mask, blowing up the old Bailey, attacking those who build this regime. It is not just V's biography that is told in this movie though. He's more than person, he stands for an idea maybe an ideal and we watch the story unfold around him as he guides us through London. Main characters are the absolutely wonderful Evey played by Natalie Portman and the inspector hunting V (Stephen Rea), slowly realizing that too many coincidences have happened in the past. V himself, played by Hugo Weaving never shows his face, but still convinces and puts on a great show.The message this movie sends is (and no doubt has been hundreds of times) to be debated as it glorifies chaos and the rebelling against the government even though the people do not know of the horrors their government has committed to gain power. But then again, do we know all about our government? Thankfully the movie dodges the problem of having a government overthrown only because of the revenge of one man and focuses on the essential: Act if you think there's something wrong.
Combine this idea with a dagger wielding masked man whose speeches could have made him a poet in a normal life and you got yourself one hell of a movie. Some movies want you to think, some are pure entertainment - V for Vendetta gives you just enough of both to have you sitting at the edge of your sofa in excitement while keeping you from sleep thinking about its message afterwards.
I would love to see a prequel and a sequel. How about F for Fake News (how a to grasp for power) and B for Building up Britain before Brexit cocks it up again?
The historical incidences and plot in this movie is the reason I like this film. The cast and director must have had a lot of fun with this production.


                
One of the best movies ever made! I could watch it over and over.


                
To sum up the brothers' masterwork in one word is a quite impossible task, but I have come to the conclusion that V For Vendetta is 'perfect'. Nathalie Portman as the hapless chick is one weak link because she is not a good actress and her English accent is as bad as the Bridget Jones Diaries but the rest if just brilliant. Making this film all the more compelling is the classical music perfectly composed original musical score. This film deserves all the cult love bestowed upon it, especially the social movements it has aided. It deserves all these awards and more. V For Vendetta is a film that everyone should see and appreciate to its fullest extent. The good guys and the bad guys are so complex, so scary and so relevant that it will remain an immortal film forever. Homosexuals, Muslims, freedom fighters, media folk, cops, politicians and regular folks who believe life is just drinking beer and being stupid will benefit from watching this.


                
OK, I only went to see this because of the Wachowski brothers involvement. I went totally expecting to hate this movie about a terrorist but it was so much more. I'm amazed to say that it's AWESOME! While not an action picture there's plenty of action and at least one funny homage to The Matrix. You've gotta see it. It's very inspiring, believe it or not and it didn't make me want to blow up buildings either. It just made me appreciate freedom even more. Hugo Weaving is terrific and Natalie Portman leaves Princess Amadala far behind with her performance as Evey. Everyone's great. Stephen Rea is terrific too. I just can't believe I liked this movie. I'm still in shock.


                
This movie will always be my top of the list. I must have watched this movie 99 times now (I'll make it 100 on the 5th of November). I love how this movie has an equal amount of fiction and realism, and unfolds in such a way that is so comprehensible. I have watched it so many times, yet each time I am on the edge of my seat during scenes that'll give you goosebumps. The narrative and the script are an unforgettable experience that forge themselves onto the viewers heart and mind alike.
I love this movie beyond anything and I would definitely suggest that more people should watch it. It is a profound joy to be able to appreciate such an extravaganza on a public platform.
Thank you!! Hope my review was helpful!


                
Great speeches. Great scenes. Can feel hunger of freedom.


                
I became astonished, as I just watched 'V for Vendetta'. I was wondering why I haven't watched it till now. One of textbook movie on very sensitive topics of Non-Conformism, Anti-Regime, Revolution.Acting: Hugo Weaving was just like a brilliant magician or musician or writer who had full command in his domain i.e. Anti- Regime, who has nor fear neither vanity. I always admired Natalie for her superb performances in Closer or Black Swan and above all this movie.Story: The dialogues and script are intense & honest. It is a thriller movie, but it is slowly revealed to me that its more than that. The story is filled with current events and great quotes. Also it has a definite strong political sense, and I can relate it with current circumstances in many countries.Direction: It was marvelous. Everything looks beautiful especially Fireworks, Home of V, Studio Scenes, all over dark yet compelling.Verdict: Indeed It's one great addition into my "List of Movies That I Want To Watch Before I Died"
Watched it again and I am amazed at the poetry and screenplay of this movie. It is truly a masterpiece.


                
Honestly I am speechless after watching this masterpiece. Hugo Weaving is a genius who played such a difficult role with such a perfection. Full marks to Natalie Portman. A great movie which will keep you indulging. A must watch.


                
This movie is beyond all those words mentioned in the title. It's a masterpiece. Kudos to Hugo Weaving and Natalie Portman. They did an incredible acting. For many years, I had been ignoring this movie (for some weird reason, I know I was being stupid) until this very morning I decided to give it a try. Well I must say everyone who appreciates a Thriller Movies, must watch it. Its an spectacular masterpiece.


                
The problem is to realize that terrorist groups, diseases and economic crises are used by the government to frighten you so that you will see in it your last hope of survival. "I want everyone to remember why they need us!" I've seen the movie on its wold premiere in Berlin, a city which has its own strong history with a reign of terror closely related to the movie. But in the movie, it is Great Britain in the near future which is threatening its own people. The graphic novel written in the 1980s by David Lloyd and Alan Moore never has been more actual than nowadays. President Bush's call for Congress to give him the power to use the military in law enforcement roles in the event of a bird flu pandemic - where there is no pandemic jet.V, who knows that not only diseases are used by his government to blame terrorist groups but in fact are home made biological weapons tested on the own people, is spreading an idea of freedom and weakens the government with real terror it cannot control.A very honest movie, strong pictures, a great story. 10 out of 10.
I'm sorry that I can't focus on the movie, but a great movie I think should bring up things other than the story itself.Just like a friend of mine said, any government who bans this movie, it must be a government just like the one in the movie. Unfortunately, the government of my country, PR China is one of them.It's just what they do, although not so explicitly. Everyday, Chinese police censor all kinds of political sensitive content we can reach, put away brave-enough-to-speak journalists like Shi Tao, they even put up a project called Red Shield to control the Internet, which we always believed to be non-controllable.In China, we have never seen a TV show that makes fun of the God like leaders, cause all the so called People's media were never people's. And what we citizens usually do? Just like what they do in the movie, eating, fncking and and shutting.Thank God(every God we people believe in) there is still a country called United States, whose people haven't yet felt tired to remind us of how we should be living.


                
