I have just realised that by watching V for Vendetta this evening I have missed Cronenberg's Eastern Promises on another channel. In light of V being awful that is genuinely annoying.There are several reviews here that deal with the poverty of the film's simplistic political message, its clumsy script and its nonsensical plot. (Evey imprisoned by V? Come off it. Dietrich's ludicrous decision to lampoon the High Chancellor? Totally unbelievable.)I didn't care for the characters, I didn't care for the politics and I didn't care for the production.Where does it get the 2 points I've given it from? There are worse films that deserve lesser rewards. Oh, and I liked the explosions.
I can't believe what I just saw. This is one of the worst HQ adaptations I've ever seen! They simply mutilated the story, transforming a child into a grown woman (in the original story, she became a woman ALONG the plot), hundred thousands of dead into 80.000, the slow and complicated fall of a dictatorship into the most simple and clean transition of power ever (not one single person of the people got hurt, or had to do anything).And mainly, they transformed the most ambiguous, complex, mysterious character (he never revealed his sex, or gave any signs of doubt in his actions or love for the girl) into a masked ninja like those seen by the dozens in Hollywood.Alan Moore was right to deny any knowledge of this.


                
The most thought provoking thing about this film is reading the reviews.The film itself was utter drivel. I had read the reviews before going and thought to myself, "I can't go wrong picking this one". It was supposed to have everything that I would want to see in a movie. What a mistake! The action is incidental and third rate. Anyone expecting Matrix type stuff should be sorely disappointed and yet some reviewers praise it.The acting, with the exception of Weaving and Hurt, was risible. I would particularly single out Natalie Portman as lacking all credibility. It sounded like she had had classes in "how to speak and comport yourself whilst being tortured" whilst at her finishing school. And yet many reviewers praise it!I have not read the graphic novel. I can believe that the characters and setting might work in that format but on film I would have thought that the portrayal of London and Londoners was part of some sort of B-movie comedy spoof - they seem to have been lifted largely from somewhere between 1950 and 1975 with the LCD TV's sticking out as an anachronistic error rather than being the near future (If you put a child in thick black NHS glasses now you would be reported to the social services for mental cruelty). The initial encounter with V is even worse, being clearly inspired by Jack the Ripper movies. The police station was from the 1970s. As for the dialogue, it is not the fact that they keep saying "bollocks" that is the problem, it is the way that they say it - It's like they asked the queen to do a rap record and say "muthafucka" - it has no conviction or credibility.I haven't said much about the political message and that is because, despite the reviews, there isn't really much of a message there when you look closely, or at lest nothing worthy of serious reflection. Anyone who thinks that it has anything to do with the present day hasn't watched it. The chancellor is clearly Adolf Hitler not George Bush and certainly not Tony Blair - everyone knows that having an ugly guy shout at people doesn't work anymore - modern politics requires good hair and nice teeth (cabinet members excepted) and that the state is taking over in a much more insidious way than the crude scare mongering of Nazi Germany and V for Vendetta. If you find this thought provoking you are feeble minded! This really scares me because I am genuinely afraid that, if feeble dialogue like this can provoke such thoughts then someone more eloquent could actually incite an anarchist rebellion.Finally, Guy Fawkes didn't try to blow up parliament because he was a republican nor because the people in general were being oppressed - he tried to blow it up because he was a catholic. True, the suppression of the catholics was bad but it was of a completely different character to V for Vendetta which is more like the general repression of 1984 or the old Soviet Union.


                
As one who is deeply concerned about the lack of critical, independent thinking amongst proponents and adherents of right wing ideology, and the disturbing willingness of its followers to fall prey to demagoguery, I am particularly disturbed and shocked to see this film rated with the likes of The Graduate and Platoon. I can attribute this only to a commensurate lack of critical thinking, and an understandable desperation due to current events, on the part of the left, to whom this film obviously appeals.V is one of the most pedantic, unengaging, and insufferable films I can remember, yet it is described in the most glowing terms by fellow reviewers. Meanwhile, my spouse - who, by the way, has fine lefty credentials stretching back many years - sat through the end only to avoid completely wasting two hours of time without the "satisfaction" of seeing the finale. I fought sleep the entire way through.Despite its aspirations to intellectual and emotional depth, its characters are paper-thin and barely sympathetic, if at all. The plot is so predictable as to make the entire middle of the film unnecessary, given that it did such a poor job of character development. In the end - of the film and in final analysis, the film is as preachy, trite and altogether intolerable as any propaganda that the right wing could ever hope to produce. I am still shuddering as I think back upon this film.


                
It's just so typical of dumb asses on the IMDb to overrate this tired, badly written piece of nonsense. The overuse of bad explanatory speeches/ dialogue combined with its simplistic didacticism really grated - the film offered a cheesy crash course in political subversion/ rebellion for cretins. The love story was irrelevant, sentimental and completely uniteresting because the charcterisation was so lame - princess amrilla's character was nothing more subtle than the pretty scared girlie who grows a political conscience and a bit of courage. The direction and editing were hackneyed, dull and predictable. The photography was stunningly flat and badly framed, just boring -take the shot of the English people watching telly - it was like a particularly tedious Kodak moment from a family album.


                
Complete joke. If people would read more they would know that this was a bastardized, modernized, canonized version of a great work by the finest author of graphic novels of the last twenty-five years (sorry Frank Miller).All the layered stories and symbolism that made the book such a joy have been removed and turned into a more cookie-cutter, user-friendly action flick that promoted stylized violence over stylized plot. That is it's biggest fault. Characters thrown around and placed wherever for whatever reason (evey never even meets Gordon until halfway through the book).V was not a freedom fighter, he openly admits in the book that he has turned from that brand of justice, and is in fact, an anarchist. Changing your view a little? This provided so much more depth to the dialogs in the book and made v into more of a character than a run-of-the-mill "I been done wrong by my gov't so now I'm gonna fight for FREEDOM!" Prothero's doll burning (which was way cooler and way funnier than 'v shows up, hello commander, kills him), Beethoven's fifth (da da da dum, is morse code for V), the subplot of almond's widow as she ends up gunning down Mr. Susan (not Sutler!) the Leader. It goes on and on.And the stuff that wasn't in the book, the count of monte cristo? An SNL type show where the audience is held at gunpoint? Where the he11 did this come from? It neither helped the ideals nor had the amount of symbolism that Moore included is his original. And when it comes to Moore, don't mess with perfection.Avoiding the political slant, in which this was obviously and shamelessly pointed toward current events, the book was anarchy-vs-totalitarianism. This was material that was dated, but the screen writers saw a story that at it's bone was man vs gov't and decided they could twist a story that in all reality has nothing to do with current events and keep alive a spirit that was never there to begin with.Exploited violence with a paper thin plot so overdone over the years it's a surprise it hasn't torn yet. Read the book, shun this disgrace of a film. Nothing more than a "vicious cabaret" (don't get it? Read the #@%$! book!)England prevails, this doesn't.
V FOR VENDETTA is pure drivel. I get that out of the way at the top of this review because I know it will not be the popular opinion. But at some point I've realized that I'm nobody if I'm not honest. So I'll say it right now, V FOR VENDETTA is not an action movie, it's a propaganda film. It's a film about how great anarchy is.About 50 or 70 years into the future Great Britain is run by a totalitarian dictator (John Hurt). Books, music, and all sorts of free expression are banned. The government has created a police state that keeps people in line. Then a shadowy masked figure named V (Hugo Weaving) steps out of the shadows and fights the government by exposing their corruption through terrorist actions. Buildings are blown up, television signals are stolen, and caught in the middle of it all is Evey (Natalie Portman). Evey, the reluctant student of the mysterious V, will play a pivotal role in overthrow of the government, whether she wants to or not.Now where do I start. On a purely cinematic level this movie is not very fluid. Most scenes revolve around characters talking about how horrible things are. They talk and talk and then talk some more. The screenplay is so verbose that any action you may have been expecting flashes by in seconds. V's origin is told and retold at least 4 different times and there is a subplot involving an actress that just goes on and on.As for the rest of the film, the best scene involves a humorous take on the government. It's bold and the man involved in the full on attack of the social order doesn't parade around in mask. He's bold because he puts his name and face out for the world too see. Yes he pays the consequences for his action, but he used the tools at hand to subvert the government. He didn't need bombs, he didn't need violence, he just needed to be socially disobedient.But V this movies hero hides behind a mask of platitudes and terrorist actions. He's too proud to put his face out there for the world to see. He's like a man who writes a manifesto about how horrible the world is and signs it with an alias. Who wants to listen to a coward. V believes that the only way to get people to listen is to blow things up and to murder the men in charge. But what then? Do you start another government? Does that one become corrupt? I know its not a popular idea but did you ever just think that maybe human beings are rotten to the core? That our hearts are dark? That if given the right circumstances we all could be Hitler? I know I've lied, I've stolen things, and I've hurt the people I love the most. I've even made my wife cry and I know there are people out there that think I'm a jerk. So I ask you am I good person? I strive to be, but the human condition drags me down.That's why we invent law. Whether it be moral law, or traffic law, laws are put in place to fight against the human condition. But Laws are so easily corrupted, from going 35 in a 25 miles per hour zone, or murdering your neighbor for his sneakers, we break laws because we are weak, selfish and at our cores we don't want anybody to tell us what to do.V operates in a place where humans are basically good except for those that disagree with him. Government and greed are the problems. He and those who agree with him are the ones who are right. Organized religion is wrong. Politics is wrong. If we can somehow get rid of them the world will be a better place. But alas isn't he himself turning his followers into robots? What if one of his followers challenged him? Would he be labeled a traitor? Would he be sent away? The final outcome of V FOR VENDETTA may seem helpful, but why replace one tyranny for another.I know I've gone off on a tangent here. I know my comments may make some people angry. But alas I live in America and for all the horrible things that are going wrong, I'm glad I can still thank God that I live in a country where many men and women strive to do what's right. I can question my government without having to resort to terrorist actions and where men and women can believe what they want. We are "One Nation Under God", be it a Christian God, or a Muslim God, or Zeus the God Of War. My faith in America is not in the government. My freedom is not protected by George W. Bush or V the mysterious masked vigilante. It come from some place higher, some place stronger than myself. Terrorism breeds more terrorism. Anarchy breeds nothing but chaos and V FOR VENDETTA is a horrible education in hedonism and nihilism.Do you want change the world? It begins in the human heart. It begins when you strive to do good regardless of whether the Government is protecting you or not. It's means dying not for self, but for others and striving for truth and not empty platitudes. V FOR VENDETTA is about a coward, and that's just sad.
This is a good film for people between the ages of 12 and 15. Not very deep and pretty emo. Kind of thing you'd see made into a shirt at the hot-topic and then said shirt worn to the local mega-church.Nothing spectacular here, just a lot of hype and Hollywood continuing to cater to the lowest common denominator...Why do people think this kind of stuff is so great? I think it's just grading on a curve...people don't know what is good anymore because they are too afraid to venture out and find something that is really worth this much hype...Not sure what the solution is, but this cycle of not so good movies being hailed as brilliant is really depressing!


                
..and you might wonder what you did to deserve it if you're forced to sit through this imbecilic, pretentious candy floss. If Brazil and Nineteen Eighty-Four are the perfect fusion of botanicals and base spirit in bleak totalitarian terms then V for Vendetta is the tasteless engine lubricant that passes for gin, served in Victory Square. Ripped from the soiled pages of Alan Moore's 1989 Anti-Thatcherite fantasy, it envisions a Britain (though in the movie this is freely interchangeable with England betraying the ignorance of the screenwriters) that's been taken over by a tyrannical despotic government. All freedoms are curtailed, though sadly not the freedom to talk in long-winded sentences but we'll come back to that. 'V' is a terrorist who plans to change all this by dressing as Guy Fawkes, that other, er, champion of the oppressed masses, - hatching a plan to destroy Parliament, by now a symbol of repression and intolerance thus liberating the populous <U+0096> Guido redux if you like while John Hurt, inverting his Winston Smith role, grimaces and gesticulates as the Stalinesque Chancellor who V plans to permanently deselect. I've not read the graphic novel and this is something I share with the filmmakers if the result is anything to go by. In fact so muddled are the politics, so flat the direction and so poor the performances that it feels from start to finish like the filmic equivalent of a dirty protest. Vendetta's conception is a washout in every respect. The poorly structured, badly written screenplay by the Warchowski Brothers is primarily to blame. Why are these people given so much latitude? Didn't anyone see the Matrix sequels? The brothers grim commit their own act of cine-terrorism by creating a sort of England USA where the English speak a sort of Californian-cockney. Listening to it recalls the scene from Star Trek 4: The Voyage Home is which Kirk suggests that they try to communicate with the space probe mimicking whale song. Spock points out that this would be pointless as you'd be copying the sounds not the language resulting in "gibberish" <U+0096> its as if all the dialogue in this film has been channelled through the same translation software. The brothers know some English colloquialisms but have no idea how they are naturally used in real speech. American audiences won't care of course but for the real English it will be an effort not to laugh your way through the whole thing <U+0096> it'll be all you can do to stay awake. This is like grit in the eyes but sadly, it's not the worst of it. The dire-logue aside it's the total poverty of ideas that really gets to you as it drags on..and on. The government of the future has been so successful in crushing the will of the people that's it turned all Londoners into clichés who helpfully sit on their sofas and watch the telescreen all day, lapping up V's simplistic messages of dissent or alternatively they're the proles, drinking in dank pubs <U+0096> looking downtrodden and fixated on drink. Yes indeed, this is very much British life as I'd imagine it to be were I from Illonois. The screenplay is incredibly wordy <U+0096> very long speeches, exposition follows exposition. Those hoping for some action to liven up the proceedings or break up the dull patches will feel their heart sink into their stomach long before it crawls to its plodding climax. The worst points? There are so many but V's demented Dandy routine accounts for most <U+0096> Natalie Portman sounds like a New Zealander who ever so often remembers to enunciate an English vowel (badly) <U+0096> the scene in which she dresses as a school girl so tow curlingly embarrassing as to make her work on Star Wars look Oscar winning by comparison.Hugo Weaving is wasting his time as the man behind the mask as he could be played by anyone <U+0096> in fact Eryol Flynn's corpse could have matched this level of performance and for Steven Fry, an intelligent man so we're told, this should be a deeply depressing episode. I'm sure the idea of playing a repressed gay man who appreciates classic literature but can't openly say so must have been a lure but my goodness, it's the febrile complex on the film's pallid, diseased face. In bonfire night terms, V for Vendetta is like a knocked off firework in an expensive looking box <U+0096> once lit it doesn't go off for 2 hours and when you go to check it, the thing blows up in your face scarring you for life. One mark for the use of the Julie London song (very droll) and one mark for those dominoes but that aside this is a hideous waste of effort. The rack, noose and knife for all concerned please.


                
This film seems to have received very high praise indeed. I hate to fly in the face of such adoration, but it left me cold and rather irritated. Sure, there are a few nice bits and pieces in there, but it's all done in such a cack-handed way that it raised more than a few unintentional laughs with the audience I saw it with. The film is terribly structured and almost completely un-engaging.I've never read Moore's graphic novel but I can only assume it is a masterpiece beside this. I am not surprised he has since renounced Hollywood (especially after The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and From Hell - which are also awful, for similar reasons).This film is full of big ideas on Britain's dystopian future and the growing dissatisfaction with New Labour and voter apathy. ID cards, retinal scans, curfews, terror laws, media control, culture of fear etc - the film throws in every reference from Guantanemo and the war in Iraq to race riots and the rise of the BNP.And therein lies the problem - it's all sixth form politics. Politicians are cruel, the police are thugs, there's a conspiracy under every desk etc. We've seen it all before of course (1984, Brazil etc), but this film is so black and white it never has any subtly. Not that this is the main problem with the film - the whole thing is just badly put together.The acting is pretty awful. Hugo Weaving does his best, but it's all one-note - and listening to a mask talk for 2+ hours hardly makes the cod-philosophical waffle easier to digest. And waffle there is aplenty - almost as bad as Matrix 2/3 put together. As a result the scenes drag - did the film really have to be 2 ¼ hours long? Natalie Portman only starts to act once she has a hair cut. I was never convinced why Evey was helping the freak with the mask anyway - they try to set up a Beauty & the Beast / Phantom of the Opera motif between V and Evey, which falls pretty flat. There is hardly any chemistry between them - and V's not frightening either. Just faintly ridiculous, especially wearing an apron whilst making French Toast. John Hurt is nice casting seeing as he was in "1984", but his scenes are mostly filmed behind a desk and must have taken all of an afternoon.The police scenes are limp and betray the lack of budget - the country's entire anti-terrorist force are two detectives bumbling around an office. "So what now Chief?" one of them says. Stephen Rea, whose performance is as charismatic as Droopy Dog - stares at his computer for a moment. "Let's go here," he suggests. Cut to Rea and his sidekick standing on a murky soundstage. "Another dead end, let's go back to the office". Etc etc etc.The worst moment comes when Stephen Fry proudly shows Evey the latest episode of his "satirical" TV chat show where he lampoons the Prime Minister in some kind of Benny Hill romp. This is toe-curlingly bad. Are we, the viewer, supposed to find this funny or scathingly satirical? Because it's neither - just shockingly inept.Every 15 minutes we get a crescendo of music, dramatic dialogue and grave faces - only for nothing to actually happen. All the start/stopping makes the film trudge to a soggy conclusion where we get another hack message rammed down our throat - we as a people can topple nasty governments if we all act together (oh and blow up Parliament). Great, but replace them with what? This call to revolution is just old hat - the very act of destruction maybe satisfying, but the film gives us no characters that give us any sense that the struggle has been worth it. The film's climax is therefore a hollow victory. And they stick Stephen Fry in the crowd at the end for effect. Sadly, by then I couldn't give a rat's arse.2 out 10
This movie is a complete waste of time. The writing is absurd, the characters are not characters, they exist solely to further the plot. They come and go as are necessary for the exposition of whichever particular scene they happen to be in at the time.The film is dialogue driven, and perhaps that sort of writing can be handled in a book, but the execution doesn't seem to come off well at all. I hear a string of words that are supposed to sound like intellectual ideas but all I hear is nonsense.Examples of how you will actually lose brain-cells during the course of the film (IMDB doesn't even lie, just click on Quotes and see all the fun in store for you):Eve: You're getting back at them for what they did to you. V:What was done to me was monstrous. Eve: Then they created a monster. Sutler: (V has just blown up Parliament) Gentlemen, I want this terrorist found... and I want him to understand what *terror* really means. Creedy: (Creedy and a dozen policemen have V cornered in an alley) Kill 'im. (They empty a hail of bullets at V) V: *My* turn. (Kills a policeman with a pair of throwing knives)-Seriously, people. Seriously.-how come all i can think of when i hear this kind of dialogue is:Judge Dredd: I am the law! Put down your weapons and prepare to be judged. Block Warlord: Judge this! All Natalie Portman does is wander around and ask questions so that the other characters can fill her in on the events and why these events should be important to her/us. She's Neo, w/ less hair and more hot. That being said, she's boring, she's not a character, but that's okay, nobody else is either. V: vengeancepseudointellectualhighschoolphilosophy Natalie Portman: Why? V: Becauseblahblahblahblah Natlie Portman: How? V: Easyblahblahblahblahblahbadcharacterexpositionblahblahblah Natlie Portman: What?We goto these movies because we have low standards and we see exactly what we expect to see, was anyone really surprised by ANYTHING in this film? At the end, did you think Stephen Rea was going to shoot Natalie Portman and stop the bombs from going off? Or did you look at your watch, realize you'd been there for an hour and thirty minutes, prep yourself for the explosion you knew was coming (you know the really, REALLY, BIG, BADASS one), and then just watch the same crap you've been seeing ever since Hollywood learned how to distill 100% pure ape-poo.oh and by the way, all of these clever political undertones? I think that the idea of a violent revolutionary inspiring a massive non-violent passive revolution is ludicrous. Anyone could make a film like this and have little funny things included that will make it seem relevant in our clichéd post-9/11 obsessed crazy town mentality. didn't the actual government already milk enough money out of this? i guess now it's Hollywood's turn to hump the dead horse.Pirate this film.-cecil


                
I read about the comic a long time before I saw the film, and I was intrigued about how it would be handled on celluloid. England is run by a totalitarian regime some time in the future, the leader of the regime is played by John Hurt, who, fittingly played the role of Winston Smith in Michael Radford's version of 1984. The author of the graphic novels the film is based on apparently walked out of the premiere of the movie, and I can see why. The director of V for Vendetta obviously has a great love of the comic, because he does try to deal with the issues that are raised in the comic, but his ineptness as a director lets the comic down, badly. Among the issues, are how fear (caused by terrorism) can allow the public to be manipulated by politicians who then push through draconian laws which they claim to be for the good of the people but are actually covering darker ulterior motives. The editing is cringingly bad, it really makes you wonder if there was a director behind the production at all, the leads (Natalie Portman and Hugo Weaving) rush their way through a script that clunks and grinds along for most of the movie. The 'relationship' between Portman's and Weaving's characters is totally implausible because there is not even a hint of a gradual development of Portman's trust in 'V', who is, after all quite a dubious character given that he wears a mask the whole time. That you're expected to believe in The dodgy London English accents (I should know, since I am a born and bred Londoner) add's to the farcical catalogue of other things that make this a bad film. I actually got quite angry about this one, because the subject matter is topical and raises a lot of questions, but it could have been handled so much better by a more accomplished director.


                
Trite idea, poor execution. Not much originality in describing a fascist future for Britain ("1984" comes to mind....). This movie does not have much bite. Still it could be enjoyed as a pointless exercise of style (like "Batman"), but it does not create a compelling imagery and it misses badly in some areas. One glaring mistake is the use of Natalie Portman, probably a fine actress, but she can't fake a British accent. Since she has to carry much of the movie (after all the other main character is masked) this is a major problem. Overall the movie comes out as fake and pompous. "Robocop" was much more successful in its attempt to use science fiction to comment on current events and politics, and much more entertaining.


                
Dear Larry and Andy Wachowski, I want my money back. You sold me V For Vendetta, a story of ideological revolution with a hero who was equal parts William Shakespeare, Alexander Dumas, and Abbie Hoffman. The product you delivered was certainly G For Garbage, and the "hero" you offered in the movie was the bastard child of MTV, Osama Bin Laden and Michael Moore. Instead of taking a few liberties with the plot as most movies based on comics do, you felt it necessary to rewrite the entire story. This was certainly NOT the V For Vendetta I remember reading and re-reading. This was, simply put, one of the most dumbed-down pieces of garbage put on film I've seen in recent memory. Alan Moore made a very wise decision by asking for his name not to be put on this travesty.


                
I was waiting for the phantom to row his boat through the subway tunnels with lit candles singing to portman about unfair treatment to gay and lesbian people, corrupt governments, and lost loves. Too many commentaries to be anything other demeaning to the issues it touches on. Granted, I'm not familiar with the comic genre I think it was derived from, but why try to cover every "hot topic" at once with one nasty dictator...trying to make parallels to today's topics. AND... Portman couldn't pull off the English accent. the masked V was just creepy and sounded tooooo much like Michael Crawford..was that on purpose?! The nasty dictator was just like the wizard OZ ...a big screaming head.I have a vendetta against Vendetta... Hollywood made me embarrassed to be a liberal.


                
I went to see this movie this afternoon ... opening day here ... and was very, very disappointed.So disappointed that I left the theatre after waiting for an hour for things to improve. I almost never walk out of a movie. But it was really that bad this time. And I wasn't alone. It was a late afternoon showing, and the rows I was sitting in ... up front (I always like sitting up front) included just 3 other folks. All seated separately. The other 3 had all walked out before I did.There were two basic features of the movie that really moved it into the almost utterly awful category for me.One was the figure of V himself. Hugo Weaving's vocalization of the character as far as I could tell was fine; but V and the script built around V were amazingly bad. V is sort of a Zorro with a soft, urbane English accent, and a Mask that seems incongruously similar to that used in the Halloween movie series, and a penchant for quoting Shakespeare. He's sort of a wimpy Bard spouting wisdom and culture and death and murder and revolution in such winning tones that we're apparently supposed to be as captivated as his audience by him. When he appears on TV, the movie shows several scenes of The Common Man, Woman, and Child, watching and listening with rapt mesmerized attention to a vividly unappealing super hero with soft, wimpy tones and patronizing metro-sexual language that I just can't imagine The Great British Nation ... or the Great Any Nation ... finding so deeply appealing. I found especially obnoxious the repeated scenes in an English pub, with several working class blokes staring mesmerized at this clown spouting faux Shakespeare. Instead of cracking jokes and mockery at such (to use a term often used in other connections) Bollux.The other feature of the movie that rendered it extraordinarily unpleasant from my angle was its ham-fisted social commentary that boiled down to: Terrorism is just Another Name for Legitimate Resistance to Tyranny. In this day and age, that kind of moral equivalence is unusual mostly in its poor taste in this movie: to make the obvious even more obvious, there's a scene where the Natalie Portman character goes into a room full of the most amazing political kitsch and finds it Oh So Meaningful. So we see a portrait of a Union Jack titled "Coalition of the Willing" with a Nazi banner across it; and a picture of Margaret Thatcher (I think?) bowdlerized to evidently reflect some mockery that we're supposed to applaud. The Regime is composed of Bishops, Clergy, and other figures of Faith who are all Bad (one Bishop's fondness for under-aged females makes a particularly nasty scene) and other Evil People. I don't mind at all social commentary but when it's this ham-fisted and this silly it becomes to me just coarse and silly and stereotyped. It makes me feel like I'm watching an old propaganda film out of the old Nazi or Communist "Socialist Realism Theatre" days. Above all, though, the repeated vision of Terrorism as meaning Justice in Action is to me deeply offensive in these days after 9/11 and other such horrible tragedies. I think even Guy Fawkes ... the nasty real-life English terrorist on whom V is supposedly modeled ... must be rolling in his grave at such nonsense.Acting was decent but unexceptional, cinematography competent but uninteresting ... there was one sort of interesting scene early on from a London rooftop. Other than that, though, the script was just so horribly dismal as to make this a truly and amazingly bad movie.


                
This movie was so long, boring, and pointless. I slept right through the last half hour. I was looking forward to a visually pleasing, intellectually stimulating action movie. I was treated to an unending diatribe that couldn't keep track of its targets: Americans, the English, Big Government, the Nazis, groupthink, the media, the Church, drug companies, or the unsuspecting public. Or was it the vast worldwide conspiracy that controls them all?! Give me a break.I am so tired of the Wachowski brothers going all Ayn Rand on us, using film to espouse their political beliefs. Morpheous never shut up, Neo never shut up, and now Mr. V never shut up. Get over yourselves! I gave this movie a rating of 2/10 for Stephen Rea's performance, which was simple, honest, and believable. Everything else sucked.


                
This film is OK as films go from a plot perspective. However, if you are sick and tired of Hollywood's liberal preaching and fringe idealism you should pass. I'm not sure they (the film makers) could have stuffed more of their idiotic agenda in this film. I was actually laughing during a montage of the ascension of the "evil" Conservative party. They went from a classic Hitler image (complete with red and black cross symbol) of John Hurt campaigning to the masses, to images of oppressed masses, enforced by jackbooted military thugs who target the poor downtrodden homosexuals of the world! Good gravy! I am making a plea here to those in Hollywood -- stick to entertainment, we (the general mass) DO NOT CARE WHAT YOU THINK!!!


                
V for Vendetta is a silly story about a victim of medical experimentation taking on the role of Guy Fawkes to lead society to revolution against the fascist oppressors and, oh, by the way, exact personal revenge on his tormentors in the government. In order to enjoy the movie, the level of deliberate suspension of belief you must maintain is extraordinarily high.V (named because he was in cell labeled with a Roman numeral V) is rounded up by a fascist UK government with a group of 48 others and subjected to medical experiments, which kill almost everyone except V. Somehow (never explained) there is fire and explosions that result in massive damage to the medical facility and V escapes. Ten years later, V who can only exist behind a mask because he is so violently disfigured to be almost unrecognizable as a human, has ensconced himself in a formidable fortress built out of the closed London Underground. He has also managed to fill it with priceless works of art while digging out and laying track beneath the English Parliament building.He then decides to go on the attack, and using a variety of terrorist tactics, blows up the Old Bailey, takes over the government controlled network and makes a personal broadcast to the nation, and goes on an assassination spree. Somehow Natalie Portman as Evey Hammond gets sucked up in V's path and is spirited back to his redoubt where they have deep conversations over fried eggs in toast, archaic jukebox music and the movie The Count of Monte Cristo.Evey gets talked into helping V kill one of his victims, but only goes along with it to try to warn the victim (a high ranking bishop of the Church of England who likes his girls young). When V makes his appearance and kills the bishop, Evey escapes and makes her way to her boss's flat. Her boss is a popular variety show host on TV and just happens to also harbor revolutionary sentiment, although he does not express it as strongly as V. However, he does tear up a government approved script on his TV show and replace it with one that makes fun of the government's attempt to find V. He discovers that he misjudged the government's reaction to his show when jack-booted thugs appear at his flat in the middle of the night, beat him up and haul him off. He later gets executed because the government found a copy of the Koran in his flat. He wasn't Muslim, he "just enjoyed the poetry." Evey gets caught in this fracas and wakes up in a prison cell, where she is tortured for information about V. When she is threatened with immediate execution and still does not give up any information about V, she is told she is finally free. She walks out of her cell past the fake guards and discovers that she has been held by V all along, oh my! But V let her live and lets her go after extracting a promise to see her before November 5th, which is when V plans to blow up Parliament. Oh, and as near as I can tell the only reason V took on the Guy Fawkes persona was that Fawkes originally planned to blow up the English Parliament several hundred years ago. That and maybe V's penchant for swords and explosives as weapons of choice over guns. But really, it's probably because a wooden Guy Fawkes mask looks "cool" on someone dressed all in black.Meanwhile the police discover that the Conservative Party used the fear that America's War on Terror generated to take control. They then purposely staged three biological attacks around the UK that killed over 100,000 people to cement their power. Then they rounded up all the writers and artists and killed them. Oh yeah, since Conservatives just absolutely hate homosexuals, they rounded all of them up and killed them too. They also conducted medical experiments on some of the gay people they rounded up. No word on whether V is gay, Evey tried to kiss him, but how much can you get through to someone by kissing his wooden mask. Now for some reason the government hates America. This all just goes to show how evil the fascist government is and how much V's revolution needs to succeed.I won't bore you with the ending, it's pretty obvious what it would be anyway. The movie is basically a prettily filmed load of tripe. Even the fighting sequences aren't what I would expect from the Wachowski's except the one at the end, which is admittedly pretty cool. Some of the settings are effective, and the visual impact of the film is impressive. But you just can't get past the fact that the plot just stinks.


                
I saw V is for Vendetta with a group of eight. We are the type who likes action and sophisticated films. This film did not make the cut; we came out laughing wondering what a waste of time. Overall, I think we thought it was a 4 of 10. I give it lower since it is a waste of Natalie Portman, John Hurt, and Stephen Rhea and lots of money. What makes it silly is that it takes a neo-Nazi totalitarian regime and gives it credibility in a future-England-like society. I can't see that happening. John Hurt was easy to see through as an evil prime minister. But can millions of people be that naive? Perhaps in a less sophisticated or educated society or a third world culture. But almost definitely not a modern western society. Terrorism conducted by V in his mask becomes justified to combat Nazi-like totalitarianism. OK, but conducted by a man who wears a silly mask? Is that truly credible? Brazil and 1984 (also with John Hurt) are far better films (and still not great films). Furthermore, the political monologues by V were not inspiring. It was like watching a clown trying to recite a serious Hamlet monologue. Hard to take serious. Even the cinematography is not particularly great but at least a bit atmospheric. The ending was downright silly as the climax builds up to a date to remember so the movie claims...but perhaps a date to forget if you watch the end...plain dumb. At least give the audience more credit for a believable movie.


                
Those who've dissed Alan Moore as a sour-puss for refusing to give his OK to V for Vendetta should read what he told MTV: "(My comic) has been turned into a Bush-era parable by people too timid to set a political satire in their own country... (The film) is a thwarted and frustrated and largely impotent American liberal fantasy of someone with American liberal values standing up against a state run by neo-conservatives - which is not what 'V for Vendetta' was about."Indeed, I was reminded of the guys who flood the blogs with cries of Impeach Bush, as if actually booting him out will make the world safe for Ding-Dongs again. Impeach Bush, and guess who gets to be Prez? Elmer Fudd Cheney! In other words, V isn't very well thought out. Stuffed like a turkey with pretentious diatribes only Harold Pinter could love, it is a boring exercise in didactic propaganda meant to appeal to the narcissistic fantasies of teenage boys, complete with the hot babe falling for the nerd! It wants us to believe that we are living under a totalitarian regime. The irony that no totalitarian regime would ever allow V to be made is lost on those behind it! Try making a movie in Cuba that takes potshots at Papa Fidel, and see how far you get!All I got out of V is that: 1) Natalie Portman wants to be Joan of Arc when she grows up; 2) the Wachowskis know how to blow things up real good; and 3) $50 million doesn't go as far as it used to! Too bad V doesn't share the romanticism of Larry Wachowski, who left his wife for a dominatrix and now lives as preoperative transsexual Laurenca! Now, THAT'S a movie just begging to be made!
the script is clichéd and forgettable.for a film set in england, it is strangely americanised. i suppose because the original tory fascism v anarchy of the comic was transformed to a denouncement of post 9-11 neo-conservatism.that would explain why i as a brit found it so emotionally uninvolving. i would guess that most of the high stars given for this film came from Americans.the characters lacked depth, so i just did not care for them, or their struggles.how did v manage to procure all those masks and organise all those van deliveries in a totalitarian regime where everyone was being spied on? do yourselves a favour and read the original graphic novel; it is a masterpiece.


                
I went to this film with little in the way of expectation; having been witness to the spiritless abortions that came of previous Alan Moore adaptations, I could hardly walk into the theatre expecting a cinematic masterpiece, could I? My pessimism was not unwarranted. This film was a soulless abomination in nearly every sense of the word. The severity of my feelings may have something to do with my fondness for the original work in all honesty, but I also genuinely feel as if this film is ultimately insulting to the audience in a way that I found deeply depressing - where once we had a story of personal responsibility, the film takes that responsibility away from the characters (and thus, the audience) and perhaps that has something to do with the medium; The comic engages and encourages the reader to think for themselves, the movie is spoon-fed rebellion for the people of today that just can't be bothered to think for themselves.Ultimately, the only scene in this film that has anything resembling a genuine emotional impact is the one about Valerie, and I don't think it's a coincidence that it's the only scene largely untouched compared to the original material. More shame, because that simply serves to highlight what a wonderful film this could have been, had they only stuck to the source material.Stop rewriting Alan Moore, people.


                
"V for Vendetta" was well dressed, bad movie. It was well funded and starred Natalie Portman, so it looked great, but the writing and the plot were awful. It was plain, predictable, lacking excitement, lacking originality, and generally lacking the ability to draw me into the fiction, engage with the characters, and make me forget I was watching a movie. The underlying political message couldn't have been more obvious if they had spoon fed it to you in 3D. (Don't think this review is about bias; my personal politics are pretty much in line with the film's.) As "movie people" (film and its trivia is a hobby and pastime - thank heaven for Netflix), my wife and I typically pick them well... and I'm a big fan of comic book themed or stylized films... but for only the second time in 15 years of going to the movies together, we discovered afterward that we had both considered suggesting just leaving half-way in. (The only other was "Waiting to Exhale.")


                
Let's put aside the obvious artistic achievements of this movie, thoroughly described in other comments, and look at the political side of it. Perhaps in other times, 5-10 years ago, this side would be not of any importance. Today however, when it's obvious that fascism is quickly gaining momentum in the U.S., followed by other countries like UK, this movie has too many parallels to the reality that can't be ignored. Looking from this angle, the movie plays very negative role, and its message plays for the evil party. It's actually 100% American way: people living under fascistic regime don't really need to do anything. Someone will promptly come over to the rescue, and he will crash the regime using few karate kicks and few explosions. No need to unite, no need to organize, to struggle, no need for revolutionary media, or any other effort or risk. In the right time, everyone will be given a mask to conveniently hide the identity, in case things go wrong; then, somehow, everyone will be on the street, without any visible organizational effort; then couple of explosions, and the regime will crash. Nice and easy solution without any real effort, so we can continue enjoying reality shows on the tube, while our troops kill Iraqis by thousands in our name and on our money. In the right time, the Superman will come over and clean our mess for us.In fact, if American Government was smart, it would finance such a movie at 101% percent.


                
