On its own this movie is little more than a sub-standard Hollywood action movie. An action movie which doesn't deliver any credible action and a super-hero movie that doesn't deliver a credible (super)-hero (or anti-hero). Why does this super-villain mumble Shakespeare while cutting the throats of policemen (poor sods just doing their job) -- we don't know, and in the end don't really care.The V figure could easily be more of a shadowy figure, of whom one could only catch brief glimpses of (as he is to a large extent) in the graphic novel). As a central figure, however, the immobile 'mask' simply does not work. Even in the graphic novel the mask is to some degree animated. If V is the central figure (and he is in practically every scene) then the 'mask' must obviously be animated -- something that has been done before in movies like The Mask(w. Jim Carrey). This is supposed to be the future & V is supposed to be some kind of genetically modified super-human -- so an animated mask would not be out of place. Even if there movie was otherwise great (which it isn't) it would be hobbled by this central immobile mask -- which works in the graphic novel, but just falls flat in a live action movie.The other things that have to work in this movie are: (1) the super-villain's lair (V is a kind of super-hero after all) and (2) the backstory (the world in which V lives). The shadow gallery (the lair) is a kind of shape-changing netherworld in the graphic novel but here it is like a pokey and dusty museum -- neither cool nor interesting. More importantly, the alternate fascist near future presented is simply confusing even for an intelligent educated audience. The 'leader' shouts and rants at his top men via giant video-screen, which makes no sense at all (can't he tell the difference between a televised political speech and management of his staff). We get no idea of the political institutions like the 'Finger'. Even if you are intimately familiar with the graphic novel you will be confused by brief and unintelligible references to 'Eyes', 'Mouth' and 'Ears'. You only need look at Terry Gilliam's Brazil to see how to expertly stage the backstory. Also, most of the background is completely changed from the graphic novel. Will a kind of 'bird-flu' which kills a token 100,000 people really result in a fascist coup? Not likely! In the graphic novel most of the world is destroyed in some kind of great holocaust -- and apparently only greater London survives. There is chaos, starvation and disease. The fascists bring back order and pull civilization back from the brink. This makes sense. A bit of bird-flu is just non-sense.To illustrate (hopefully in an interesting way) the backstory is of course the main function of the plot in a story such as this -- that is, the plot is more or less a vehicle for the ideas (presented via the backstory) the author hopes to present and convince the reader (ie. agitprop for the intelligentsia). Writer/director must therefore pay considerable attention to the backstory to make sure they 'get it right'. Most importantly there must be ideas & a clash of ideas there. Alan Moore presents us with a world devastated by a great holocaust of some kind and where the survivors in response create a state that is so secure and vigilant that it is able to predict (down to the second) when & where drops of rain will fall. Yet in this lazy adaptation we are apparently presented with a Britain much as it is today (that is, not really a model of efficiency), the only difference being a neo-fascist(or rather ultra-nationalist police state) type of government. People are well fed, have plenty of warm beer (which they quaff in pubs) and watch lots & lots of television (which they also seem to mostly do in pubs). Strangely this fascist gov't, aside from the occasional public service rant on the evils of islam and homosexuality, seems to content itself with providing warm beer and round the clock TV chat shows with funny Benny-Hill type skits making fun of the leader (which is actually the only genuinely good part of the film -- quite funny and well done). But no, despite much amusement in locals, the poor chat show host is arrested & dragged off (how he got this past the omni-present televised 'leader' if it was not authorized is not explained). Then somehow, unexplicably, these slothful masses revolt en-masse and march on the center of government (braveing the machine guns of the military) after V manages to broadcast some mumbled Shakespeare onto their TV screens. In the graphic novel V more or less singlehandedly causes destruction and anarchy, and thereby ending the last known civilization, which in any event had been securely but desperately holding itself from the abyss by its fingernails. V is able to do this to the super-fascist gov't because he is a genetically altered super-man. This makes some sense at least. On the other hand, why people with all the food they can eat and plenty of beer to quaff should leave their pub and march to their certain doom after receiveing a 'package' from a crazed anarcho-terrorist is not explained and makes little sense.Overall, however, this is not the worst movie ever made. On its own it would be unremarkable. However, it bastardizes and subverts the original graphic novel. So much so that one has to ask: are the writers & directors banal and evil or are they simply agents of what is banal and evil within our system. Hopefully it will encourage people to buy the original graphic novel series, and lobby for a proper adaptation (a 10 part TV series would be nice, given the complexity and detail of the graphic novel) to be made so this tripe can be quietly forgotten.
What a frustrating experience this was. A pseudo-historical philosophical hotchpotch slowly unfolding into a film with an alarmingly nihilistic resolution, that completely undermines the film's initial outlook. Some images are pleasing to look at, but the film's philosophy is incredibly pretentious, with some gratuitous references to Shakespeare and Goethe's Faust along the way, that have no bearing to the story at all. The main character is V, for which Hugo Weaving provided the voice, who looks like a 21th century reincarnation of The Count of Monte Christo. He is constantly - when not wreaking havoc on other people - proclaiming various philosophical cliché's, supposedly referring to totalitarianism or tyranny. Very annoying and they might as well have used a computer for his voice since his lips aren't moving.The film is totally deprived of humor or even the slightest wit or irony, as one can expect from the Wachowsky brothers. For me, this overbearing seriousness is killing. Do these guys ever laugh? V (for Vendetta) has rather dubious and elitist views on how to "liberate" the commoners from tyranny, let alone in his relations with Evey. He even tortures her in a specially built cell to force his viewpoint upon her. I thought our hero was supposed to fight these practices. He's worse than the system he's fighting against. I'd rather live under the reign of chancellor Hurt than under V's, with all his bombast and self-righteous flowery speeches about the world we live in. Hardly a thoughtful film. Makes you wonder what audience the makers had in mind. As an action flick is disappointing, as drama it's hopeless. The performances don't really matter for the total lack of material to work with here, but even in this department it fails. Nathalie Portman cultivates a strange BBC-broadcasting accent and gives another bad performance. Stephen Rhea does his mumbling police inspector thing again (how often has he played these kind of roles?). He's not bad, but why is a simple police inspector put in charge of stopping a threat that could put the whole world order upside-down? What kind of character is this anyway? Stephen Fry as a TV-presenter is the only one to breath some live into his character.As a political allegory, it's nothing more than postcard philosophy, completely trivial. Perhaps the Wachowsky brothers should stick to making action flicks like THE MATRIX wherein their wretched views of reality and fiction belong. With this film, they exposed themselves as two little boys with the basic understanding of a twelve-year old. Depressing. Camera Obscura --- 3/10


                
First of all this movie confirms my belief that if you make a film flashy and fast paced with quick editing then you can get away with murder. It seems this is the preferred method these days with comic adaptations, keep it fast so people don't notice the plot holes and unbelievability.I guess this movie makes attempts to have a message, but I was constantly reminded of it's comic book, sorry "graphic novel", origins because of the existence of the ever present male pubescent fantasy super hero who can beat all the bad guys and is impervious to pain, physics etc without any real explanation as to why. V for Vendetta seems to fail on both sides, there is not nearly enough action for it to be a true comic book movie, and the political commentary is so ridiculous that it can't be taken seriously either.And for those who credit it as updating the old 1984 story of big brother to the present day war on terror really don't know their political history and i think we listening to too much Air America radio when this movie was being made. 1984 was written in 1949, and was a commentary on the Soviet State, NOT a capitalist democratic state. The ones who are truly pulling the strings TODAY are the corporations, not the government. Politics is essentially a game between these two forces as how best to carve up the world's resources. The people don't really enter into it except as consumers and tax generators. Some parties are more pro corporatist than the others, but let us never forget who is really in charge. George Bush didn't wake up one day in late 2008 and decide the banks needed 750 billion dollars, it is the banks that commanded that from him. Also, everyone who makes all these Nazi Germany comparisons don't really understand what Hitler and the Nazi party represented. The Nazis were both pro government and extremely conservative, these things don't really exist today, except perhaps in China. Most conservative people are extremely anti government, especially in the United States because of all the evil the government does with taxes, like build roads and schools and stuff. Bastards! Present day neo conservatism preaches that the only role of the government is to wage wars and have a police force, each of which performs essentially the same job, protect wealth and access to resources.Anyway, back to the movie, even though it is shot beautifully it is really fairly empty in its heart, I never sympathized with any of the characters and every time it seemed to saying something interesting, something unbelievable would happen and all of a sudden we are back in comic book land. Everything happened so quickly that I couldn't grasp what was going on half the time, or if I did I was rolling my eyes. I also liked Natalie Portman, she at least redeemed herself from her horrible performances in the Star Wars movies (which I blame mostly on George Lucas) but I think Kira Knightly would have been better cast, at least she is British.So in the end, not a bad attempt, but he rehashes the same old dead ideas about big government and anarchy and ends very similarly to Fight Club, which is not a good thing. It's message is pretty childish, when in doubt, blow everything up and it'll make everything right. Isn't that why were are in this mess in the first place?


                
With the exception of Crash, V for Vendetta is the film least deserving of a place in the top 250.This film has all the problems of the matrix trilogy, with none of the good points. It's script is clunky and melodramatic, and it lacks any of the amazing action that is so endearing with the Matrix. Hugo weaving hams it up spectacularly behind a grinning mask who has a practically schizophrenic personality (seriously, if we are to believe that this man is a cold-blooded freedom fighter, we do not need to see him flipping pancakes). Natalie Portman proves beyond all doubt that she cannot act for toffee, and gets by on attractiveness alone. Stephen Fry makes the best use of a badly written character, but even he is below his usual standard. The rest of the cast were perfectly unmemorable.The film was V. V. boring (see what I did there!). Without any action, coherent storyline, decent script or well rounded characters, this film is not worth anyones time and energy. I suppose it's because I'm British and can't stand any melodrama, but this film just irritated me.


                
What an extraordinarily silly film V For Vendetta turns out to be. It is almost breathtaking in its banality. And the odd things is that for the first 10/15 minutes you feel you are in for something quite enjoyable. To begin with it is intriguing: who is this guy in the Guy Fawkes mask, what will happen to Natalie Portman, just how did to Old Blighty end up as a fascist dictatorship, what is the mystery of the Larkhill Centre? And most important, how did V acquire his almost superhuman powers, what are his resources (for example, towards the end of the film apparently issuing, at the very least, most of the population of London with a Guy Fawkes mask, a hat and a black cape like his own. Couldn't have been much of a queue at the post office when he went.) But we get no answers at all, at least none which will satisfy anyone with even half a brain. And when I say it just gets sillier and sillier, I don't in any way mean that the silliness can, as it often is in films, enjoyably silly. V For Vendetta takes itself far too seriously for that. We get a load of half-baked, juvenile cod political philosophy, an entirely obscure storyline about the persecution of both male and female homosexuals (and where did that come from. It is shoehorned into the film so maladroitly that it's as though a new film is starting) some silliness about Guy Fawkes falling in love with Natalie Portman and a couple of coppers who aren't quite as bad as the rest of those in authority. There are obvious points to be made - would the whole police investigation of this 'terrorist' really consist of a chief inspector and his sidekick (not, alas, a lovable but rather stupid cockney)? How does this idiot in the mask get around London undetected - he sticks out like a sore thumb. And just how did Britain accept a fascist dictatorship. But even asking those questions means taking V For Vendetta even a little but seriously and - well, it really doesn't deserve it. It is, to use an old-fashioned British phrase, complete b*ll*ks which goes downhill all the way. The Wachowski brothers (with Larry now apparently - according to IMDb - now shacked up with a 'professional dominatrix' who 'keeps him as her slave': put that in your pipe and smoke it) were responsible for the Matrix franchise. I haven't seen any of them, but if V For Vendetta is anything to go by, I shan't be bothering this side of my death. It is lazy, pretentious, superficial and a waste of anyone's time. I did think of being a little bit charitable and allowing that as it was apparently co-produced by DC Comics, it might score if you saw it as a filmed comic. But that won't wash. V For Vendetta takes itself far too seriously to be allowed any charitable leeway.
Alan Moore is the author of the original graphic novel from which this movie is based. It is a work of literary art from cover to cover and one of my all-time favorite reads, right up there with Virginia Woolf and William Wordsworth. However, there is a Hollywood Curse looming over his head. You see, several of his stories have made it to the big screen, whether you realized it or not. Swamp Thing - 1982 (while he didn't create the character, he reinvented and repopularized him which is what prompted the movie in the first place) From Hell - 2001 The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen - 2003 Also during the 80s another of his works (Watchmen) was opted but the movie fell through before fruition and he's been fighting to get the rights back for years. Now a big studio owns the movie rights and is going ahead with it against his wishes. Why against his wishes? Because every single movie has been an abhorrent perversion of his original work. While it is probably the best movie adaptation of his work, V for Vendetta is still tragically a horrible representation of Moore's message. It was twisted into cheap Hollywood propaganda to try and poke fun at the current US administration. As much as I enjoy anything that take's George W Bush and Co. down a peg or two, I don't enjoy being manipulated, and that's how this movie made me feel. It also veered very far off the point of the graphic novel, by cutting out every significant subplot and twisting the overall idea of V (the graphic novel is about breaking down any and all barriers and boundaries to discover one's true self and connection with the world around you; the movie, on the other hand, pushes an agenda of liberalism within the constricts of currently acceptable western social archetypes) and not to mention the vastly different ending, which was the nail in the coffin for me that the Wachowski Brothers just simply DIDN'T GET IT. The pacing is hindered with the badly timed, badly integrated flashbacks, particularly one of the most important scenes of Evey's discovery of Valerie's note. Without any of the of other storytelling elements of Moore's original graphic novel, the flashbacks feel forced and divisive. Another major flaw is the exceptionally crappy Matrix effects during the "climatic" (or rather anti-climatic) end fight scene. It's one thing for bullets to ripple the air in a computer simulation, but another for knives to have ugly windows mouse trails in unnecessary slow motion. The scene had no purpose, no soul, no tension. It was boring. The only saving grace of the film was Hugo Weaving, who provided a perfect voice for the mask. Unfortunately all the best lines from the comic were cut. V was left feeling exceptionally rigid and lucid; calculating and painfully sane. And while calculating he certainly was in the comic, sane he was not. The madness, and therefore the joy of not knowing what he'd say or do next, was lost. His "plan" was obvious and uninspired, as was this movie. It didn't make me want to change the world or change myself. It just made me want to write Alan Moore an apology letter for having watched this movie. I could go on and on about how they ruined Evey's character by writing her as too strong, too smart, and too independent and overly romanticized her and V (especially considering how she thought V might be her father in the original work) but I've wasted enough of my time on this movie which I never plan on seeing again.


                
I do enjoy films with a message. V certainly has one and it hits you over the head like a sledgehammer. This particularly isn't a problem when executed well, but doing so in a comic bookish fashion with poor acting doesn't make for very entertaining fare. Maybe I was expecting too much from the outset - more eye candy - more "gee whiz" from the Wachowski brothers rather then simply a political statement? I suppose if you're an adult whose buried your face in comic books your entire adolescent years you'll find the characters spectacular no matter how drab. I couldn't help but think this movie was a direct rip-off of "The Man in the Iron Mask (1939)" and "The Three Musketeers", of course minus two swashbucklers in this film. At one point my "stop button" finger was getting rather itchy when I was pelted over the head with a pro-lesbianism/homosexuality propaganda segment. Call me a prude, but it was WAY too obvious and entirely unnecessary in the weak story this was supposed to be telling.I'd avoid this one if you're expecting sci-fi along the lines and caliber of The Matrix. It doesn't even outshine one of the sequels and those were fairly poor in themselves. You have been warned. Face it Wachowski brothers, your best is in the past.


                
Well, the critics have spoken, the box office has spoken, the fans have spoken, and now I will speak:This movie is junk.Anyone who thinks this is high-flown political allegory should take a remedial class in civics, and another in history, and yet a third in rhetoric. Anyone who thinks it's art needs to take a shower.V for Vendetta has none of the flash of the Matrix, but all of the pretentious pseudo-intellectual "philosophizin'." It oversimplifies both politics and human nature to the point that none of the characters are remotely believable, nor is their situation. Despite this, it manages to fail even at the level of popcorn fare, yielding not even a satisfactory final scene. Simply put, it's not even technically successful.Statements which should be the clear bulwark for the opposing forces are mumbled unintelligibly through several layers of cardboard (Mr. Weaving' voice is often-times inaudible. Don't believe me? Go look at the message boards: half of the threads are requests for clarifications on the inaudible dialog). Confrontations like the final fight scene, which should be titanic, are instead grungy and poorly lit (seriously, someone buy the cameraman a mining helmet or something).And then there are the characters wandering through this pasteboard wasteland. The main bad guy is never seen, and never provides his rationale, rendering him beyond flimsy and certainly no threat. The main hero is similarly opaque, since the filmmakers decided obscurity would somehow seem like wisdom to the sweating masses of fanboys who elevated this dreck. The most emotionally affecting voice comes through a long flashback sequence from a character long-dead. That should tell you something about the characters. And finally, the politics: shoddy, ill-researched, and venal. All the characters we're supposed to think of as 'noble' seem motivated by the most pettily personal of reasons, with the arguable exception of the main police officer investigating V's actions. That the system would rise, then collapse so spontaneously is not only unrealistic, but irresponsible since young and foolish filmgoers are apt to mistake anarchy for freedom. My worst possible curse upon them would be that they get precisely what they ask for.Thank all Gods that may be that their safety, the arts, and the world, are in better hands than these.


                
Gone is the comic's oppressive atmosphere- the film's Britain doesn't even seem to have spy cameras, while the comic seems to choke you on all sides. Gone are the social interactions between the main government agents that show corruption on the inside. Gone is the rising narrative tension as V's attacks pace along with the story, building up over time. The central villain of the story, initially, seems less like an oppressive government and more like a super-powered Fox News. Gone is the vicious cabaret. Gone is any mention of anarchy. This is a Kinder, Gentler V, and he fights a Kinder, Gentler Totalitarian Britain.I was honestly surprised that the movie even dealt with Evey's imprisonment the same way that the comic did, by the time it got there. I was prepared for it to totally ruin her character's most important moment and take the last bits of V with it.Politically, the story and atmosphere are loaded down with unsubtle knocks at the current American administration. This is not to say that such a message shouldn't be expressed- but it's not supposed to be "V for Vendetta"'s message. Here was a chance for a film to go after what should be the real target: A social system that would allow such poor representation and leadership in the first place. I just wonder why the filmmakers wanted to use ten-dollar cuss words all the way up to an R rating without bothering to give being actually subversive a try, given their source material. "Ideas are bulletproof," to be sure, but where are they?Good acting and costuming, but otherwise a pretty sloppy film, and entirely unlike the original comic.


                
V FOR VENDETTA is one seriously misconceived movie.It has so many plot-holes (re: the way the film conceives a totalitarian world; civil war in the US, etc) that I could not get into it at all.It had so many silly scenes (the Benny Hill bit for example) which took me out completely from the film, and I just couldn't get into it.The whole thing is so blatantly derivative of other sources (Orwell's 1984, obviously...and THE ABOMINABLE DR PHIBES, just to name a few...) that I simply couldn't get into it.The film is so cheap looking (High concept movies on a low budget never work) that I simply couldn't get into it.The characters were so annoying or one dimensional, or so few, that I couldn't get into it.The plot points are so sketchy (Natalie being kidnapped and brainwashed...with that treacly "love letters" story; the moment when V has to murder that nurse) that I just couldn't get into it at all.The acting was so stilted and barely there that I just couldn't get into it.The action scenes were so ridiculously conceived (the moment when V throws the knives in slow motion at the policemen) that I simply could not get into it.The ending is so derivative of SPARTACUS that, even by the end of the movie, I still could not get into V FOR VENDETTA.But mainly because the intellect behind this film is so juvenile and obvious ( a teen version of 1984?) that I will categorically never get into this seriously misconceived flick EVER.Almost as bad as the equally misconceived EQUILIBRIUM.


                
(="Screwed up theatrical adaption from a visionary tale")The Wachovskies continued here what the already did with their <U+0084>Matrix trilogy: while the first part was an interesting and highly entertaining variation of Descarte's methodic doubt (<U+0084>do I really exist, or is all that I see, hear and smell just the coincidental one-second-glimpse imagination of a one-cell bacteria which I truly am?"; watch Carpenter's <U+0084>Dark Star" for more details), they dismantled it themselves with two sheer-below-mediocre sequels with virtuous but pointless action, plot-hole-chains, horrible performances, grotesque attempts in coolness and hazardous dialogs. When I read <U+0084>Vendetta" first in about '91 or so, I was once more reminded that we're yet not safe from the menace which my country unleashed over the world in the 30s and 40s last century and that it can occur anytime anywhere again. The vision of the novel was as credible, authentic and fearsome as many news-broadcasts today. Which is what the author tried to accomplish as he mentioned in his foreword in the trade-paper-release I owned then. If I recall correct he mourned about <U+0084>cheeky (cheery?) and cheesy, soaps, comedies and music-shows" and about <U+0084>... people who turn off the news..." there. He dedicated the novel to <U+0084>... people who don't turn off the news..."The <U+0084>Vendetta"-movie-adaption is for people who turn off the news.A valuable blueprint of a possible dystopia which played in the same league as <U+0084>1984", <U+0084>Fahrenheit 451" or <U+0084>Brazil" has been turned into a useless action-flick, lacking any political ambition or any attempt to subversively play with the viewers perceptions and political convictions. You leave the theater without anything to cut your teeth into or a matter to discuss controversially. And that despite the fact that the story today has enough actual events to function as an allegory for, as it had when it was written (war-propaganda, media-control, cutting of civil-rights, unbalanced and misanthropic economy etc). Hell, even <U+0084>Mad Max II" was probably more political than this flick.All the characters were real in the novel and became comic-characters in the film. Especially <U+0084>V" is now a one-dimensional clown who rushes through the dialogs like a rabid rocket and through all the fighting-scenes like the energy-cell-rabbit: <U+0084>It has no blood, no animae..." (<U+0084>Grosse Point Blank"). All those brilliantly placed quotes from literature-history that V used on any given occasion and during any terrorist action in the book turn into a what-did-he-mumble jelly here. Too fast for everybody who didn't read the novel, hell even too fast for those who did and -worst of all- too fast to celebrate the punchlines behind them. Who swaps drama for dynamic, deserves to lose both.The story is an only fast forward. The fear of a fictional but credible fascistic regime that drowned out of every page of the novel got replaced by constant sensory-nervous-system-attacks and by the annoyment and anger about todays regular one-cut-per-second-editing-for-the-Mtv-generation; <U+0084>If it's too slow, people can't follow." God, I miss Alfred Hitchcock...I paid much attention on the Konzentrationslager-background of V but it didn't struck me at all as it did while reading it. Au contraire: <U+0084>Look what a cool fighter V has become there. Gee, Concentration-Camps can't be that bad..." Folks, this is dangerous!It's plain obvious that it was the wrong decision to let some non-UK-filmmakers do the project; some British would have better done this. No anti-americanism here, not at all, but the priorities would have probably been set elsewhere then and for sure on the more essential aspects than just on the visual and martial-arts. All the important side-stories were cut too. They should fold the <U+0084>Watchmen"-project right now.<U+0084>Turn on, Turn on, Turn on - THE NEWS!!!" (Hüsker Dü)My recommendation: <U+0084>Das Leben Der Anderen"


                
I saw this movie without any pre-knowledge what it was about. The title made me assume it was about criminals and some long lasting vendetta.Not a fan of gangster movies I was pleasantly surprised that it was about a imaginary near future where someone was taking on "the mean and ruthless government": hey, next to some inventive plotting there might even be some profound political comment about media influence and the power of images.Sadly, the movie did not take one wrong turn, but made it a sport to take as many as possible. The script left the road that was laid out, and instead of making beautiful twists, it just... went nowhere. We have this man that obviously is the only man in this new England where all disturbing elements (foreigners, gays, Muslims) have been put in to boats to either Europe or America, that dares to challenge the powers that be. That's fine, we understand why: the people that control the streets are rapists, that's what is told us in the very first scene.But after that, we are told that the real reason is that he was subject to some secret government tests for a viral weapon. Why is that reason added? Why do we have to unravel some plot of years ago, with a female Mengele apologizing on her death bed? Why do we have to be told some tear jerking lesbian love story halfway? Those added story lines have no use, slow the movie down and rub up some of the worst melodrama: Evey kissing the toilet paper where the killed lesbian has written "I love you stranger".Then there are the clear plot mistakes: the late night presenter making fun of the dictator in such a way that he cannot seriously believe he will just pay a fine and do some charity fund raiser! V taking risks to kill all that tortured him: he wants to throw over the government, then they will be punished automatically, so what's the use? Evey, who is hunted down by a totalitarian regime, who leaves V's house to go... where? And her hair not growing an inch during all the weeks after her fake imprisonment! The cliché of them falling in love is so badly constructed that it hurts to the eyes. The inspector having some strange experience where he "sees all", even the flashbacks of the lesbian victims. Is he psychic? It all adds to the feeling of looking at something that was rewritten twenty three times and no one made sure that the movie was about one thing and one thing only: instead it is about a lot of things that all tumble another way.The ending is especially awful, with some useless killing and a blowing up of parliament when the victory is already safe. Evey saying that V was "everyone" is gratuitous and nothing more than beautified writing: it gave me stomach pains.It was then that I saw that it was Nathalie Portman I watched: okay, one actress more NOT to watch again.All in all it left me with the question: why was this movie ever made? Then I went here, and it had a 8.2. And that was the reason I left a comment, for the very first time. This movie is not worth an 8.2. Not even half that.
There are many ways to completely ruin great work. Even if you're trying really hard to be authentic to it. Let's face it, the Wachowski Brothers do not know how to write dialogs. There idea of characters are the kind on one end who have infinite knowledge of all subjects and are able to articulate them and the kind on the other end who ask the "W' rudimentary philosophical questions that represent how they interpret the audience: ignorant. So us moronic viewers have to sit through a pile of overly-articulate monologue's and then right after the questioning of them by the "Keanu" character played in this film by Natalee Portman (who to her best efforts tries to do a good job.) So beyond ruining some great Alan Moore writing, the brothers decide to let some assistant director take the helm of the director's chair. The opening sequence was like a poorly made Bruckhiemer movie (as well as the ending sequence). Laced with melodramatic musical score and some editor who loves to cut, never letting us look at a single shot for more than 1 second. It was disorienting, especially compared to how most Moore comic books are sequenced, in a very cinematic way. I'm glad I saw it, because I realized why Moore disowned it and it's unfortunate that no one has able to give any of his work the appreciation it needs.


                
V for Vendetta is a fairly engaging entertainment which is hugely aided, in America, at least, by the questions it raises about civil liberties vs security. Hugo Weaving does a nice job of overcoming the mask with his voice and body language and a strong supporting cast of fine character actors outweigh a merely adequate performance by Natalie Portman. But the Brothers W let us down with a half-baked screenplay and the more you think about this movie the less good it is. Consider, in particular, V's ability to circumvent an enormous security infrastructure to assassinate top level officials in their homes at will, hijack a government train, acquire and distribute a half million Guy Fawkes masks, and stock his personal museum sanctuary with art treasures. How he does any of these things is seldom shown, and more often than not he simply tells us that he has done them. If you have never thought much about the political issues raised and this film causes you to do so, that's great. But it's far, far from a "work of towering genius." Marvelous explosion at the end, though.
I went to a screening of "V for Vendetta" last night and if you thought the "Matrix Trilogy" was bad then "V" will have you pulling your hair out like your name was Natalie Portman. Who by the way, wasn't the worst thing in this movie, which is kind of scary considering what an awful actress she has turned out to be. The movie comes across as little more than an "anarchy sticker" stuck on the bottom of some suburban punks' skateboard to look cool. Just like the suburban punk, the Wachowskis don't really believe in what they are displaying, they're just doing it to look cool. While "V" is completely unfaithful to comic book it was based upon, that is hardly its biggest crime. Come to think of it, compared to majority of this flicks offenses its little more than petty theft. "V for Vendetta" is remembered less for being a great comic book and more for being the work of a great comic book writer; Alan Moore. While nowhere near as good a book as his prior comics that were turned into films ("From Hell" and "League of Extraordinary Gentlemen"), "V" does follow in suit as a yet another terrible and mishandled film based on Moore's writing. While nobody would consider the Wachowski brothers to be more than glorified video game creators, I was actually curious as to how they would handle adapting a script for a book overflowing with dialogue and light on flashy graphics. Where as the "Matrix" films are completely style over substance, the graphic novel "V for Vendetta" has countless scenes devoid of action or explosions but full of rich dialogue and character evolution. Unfortunately the brothers Wachowski, along with their partner in crime director James McTeigue screw it up so badly that if this film were ever shown in a football stadium, it could qualify as the longest fumble in NFL history. For a film that's supposed to be coated in rebellion and anarchy McTeigue and the Wachowski's never really give you a reason to believe in the terrorist hero V or his attacks on Parliament. Instead of giving you emotional and character driven reasons to come to conclusions on the cast, McTeigue and company visually shove it down your throat. You know John Hurt is bad because he's on a giant screen with huge black pupils (to show he's evil, cant you see how evil that is?) and that Portman is good because she is attractive and V is good because he causes explosions and painfully goes out of his way to attempt to illicit laughter from the audience. Not a single character in this has an ounce of reality to them let alone passion for anything going on around them. And why didn't they rerecord weaving's voice; half of V's dialogue is completely muffled due to the mask. Bloated, self important and without any meaning is all you have to remember about the 5th of November.


                
There's a whole lot of talking going on here, pontificating, and posturing. This is an action movie that wants to be overly dramatic and high brow...I suppose there's nothing inherently wrong with those aspirations, it's just the film should have worried about that AFTER it was entertaining.One of the reasons the film dragged so much for me was that V wears a mask. Darth Vader wore a mask, and he was a great villain, but he didn't go on in every scene wanking on and on about what was bugging him and why it should bug you too...no...no...he was out there blowing up things and getting upset about losing the Death Star plans. He was easy to understand, whereas V is a chatty Cathy whose eyes we can't see, whose face is hidden from view...it's a bit of a disconnect. It's easy to understand what he's mad about, it's also impossible to understand why he just won't shut up and do something about it.Portman's accent was distracting, and that's being kind. The world has gotten so small, if looking for a British actress, get one for crying out loud - it's not like they're hard to find. Same goes when casting American roles, please - enough of Colin Farrel and his bogus American accent - that has nothing to do with Vendetta, but while I was on the subject.The film looks beautiful, it looks like it should be exciting...but at the end of the day, it was a chatter fest with a few explosions. Before anyone gets on a high horse about how a chatter fest can unearth some important ideas...this one digs up one or two childishly simple ideas up and proceeds to beat them into dust before your very weary eyes.It's easy to see how one would want to take the book, and paste it's story over current events in an effort to make a statement. But most statements worth listening to aren't cut and paste - they're tailor made from the fabric of frustration. This is cut and past and bent and ripped CAUSING frustration.The fact is that this film's over simplification of problems and trying to tie it into real world events is simple minded and irresponsible.I wanted to drop a safe on V's head...just for a few laughs. You will too.


                
V for Vainglorious, more like.This film was awful - every moment, every frame. Oh sure, it looked great, and being a serious progressive, its politics (worn with prejudice on its sleeve) were spot-on. But that's hardly enough as a sum-total artistic/movie experience. 20,000 miles from enough.My problems? The dialogue - atrocious. The story - vapid. The characters - beyond V (and the screenwriter's "Hey I know big words and I bet if I string enough of them together it'll sound real intelligent-like!" tendencies re: V's monologues), utterly forgettable. (And that's saying something, considering Stephen Rea and John Hurt were in the cast. If you can waste them, you can waste anything.) The cinematography - gorgeous. The music - wretched, and then some. The politics - like I say, spot-on, but delivered with all the grace of a skyscraper- dropped anvil. The mask - fantastic. And the day you find a mask that carries a film all by itself, please, let me know, because this sure wasn't that film.I absolutely abhor movies these days; V is a shining example of why. In a nutshell, it's artless, soulless, graceless, and not in the least possession of anything magical about movies. This movie was made 22 years ago, and it was called 1984, and it also starred John Hurt, and it was directed by Michael Radford; see 1984, and stay away from this stinking rubbish. Unless you want a primer on how to make an inartistic blunt instrument that's boring as hell and feces-stupid.


                
The ad's for "V for Vendetta" say "Be one of the first to see this film." They already seem to know that word of mouth should kill this boring waste of time.About 30 minutes into the film I, and I'm not kidding or exaggerating at all with this, I wished I had borough a pillow so I could lie down across a few seats, you know sleep until sh*t started blowing up. SPOILERBut since only one thing blew up in the beginning and one at the very end I would have slept away the film, not a bad prospect upon reflection.SPOILER ENDSWith only 2 action sequences, and only one of them of any note, this is not an action film, it's a 2 and a half hour political statement. And whether you agree with the statement or not is meaningless.It's a snooze-fest no matter how you slice it.
There are essentially two kinds of folks who will be seeing this film. Those who have read the original illustrated story and those who haven't. From what I've heard and read, those who haven't read the original story seem to like the film on its own merits. So be it. I cannot comment on that. I have read the original story, many times over.There are some things to be liked in the film, Hugo Weaving as "V" is a good job casting. Given the change of character, Portman as Evey was good as well - especially the "There's a rat" scenes. There are however some things to not like about the film. Why did the Wachowski brothers find it necessary to rewrite Evey as a closet dissident sprung from the roots of dissidence. Why did they find it necessary to dilute the Norsefire to "Coronation Street" level menace? The scenes of families depicted did nothing to get across the true viciousness of the Norsefire regime. So diluted was it that the re-writers found it necessary to invent crimes for the audience to dislike the regime. This, sadly, rather dilutes the point of the V character. Add to this that V is written as some kind of insecure brat, unlucky in love because of disfiguration. Perhaps the writers thought they were humanizing the character, but the whole point of V is that he represents, not a person, but an idea or set of ideas.Then there is the unforgivable. There is a scene in the illustrated story in which V performs some magic tricks for Evey. During this scene, V effectively asks for Evey's permission to liberate her and she gives it - in fact demands it. This scene does not appear in the movie, nor anything like it. Frankly, I think it'd make a better scene than V preparing egg in a blanket. To make up for deleting this important scene, the Wachowski's resort to apologies. V does not apologize. Part of the point of the story is that V is more in-tune with the real desires of the people than even they are themselves. The people are not merely being kept under thumb - they have had their wills controlled.Why the renaming of Adam Susan to Sutler, and why the depiction of him as a ranting Orwellian face on a big screen? Susan is methodical, ruthless, business-like fascist who rules by terror and propaganda, with far too much reliance on his surveillance methods. Much of the characterization of Susan in the story is intended to illustrate that his hold on society is tenuous at best because it doesn't have any basis in the will of the people. Susan is not a ranting psychopath, he's a dogmatic, systematic fanatic horribly distanced from humanity. Susan and V are foils for each other.Was there any particular reason why V's speech to the people got so incredibly watered down? The speech was intended to place responsibility for the future, and for what has happened to England, firmly in the hands of the people.The use of hundreds of Fawkes masks at the end of the film was incredibly trite and ridiculous in the extreme. Just gotta have a trite Hollywood ending, eh? The ending of the illustrated story is not that it has reached an endpoint, but that it has reached a new beginning. Replacing one icon with another is not to the point.One other minor note. V is not the main character in the story. Evey is. V is simply a catalyst.Perhaps the Wachowskis should have read the story first. It really is much more interesting than this. In all honestly, I think I can see, at least in part, why Moore took his name off this.The good news for those who haven't read V for Vendetta and who enjoyed the movie: there's much more and much better of what this movie makes an empty shell.
The excessive dialogue, and numerous discussions of what happened in the past what will/may happen in the future make this movie move at a snails pace. Even when they do finally cut to flashbacks/forwards, they are slowed down by the voice over. The very first scene should be an indicator that the movie is going to move too slowly, filled with long alliterated dialogue, which is supposed to be comical but just ends up being annoying. The entire movie tries to pound it's message into people's minds, "People shouldn't fear their governments; governments should fear their people," but the message is overdone. It feels force-fed and doesn't have any subtlety to it. In the movie they talk about how writers use lies to tell the truth. Writers also use fiction to bring about philosophy, hiding it like candy coating. This movie was all sophism, one big rant without enough story wrapping it up into a swallowable package. Don't get me wrong, the message is a good one, and I really wish the movie could have delivered it in a blockbuster fashion, but they didn't. And when a message is delivered poorly, sometimes it would have been better if it weren't delivered at all.


                
1. EVERY priest is a pedophile . Or a sadist. 2. If you love your country automatically it means you're a fascist. EVERY patriot is a fascist. 3. EVERY homosexual is smart , sensitive , beautiful and so on. Homosexuals are the best people in the world. 4. If you don't like homosexuals you're a monster that hates them. 5. If you don't hate homosexuals and you just don't like them , you're still a monster. 6.When you're a dictator it's only normal to allow yours biggest enemy to send thousands of costumes . Because you are a dictator that controls EVERYTHING , except post offices. 7. When somebody cuts your long hair it's incredibly HUGE TRAGEDY . So big you have to cry. 8. If you want to make your hero look smart he should say things so obvious as :"Violence can be used for good" . Because the audience it's too dumb to know that .9. One facial expression and a lot of shouting is enough to make you a menacing dictator (shame on you John Hurt ). 10. When you're Natalie Portman you don't have to act in a movie. It's enough that you are in a movie . People will still say you gave good performance . God knows why. 11. Bullets in slow motion were cool ("The Matrix") , so let's put knifes in slow motion into movie. It doesn't matter it looks incredibly cheesy , like from video game . The director thinks it looks COOL . 12 . Put some unnecessary and unbelievable romance just because people like movies with some romance in it. 13. Put some anti-Bush propaganda in the movie , because you can't put anti-Thatcher propaganda that was in the comic book. 14. When you don't have anything smart to say use a cliché slogan – TV lies .Don't expand it .That's enough. People will still think you're movie is DEEP . It doesn't matter that movies like "The Network " or "The Running man" had so much more to say on that subject. 15. Put a lot of pathos into your movie , so people won't be bored. MTV style rocks , right James McTeigue ?!The movie isn't boring and Hugo Veaving gave a good performance (voice). That's all good I can say on Wachowski's primitive movie based on less primitive , but still bad comic book by Alan Moore . Long live left-wing propaganda ! I give it 3/10.


                
the only reason i rented this was cuz my wife expressed interest in seeing it, i really had no desire, but i watched it anyway, what a waste of 2 hours plus. i usually don't comment on movies here but this was without a doubt the worst movie I've seen all year, and i watched several Bruce Campbell films. the acting was horrible and the story was just stupid, there are far too many problems to addressed all of them, the ending was totally cheesy, wow, a whole nation is gonna put on masks and stand against the evil empire, corny and cheesy, even the action wasn't that great, saw it the first time the W brothers did it in the Matrix movies. please tell em there wont be a sequel, ugh just awful, and a 8.3 average?!!!! so long as it has a big explosion at the end that warrants a high rating? i guess so. the movie viewing public is obviously devoid of any ability to adequately criticize a movie.


                
I don't mind at all the retelling of stories. My only request is that we see an improvement on the original. If you found this movie "wonderful" and otherwise the best thing since sliced bread, go READ 1984 and prepare to be blown away by a well written story. A totalitarian state in which you actually feel anger and fear towards instead of abject apathy. Heroes in which you can identify with instead of... well.. abject apathy.This story starts in obscurity and from there goes nowhere. There's even a few irrelevant tangents that go to a different part of nowhere evidently just to consume some more time. At the final scene where V is fighting the cops I felt bad for the cops. They just showed up for work that day.Three stars. One for Natalie Portman. Wonderful actress. Too bad she can't learn how to pick scripts. Another for the visual effects. Last for the mask.Always remember that socialism is on the road to tyranny. If you take my advice and read 1984, keep that in mind in regards to today's political climate in the U.S.


                
In his review of this overblown and disappointing shovel-ful of lard-hype (I say disappointing, because the writer/producers' "The Matrix" was wonderfully inventive and character-driven), my man Roger Ebert asks: "Is this movie a parable about 2006, a cautionary tale or a pure fantasy?" PUHLEEEEEASE. C'mon, man. I mean, how overt does a roll of celluloid have to be before you give it the sledgehammer award for heavy-handedness? For me, this film was a huge disappointment because my expectations were so high, based on how much I enjoyed "The Matrix" and "Bound," both written and directed by the Brothers W, who screen-scripted "V" and evidently left their second man James McTeigue hanging out to dry as director on this one. There was nothing subtle about the contrived and preachy analogies between the totalitarian bad guys in "V" and the targeted real-world counterparts and conservative ideologies in the West. The problem with the politically motivated axe-grinding that shows up in films like "V" is that any efforts to produce a more encompassing, honest, and human depiction of characters and events are subsumed to the desire to propagandize and preach. With the passage of time, a film like "V" becomes more trite and embarrassing, while a film like "The Matrix" becomes more established and entrenched in our hearts and minds. Artists who eschew that which is most universal and central to the human condition in order to rail against personalities/parties/fill-in-the-blank of the ephemeral and always shifting political landscape give away so very much to preach points that are already tiring and lame by the time they hit the screen. I will always love the Wachowski Bros' best works, but this one isn't worth the time it takes to view it.


                
(1) This film is boring. Exposition upon exposition is boring. The Wachowskis make the same mistake with this film as they did with Matrix2 and 3. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.(2) So what if there was a novel (that may have been good). This film does not have interesting material in it FOR A FILM! Let's see: a guy wants to clean up govt by blowing it up. That about does it for plot. Cue special effects and more blah blah exposition to carry us to the 150 minute mark.(3) There is no logic behind Portman's character becoming the best friend of a psycho.(4) The rating this film has been given by IMDBers (and studio shills) is completely ridiculous. Half an hour in I had completely lost interest.Rating: 1.5* out of 4 -- don't bother renting it.
