Another movie based on Alan Moore's work, another failure in every way. Written by the geeks who created (and destroyed) the matrix franchise V tries so hard to be two things at the same time: an action movie and a socio-political commentary of sorts. It mostly fails at both, but specially at the second area.The premise of a single man taking over an entire government is not an easy premise to develop in a believable and convincing way. In the case of V we have a character that want's to revolt the masses to turn against the authorities. The problem with this script is that it never makes up it's mind on how it wants to present "V", he's a terrorist, but he's looking for revenge, he's a loony but he's sophisticated. At the end he's really just the charismatic Shepperd leading the flock. He's just another authority figure trading places with the other authority figures. He just happens to wear a very cool mask, and a suit full of knifes.The movie also has no idea what to do with all it's political commentary, how to aim it properly, how to give it any weight whatsoever. England is controlled by a cartoonish religious/fascist state, complete with an evil big brother guy in a big TV always throwing orders at his inept employees. Went it comes to dealing with V this forces of the law seem to be unable of doing even the most simple and logic task. How can a man that is searched by the entire state can ship a bunch of masks to thousands of people across the country? Using every-day shipping service?Once more, is not that the premise can't give us a good story, and good characters, is just that the wachachoskis have not even the slightest idea of how to handle the material. Other phony "evil" characters appear here and there, and at the end the entire logic of the movie is nothing more than a black and white picture where V is the good guy and the state is bad and that's it, there's your entire plot development right there. There's a very solid supporting cast doing what they can with the material. Sthepen Rea cringes at every line he spokes, Hugo Weaving at least has the mask to cover himself from the embarrassment. John Hurt hams it up, Stephen Fry brings some charm. Natalie Portman on the other hand gives yet another high-school-musical level of performance. This woman has nothing to do in front of a camera.Sure, watching stuff blow up with the 1812 overture is cool to watch, but when there's nothing to back up all those images then there's a big problem with the material. The wachowskis should never, ever try to write anything else in this vein again. Think of the children please.


                
This film tries hard to be deep, but is actually quite shallow. It hits you hard in the face with simple themes, kind of like "1984" for dummies, but without the foresight and vision.The performances were fine, but some of the writing was so bad, it made me want to crawl out of my skin. Too many cheesy lines.Visually, it is quite spectacular, so if you like that, and that is all you require in a film, you might like this one.I live in the NYC area and hearing a line like "sometimes there's no better way to change the world than to blow up a building", did not sit well with me. You could argue that is an open invitation/love letter to terrorists. I don't think that is sexy, artsy or cool.All in all, not worth the price of admission.


                
This film plays well to those of us who have already made their minds up concerning current events(that certain governments are evil). So what? Government gets away with all kinds of bad things, no matter who runs the show. Aside from this, this movie reminded me a lot of "The Trial of Billy Jack" in its negligent desire to reach a more mature audience. I am tired of "R" rated films for adolescent mentalities. Young minds are easy to propagandize, especially with easily digestible, non-thinking, fiery slop. Since the story comes from a comic book, maybe it is just for the the intellectually lazy. There are better films that portray similar ideas. "Brazil" and "1984" are such endeavors. They are far more frightening in their depiction of evil police states. But ideas can be whispered and still change the world. "V for Vendetta" came close to putting me to sleep, not only because of its naive storytelling, but also because of its tired imagery. Entertainment is what it's all about, and this isn't that much fun to watch.


                
OK, with the budget, crew and actors, it was well made, no doubt top shelf UK production on a technical side. But as a political parable it just sucked. It mixed modern left leaning tropes about 9/11 Truther nonsense about the government staging false terrorist attacks to gain power with some straw man right wing Xtians as the all around bad guys. It had John Hurt as the erstwhile dictator, just like those other movies where he played some 30s style dictator or subject of one. I am no fan of the Xtain right here in the US, and while this film was made in the age of Bush, I also found the insinuation that those backwards moralizing phonies, fundamentalists & geeks are really blood thirsty tyrants to be too much of a stretch, considering NONE of those 30s style dictators were vary religious, with the exception of Franco, who was the least insidious of that crew.Also, the typical one man army concept, our V, who can kick ass and slash 100s of armed opponents is so freaking stupid & stale, it deserves to be knocked flat on that count alone. He also seems to have unlimited resources, like the money and cut outs needed to mail 8 million Guy Fawkes masks to random people, and access to all sorts of explosives & public buildings etc. that any totalitarian police state worth its salt would detect in less than a month. There is no subtlety. A gay TV personality played by Stephen Fry, a friend of our put upon heroine, makes some lame TV satire of the terrorist and exalted leader. For this you'd expect him to be maybe fired and exiled unless he recants, but the evil leader has him killed in front of the cowering heroine, who was hiding in his house.Finally, as proof of stupidity masking as the profound, Guy Fawkes, the 17th Century Catholic who tried to blow up Parliament with barrels of gunpowder, is the proto hero and the inspiration for our un-named V, who wears a Guy Fawkes mask throughout the movie as more than a disguise. To English people this is known as the Gunpowder Plot and its thwarting is celebrated as Guy Fawkes Day. Well, weren't the Catholics back then the religious zealots who were trying to get England back in the Roman Catholic Church fold? For a movie that pans Christian fascism and exalts freedom, it would be like having whores and strippers march for chastity. So much for comic book politics!


                
I will start out by saying that this movie was actually an OK movie. It got really dull around the middle of the movie when it was very clear that they were no longer reading the book for advice. many of the characters do not fulfill the roles they play in the story and many of the stories best scenes are taken out, to be replaced by scenes that actually take away from the emotional dexterity of the movie.There are two characters in the movie who are done very much like in the graphic novel, they are Evey Hammond and V, other than that, almost everything is different. Some scenes are similar, but small changes are made. In stead of playing Billie holiday in the shadow gallery he plays Diana Krall. Nothing major, but you also lose out on seeing how he gets away with all the stuff he does, you don't see all the artwork he really has and you do not see the emotional attachment to v and every that was clearly displayed in the book.This movie was, at best, an OK movie, but it was a horrible adaptation. I do not see why people take a work they respect and mutilate it beyond recognition. I realize there are things one must change from one medium to another, for time or because simply it would make a boring film to watch people listen to a radio, rather than watch TV. How ever, there are some things that need to be left in tact, things that are crucial to the plot and characters.I can see why Alan Moore was unsatisfied with the movie. you would think that after seeing the success Sin City had, that directors and such would want the movie to be as the original material was. What is the point for adapting a story if, in the end, you are not telling the same story?


                
This film was entertaining, but it was also agonizing because it was so much worse than it could have been. If you're willing to turn off your mind, perhaps you won't be bothered by the preaching about totalitarian governments. Or the fact that the script feels like it was authored by a committee of writers, each one wanting to add their own elements that pull this movie in about fifteen different directions with no cohesive core other than politically motivated violence. This movie tries to be way too much, and in doing so it is simply not plausible. I can imagine how the scriptwriting went: -- "Hey! Let's go off on a tangent about lesbians." "Great idea!" (High-fives are exchanged.) "Let's talk about viruses for awhile." "Yeah! And what if our masked hero is great at cooking toast and eggs with real butter. Let's show that several times!" "Excellent!" ----- You get the idea. It was like Zorro (with 'V' instead of 'Z') meets Batman Begins, with some not-so-subtle political undertones, lots of shouting, and a script that wastes the talents of Natalie Portman. And despite all the heavy-handed symbolism and shouting, you're left wondering what the point was. This film just doesn't sit well with me. I wouldn't recommend it except to people who are easily amused by typical cinematic trash. You know who you are. Or people who just love hearing the word "bollocks".


                
I'm going to make this quick and to the point. the dialogue is very jumbled. The writing sucks to be honest because it is so very cheesy at times. Natalie Portman makes me very uncomfortable her acting and role in this film is just awkward. This entire film seems very rushed and overdone. Overdone in the sense that there was so many unnecessary parts that did not add anything to film. Wachowski brothers seemed to be on a quest to convince us of this whole idea when we were right along with them the whole time. I appreciated the idea. I think it's great with the government and control but Natalie Portman with a shaved head and some of the things she did and wore made me cringe in my seat with embarrassment. At one point some people in the theatre started to laugh. But do not let me discourage you. I think it definitely has its moments but i still am left questioning the point of certain scenes, characters, and subplots.


                
The Wachowsky brothers just don't know how to tell stories (The Matrix trilogy is barely decent), and they prove me right with V for Vendetta. The story of freedom after repression, directed by the mediocre James McTeigue, is interesting, but the film (script and scenes) is full with cheap political propaganda, clichés and terrible performances (Natalie Portman disappointed me, Hugo Weaving is just ridiculous/stupid with the pathetic detail of the mask and Stephen Rea saved all his acting abilities for this film).The problem of this film is that, in its mad necessity to do the political propaganda, tries to tell a lot of stories in one. And the result is a horrible, horrible script, where we see the performance of at least 100 characters!! To make the story "intense" McTeigue tries to put some "comedy" (pathetic humor in the scene where they make fun of the dictator), "drama" (the idiotic story of Portman's character entering in jail by the dictator, when later you realize that was V himself who do that (¿?), suspense (not effective AT ALL, of course), and -of course the "top" ingredient in American blockbuster industry- action (Not kidding: You'll see fires, bombs, police chasing, bullets all over the film, and, as a closure, a fire games' show).But why can a movie be so overrated in its home country and so hated in THE REST OF THE WORLD? It's easy: The scenes work as individual scenes, but when you try to put a movie together, the result is terrible. American critics and public liked it since it deals with sensitive topics like totalitarianism, racism, homosexuality and others, and the film at the end has a "positive message". Nothing wrong with that, but I won't waste two hours of my life watching a political propaganda that is dressed as a "movie". If you haven't watched it, you're lucky. DO NOT WATCH IT!


                
If you go into V for Vendetta not being a fan of the source material, you'll probably love this movie. If you don't find yourself strongly identifying with the anarchist themes of the source material, you'll probably love this movie. As its own entity, V for Vendetta is a solid early-2000s dystopian action film. However, as a fan of Alan Moore's and as an individual anarchist myself, I personally found James McTeigue's adaptation of Moore's 1989 classic to be a "style over substance" dumbing down of a classic work.The acting is exceptional, even as a non-fan of the movie I have to admit this. Natalie Portman acts her heart out as Evey and her hysterical, out of control emotional breakdown to V after her emotional torture, interrogation and rebirth at his hands marks a career highlight for her performance-wise. She does a wonderful job going to the deep, dark corners of Evey's shock, trauma and embrace of her pain. Hugo Weaving absolutely killed it as V. I can't imagine anyone else in the role, he captures the character's mystery, his charisma and his creepiness wonderfully. He shares outstanding chemistry with Portman and his role here makes me want to see him in more heroic roles. He certainly has the presence for it.V for Vendetta is also undeniably impressive in its visual storytelling (At least, outside of its laughably over-the-top action sequences) Images like the fall of the Dominoes or the assembly of the rioters or even the explosion of the subway train (In theory, over-the-top and gratuitous, but in practice, unforgettable and beautiful) are all examples of gorgeous, unforgettable imagery that definitely gives some weight to the ideas that the film is at least trying to convey beyond pure dialogue. The dark, murky color scheme does an excellent job capturing the aesthetics of David Lloyd's artwork, while also evoking the odd feel of a 1940s War film. There was definitely deliberate, conscience thought and effort put into the visuals of V for Vendetta and how they would benefit the story.The biggest problem with V for Vendetta is the characterization of V and how the directing frames him. Alan Moore has explicitly stated that he didn't write V as a character to root for, persay, but as a character who the audience must judge for themselves. V's status as a hero or a villain was entirely up to the perspective of the reader. The film constantly tells us that he's a morally ambiguous character, someone caught on the line between hero and villain, but it never actually shows the audience this. The triumphant musical score and gratuitous, Gun-Fu esque slow-mo of his fight scenes clearly tell the audience visually that this is the unquestioned hero of the film. This Equilibirum or Matrix style directing and fight choreography completely clash with what the film is trying to do. For all the talk of V's humanity vs. his inner monsterhood, we're never really shown what would constitute V as a true monster.For all the talk of individuality, V for Vendetta spends an awful lot if its runtime telling its viewers what to think. The book was very heavy on the idea that both V and Norsefire were both toxic extremes of their ideologies; Norsefire was certainly worse, but V was still very much a terrorist. Even the title of the book "V for Vendatta" illustrates the deeply personal and subjective motivation behind V's original actions. The inherent message in not just V for Vendetta, but in nearly all of Moore's works, is "don't trust your heroes." It's that there is no such thing as benevolent power. V for Vendetta rejects the deep subjectivity and moral nuance of the book in favor of a traditional superhero. On its own, not unforgivable. As an adaptation of a deeply morally complex and groundbreaking political work, however, I personally found it to be unacceptable.I also didn't appreciate how the heinous racial connotations of Norsefire's rule are, for the most part, largely ignored until the ending. It's heavily implied, but not a focus of the story as was the case in the book. The undertones of white supremacy in the film are just that; undertones. It's rather uncomfortable and deeply unsatisfying to see the British government make no mention of a concept of racial purity, which is deeply important in any critique of true fascist government, especially an adaptation of V for Vendetta. It felt as if McTeigue and the Wachowskis simply didn't want to mention such a touchy and sensitive topic, which is ridiculous if the film wants to be as rebellious as it superficially advertises itself as. Even Moore was annoyed by the film's dismissive ignoring of the racial politics of the source material.I don't mean to be condescending at all. If you love V for Vendetta (2005), I can more than understand the appeal. Take the source material and its themes out of it, does it work as a film? Sure. The acting is great. The characters are fine. It has a great visual style. It would be deeply incredulous to call this a worse movie than the likes of The League of Extraordinary Gentleman or The Killing Joke (Both Alan Moore adaptations.) However, my ultimate problem with McTeigue's V for Vendetta is its lack of a spine. Its lack of ambition. This could have been one of the most thought provoking and challenging comic book films of all time, but instead, it's just another early 2000s Gun-Fu action film. And that deeply depresses me, as we're unlikely to see this story re-made or re-interpreted on film.
*definite spoilers*I rented "V" because its rating is above an 8 here at IMDb, and these ratings are usually reliable. Not this time. This movie was unbearable at times. The politics were awful. I really needed Hugo Weaving to take off that mask, I wanted to see a human being. Instead we're looking at a psycho clown terrorist for 2 hours, and it's hard to understand what he's saying because his voice is muffled. Although I appreciated some of the fancy English dialogue he spouts off. Natalie Portman was good, but there's always been a soft spot in my heart for her ever since her great performance in "The Professional" when she was a cute little girl. She's the only saving grace of this movie, she brings some humanity to the otherwise cold, dark, bleak proceedings.So his plan is to blow up the English Parliament, and he does. And everyone is happy. Why? Will a new government be formed now? Of who? People, that's who. And those people will run for office, and need a new building to house government proceedings. And these people will then be known as the "nasty government". And then everyone will start to hate them to, and then blow up their building. Blowing up buildings is not the answer, but the filmmakers appear to be sympathetic to this "idea". They appear to support terrorism.America and the United Kingdom are not perfect obviously. But they have created the best form of government in the history of civilization, where the people vote and elect who we want to govern us. Fascism is not right around the corner, as much as Hollywood seems to want it to be. Collectively we're too advanced for that. No one is going to let it happen. George Bush? Please, he isn't smart enough for that. And even if he is, guess what, he's gone in a year. In America, we elect our government officials, if we elect a fascist, then i guess that's what the people wanted. If we elect a socialist...etc.More insulting, the one book in the world most associated with terrorism, is the Koran, yet the filmmakers also seem to like that book. What a joke. And people think this movie is profound? Grow up. It's an insult. Make a movie about real terrorists, not Shakespearean English gentleman who sip tea if they weren't wearing a mask.So, while interesting and entertaining at times, and Natalie Portman's lovely presence, "V's" politics make it an insult to anyone who understands what Democracy is.


                
The movie is well executed from an Aesthetic point of view. The acting was great as well. I gave it a 4 though because the clichés just killed the enjoyment for me. I know that after Matrix 2 and 3 not much can be expected from the W. Brothers as far as script goes, and this film isn't as badly written as the latter two, still they attempt to add political subtext beyond subtle and the result is horribly stupid and clichéd.!very minor spoiler! Collection of anti-governmental items that contains a combination of Gay and Muslim materials! Now I wonder which of the groups will be more insulted. Remembering that not long ago additional two teenager gays were hung in Iran which is ruled by Islam, I wonder why the W. Brothers while trying to express a political view couldn't bother to actually make a research on the matter. Speaking of gay oppression, I'm quite sure that even the most hardcore gay rights supporters will find that dedicating not one, but two key scenes in the movie to long and clichéd romance descriptions by secondary characters equals a booooring middle part of a film.!end of the spoiler! Well in a nutshell, technically good. The acting is good, as is the world (unlike the matrix). The W. Brothers still can't write neither a good script nor embed a worthy subtext in a way that won't be so damn clichéd and obvious that it brought tears to my eyes. With a script so poorly executed it's no wonder the original creator of the comic(alan Moore) asked his name to be removed from anything related to this film.


                
Although the production and performances are generally good, I believe the writers of this film neutered what could have been a major work.The original (comic-book) material deals with the power of ideas, both good and bad, and most particularly how easily a modern state could slip back into the fascism of the last century. Such an occurrence requires the collusion, albeit unwitting, of the population at large. However, the Wachowskis' film is about a conspiracy and a British people kept down only by the force of arms. The number of 'film school 101' shots of members of the public watching propaganda broadcasts and proclaiming them lies ignores the lessons of the past, and the intent of the writer of the original story. Nations were, and could again be, led into fascism by a small group only if the rest of the people were willing to accept this. The majority of the people of Europe in the 20's, 30's, and 40's knew about at least some of what was going on, if not the scale of it, and chose to look the other way, at least until light was shone on the horrors by the Allies. Modern neo-fascist groups thrive on the same denial of the evidence.I realise the difficulties of adapting previously published work to the screen; virtually every aspect needs to be a candidate for modification, interpretation or removal. However, a successful adaptation must maintain the original intent of the work (I believe William Goldman said as much in one of his excellent works on the screen trade). I am afraid that the creators of V For Vendetta have failed in that respect.
I feel terrible! Everyone keeps talking about how great this movie is, and I didn't care for it. Did I miss something? I'm serious. I loved the Matrix, but I thought this was boring. I was really annoyed by the fact that V imprisoned Evey, and as upset and ready to die as she was, as soon as she found out it was a ploy to break her by V, all of a sudden she was happy about it? That makes no sense. I'm really interested to know why this movie was so great. I'm not trying to bash it at all. I think I must have missed something. Could someone please tell me what I am missing so I can love this movie too? I was really excited to see it in the theater (and bummed that I had to wait 'til it came to Blockbuster), and then I didn't get it. :(


                
Yet again, the Wachowski brothers have proved to us that they can't write a decent screenplay. The original Matrix movie is looking more and more like a fluke with each film they unleash upon the unsuspecting public.First of all, the script is awful. The dialogue is forcedand unnatural. The first words a shocked Natalie Portman says to V are "Are you like a crazy person?". Later, upon being brutally tortured for several months, her initial reaction is "...you cut my hair!". The rest of the movie consists of V endlessly spouting his ideology and delivering snappy one liners to use in promotional material ("people should not be afraid of their governments, governments should be afraid of their people" "behind this mask is an idea, and ideas are bulletproof", etc). The writers for some reason found it necessary to make V explain every single thing he does, and why he does it. Everything. is. spelled. out.The script is not really helped by the acting. Natalie Portman has once again shown the world that she has very little talent. She delivers her typical wooden performance, made even worse by her unfortunate English accent. She reeks of self-consciousness. She doesn't have what it takes to carry an entire movie. She should stick to supporting roles, or even better, go do something useful with her Harvard degree that she's so proud of. Why they didn't get an English actress is beyond me, it's not like there's a shortage. Hugo Weaving is excellent as always, but it's sad when someone acting through a mask can out-emote someone without. Stephen Rea is decent, but instantly forgettable. I don't know how to describe it other than saying it's a 'nothing' performance. I couldn't take Steven Fry seriously, but that's probably because I'm not used to him taking on dramatic roles. Same problem with Ben Miles. John Hurt did a good job with an irritating and badly written part. He isn't much more than an angry man on a screen.I'm not bothered that it isn't an action film, even though it was marketed as one. What does bother me though are the action scenes that are in: they feel like an afterthought, as if they've been randomly inserted at the last minute. The final fight scene (out of 2) is awkward and bland, and completely illogical. It also involves a truly horrible knife-bullet-time. The Wachowski's must realise that's the only reason anyone really likes them. After being shot several times, V is completely fine and still able to take on 10 or so men. This is justified by the corny bulletproof line.Apparently the makers think they are artistic, as demonstrated by the various badly done and, again, illogical 'metaphors' inserted throughout the film. Possibly my favourite involves V, on the eve of his revolution, setting up a giant metaphorical domino arrangement, then knocking it down to reveal his name. Trailer moment, anyone? Other brilliant moments involve Natalie Portman stretching her arms out in the rain, intercut with V doing the same in fire, and dead people being alive with a voice-over explaining why they are still alive (nice and abstractly though). These truly moronic moments, while not making the film seem any smarter, at least add some comic relief. The real attempts at comic relief are bizarre if anything, namely a scene in which V is wearing a pink frilly apron.Possibly the biggest flaw in the film is that the totalitarian government isn't bad at all. It doesn't make sense that everyone would want a revolution. It's fair enough that V wants revenge for personal reasons, there aren't actually much politics behind his actions. But for the everyday people, life isn't so terrible (as far as the viewer knows). The general public seems to consist of 2 wholesome suburban families, living in nice modern houses with big flat screen TV's. The most terrifying thing about this government, on a day to day basis, is that the news channels aren't very reliable. As long as you don't have a secret room full of Qu'rans and S&M pictures, you'll be fine. For "An uncompromising vision of the future" it's pretty damn tame. The sets are bland, and the entire thing has that BBC-TV-Movie feel. The cinematography is bland, with the exception of one cool shot of V jumping off a building. The music is bland, the lighting is bland, the direction is bland. It doesn't feel like a whole lot of love went into making this.It's not all bad though. The film is at least entertaining, and it only drags in a few places. It just doesn't know what it wants to be. It half-heartedly swings between trying to be a social commentary and trying to be an action film. The only thing that links it as a whole is that it thinks it's more intelligent than it is. The R rating is completely wrong. V for Vendetta seems to be written for people aged 14 and under. The totalitarian government isn't really very totalitarian. It is dystopia-lite, and the more complex themes are simplified and over-explained. The viewer is talked down to throughout. If the Wachowski's wanted to be taken seriously with this, which they clearly did, they should have taken the audience more seriously.It's a pity, this movie could have been excellent. With a stronger script (much stronger), a more interesting director, and a competent leading lady, it could have become a classic. As it is, it's an exercise in mediocrity, and a cowardly take on a controversial issue.
This is a truly mediocre movie. I went to the movie with high expectations, thus I was really disappointed when I left the cinema.The movie isn't bad, but quite boring. It could have been so much more interesting. It all boils down to bad story writing.The one party dictatorship with obvious references to the USSR but this time in a capitalists disguise is so pathetic. The dictator in the party is so unrealistic that I wanted to leave the cinema every time he was projected on the screen in front of his party members.How about CRT TV's 2015? 'Remember, remember the 5th of November' is the tagline of V for Vendetta. This tagline is so lame and I do not understand why they have to repeat it so many times.


                
This film really pulls out all the stops in trying to reflect upon the hypocrisy of Bush era politics in the war on terror and maltreatment of same-sex couples in western culture. That's all fine and good, but to make the protagonists likewise hypocrites by having them "even things up" through murder, demolition, rendition and general anarchy and selling it as empowerment of the masses is inane. It cancels out any validity of the argument. Why do we respect Martin Luther King as opposed to people like the Black Panthers? What have the masses learned from V but to behave just as the oppressors have. They do "overcome their fear" (which is an important message) but just as Evey had through her own "rendition" - you have to ask yourself 'at what price?' The last scene, in this sense, does not equate to a peaceful overtaking of the government - the masses simply show their support for another flavor of terrorist and enjoy the power vacuum his assassinations (although arguably justifiable) have created. V does realize that he is a "monster", but such a revelation coming from an individual, who has calmly declared his willingness to kill earlier, simply comes across as less of a realization and more of a simple letting go of that monster because the deed was done.The politics of this film are for this reason ineffective. We should feel empowered that we can overcome tyranny, yes, but not by becoming terrorists ourselves. It's a dangerous message. I fear not every movie fan out there realizes the hypocrisy of the characters V and Evey and that this is the really interesting part of the story. Peaceful revolutionaries are the ones who embody pure "ideas" - not like V who realizes his ideas and aspirations through hate (what was the lesson Skywalker had to learn?). The same justification Jason Bourne or Rambo has to wreak havoc on government employees obviously flies here as well - if the "man" is the one who created you, you've got a right to break him down, like he broke you down.Apart from the politics, the plot really put a strain on my suspension of disbelief. Albeit a film based on a graphic novel, it was hard to understand how some rouge could afford to finance the costumes and such he sent to (random?) inhabitants of London. I could have been content with disfigurement and even super-strength as a result of the experiments, but somehow too many questions were left at the end of the film. Maybe he had a blog (a vlog?) and a mailing list, who knows.As for character development, Natalie Portman really is the saving grace of this film. It is easy to get attached to the likable portrayal of a working girl caught up in social injustice. As for Weaving, there's an obvious hurdle to overcome in that he has become this jaded gentleman - some kind of philosophical street preaching version of Jason Bourne meets Bruce Wayne. It's hard to relate to that. Some kind of Bravehart-style development would have given us something more to hold onto than the enigma that is V. Even Rambo was at some point just John Rambo - if even for a short time. We never saw who he was before, just kind of how this monster was "manufactured".The accent problems by Portman mentioned by some didn't really bother me that much in light of my other difficulties swallowing this thing whole.I thought that for such a dark film, the color pallet (so to say) was all in all a bit too cheery. A better choice would have been, say more like the first Batman film. Here we saw an intellectual "millionare socialite" (even less likable by the masses) who has it all, but the darker tones of Bruce Wanye's manor / layer make him nonetheless intriguing. This darker side of Wayne is really nearly totally accomplished by great art-direction and photography work. V is like diet-coke Brue Wayne without cool wheels.The attempt to show V as an intellectual in his underground layer, and as a softy for old movies, kind of threw me off a bit. The sword fighting with the suit of armor reminded me of that fat light-saber kid on youtube.All in all, it kept my attention and Weaving really delivered at times complex lines without batting an eye. It just could have been a bit more potent in all respects. It's not bad for a rental, but for the price of a theater ticket, not up to snuff.
Yes the plot of this movie is good, I should have enjoyed it. However I found it unpleasant to sit through. Natalie Portman's accent was too much of a detachment from reality.The UK has an extremely wide variety of accents. There is more diversity of English language accents within the UK than outside. For example the difference between a Scottish accent, a Liverpool accent and a Cornish accent is greater than the difference between a Californian, a New Zealander and a Londoner.However in all my travels (Australia, New Zealand, Canada, USA, UK) I have never heard anyone sound at all like Natalie Portman's character Evey. She appears to be using a similar accent to the one she used for Padmé in Star Wars.It is not a matter of "correct pronunciation". Even her pronunciation of the letter "V" is unfamiliar to me. It sounds like "vaye" and this spoils the entire film at a fundamental level.


                
This is based on a comic book and such movies tend to be stupid. Still, I thought that the plot seemed interesting to a point.But that doesn't mean this film is good. The whole thing looks a bit cheap and it was a surprise for me finding out that it went to theatres in 2006. It really looks a bit low-budget, that's for sure. When a helicopter crashes, for example, you only see the the tail after the explosion. Where's the rest of the wreck?? I usually think that Hugo Weaving is a good and interesting actor, but in this one he acts like he's on his first audition ever. I guess he portrayed Vino the way he should, but I would have liked it better if he was even more vicious against his enemies. Overall: An interesting movie poorly made.


                
Being a fan of the comic, I was greatly disappointed in what the Wachowski Bros. did to the story. Not much of the original is intact other than the basic plot. Subtle hints to V's identity are now blatant signs, and the almost hidden love story is now a sappy romance novel and the dark, gritty aesthetic of the comic is now slick, glossy Matrix-styled Hollywood. Even if you haven't read the comics, this movie is lacking in the way it tries to be subversive by hitting you over the head with it's morality. When it begins to become thought-provoking, rather than let you form your own opinion, it blatantly shows you the way. This could have been done in a much more subdued manner, rather than as an action movie with high-end special effects.


                
OK... so this is one of those waste of money and talent Hollywood deems good inflict to the rest of the world. Again.To put it simply : what we got there is another remake of "1984", but far less subtle and profound. In short, we learn from this movie that totalitarian States are bad. And, oh yes: freedom is cool. What about religious obscurantism? Bad too. If you didn't know that, this movie is for you. However, if you still have the slightest memory of your 6th grade History lesson, move along, you wouldn't like go over it again. With all that, I feel a bit sorry for the actors and the visual team, who really did a good job (that makes for the 4/10) I got nothing against stupid action movies. Honestly, I often enjoy them blockbusters. But when they try to sound smart, when they think they have a message to get across, then I'd say that they should be kept away from people with an IQ over 80. Especially when they pretend to be revolutionary, while just repeating things that EVERYBODY already thinks.So my advice would be that you should avoid it. And for the people who liked it, that you should read more.


                
Sometimes; when reading the posts on IMDb, it becomes easier to see that common sense is possessed by a declining few.Even to describe the plot of this second Guy Fawkes as 'preposterous in the extreme' would be an understatement.One commentator has compared it to a production by Andrew Lloyd Webber. And given a few good songs, with the abandonment of all pretence at reality, it would have made a corking musical. A sort of 'Phantom Of The Revolution', with hints of Darth Vader, Obi Wan Kenobi, Neo, Adam Adamant, Bat Man, and The Joker all rolled into Winston Smith. As a piece of overblown, theatrical pomposity I can think of very few equals.The problem is; it didn't stop there. It tried to be intelligent. And for under-fives may still seem so. It tried to be realistic; though the same class are unlikely to be fooled there. It also tried to convey a political message, with all the balance and intellectual depth of the Socialist Worker Party. Yep: that bad.And I am SO tired of super-heroes, who can do just about anything. Where do they learn their skills? Where do they get their training? Why can't the SAS - who spend their lives in the business of all things espionage - do the same? There is a single-line hint that he was infected by a disease which miraculously advanced his strength and reaction times (yawn). It similarly made him a knife-throwing genius, a pyrotechnics expert, and a ghost who can pretty-well go anywhere without detection.And of course; he's got to have 'issues' from the past, that require endless, tedious, soul-searching, chest-bearing denouements (double yawn). To begin with; he's tapped into a communications main-frame. He's managed to smuggle about a ton of explosives into the Old Bailey, along with about £100,000 worth of display fireworks for good measure. He's managed to distribute them, conceal them, and fit them with minutely co-ordinated time-fuses. And he's apparently done this when anything bigger than a handbag is searched, and also scanned for explosive traces. Yeah, sure; in wonderland. And all the dumb-asses who've given this 8 or more stars just gawped open-mouthed in unquestioning acceptance. No explanation; just swallow like a garbage bin.Reality ends there. It was not necessary to waste celluloid on any more hokey explanations. Just get on with the songs and the theatre.But no; it just shuffles along. Tediously, laboriously, often presented from the standpoint of a senior detective with an IQ equal to his body temperature. The general public are depicted as the sort of gormless, gullible trinkets who consider this a good movie. We learn of his imprisonment, his escape, and so on. We don't need any of it; let's just have the songs!We see the new big brother, played by an increasingly rabid John Hurt, which looks like a tongue-in-cheek homage to the 1984 movie. In a scene of unremitting confusion in a disused underground railway station, we find a train that's packed with yet more explosives. Our phantom hero has cleared the track and re-electrified it (that took him 10 years, you know). For some reason, once more unexplained, 'Big Brother' is dragged down there by his fellow authority-figures, to be murdered by the 'clot'. They then turn on him, and he proceeds to murder them all in a Tarantino-style blood bath. Though he is mortally wounded in the process.Oh-yes; and there's the inevitable pretty-sweet femme-fatale who wanders about with her mouth partly agape as if in continuous expectation of providing someone with a blow-job. She, and she alone, carries this tall, well-muscled crusader onto the train and lays him on his explosives. Providing him with a wreath of red-roses, plucked out of fresh-air (if you can find any in a disused underground station). The train is sent to Parliament, where the entire population of London, dressed in Guy Fawkes outfits - all supplied and shipped by courier at unlimited expense by our hero, have gathered to watch the big bang.And it's a good one - the best bit of the movie. And there's another £100,000 fireworks display to go with it. To a few last lines uttered by the heroine, so clichéd as to pucker any self-respecting human sphincter, the nonsense comes to a close. There's a lot more equally daft stuff but insufficient space to describe it. Choreography's nice. Production values high. Special-effects spectacular, costumes and set-pieces OK. The hero is verbose but hilarious. The heroine suitably sylph-like, dumb and pretty. If only they'd remembered to put the bloody songs in. What a show it would have been.


                
Amazing! Best film of 2005! Must see! Utterly cool! Greatest film I have ever seen! Steady, people, who are we kidding here? This entertaining nonsense was just average at best.That terrible, terrible Benny Hill comedy routine? Natalie Portman's laughable "romantic" scene where she kisses V's mask? Periodic outbreaks of appallingly stilted dialogue and wooden acting? That laboured "we must explain in words of one syllable to the Yanks who Guy Fawkes was" sequence at the beginning? Silly Matrix homages which hang, draw and quarter your disbelief: e.g. V's sword-fighting scene with the cops? Plot holes you could lose, well, the Houses of Parliament in? A totally pants revolution where everyone just dresses up like plonkers and gawks at fireworks? Film of the year? Really? Come on.Worst of all, how does blowing up the beautiful Houses of Parliament (the "Mother of Parliaments" no less) strike a blow for freedom? The bad guys were all dead - all someone had to do was walk in the front door and retake the old H's of P in the name of the people.Answer: narrative imperative - you gotta blow 'em up, otherwise what would have been the point of all that Guy Fawkes stuff? And, let's admit it, it was rather fun. Heaven knows how many times Hollywood has blown up the White House on screen - so it made a change.The trouble is the bad guys just aren't bad and oppressive enough and V is a pretentious, prissy arse. John Hurt (as the "chancellor") is more pitiful than evil and all the people you see in the retirement homes, family houses and so on all look remarkably well fed, clean, disease-free and unoppressed.Sure, there is the odd truly frightening moment when you see how good the film could have been. For example, the abduction of Stephen Fry's character by the secret police was particularly striking. However, most of the supposedly "shocking" scenes (such as that ridiculous persecuted-lesbian story) that we're supposed to recoil at seem so out of place, and are so in your face isn't-it-just-terrible-darling, that they soon become mawkish and even rather comical.It has to be said that the plot was quite sophisticated and had some good twists - and some ridiculous ones. I haven't read the graphic novel, but I get the impression that much of the story was close enough to the original to satisfy most fans. The ever-watchable Stephen Rea somehow managed to keep a straight face though it all and the film was just absorbing enough for me to see it through to the end, though I nearly gave up a couple of times.People, if you really want to see a couple of "amazing, must see" films that really bring home the terror and the absurdity of totalitarianism, watch the astonishing 1984 made in 1984 (also starring John Hurt) or try Terry Gilliam's masterpiece, Brazil.
I am sorry. I must have missed something here. Everybody was raving about this film. I fell asleep and had to watch it again but I came to the same conclusion. This is mild pathetic stuff. Am I on another planet? What is all the fuss about? A futuristic notion that there is corruption in the government? And that it needs to be exposed by some "Phantom of the Opera"-like masked hero? Is this stuff really new? What is original about this? It is not even well told. I cannot for the life of me understand the excited and positive reaction to this film. I had high expectations going into it and it seemed okay at first and then it just bored the hell out of me.I am sorry but the younger generation must have experienced holes in their education because this film just does not cut it in any way, shape or form. Pass on this one. Very little artistic merit here!


                
The moment I physically shook my head during this movie came when V (and this is a spoiler) revealed that he had tricked the girl into thinking she was going to be executed. Gotcha! It was only a test. And now you can live without fear. Awesome, thanks man. As far as I understood it, that kind of mental torture usually turned people into haunted shells of their former selves. But who knows, maybe what we all need is mock execution therapy... Other than that, I actually liked the pace and the visual experience. I also liked that the movie caricatured the use of anti-terrorist rhetoric to manipulate the public -- an important enough point these days that I actually didn't mind having it shoved down my throat in this case. I just wonder if there aren't some teenagers (or equivalents) out there who might think that the Wachowski Brothers are commanding them to blow up the White House. All in all, I think the Wachowskis, like M Night Shyamalan, impress w/ certain trademark virtues, but ultimately disappoint by taking themselves too seriously and being transparently shallow when they appear to think they are waxing deep -- taking us to different kinds of depths than they intend.
