This marks the fantastic return of the Wachowski brothers.Those who were disappointed with their last two efforts will not be disappointed here,there is no doubt that the Brothers are talented.Here they make their comeback.But not as filmmakers,but as producers and writers.And to be honest ,this film thrills you from beginning to end.You'll be blown away with this adrenaline excitement and dramatically intense thriller.A finely complex storyline about V, a reluctant freedom fighter , a rebellion who fights for freedom against the government in London in another time line.Set against the futuristic landscape of totalitarian Britain,a mild-mannered young woman named Evey who is rescued from a life-and-death situation by"V." Incomparably charismatic and ferociously skilled in the art of combat and deception, V urges his fellow citizens to rise up against tyranny and oppression. As Evey uncovers the truth about V's mysterious background, she also discovers the truth about herself--and emerges as his unlikely ally in the culmination of his plot to bring freedom and justice back to a society fraught with cruelty and corruption.This is perhaps the first and fully realized and most successful of all the Moore adaptations.What I liked about this film was the way it balances action and drama.The script is fantastic and directing is equally worth a mention.The assistant director on the Matrix(James McTeigue) movies really has some talent ,and handles the action and drama very well.The film is fast paced and exciting.It is also politically charged and quite controversial but that is the point.It makes you think about the current situation, how well is the government handling the situation of terrorism.V serves as an anti-hero on a quest of freedom.His actions are right but his methods are wrong,he is trying to bring about a message in the wrong way.This film focuses on the source material of the book, more on the characters than on the action.More on the emotions and the drama than on the violence.This film doesn't glorify V as a terrorist but shows that under certain circumstances he was tempted to be what he is.The film has an intriguing atmosphere throughout,never once boring,an apocalyptic future setting really heightens the tension with starkly dark set designing and stunning cinematography.The action is striking and the performances in the drama are standout.This is a terrific movie at all points, it has a strong script , impressive directing and commendable performances.But having read the book after the movie,I must confess this film is still nowhere close to being better than the book.No way.It feels incomplete adaptation,leaving a lot of details behind,whereas the book had a more in depth look at V's life and his relationship with Evey.But I guess the filmmakers wanted to take a different approach,to which they succeed completely.There is a reference or close resemblance to Guatanamo prison and 9/11 issues echoes throughout the film.And it made the film even more direct.There are several more references to our world dominated by politics and government,regarding terrorism.And what they do to secure their safety.This is one thing that makes V so controversial.His actions will make you think he's insane,but it's just an idea,a notion that alerts us to take actions if our own Government ever try to control us,and inflict fear into our lives. Hidden behind the creepy mask ,Hugo Weaving really proves he is a versatile actor.His character provokes thoughtful questions in a dystopian future ,and every emotion of his character is brought out by Weavings performance.Portman on the other hand also excels,with a convincing accent.She really is the heroine of the film and she handles the role quite well.The scenes between Evey and V are touching and well handled.The rest of the film is superb in its execution.V is an idea,a symbol,a metaphor that cannot be destroyed.A man can be obliterated but as an idea,an icon he is indestructible and his message becomes more powerful to convey as people look upon this figure ,but not the man beneath it.One man can make a huge difference but united men and women can change something.And that's what made me respond to this film's ideas.It's full of it.Shed with technical and visual brilliance.A spellbinding adventure , exciting action, superb directing and writing and a Sci-Fi film with a thoughtful message,and the first fully satisfying Moore adaptation.This film is the most controversial and at the same time breathtaking Action/thriller.A terrific achievement produced by the Wachowskis' and Silver.The climax,especially,was uplifting and beautifully executed.And will live on to be one of the most memorable conclusions.It always get me.If there's anything out there in the theaters that will blow you away before summer season kicks off ,then this is a blast for you.


                
After being told over and over again from friends to watch this film, I finally got to it. Despite it being overhyped by them, I still found myself captivated by V For Vendetta. There was something brilliant about seeing our "hero" at face value just like every other character along the way. There was no Batman/Bryce Wayne, there was only V and because of that it made him more of a myth and much more intriguing for what he stood for.Vengence is in the title, but it so much more than that with a deeper meaning that rivals some of the best in Hollywood. I found myself reading more into the "idea" V represented. Now one of my favorite Comic Book Films.


                
I wish they'd make a sequel to this. Portman and Weaving do a fine job bringing this vigilante flick to life.


                
Remember remember the fifth of November When I first watched V for Vendetta I didn't know much about it. However I have always had a fascination with darker comic book movies such as The Crow and some of the Batman's. I am going start by saying that the character of V played brilliantly by Hugo Weaving is one of those characters that will be remembered and is an instance classic. This in truth is 1 of my favourite Natalie Portman performances, she is just so full of determination and curiosity and it's infectious. The scene where V and Evey first meat is truly tremendous. V saves Evey from some men trying to rough her up, she does hold her ground, V shows off some kick ass moves and a very versatile vocabulary (see what I did there). One of favourite things about V is he is an antihero yet he still views himself as a sort of freedom fighter who is standing up for the opposing government. The reason why I love this movie so much is the true determination to do what is right and the casualties that had to happen. V was a broken body but a free soul that wanted to make a difference and he did so. Was everything planned, I don't know but all I know is this movie is a must watch and truly is amazing


                
Or "V for Versatility"? Indeed, when it doesn't warn about the risk of totalitarianism pending over democracies, through the Orwellian depiction of a Britain ruled by a Big Brother-like figure, yelling orders on a giant wall-size screen, and played by John Hurt,"V" is a captivating cat-and-mouse chase between the rebels and the armed hands of the Law, characterized by two opposites: Stephen Rea as the good cop Finch and Tim Piggot-Smith as Creedy, the overzealous fascist with an ugly mug.Of course, the main attraction of the film is the titular V, that justice warrior hiding behind the now-iconic Guy Fawkes' mask and signing, like a modern-day Zorro, all his deeds with the mark V. As easy with words as he is with knives, V is a really fascinating creation we owe to the genius of comic-book artist Alan Moore. He makes his entrance when a young woman, coincidentally named Evey (Natalie Portman), breaks the curfew and is assaulted by two members of a local militia named 'Fingermen'. V doesn't believe in coincidences and sees in Evey the light of hope to shine on the future generations. Together, they meet on the 5th of November, and as a homage to the Gunpowder Plot of 1605, when Catholics attempted to destroy the House of Parliament, V orchestrates the destruction of the Old Prison.And with 1812 Tchaikovski Overture as an accompaniment, "orchestrates" is the right word. The opening scene sums up what makes "V for Vendetta" a great entertainment, it is both visually and intellectually captivating. It is the kind of experiences that urge you to go to Wikipedia so some extra knowledge can make the plot a little more understandable, and sometimes, plausible. For instance, I live in France where, recently, the government revealed the existence of a big database containing 60 Millions of names, which means the entire French population. This comes within the framework of the fight against terrorism but when you think deeper, you realize that a government will always have a "good reason". In "V for Vendetta", we discover the extents of the tyranny: banning and killing homosexuals, Muslims, communist or atheists, and it is revealed near the end that it started with a 'virus' plot.I don't see Illuminati everywhere, I know that some conspiracy theories are absurd but they shouldn't be used as an alibi against those that make sense and can be proved. The merit of James McTeigue's film is not to denounce something that might happen but to tell us that it might happen. The film was made in 2005, after the September 11 attacks, but the events prove them right, I just love a part where Finch, disillusioned, know that things will go out of control, starting with an incident that will give an excuse for the government to bring the army. That's how the Arab Springs begun and today, it changed the map of the world, for better and for worse, the worse is that it planted the seed of terrorism and Islamophobia in European countries. If there ever is a Third World War, it would be ignited by these two elements.I just read a complaint from a IMDb user about the positive way the Quran was depicted, and I was wondering if that comment didn't prove that hatred was already marching in. It's very interesting that a character played in the film was killed because he had a Quran, if you look at the perception of Islam today, due to events that are certainly not caused by the vast majority but a fanatic minority manipulated by foreign groups and God knows who, you'll see that we're not far from this reality. Ironically, for all its positive portrayal of Muslims as victims or camp-candidates (a similitude shared with the other visionary Sci-fi movie "Children of Men"), religion is painted in a negative light, starting with the Bishop portrayed as a filthy pedophile.The standing the films seems to take is that the first victims will be minorities and the film even includes a poignant lesbian romance in the story. But who knows, maybe the real dictatorship will come from hyper capitalism that would ban every form of spirituality. The fluidity of the plot sometimes derails in order to make a political statement, and I wish the film took more time to be a political satire than a Manichean thriller. It is also ambiguous in the way it denounces a form of totalitarian violence while portraying violence as the means to an end. The most glorious moment of the film, was the magnificent street marching with all London inhabitants wearing the Fawkes' mask, and when the soldiers had surrendered, V had virtually won.So, did we need to see Big Ben destroyed? The people had seized the power, it was a revolution per se, and by inspiring them, the figure of V has achieved more than any other terrorist attack. But it felt like the director needed to end the film in a blaze of glory, and close the loop. It was spectacular but a tad predictable while something less flashy could have been more meaningful. "V for Vendetta" is never boring but it needlessly overplays the effects although it had everything to blow your mind, even the last speech by Natalie Portman gives you the perfect idea about the character, he's an idea precisely.And this is indeed an idea that prevailed, as the Guy Fawkes mask became the inspiration for the "Anonymous" group, creating a case where fiction preceded reality, and underlined its own prophetic aspect. The film isn't flawless but it is a must see in our difficult times, and I'm glad I could finally review it 11 years after its release and 11 years before the time these events will happen, now in 2016, on the 5th of November.
Placed in futuristic Britain, this movie tells a story about dictatorship and the man who became symbol of it's downfall. People from many, not to say majority, countries in today's world can easily identify with the characters. Great adaptation of DC comic and always gladly seen Natalie Portman.8/10


                
As I write there are 2050 reviews of this film, so I imagine everything there is to be said is already here. That's 2050 people who cared about it enough to put finger to key, and the vast majority adding to the polarisation created by it.I don't read graphic novels, so I came in blind. The first time I saw the film it captivated me, the second and third time I saw how silly it is, but remained enchanted, and I believe that is what the movie set out to do. There is something about V which stirs the spirit, and those who place it among the greatest are simply able to overlook its faults in the way that hope springs eternal. And anger punches the air.Everyone needs a saviour, and with the aplomb of Zorro, self- sacrifice of Christ and the righteousness of Batman, V makes heroes of us all, shoulder to shoulder. It's a fantasy of the enlightened that their fellow citizens, even if at the eleventh hour, come to share that enlightenment.I cannot see how The British, and particularly Londoners like me, can watch the shots of an army of masked, smiling revolutionaries marching shoulder to shoulder through the streets of the capital amidst the architectural symbols of power and not be emotionally overwhelmed. Those scenes alone for me made the entire project worthwhile.
V for Vendetta is the movie that I thought was a great comic book because at first, a lot of people attended this film to be the biggest joke ever released in theaters, but after the film was released, I saw the film for the first time on DVD and then I watched a few times of FX and they still show it on TV today.The film follows an anarchist freedom fighter named V, who attempts to ignite a revolution against the brutal fascist regime that has subjgated the dystopian United Kingdom and exterminated it's opponents in concentration camps.A girl named Evey, a working class girl caught in V's mission and the detective Finch leads a desperate quest to stop V.The film has been seen by many political groups as an allegory of oppression by government; libertarians and anarchists have used it to promote their beliefs. The film was originally scheduled for release by Warner Bros. Pictures on Friday November 4, 2005 (which was a day before the 400th Guy Fawkes Night), but it was delayed and was released on Marrch 17, 2006 to positive critical reception and box office success.I liked the story and screenplay by The Wachowski Brothers, who directed and wrote The Matrix Trilogy, Speed Racer, Jupiter Ascending and Cloud Atlas and the dialogue is just wonderful on screen.The cinematography is good and I have to give credit to the late Adrian Biddle for doing such a fantastic great job. The music by Dario Marianelli is just spectacular and amazing. The action sequences are just spectacular and my favorite scene at the end and it was amazing.The acting is amazing. Hugo Weaving plays V and he does good and I liked him in the Matrix films as Agent Smith and he is good as the vigilante and he is spectacular with Natalie Portman in his scenes. Natalie Portman plays Evey and she is good as she was as Padme in the STAR WARS prequel trilogy and her performance along with Weaving is really amazing.The supporting cast includes Stephen Rea as Finch and he is amazing, Rupert Graves as Dominic Stone and John Hurt as High Chancellor Adam Sutler and they all done a good job in their roles that they are in.Overall, while I was scared that V FOR VENDETTA would be stupid as hell, it turned out to be one of the best comic book films ever made.8/10


                
I have never read the comics, but still i can clearly see that this is a warning from an eccentric cartoonist about how the political system today can play on fear to get power. This movie could easily been a over drowned action flick, but there are only to matrix like scenes in the movie, the first is when V visits the tvstudio and kills some policemen's, the second is where he gets rids of some soldiers in the underground. Instead the producers have focused on building and creating a good backstory and atmosphere, something they have have clearly succeeded in. But still there are some flaws. There can be to much dialog and there are some parts in the movie where it is just plain boring. But still a masterpiece that are going to my DVD collection as soon as it is available.
Plot Outline: In the near future a freedom fighter known only as "V" rebels against the now fascist government of Great Britain. This visual aspect of this film is spectacular. The direction and cinematography has the right texture to each part of the story to successfully pull you into it. The dialogue can be a little "par" but has some power within it and has many nuggets of dry-humor. Many people probably won't find some of the jokes that funny, or even notice they are there. But those who do will be laughing.The best part of the film however is the story and message it gives, which is an important one. It is a warning about giving up too many personal freedoms for sake of security, which many people in the United States are too willing to do. That people must stand up for their freedom no matter the cost or public opinion of them. In the film the fictional government and its leaders use their power and influence to control the country's citizens through fear. They also round up, torture, experiment on, and kill certain groups much like in Nazi-Germany. Muslims, homosexuals, and political activists who disagree with their policies are the majority of these. "V" rebels against this evil government he is labeled as a terrorist. Though he does do some evil himself, it is a necessary evil to wake the citizens up from their fear. So they too will be able to stand up for the freedom that they believe in.There are also commentaries within the film on how the media is way for the government to spread its propaganda and continue to spread fear throughout the population. They even have one of the characters "The Voice of London" as an obvious representation of Bill O'Reily. Which I thought was great touch the film.Note to Certain Viewers: If you are a close-minded conservative you will probably see this movie as anti-American. While it is certainly a critique of the direction America is now heading (which in itself is anti-American), it does not question the long-forgotten founding principals that America is supposed to have been built on.
Brilliant film, great cast and story. Hugo Weaving once again shines with some brilliant lines. Favourite of all has to be his introduction to Evey simply because it's a real tongue twister with all them words beginning with v in them... have to wonder if the script writer or whomever came up with that intro looked through the dictionary for what v words they could put in it.Thought Natalie Portman's accent wasn't too bad, though reminded me a lot of Gwyneth Paltrow and now I know why as she was taught by the same dialect coach as Gwyneth.Soundtrack was good, 1812 overture being a perfect choice for the explosive scenes.Can see why some vacuous people might try to vilify it but I vehemently think it is a vibrant movie and should be seen with an open mind.


                
V for Vendetta is a continuation of the modern super-hero movies. In which the protagonists are not superman like characters who are invincible. Beside one slightly unrealistic scene towards the end V is completely human. Much like the heroes of Spider-Man and the recent Batman Begins.Looking at the movie after it was finished and considering everything that has happened I came to the realization that V for Vendetta really had everything. It was thrilling, taut action, snappy dialogue, and a distinct lack of plot holes. The pacing is brutal, which helps maintain the level of suspense. It would seem if you only read this part of the review that I would give V for Vendetta a 10 out of 10. But alas V for Vendetta is not perfect.To be honest at times V for Vendetta is incredibly pretentious. The romance between Natalie Portman and V is contrived and is unnecessary. The middle portion of the movie (a.k.a. the torture part) lags and when you think about what's happened in that sequence after the scene is over you will see how insane the entire situation was.Overall V for Vendetta is a solid movie. It has some flaws but stays solid through the final explosive scene.


                
The mainly excellent casting and performances in this movie make up for it not quite capturing the bleak mood of Alan Moore's superb graphic novel. I feel for the makers, since they were never going to please everybody with this film (and they haven't tried to, thank God). Would have preferred to have someone unknown playing Evie, as although Natalie Portman is a good actress, I felt the part needed to be played by someone fresh and anonymous, and perhaps someone actually English to give it added authenticity That said, Portman's performance is fine and doesn't spoil the film in the way that some extremely wooden performances have ruined big films in the last few years (step forward Mr McGregor, guilty on at least two counts <U+0096> The Island and Star Wars Episode III). Certainly much better than previous attempts at graphic novel adaptation. Let's see how Moore's magnum opus Watchmen turns out.


                
V for Vendetta (2006) is a dystopian political thriller directed by James McTeigue and written by The Wachowskis. It stars Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving and John Hurt and is an adaptation of the Alan Moore graphic novel of the same name.The Year is 2027, the world has been rocked by war and plague, the US is a shell of its former self in the middle of civil war and England is ruled by a Fascist party known as Norsefire. England is a police state and the one part government controls all aspects of the common people's lives. Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman) is on her way for to a date, it is past Government curfew and as a result she runs into the secret state police (Fingermen) and is about to be raped by them she is rescued by a masked vigilante called V. There she slowly gets involved in helping V overthrow the Norsefire party and free England from oppression. The world V for Vendetta is in has been brought to life extremely well; it is able to make the idea of England under dictatorship believable and a scary possible future. The film is dripping in visual story telling that is able to trust that the viewer is smart enough to not demand to get spoon fed but is not too obscure either. The main themes of Justice and freedom of expression are woven into the narrative with skill and subtly that helps make the film universal and timeless. I find the use of the Guy Fawkes mask e being used in protesting censorship an example of how well this film and the book have aged. It is very strange seeing John Hurt as the dictator after he played Winston in the 1984 film but it is a testament to his ability as an actor that he is able to shake that off, he commands the film whenever he is on, he is horrifying as High Chancellor Adam Sutler. We do not even see him that much asides from a screen that looms over the other members of the Norsefire party. I cannot see anyone else playing Sutler. Hugo Weaving takes a task that most actors even most studios would not risk. He never shows his face to any one for the entire film, not many actors are willing to do that and it would have been force in a scene with V taking off the mask and it would damage one of the themes of the film being that V is a symbol rather than a person that can die. That being said Hugo Weaving is great in this, he is not only a tragic figure forced to become terrorist in the hope of making the world a better place but is also a killer and a terrorist who destroys property. V is an interesting character study of when people are forced to commit terrible acts for the greater good of a country. Natalie Portman's English accent is fine, it does the job and I believe that she is English despite some slips in her voice. Her performance is also well done and she is a well written character. I cannot really think of anything wrong with this film. The sympathetic view of V might be problematic as it could be seen as sympathetic to terrorists but it is unlikely and is an analysis for another day.


                
This is not your average mindless action flick. This movie deals with several hot button issues, such as racial and religious discrimination (specially post 9-11) terrorism versus freedom fighters, and the trade off of personal freedom for safety. Naturally, there are slight exaggerations , but once you think about it, its not really that big of a stretch, seeing where we are heading and the latest political news. The action scenes were entertaining, with some nice cinematography. I had never heard of the comic books, yet the story managed to draw me in. While at times I thought the film nearly approached one too many twists, it never actually went overboard, and was very entertaining throughout. Highly recommended!


                
I thought this was an amazing movie. It was very well put together and put out an amazing message about how media lies to sway peoples idea about what goes on. Also it shows how people can come together to go against a totalitarian authority and defeat them without fear. This movie reminded me a lot of the book "1984", the movie "Wag the Dog", and the movie "Loose Change" about 9/11. It showed how the chancellor tried to cover up what was really happening by feeding lies to the public, which the publice did not buy. I recommend this movie to anyone looking for a film that makes you think about our govt and if these kind of things really happen, we just don't know about it... Great movie, one of my favorites.


                
Great movie.. I liked it a lot. I really wasn't expecting much since the Matrix series was little more than a brainless special effects reel.But this film, this one is good. Not only is Vendetta entertaining but it's also socially important. Like "A Handmaid's Tale", it's something everyone (at the very least, within the United States) should see and take consideration of.All the actors were great, the script was surprisingly good, and I have the feeling Natalie Portman's shaved head will start a trend or two."A revolution without dancing is a revolution not worth having." - V


                
The story is classic. It has parallels to Hitler, the USSR, Thatcher/Reagan and now Bush/Blair. I know the graphic novel was written in response to Thatcher(& Reagan), but given our current geopolitical climate it seems a perfect time to resurrect this story. As a fan of the novel, I was prepared for changes and tried not to mind the addition/deletion of subplots and minor changes. I liked how they adapted and updated it to todays issues. As an example- having had to be fingerprinted recently for a promotion (and having the DOJ REFUSE to tell me what happens to my "criminal history" record in IAFIS when I leave the job) - I can appreciate what it will be like when we have to use our fingerprints as an ID for everything!Overall I thought the film stuck to the imagery and the ideas in the book pretty well. A few moments rang false for me (the roaring burning guy image they kept showing only made us laugh at how bad it was). I felt as if we were in "England as Americans see it" (even I know more British cuss words than 'Bollocks'! I tried to just see it as a hybrid English/American amalgamation rather than England as it is today.I wish they had included a few things that I thought were important to the story. I felt they downplayed the xenophobia and racist genocide a bit more than they should have. Also, I thought they made a huge mistake in not portraying the economic depression that also played (and plays in today's world) a part in people's submissiveness to the regime and one of their sources (apart from fear) of power. Especially given our failing economy (at least in America) - I thought this was an important parallel that should have stayed in. Finally, while the undercurrent of love was fine, that last kiss/declaration of love was too cheesy and spoiled the last few minutes and (IMO) threw off the point of the film.The cast was superb. Even Natalie Portman who I have been ambivalent about as an actor, pulled off her role fairly well. (I appreciated the irony of John Hurt, the hero in the movie version 1984 is now one of the bad guys in a similar reminder of the dangers of fascism). The mise-en-scene was well done. This film actually makes you root for the (symbolic) destruction of a beloved global landmark.The single biggest failing though was the ADVERTISING/ product placement! There is an extremely overt brand placement of a TV brand and a shorter, less obvious computer brand placement. This insidious advertising especially does not belong in a film in which one of the themes is media control of what people think/do/(buy)and references corporations involvement in politics! These are not struggling producers who couldn't get a film financed without whoring themselves out to consumer interests. (Not to mention-it was anachronistic-how are they getting American computers if the US is in civil war and it's products are blockaded from Britain??) For shame. I deducted stars for that! I know product placement is being used in more and more films, but I do not appreciate it.
v for vendetta is a very good movie, its about the revolution in england. i saw this film in my university as my professor was very anxious about this movie.. guess what ? he was right. the film is a master piece and very well executed. but i didn't liked one thing; the action scenes are very few.. only three action scenes in the whole movie.. though the scene were brilliant.. but it could have been more.. the lead (evey) was superb and obviously V too. i was so concentrated in the movie that i saw the whole film and than came out.in conclusion very good movie.. worth watching!!8/10


                
Before I say anything about the film I want to make it clear that I thoroughly enjoyed this film.It wasn't some mindless action film as few people I know feared. instead it is an emotional and thought provoking film that raised interesting politic topics. however I was rather disheartened in which the way the original graphic novel was "adapted" for the big screen... wasn't so much adapted as almost re-written in places! some important parts were changed drastically and even omitted in some cases! but I can understand this as certain aspects of the film that had been different from the comic (drug use and prostitution) are very risky to be shown to the mass public.But all in all this will become a cult classic and comes highly recommended from me! comic adaptations are the way forward, step aside X-Four and Fantastic Men (on purpose that! :P )... make room for Dwight and V!Oh before I forget V's fight sequence at the end?... sublime!!!


                
A standard has been set for those of us who live in a society of fear. "V for Vendetta" was clearly made as a slap in our face- something to wake us up from our lazy fat slumber; a shot of adrenaline against the narcotic filth that our society fills us with every day.Many themes run through this movie, many borrowed from works we've already at least heard of. Vengeance, courage, truth, true freedom. Though the themes are not original, and even some of the movie is reminiscent of some classic works, the presentation is fantastically original and new. It's a reminder of what we have and what we're slowly giving away.This is something everyone should see.


                
Dramatically, it's a little flawed, but I'd blame that on its considerable thematic weight. It's a courageous, fascinating movie that questions and attacks US and "Coalition of The Willing" fear-mongering in the pre- and post-9/11 era. In an effort to not-so-subtly mask its primary target, its setting is post-Thatcher Britain where Big Brother, John Hurt, fans the flames of fear and spews bald-faced lies on giant TV screens to a zombified populace totally reliant on mainstream media for its "truth" and moral compass."V" (Hugo Weaving), which stands for both Victim and Vendetta, initiates a series of incendiary subversive acts he hopes will destabilize the government and cause it to fear its people rather than the other way around. Natalie Portman, in an important but not always crucial role, plays Esmeralda to V's Phantom and undergoes an interesting transformation that locks itself into V's dramatic journey.The pacing is sluggish in places and the exposition is thick, but "V For Vendetta" is a work of ideas and outrage, and it wears its heart sincerely on its sleeve. It addresses issues not only as topical as terrorism and government deception, but it also shakes up subjects as diverse as sexual intolerance, secret prisons, the media's snug relationship with the ruling party, and the purpose of violent rebellion.That a multi-national such as Time-Warner made and released this movie is, in itself, a sign that we may be emerging from a dark, cloudy period in which basic human rights have been ignored by folks claiming to be championing them with missionary-style zeal.The action set pieces, which are not numerous, are not staged on a grand scale, but they are exceptionally well directed, smartly edited, and threaded with the blackest of humor. Performances are all excellent, with Stephen Rea and Weaving stand-outs.The film is funny at times because it's truth is so raw, but the audience I saw it with in a large LA cinema was, for the most part, not laughing. I predict that this film's value may not be immediate, but it is assured.


                
It's been a long time since I left the cinema with a that feeling. You know, that special feeling you get after having seen a good movie. Today however I had that feeling again after seeing V for vendetta. I was hooked from the beginning till the end. THe movie has it all for me, humor-poetry-drama-mystery-great music-action and v strong acting. I just love Stephen Fry, ever since I saw Wilde he's been one of my favorite actors. HUgo Weaving as well, what a difficult part. how do you show emotions with a mask. What an amazing actor. Even the little girl did v well. The movie was v 1984 but with wit and romance (which was sometimes a bit weird and in a way not really necessary for the story). THe fight scene at the end was also a bit over the top and you can clearly see some Matrix features in it but the death scene and the scene with all the guy Fawkes'masks make you quickly forget those minor slips. the blowing up of parliament was an amazing scene. I felt my blood run cold even though I knew it would happen. I recommend this movie to everyone who likes a bit of drama action and philosophy and especially to those who want to see a bit of great acting!
****SPOILERS**** Futuristic drama set in 2020 Great Britian about a totalitarian government being confronted by a dark clothed freedom fighter determined to bring it down that it ends up costing him his life. Planing to make himself and intentions known to the British people on midnight November 5, V, Hugo Weaving, first rescues young British national TV employee Evey, Natalie Portman, from two government security men who are about to have her arrested for being outside on the street after curfew.V takes Evey with him onto a London rooftop as the Old Baily Building in London is blown to pieces by explosives that he planted there to the music of Tchaikovsky's 1812 overture. That results in the British dictator Chancellor Adam Sutler,John Hurt, having a fit ordering his entire army of security, as well as the British military, to find who ever did it and then bring him to justice; Which is a kangaroo trial conducted by the state without a jury.The next day V breaks into the government controlled TV studio in London and after dispatching a squad of security men goes on the air telling the Britsh people that he'll be at war with Sutler's regime with the final reckoning coming next November 5 "Guy Fawkes Day". It's then when he'll destroy the British Parliament Building that Fawkes attempted, but failed, to do back in 1605.The movie "V for Vendetta" mirrors what's happening now in the world with terrorism as the weapon of choice by the likes of Osama Bin-Ladin & Co. and has V using these same hit-and-run tactics against the British Government that he feels has betrayed and enslaved the British people. Enormously successful in his battle against the Sutler regime V nevertheless is a one man army with no one, but Evey, joining him in his fight. Which makes him a bit more then just a human being but someone with superhuman powers who can take on dozens of opponents and defeat them without as much as breaking into a sweat.We get to know V's background in a number of flashbacks that indicate that he was the subject of a government experiment that went wrong that left him scared for life. Wearing a Guy Fawkes mask and Zorro-like hat V strikes us as someone out of the 18th not 21th century. We also get some idea of how a totalitarian regime like Adam Sutler's took over the government with flashbacks about a deadly biological attack on Britian that resulted in over 100,000 deaths. Were also given the impression that it was the Sutler Regime itself that engineered that attack, making it look like it was the work of Islamic terrorists, in order to get the British people through their representatives in the Parliament to give up their rights and make Sutler a total dictator who answers to no one and to no laws.As November 5 gets closer by the day It's not V but Chancellor Sutler and his underlings who start to panic as the mysterious masked maestro knocks off key members of his regime including the "Voice of London" Lewis Profhero,Roger Allen,who we later find out was the commandant of a brutal government concentration camp where V was later almost killed in a chemical explosion. Using the London tube, or subway, V has a plan to use a train-load of explosives that will go under the Parliament Building at precisely midnight November 5 and blow the place straight to hell but Sutler won't be there. He's deposed by his handlers lead by the secretive behind the scenes Cheedy, Tim Pigoff-Smith, who together with his henchmen ends up confronting V in a battle that the result will be the future course of Britsh, as well as American and world, history.Thought-provoking film with a really surprise ending, that takes up the movies last fifteen or so minutes, that has you thinking about that famous saying about Freedom & Equality; "Freedom is not Free and all men are not Equal". That so perfectly describes the movies sheep-like and ignorant British people in the quotes beginning statement and the courageous and principled masked avenger and freedom fighter V for Vendetta in the quotes end.


                
In the world of comic books, many in the know believe that Alan Moore is the finest comics scribe to have graced many a paneled page, and I cannot argue with them. Responsible for some of the finest comic stories I have ever read, including the seminal series Watchmen, Moore has never been treated extremely well in big screen adaptations of his material. The attempts to date have included From Hell and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, neither of which were disasters, but hardly shining examples of great movies. Now, with V for Vendetta, Moore's source material has finally been given the cinematic respect it deserves.V for Vendetta comes from the Wachowski Brothers of Matrix fame, although this time they are just writers-producers, turning over directorial reins to their longtime First Assistant Director James McTeigue, who makes his feature debut with V for Vendetta. Those expecting anything in the Matrix vein will be disappointed, because this is not a film about kung fu fighting and virtual worlds, it is a film about ideas and principals, with some controversial material at it's heart.The film opens in 2019 London, where the world has changed. America is a cesspool of disease and England has become a totalitarian state under the iron-fisted rule of Supreme Chancellor Adam Sutler (John Hurt). He runs a ruthless propaganda machine that provides nightly broadcasts from a media mouthpiece known as the "Voice of England", Lewis Prothero (Roger Allam), telling the nation what to think. Nightly curfews are in place, and it is after the curfew for the evening has gone into effect that British Television Network employee Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman) has gone out to meet a friend. She is assaulted by government agents and rescued by a man dressed in a cloak and donning a Guy Fawkes mask, who goes by the name V (Hugo Weaving). V is out to destroy the London landmark the Old Bailey, accompanied by fireworks and the 1812 Overture over the city's loudspeakers.After V's first act of terrorism, he issues an offer to England's populous: stand with him at the gates of parliament in one year's time to resist the government and take back their freedom. Meanwhile, video camera's that recorded V's first act has singled out Evey, so the police are attempting to find her, and V takes her into his protective custody, but she is uncertain if V is a terrorist or a freedom fighter. V is also in the process of murdering several key member's of England's ruling party, putting police detective Finch (Stephen Rea) on his tail, but he quickly begins to discover more than he bargained for.V for Vendetta has at it's center a question that is arguably of more relevance today than when the original multi-issue mini-series was published in the 1980's: is terrorism always unjustified? Or is it sometimes a label used by those in power to stop the efforts of those attempting to undermine an oppressive regime. While the film is set in England, the issues at V for Vendetta's core are very relevant to Americans, going as far back as the American Revolution, and the events of 9/11 can't be ignored for recent volleys for this issue.While not an action film per se, V for Vendetta has a few decent action set pieces that are well staged, but they are not the film's thrust. V integrates material as diverse as Hitler's Nazi regime, featuring swastika like symbols, jack boots, intolerance of racial, and sexual, differences; the infamous George Orwell novel 1984, with it's relentless pro-state propaganda and large images of the head of it's leader consuming television screens; and finally, film noir detective stories. It is this last aspect that doesn't really work well. At times the film's scenes involving the investigation of the murder of prominent members of the society is almost the central focus, but are quickly ushered off and the connection to the remainder of the plot seems at time tenuous; you know it's important, but the screenplay doesn't quite weave the material into the other aspects of the film's story.The film's performances are mostly adequate, but there isn't really a standout. Natalie Portman, top billed, fills the role of Evey well, but is just good enough, not outstanding. The most memorable performance is actually Hugo Weaving's vocal work as V. The character never appears without his mask, so we never get a view of his face. The role was originally filled by British thespian James Purefoy, but he left over "creative differences" and Weaving took over the role, and since the actor's face is never seen, what remains on screen physically is a mixture of Purefoy, Weaving and a stuntman. However, the voice is all Weaving, and he deliver's V's often colorful lines effectively, making an impression without having to even view his countenance.Overall, V for Vendetta is an entertaining and often thought-provoking experience, almost sure to cause debate in some corners, and rightfully so. The issues it raises are not easy ones, and many will undoubtedly be offended by some of the film's material. But, without debate, there is no greater understanding, and V for Vendetta entertains while engaging. What a fresh breath of aid that can be.
