Andrei Rublev (alternately transliterated as Andrei Rublyov) is an epic film created by the Soviet-era director, Andrei Tarkovsky. It was financed and created during a brief cultural thaw in East-West relations, marked by the end of Kruschchev's reign. Within reason, the 205 minute director's cut represents exactly what Tarkovsky wanted in the movie. Unfortunately for Tarkovsky and for us, Kruschev was deposed shortly after filming began, and the 205 minute version was not seen until twenty five years after its creation. The Breszhnev-era censors first trimmed 15 minutes from it, then censors and marketers trimmed more. The shortest known version has been truncated to 145 minutes. Even more sadly, Tarkovsky was never again to get approval for the projects he really wanted to film, or an adequate budget to film the ones that did get approved.Fortunately for us, this movie, recently rereleased in a DVD transferred from a pristine 35mm print, may now be viewed intact, and it is one of the great triumphs of mankind's stay on the planet. It is a masterpiece almost without flaw. The beautiful painterly images follow one another in breathtaking succession. At least three of the eight chapters, if taken individually, could stand alone as separate masterpieces.The ostensible subject is the life of Andrei Rublev, a 15th century monk who is renowned as Russia's greatest creator of religious icons and frescoes. Rublev himself, however, is merely a useful device. Little is known about him, and most of the episodes in the movie come straight from Tarkovsky's imagination of what might have been. Sometimes one must ignore the facts to get to the truth.The movie is not about one talented monk, but about Russia, and Rublev stands in as a useful symbol since he lived in a time when he could personally witness two of the key elements in the development of Russia's unique culture: the growing force of Byzantine Christianity, and the Mongol-Tatar invasions. In addition he was an artist and a thinker, and experienced first-hand the difficulty of following those paths in Russia. Rublev's own inner conflicts allow the filmmaker to illuminate thoughts on the pagan and the sacred, the nature of art, the relationship of the artist to the state, what it means to be Russian, and what it means to be human.It is beautiful, mystical, and profound, but the truly inspiring aesthetics are matched with complete technical wizardry. I simply don't know how some of the shots were created. One I do understand, and stand in awe of, is a continuous single camera shot, just before the church door is breached by Tatar invaders, which involves action in several different locations at multiple elevations as well as the correct timing of hundreds of extras and horses. It makes the first scene of Touch of Evil look like a high school film project.It is a difficult movie to follow. One might liken it to James Joyce's Finnegan's Wake as a work of genius so monumental and complex, and so disdainful of traditional narrative form, that it requires extensive thought and study to understand it. And even after studying it, watching it repeatedly, and reading Tarkovsky's own comments about it, one still finds it opaque in many ways.Tarkovsky was free to create the work of art he wanted, without concern for profit. The original 205 minute cut was also free from outside censorship. He used this freedom to realize his personal artistic vision. There is no other movie like it, and there may never be. Score it 11 out of 10.


                
Some historical knowledge will definitely not hurt while watching this film.The medieval society was deeply religious. The church influenced every aspect of people's lives from birth to death and was part of the state. It means religious leaders were as important as rulers.In Russian society men were wearing beards and women covered hairs. Remove a beard from a man or uncover woman's hair and you will humiliate them, they would feel like modern people being undressed in public.Paganism is a form of religion, where people believe in many gods instead of one. The main Russian pagan gods are the goddess of the earth and the god of the sun. Among others - the god of storms and lightning, the mythical young women living in forests and rivers. Despite many centuries of suppression of paganism by authorities some in modern Russia still celebrate the feast of Ivan Kupala (which could be translated as Ivan Gathering) depicted in the movie.Also I have to mention, that Soviet censors told Tarkovski the movie is too cruel. They told him the scene with a burning cow, for example, is absolutely unacceptable. Tarkovski tried to defend the movie. The cow wasn't harmed, was his reasoning. Still the film was cut. The censors knew better what is good and what is not for the viewer.This brings us to what is the message of Tarkovski in this film. There are many messages actually. I'll be telling only about one here, because it is not hidden. It is there, in the dispute between Rublov and Theophanes The Greek. They both are talented, both want to bring people to humanity. Theophanes is tired, he says - common people live in darkness, they are completely consumed by sin and the only way to make them humans is to scare them and punish them. Rublov advocates for love. He says: people live very difficult life, it's amazing how they endure it. We have to love them, to remind them, they are humans, they are Russians. You see, the first is the position of the Soviet system, the second - of Jesus Christ.Me? I'm still sitting on the fence. :)I recommend to watch this movie many times. You will do it without my recommendation though, if you (like me) will not understand everything from the first view and you like to think. The mesmerizing beauty of this movie will help you to return easier. For the first time be prepared for not a cakewalk. There are two things to consider here. One is the cruelty. Though it is absolutely necessary in this film, most of us living in a comfort of modern society are not ready to it. The other is the pace. Often it is a pace of real life. Peace.


                
As someone who has seen this movie roughly five times and regards it as the greatest masterpiece in the history of cinema, I find it difficult to fathom how anyone can think that Andrei Rublev is "slow" or "boring". It is true that it's slow-paced, and perhaps too demanding in its unconventional structure of narrative, but I would prefer this to anything commercial cinema releases in its quest to appeal to as broad a market a possible. In other words, given the choice between a film that treats its audience with respect and gives you enough credit to assume you are willing to sit through roughly three hours of lengthy dialogue and long takes, not to mention some of the most mesmerisingly beautiful visuals ever seen on screen; and one which treats its audience like a demographic that can be appealed to like consumers, not individuals with their own dreams, fears, hopes and aspirations, I know which type of cinema truly bores me.It is often the case that art serves as a mechanism used to comment on social- or individuals ills; rarely however, if at all, does it reflect on itself and its own function to humanity. This is what makes Andrei Rublev a unique and important film, since it addresses the role of the artist in the world. Any questions regarding historical accuracy (or rather lack thereof) towards Rublev's personal life are slightly pointless, since the character is merely used as a vehicle to drive the thematic elements of the narrative. That's not to say that Rublev here is an empty shell, it's simply that Tarkovsky used him as a means to impose his personal views on the subject. Why create art? Does being an artist mean expressing love for humanity? If so, why should one express love for something which seems to hate itself? These are just a few of the questions which arise from viewing this film (and some of which Rublev seems to ask himself, illustrated by at first a naive belief in the good in all humanity, then disillusion, and eventually a rekindling of faith), but it makes the montage of Rublev's work at the end of the film all the more effective, since it creates an understanding of the pain and anguish that lie behind these images.To regard Andrei Rublev as one movie (assuming that the general definition of a movie is simply a big chunk of storyline) would do some injustice to the brilliantly unorthodox nature of its narrative, in that it's a collection of eight mini-story lines, all of which can be viewed as individual pieces, and three of which could easily pass as masterpieces in their own right. My personal favourite is the third one; Rublev's dialogue with Theophanes The Greek over the self-destructive nature of humanity is, to me at least, one of the most moving moments on film (this is possibly due to Theophanes voicing an opinion I personally arrived at some time before initially watching this film - and one I unfortunately happen to agree with).Like most of Tarkovsky's movies, Andrei Rublev demands repeated viewings so the film can be absorbed and understood in full. But by doing so you'll begin to realise that this is possibly the most rewarding of all cinematic works, and consequently the most wonderful. The best film ever made? I certainly think so.


                
This film is impossible to understand at once. You need to watch it at least twice to be able to understand something. At first it seems to be an abstract art-house film about a painter in the 15th century, a film which talks about one artist's plight towards his own ideals in difficult times, a philosophical/historical movie. And it may be the part of the great Tarkovsky's intention.Yet as you watch it twice you realize that it is also about religion. And about the ideal of man. The first scene clearly shows how man has always strived to reach towards something higher and how he often failed. This film is also about human nature, as always in Tarkovsky's films. We follow Andrei through his dark and troubled times and adventures and of special importance is the Tatar attack part. Here we see Tarkovsky depict the everlasting hunger for power and the effect it can have on a man. The Russian prince betrays his own country and must stand trial to his own conscience after watching the town of Vladimir get destroyed by the horde of wild Tatars. The scene in the church is also of greater significance, as is the river scene with the pagan festival. They all show the conflict of religions and also moral values.All said, the movie wouldn't be as great without the last part, the one with the boy and the church bell. It illustrates the rebirth of Russia, Christian Russia and the final scene with the hoisting of the bell is one of the best scenes ever in film history. It shows us that faith is a feeble thing;if the bell didn't work, everything would have ended differently. But thanks to a boy's dedication and hard work, the bell tolled and the faith returned to the feeble heads and hearts of people.The miraculous sudden appearance of color in the very end and the wonderful,solemn music really highlight the ultimate message of this film. Which is-art is sacred and immortal and transcends time.At the time of its release, I believe only Tarkovsky himself and perhaps Andrey Kontchalovsky, the co-writer, knew just how great a masterpiece this film really is. It has taken the world some time to discover it, but it was worth it. With perfect acting, specially by Anatoli Solonytsin, perfect music, perfect screenplay and perfect direction, what else can I give it but a perfect 10?
One of the finest films ever made. Films like this are what give the medium its purpose. It is rich, beautifully shot and acted, and extraordinarily powerful. Like all great works of art, it requires many viewings and much thought to discover the various layers of intellectual and aesthetic meaning within it. That is why a simple description of the plot would give the prospective viewer little idea of what the movie is actually about. True, it is the tale of Russia's greatest icon painter. But it is also a rumination on art, the artist, relgion, love, culture, conformity, cruelty, and much more. See it and discuss it with some bright friends.


                
This movie is set in mediaeval Russia, the world of unspeakable cruelty, poverty and injustice. And yet, this is a profoundly humanistic, profoundly spiritual, profoundly individualistic and profoundly uncompromising film. The photography is absolutely beautiful, mesmerising, original and superb. But it is the anguished soul and conscience of this film and of its main hero that truly make this a great picture.There are no cliches here, no stereotypes and no sucking up to the audience. A brutally honest and yet very moving, touching and optimistic film. And it is not about the nature of a genius. Rather, it is about a man's ability and duty to preserve and be true to his humanity, his freedom, his soul, his heart and his gift, no matter what century it is or what the circumstances are. Watch it to remind yourself of what it really means to be human.


                
Considering the great quantity of films in existence, there are very few that even come close to being considered the greatest of all time. Having seen my share of 'masterpieces' I have come to regard Andrei Rublev as the greatest of them all, although I admit that this is debatable. Nonetheless, this film seems to be stigmatized as being too long or boring - maybe because it's by Tarkovksy, or that it's black and white, or that it's Russian - I really don't know where this comes from. If you can get past any preconceived notions of what the movie is going to be like,and just sit down for a few seconds and watch it, you will probably be able to see from the beginning that this is an extremely important, unmissable film - not to mention captivating and exciting, although very dark and disturbing throughout. The amount of skill and thought, and work that went into this film echoes within the timeless imagery that the director has created. Any serious fan of the cinema would be doing themselves a serious disservice by avoiding this movie any longer. If you interested in the works of Gurdjieff and Ouspensky, you'll be able to take something of another level from this film, as there are many subtle references and parallels to their writings and teachings throughout this movie. It could be argued that the film itself is a cinematic representation of the law of three. Regardless, this is a truly extraordinary thing to behold.


                
You cannot see this movie without being prepared. You want to see it preferably alone with no disturbances. And you need patience and the right mood - contemplative, philosophical.This movie is an experience. I have seen nothing like it and doubt I ever will. I am a cynic by nature yet this movie completely affected me, even though I cannot put a finger on why. I broke down and wept at the end of the bell making scene. It was a spiritual experience.Andrei Rublev was my first Tarkovsky which helped (he does get repetitive across movies), but it's still easily his best work. In my opinion, that's because this movie proves that art and hard work are not mutually exclusive, but in fact good art *requires* hard work. Just notice how much vision and effort has gone into the last bell making scene. Also the raid scene, the orgy scene, the violence, all these are impossible to be art without the effort.I feel like I'm overselling but this movie is a masterpiece. Watch it.


                
This is the most visually moving film I've seen. Until Rublev, I didn't truly understand how stunning and engaging a film could be.  The vignettes of Russian life are very thought-provoking, the cinematography the best I've seen, and the result is a film that moves me every time I watch it. Approach it with an open mind, and be prepared for a slowly unfolding story. Do this, and you'll be deeply rewarded and satisfied in a way that few films will ever match.


                
I follow several threads of fine films. Most of these concern intelligent notions of structure, of architecture. Welles, Greenaway, Eisenstein, Kurosawa. These mend sense and intellect enhancing both.But there is another thread, one that eschews selfaware structure -- where idea is anathema. Nature is celebrated. Rich intuition and meditative spontaneity are sufficiently nutritious in some hands, but these are amazingly few. The so-called 'new wave' tried it, at least initially. Lots of other appearances as well, mostly failures, some lovely. Among the attempts, I know of only two filmmakers who have mastered this tricky approach of avoiding knowledge: Tarkovsky and Malick. Of these, Malick is more abstractly sensual.After all, Tarkovsky must deal with that dark cloth of Russian self-pity, that tradition of grand themes and epic fate, something which does not burden Malick. So the metaphoric content is heavy. That's fine, an acceptable skeleton for a nearly three hour meditation. All is self-referential: a set of images about an imagemaker: the actor's wife played the retarded girl who factors so importantly. During the production he was cheating on her with who was to become his second wife. The girl goes off with a Tartar, leaving Rublev. Many other scenes refer to Rublev's situation, resolved by Tarkovsky's action. For instance, we have a sequence where Rublev hesitates to paint a scene of fateful pain. This is followed by Tarkovsky doing just that. The extension of metaphor among parts of the film (ballooner and bellringer to Rublev's story) extends from the film to the filmmaker and thence from him to us.What I found even more interesting was his confidence in complex compositions and long, long multiperspective tracking shots. Compared to other swoopers, this camera seems curious, impetuous, not at all as if the shots were planned. Hard to believe it is only his second feature. This alone expands one's imagination with only a couple viewings, but combined with the notion of folded metaphor (including visual metaphor) it becomes a truly great and singular work.(Some classical symmetries touch multiple places: a jester within the play; solitude in the context of relationship; creating in the unknown; broken symmetry through one twin killing another. Some new ones: pagan fire and water underlying ritual exuberance, either sex or religious art.)Alas, the DVD has a discouragingly vapid commentary. But then I guess that's the whole point, and with the loss of potatohead Soviets, we need to substitute the next best thing.


                
I recently watched the 205 minute cut of Andrei Rublev, on a DVD from the Criterion Collection. At first, I was extremely confused. But soon enough I was able to accept the fact that this would not be a "conventional" movie, so to speak, and sat back and relaxed, ready for one of the greatest cinematic experiences of my life.That being said, once I was finished, I thought, "Meh." The film seemed to me to be overly long and a bit boring in parts. I still liked it, but thought that it was overrated.But then I couldn't get it out of my head. I kept thinking about the symbolism, the beautiful black and white cinematography, the somber performances, the haunting soundtrack, and the brilliant direction.I realized that to view this film, one must be prepared to watch three and a half emotionally taxing hours of pure, unadulterated genius. And so, within a few hours, my opinion of this movie changed to mediocre to one of the greatest movies of all time.God, looking back on what I've written, I realize that I must sound like a pretentious hipster d-bag. I assure you this is not the case, and my reviews, on IMDb or otherwise, don't usually come across like this. I can only say, this is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and one that requires repeat viewings.


                
The more I explore Tarkovsky the more I get confused. No, don't take me wrong, I get confused in which movie of his should be my favorite. Ivan, Solaris, Stalker all were 9/10 that is I simply loved all those, but after watching this I have to rate this as 11/10 and my favorite AK's creation but it doesn't seem very real as all his other movies (so far I have seen) are all simply beautiful. AK's movies are the link between me and Russia, as I am not Russian and don't even know their language, culture or even country very well. So after watching his work it seems to me as if I am getting closer to the country and everything about it. It's an amazing experience for me as a viewer and a person.Now talking about Rublev, this movie is rather than a story of Rublev is a story of his times, times he lived in. Turbulent times that Russia in general went through as he lived in it as a painter. I think this is a major point why this movie is so good and works so well. The photography is amazing each frame of the movie is actually as if a work of painter, background score is too good blends very well with the scenes, acting too is good especially the main central role. He makes you feel his problems, worries, soul search all as real. Coming to direction it is undoubtedly one of the best works of Tarkovsky and I wonder why this movie is not listed in any of the top 100 movies of all time as a matter of fact any other Tarkovsky's movies. Each frame of the movie is picture perfect right from the opening scene when a man is trying to fly in the hot balloon to the end when the bell is tolled perfectly to the great art work of Tarkovsky in real. The movie has all the Tarkovsky's signature element in them, beautiful use of earth elements air, water and fire to the great effect as well his soul searching, God related questions, answers, explanation and all. Also most important point for many movie goers who criticize him for his slow paced movies, this one is very different from his other movies, even though it's long but not for a single second you will feel bored as it is not slow paced and keeps you engaged in the story. Rating: 11/10. I cannot wait to explore his other movies.


                
To review Tarkovsky's crowning achievement one must realize that this is a film that goes above and beyond what anything from any other filmmaker is capable of. Andrei Rublev is a film that goes beyond the capacity of conventional cinema (art film or otherwise)and becomes the essence of film as art. Andrei Rublev ceases to proclaim a message as many other films, but rather offers what every filmmaker strives for: a look at why art exists, and its role in life for all beings. Andrei Rublev is a film that won't speak to everybody, it won't even speak to all artists, but to those it speaks to will become moved in ways unimaginable. The film captures not only the essence of the artist's purpose, but also our purposes as individuals.The film begins with a short scene wherein a man tries to fly, but comes crashing down witnessed only by a horse. This short scene alone offers so much, the man representing the fall of all men or our need to become above other creatures, the horse representing life or loneliness and the barren countryside representing a world that is unfriendly to all men. This scene alone is up for multiple interpretations, many of which would be equally right. The film never tells you how to look at it, but allows you to bring your own philosophy and meaning to it. Ultimately its basic themes are vivid, but its many meanings remain as ambiguous as ever, countless viewings will bring more and more to the film, and in truth it is probably impossible to fully fathom the meaning of it. As with all great art it must be experienced and made to relate to one personally to find its meaning, it cannot just be viewed and admired.The vivid themes of the film come from the ideas of art, man's need for art and the artist's role in history. Andrei Rublev is a film that deals with both the futility of being a Christian artist in a Godless world, and with the impact art can have to bring God to a more personal level. These themes are developed in seven stages, each one differing immensely from the other, with the core ideas and the artist Rublev being shared in every one. Though these themes seem to center around and deal exclusively with art, they are very implicit to every human being's lifestyle. Art can be used as an allegory for our gifts, the idea that we should not hide what we can offer the world, just as the artist should not hide his art from the world. Our gifts and talents can be used to glorify God and bring hope, even if the world does not have a lot of hope, despite the often felt futility of doing what we are gifted in, we bring goodness into the world through them.Ultimately the film offers this at its core, however there are many more ideas and meanings the individual must bring out of the film to impart its full impact. Through patience and connections the viewer can make the film into a personal experience and in doing this may become moved deeper than ever before. After all isn't this every artists wish?


                
Andrei Rublyov (1969) by Andrei Tarkovsky is my number 1 (shares with Tarkovsky's Zerkalo) film of all time. It is a pinnacle of film-making for me - one of few most visually beautiful films as well as one of the deepest films ever. The beauty of every frame is exquisite - I have to pause film very often just to admire it.There are only couple of more films that have touched me as profoundly as Andrei Rublyov did. I am always surprised to hear that it is very slow film - for Tarkovsky, it is very well paced, and I am never tired of its 3+ hours running time. Film based on life of the 15-th century monk and icon painter Andrei Rublyov who wanders through the country torn by barbarism, and later by Tatar invaders. Tarkovsky explores several very important topics in his film: what is talent and how an Artist is responsible for it? The Man and God, the Artist and the Power. The final 20 minutes of the film are the best and most inspiring I've seen in the cinema. For me, the last chapter of the film, "The Bell" is perhaps the greatest in its emotional impact piece of cinema ever made. I can't stay calm and collected when I see it. Boriska sobbing like a child after his Bell rings - and he is a child, a boy, lonely and lost; Andrei breaking his vows of silence, his words to Boriska of hope, of many roads they would walk together. Andrei's icons that we are finally allowed to behold and admire, their breathtaking divine beauty and serenity, their melodic lines and pure joyful colors, the faces of the saints and angels with their eternal mystery, quiet knowledge and sadness, looking inside themselves and inside our very souls; the music that literally takes you somewhere above this Earth, to the heights of such purity and beauty that you could hardly breath and where even the "swiftest birds" of pain and death can't reach you...


                
Don't bother with this film if you haven't got patience. Don't bother with it if you aren't interested in being challenged by a serious art film. There is nothing fast or light here. Those who are seeking out films that are spiritual, reflective and artistic, you've found one of the absolute best.One could recommend it simply as a master-class in visual composition. Tarkovsky shares some of the mature Fellini's sensibilities for many different elements of dimension and movement in a medium or long shot. There are often people in the fore, and background. He includes fog, smoke, or drifting snow to add further dimension to the shot. It is very painterly. It is an interesting approach to a biopic of a painter that barely ever shows him paint. Instead, the encounters he has, the things he sees, and his reactions to these things are what inform us. His work is showcased at the end of the narrative, as a coda to the story. How true to history Rublev's story is, in my opinion isn't important. Tarkovsky has created a protagonist, and events that not only explore the mind of the man well, but also give an overview of what Russia was going through at that time. I recently watched this film for the second time. While the first viewing left me thinking that the ending segment is the strong pay-off for the patience it takes to watch the unabridged version (the Criterion Collection DVD was my my medium of viewing this film),on second viewing, I thoroughly enjoyed it from beginning to end. I would also recommend the partial commentary on the CC DVD in helping inform the viewer about Tarkovsky's approach to making this film. Rating: first viewing- 8 of 10 second viewing- 10 of 10


                
Arguably the best film in Russian cinema crafted by the one of greatest filmmakers of all time, and considered by some to one of the best films ever made.Andrei Tarkovsky had already put himself on the map as an internationally-recognized director by the time this film was made, having won the Golden Lion award in Venice for his first full-length feature film IVAN'S CHILDHOOD.ANDREI RUBLYOV was his second feature and remains his most ambitious and monumental undertaking. The script, by Tarkovsky and Andrei Konchalovsky, follows historical record scrupulously and where no record was available, makes educated speculation in its story about the title 15th-century icon painter's tribulations.The story's universal concerns of finding meaning, direction and conviction in one's life transcend the cultural and historical trappings. The film is uncompromising in its level of historical detail, entirely unsentimental and is devoid of Soviet propaganda, and so inevitably when it came out, Soviet censors suppressed it, demanding cuts. The film was not seen by the world at large until seven years after its completion, four years after winning the International Critics' Prize at the Cannes Film Festival.There are several versions of the film running up to 205 minutes. The 185-minute cut was Tarkovsky's preferred version.


                
Andrei Rublev (1969)**** After the successful debut with Ivan's Childhood (1962) very talented Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky decided to shot a picture about the XV Century famous icon painter.This is not a typical biography film since there are little facts about Rublev. Instead, Tarkovsky used this historic figure to tell some universal truths about mankind in general and Russians in particular.However, he made a masterpiece. This is very demanding movie that requires multiple viewings to fully grasp its amazing content enriched by extraordinary shots. It's like reading a heavy Dostoyevsky novel <U+0096> sometimes you must repeat some parts. But, if you are open-minded and concentrated the whole way through you'll be richly rewarded with some brilliantly clever, revealing and meaningful content about human vanity, responsibility and spirituality. Tarkovsky's skill is tremendous, pace is deliberate (in good sense), photography and sounds are breathtaking and acting is superb. You won't find entertainment in this one unless entertainment is profound meditation on human nature. So, if your favorite movie is something like Harry Potter... don't bother with this one.


                
This is a very unusual film, you have to come prepared to a slowly unwinding film full of powerful imagery. It pays to be wide awake. Even if you don't like the first 3/4th of the film (and it is quite violent at times), please hang on for the final part, the one about the bell.This last bit is a monument to both human Hubris and to what people can do when they believe in something. It is a divinely inspired piece of cinema, and I'm crying as I'm typing this. You must absolutely see it, if you can, and on the big screen.


                
Howard Hawks defined a masterpiece as a film with three great scenes and no bad ones. What would Hawks have said about Andre Rublev, a film with no bad scenes and some fifty scenes that are not just great but perfect in every aspect? This is one of the most difficult films ever made, so don't expect a cake walk going into it. Truth be told, I shut it off after the first tape of two on my first attempt. I tried it again later the same week, and found it to be one of the best film ever made, maybe even the best (although I'd have to see it once more to confirm that). When the screen went black, I was ready to pass out. It was a complete religious experience, one that can bring you closer to God than any church or even Bible ever could.


                
What Tarkovsky has created here is nothing short of a masterpiece. I consider this to be a truly landmark film. How, exactly, is it landmark? This is the first film that established cinema as an art form. Sure, there were plenty of great films before. However, they were just that: great films. There were great paintings before painting became a pure art, just as there were great songs before music became an art.What is art? Was there ever a more passionately debated question that the meaning of art? Art is nothing that can be defined by words; words are merely symbols, and symbols each represent an individual concrete idea, which make up sentences that best attempt to explain a concrete idea. Anyone who has read George Orwell's NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR is familiar with this concept. In it, the totalitarian government tries to be, well, a completely totalitarian government. It is so extreme that it even attempts to control the thoughts of humankind by changing the language they speak. This is precisely what language does - it limits ideas. How is this barrier surpassed? Though art, by Jove! Tarkovsky's only major film before this was IVAN'S CHILDHOOD. While an excellent film itself, it was only the precursor to a great filmmaker's oeuvre. The only other Tarkovsky films I've seen are STALKER and THE MIRROR. He has a very distinct, personal style. His films are the closest anybody has gotten to a creating a memory. They are not traditional story lines. This is where the landmark effect comes in. Before Tarkovsky, there were, as I have said, other great films. For example, there was the American CITIZEN KANE. At its time, it was a really revolutionary film, and the closest anything had gotten to being a piece of art. Many scenes from Citizen Kane were nothing short of mesmerizing. However, the film itself was still just a film, albeit excellent. Movies from that time were not yet an independent art form. They were sort of a mixture of other arts for all of the senses. For aural, there was music; painting, sculpture, and photography were feasts to the visual senses; for the mind, literature was created, taking the forms of books and plays. When movies came around, they were a combination of these older delights. Some music scores could stand alone by themselves. The stories told in movies were either adapted from an older play or book, or were written in such a way that they could easily be made into a play or book. The most beautiful films consisted of 24 potential pictures to be placed in a gallery per second. They never really fit together all too well. Sure, in the best films (again, CITIZEN KANE) they seemed at ease with each other, but they were still somewhat detached. Tarkovsky was the genius who changed this. Yes, there are those people who will claim that, "Oooh, the pretty images were my favorite part," or "I found the choral music to be absolutely delightful." That's not the point. Each of the elements of this film is like a brushstroke in a mural or a single violin in a grand orchestra. They all become one to form a new art: cinema. This new cinema can feel like many different things. Some people might get a dream or a pleasant memory from it. This is more the case with Tarkovsky's THE MIRROR. What is found most in ANDREI RUBLEV is a variety of emotions. The ultimate experience is that of finding artistic influence. Rublev, the title character, is never actually shown working on one of his paintings. The audience never even gets a good look at one until the very end. It's more about what made him into an artist. A good way of describing this is that it's a piece of art about art. Rublev's art is icon paintings. There is a young boy whose art is church bells. Tarkovsky, the good religious man, shows that God's art was his beautiful creations like the plants in nature and the animals that roam the land (namely horses). All of this is created by the struggles that every human experiences. We cannot express pain if we have never felt it. We cannot express joy if we have never experienced it. Throughout the film, the audience slowly begins to understand just how complex this idea really is. Tarkovsky has created something of an oneiric beauty himself. He does not limit himself; as he had often tried to stress, there are no symbols in a Tarkovsky film, only images. These images express what symbols cannot. This film reminded me in a way of a story told in Michelangelo Antonioni's THE PASSENGER. In it, there is a blind man who finally is cured. At first, he is in love with what he sees, but after a while, all he notices is all the ugly dirt everywhere, and so he decides to end his life. A Tarkovsky film has the opposite effect. It is so beautiful that we begin to see the whole world as it really is. It is easy to forget the grandeur of old trees or the soothing waves that a breeze of wind creates when it passes a field of grass. ANDREI RUBLEV is a refreshing reminder of these; it has one of the most satisfying conclusions in cinema history. The spiritual people have a god (or several) to thank, while everybody else can just relax and enjoy the beauty that has evolved from nature. It's not very often that a movie changes ones outlook on life.
We know so little about Rublyov and there are very few historical documents, all very brief. What is known is that he lived in 15th-century Russia and that he is considered to be the greatest Russian iconographer. I think I can start already from here by telling that the movie Andrey Rublyov is (among other things) the story about artist and his position in the world, pictured through the regime of the middle-age Russia in this particular case but the story has universal character.You can be very famous (Rublyov surely is!) but yet history might not know anything about you. An artist is often (so to say) a product of his/her time because no one is isolated from the historical events in one way or another. This movie (to quote Tarkovsky) will tell you of the impossibility of creating art outside of the nation's aspirations, of the artist's attempts to express its soul and character, and of the way that an artist's character depends upon his historical situation. As an artist, I was deeply moved by this movie. There is also some hardness that lasts long after the movie ended<U+0085> Although the movie is named by Andrey Rublyov, he appears to be just one of the characters, often passive as he is merely observing the situation but deeply affected by the events.All main characters are different and interesting. All of them have their own tales, personal philosophy and approach to art and events. For example, Theophanes the Greek is already an established iconographer, old enough to live without illusions. For him, art is but a craft. I liked some of his lines very much, like when he said: Yes, I'm going to die. The other day, I saw an angel in my dream. "Come with me," he says. And I answer: "I'm going to die soon anyway, without your help." Or when he said (referring to people): Today they praise, tomorrow they'll abuse what they praised only yesterday, and after that they'll forget both you and me. They'll forget everything! The script is written by Andrei Konchalovsky and Tarkovsky. The particular historical background is not bright but has history ever been?! Religion and the regime are in the center of the story but there is much more than that.The entire movie is black and white except the very end, where we can see the actual Rublyov's iconography and that almost gives a sense of the miracle.The movie won three awards. Not enough I would say! Tarkovsky's cinematography is simply beautiful! I think this is a must see movie.


                
It's hard to describe and put into words just how great something is without going overboard but this is one of those rare films that deserves all the praise in the world. Why this isn't mentioned by more critics and die-hard film buffs is a mystery because this is easily one of the greatest achievements I've ever seen and it puts to shame some of the other films that have had the monitor "Great" slapped on them. Story is about the 15th century Russian monk and painter Andrei Rublyov (Anatoli Solonitsyn) who is summoned by the Grand Prince to work with Theophanes the Greek (Nikolai Sergeyev) in painting the Cathedral of the Annunciation in Moscow.*****SPOILER ALERT***** During Rublyov's journey he witnesses first hand many of the atrocities that are taking place in his country including a pagan orgy (in which he is tempted) and the Tartar raids that has Rublyov himself killing another man. All of this leads to Rublyov making a vow of silence, "I have nothing more to say to men" but over the next year he witnesses the casting and raising of a bell by a bell-maker's son (Nikolai Burlyayev) who knows that he will killed by the Grand Prince if it is not successfully completed. Rublyov is so moved by this that it restores his faith (spiritually and artistically) and tells the boy that they should go together, "You'll cast bells. I'll paint icons".With this one film director Andrei Tarkovsky has achieved something that most (if not all) other filmmakers could only dream of but he still had to deal with the Russian censors who forced Tarkovsky to edit certain scenes of brutality. The question of what is art and what inspires it has been a debate with Tarkovsky throughout his career but with Andrei Rublyov he seems to use him as a metaphor for where artistic motivation comes from. Without poverty and inhumanity would there be art? Tarkovsky asks these questions but this film is more than just thought provoking because it's also one of the most visually stunning cinematic efforts I have ever seen. Cinematographer Vadim Yusov's haunting black and white imagery makes the bleak Russian countryside look absolutely breathtaking and this is one the finest films ever shot. At 205 minutes this fragmented and episodic film covers events from 1400 to 1423 and while other films are lucky to have at least one memorable scene in it this seems to be one incredible shot after another and the casting of the bell stands as one the most indelible celluloid microcosms ever captured. From the opening scene to the end shots where the viewer can see Rublyov's actual paintings Tarkovsky's epic film is indeed a masterpiece and it's the perfect example of cinema as art.
What is striking about the film is how everything seems to be meaningful: a bird flying over, ripples in the watter, a face in the crowd. You just know Tarkowski put it there on purpose. Sometimes you can guess what the purpose was, and sometimes not. And it's okay, because often Tarkowski himself couldn't explain the things he did. He wanted the symbols to have different meanings to different people.His black-and-white cinematography is gorgeous. You can tell that each shot was planned like a painting.Warning: people with short attention spans and seekers of immediate gratification (in other words 99% of American public) should not watch this movie.


                
First of all, this is a movie about the medieval age in Russia. It's about a dark and dangerous time. I wouldn't wish to be born at that period of time even to my worst enemy. The only island of stability and culture in that ocean of darkness is a Church institution.This movie is a set of episodes from around a life of famous icon painter, a monk Andrey Rublev. Yes, it is not exactly his life stories; these stories about a life of that time, about hideosity, about severity. There is much naturalism in it; but there's no "too much" naturalism feeling which leads to a poor style. You understand it while watching: this is the way that it was then, nothing more.It is a masterpiece of photography and scenery. A visual image settles firmly into my memory. It is a genius acting; even a small role of Yuri Nikulin is a diamond between other diamonds. Crowd scenes are really massive. Altogether, there is a complete diving into the atmosphere of the movie.I don't much connected with faith nor religion internally. It's not close to my feelings. But I don't think that the movie is about religious feelings. Also I do not know much about details of that period of time in Russia; but it's not really matters too, methinks. But I consider this movie as a genuine art, and I'm very proud that my homeland is a homeland for a such genius person as film director Andrey Tarkovsky.I heard that Tarkovsky was a kind of fanatic. I heard that for achieving maximum realism he allowed horses to break their legs due a filming process; or even some people accuse him in burning a cow alive during the battle scene of Golden Horde's warriors raid. I do not know how much truth are in that statements, and I wouldn't comment these no more. All I know that his fanaticism was well transformed into a great result which couldn't be achieved by anyone but him.My rate: 10/10


                
This film is one of the unchallengeable masterpieces of the cinema-Citizen Kane, The Leopard, The Children of Paradise, The first two Godfather films, Raging Bull, The Life of Colonel Blimp, Rules of the Game,Bondarchuck's War and Peace, Sunrise, Eight and a Half,Diary of a Country Priest, The General( Keaton's, not Boorman's), Vertigo, The Searchers- that are simply unassailable. To question the moral, aesthetic, and spiritual grandeur of this exquisite work of art, is to betray that one has something missing deep within ones soul, and to question its beauty betrays that one has no eyes. Has any film-maker ever come up with  scenes comparable to the casting of the great bell of Kiev, or the pagan witches sabbath? Has ANY film other than 2001, ended with such dazzling beauty as this?


                
