After being tortured with poor Russian film-making for my first three outings <U+0096> One Day In the Life of Ivan Denisovich (1970), Night Watch (2004), and Russian Ark (2002) <U+0096> I was lucky enough to experience the greatness of Andrei Tarkovsky with four consecutive quality films <U+0096> Solaris (1972), Stalker (1979), The Mirror (1975), and Ivan's Childhood (1962) <U+0096> the last of which is no less than spectacular. Riding on cloud 9, I popped Andrei Rublev into my DVD player with quiet anticipation as this film is considered by many to be Tarkovsky's greatest film (and one of the best films ever made).Sufficed to say that my excitement subsided slightly after a ridiculous opening air balloon sequence, and dissipated completely within the first hour of mind-numbing boredom. Tarkovsky's trademark atmospherics are nowhere to be found, the dialogue consists of tireless sermonizing, and the scoring is hopelessly over-dramatic. I can't believe that this film was made by the same director of the aforementioned quality films. This outing feels like one of those over-hyped Hollywood "classics" that are moreso exercises in amateurish movie-making that are lucky enough to earn recognition from nostalgic sympathy alone. Overpraised, poorly made tripe like this is why many people refuse to watch older movies.Now, I've read a boatload of positive reviews that point out the various symbols and hidden meanings within this film, so I revisited certain portions with added vigor. To my disappointment, however, the film continued to hold no more interest than an instruction manual. Give me a 150-minute Yasujiro Ozu film any day of the week and I'll eat through it in one sitting. But "Andrei Rublev" is dry, coma-inducing cinema at its worst. I'm sure film students and their kin will love dissecting the various camera angles, but the entertainment value of this film is near zilch. Unlike some of the PETA nutcases here who rate this film a 1/10 due to horse-killings, I dislike "Andrei Rublev" because it's quite simply an incredibly dull film. The running time is about an hour too long. Disregarding the fact that self-congratulatory, pretentious directors like Peter Jackson and Akira Kurosawa would find much to like in an additional 60 minutes of nothingness tacked onto an already stretched out movie, I need to apply my objectivity and point out that "Andrei Rublev" is sheer torture to sit through from beginning to end. Nostalghia (1983) is nearly as torturous, by the way.Overly long, blandly shot, frequently silly, and hopelessly dull, this exercise in over-dramatic fluff proves once and for all that most people have no taste in film whatsoever. There's no valid reason for this pile of horse manure to be considered a better film than the excellent "Ivan's Childhood." I know that fans of "art-house" movies frequently lack the inner strength to criticize a film such as this, but some objectivity would be appreciated for those of us who care more for entertaining cinema than directorial pandering. Every director has some duds in their portfolio. Live with it.One thing that surprises me is how a frankly religious film such as this is uniformly praised by IMDb users. Most of the users I know are raving liberal atheists with a giant stick up their rear-end, so it's interesting to see them pine over this movie like no-brain lemmings. I guess artsy pretentiousness automatically overrides their fanatical hatred for religion, because the superficial preachy ramblings are laid on thick and fast in "Andrei Rublev." How do all of these naturalists reconcile their subconscious thoughts <U+0096> which are probably uttering the word "bullsh*t" after every line of dialogue in this movie <U+0096> with their snobby lust for art-house trash? I would pay for the research funds if a psychologist wished to perform this study. Incredibly interesting stuff.


                
