Just as Andrei Rublev faced doubt about whether or not, having sinned, he could continue his celebrated iconography, I likewise find myself in two minds about Andrei Tarkovsky's film. My experience with the director's other work is, as usual, limited, but I still couldn't shake that persistent expectation that I would love 'Andrei Rublev (1969).' There is certainly much to love about it, but my appreciation for the film can best be described as admiration rather than affection, and, though I can speak with only the utmost praise for Tarkovsky's achievement, it doesn't occupy that exclusive space close to my heart. The film is a deeply-personal religious work, an examination of faith and moral values, and so perhaps it's inevitable that the film didn't leave such a deep impression, considering my preference towards atheism; one unfortunately cannot discard all personal convictions for the mere purposes of appreciating a work of art. I do, however, like to think that the majesty of cinema, in most cases, is able to transcend religious boundaries.Andrei Tarkovsky released his first feature-length film, 'Ivan's Childhood,' in 1962. Even prior to its release, the director had already expressed interest in filming the life of great Russian iconographer Andrei Rublev, even though very little is actually known about his life. Working with a screenplay written by himself and Andrei Konchalovsky, Tarkvosky began filming in 1964, and a 205-minute cut was screened for a private audience in Moscow in 1966. The critical response, however, was mixed, and sizeable cuts were made to the film's running time, before a 186-minute version screened out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival in 1969. I'm not entirely sure which version I ended up watching; the time counter indicated somewhere around 165 minutes, though my brief research couldn't uncover any major missing sequences. In hindsight, I should probably have held out for longer and acquired the Criterion Collection DVD, which restores the picture to its four-hour glory. In several years' time, when I inevitably decide to revisit Tarkovsky's film, I'll make certain to do just that.'Andrei Rublev' is divided into nine distinct segments, including a colour epilogue displaying Rublev's weathered icons as they exist today. They each explore a facet of the great painter's life, placing particular emphasis on his faith in God and how it relates to his work on frescos and icons. Interestingly, though Rublev (Anatoli Solonitsyn) himself appears in most of the stories, he is often hidden in the background, a passive observer on the behaviour of others, including Kirill (Ivan Lapikov), who is jealous of Rublev's recognition, and young Boriska (Nikolai Burlyayev), who successfully casts a bell using faith rather than knowledge. One consequence of this narrative format is a lack of cohesiveness in Tarkovsky's storytelling. We adequately follow the plot of each segment, but, as the whole, the film doesn't seem to build towards any notable climactic revelation <U+0096> the completed film is equal to the sum of its parts, which is still very impressive, but pulls it short of being a masterpiece. Once again, however, I must acknowledge that the 205-minute version may potentially correct this problem.One statement that can not be disputed, however, is that 'Andrei Rublev' really is a beautiful piece of film-making. Vadim Yusov's black-and-white photography captures the exquisite delicateness of nature with almost heartbreaking intricacy; even the raindrops of a midday shower are imbued with the gentle elegance of the Heaven from which they ostensibly fell. Tarkovsky finds simple beauty in the quiver of a tree branch in the breeze, the leisurely flow of a river, herds of livestock fleeing from an aerial balloon. In portraying the complete opposite, the destruction of nature, the director is capable but not quite the master he is otherwise. The raiding of Vladimir by a troop of Tatars was obviously supposed to be the centrepiece of the picture, but Tarkovsky underplays every detail to such an extent that his "chaos" ultimately winds down into a staged conflict. Compare this sequence with Sergei Bondarchuk's burning of Moscow in 'War and Peace (1967),' in which one feels as though he has descended into the fires of Hell, and the contrast is telling.


                
My Rating : 8/10Why is this such a great film? Well, for one, it is Andrei Tarkovsky and he is the ultimate master of the visual medium.Films like this are what give the medium its purpose. It is rich, beautifully shot and acted, and extraordinarily powerful. Like all great works of art, it requires many viewings and much thought to discover the various layers of intellectual and aesthetic meaning within it. That is why a simple description of the plot would give the prospective viewer little idea of what the movie is actually about.In Andrei Tarkovsky's hugely ambitious 1966 epic of medieval Russia, a young man whose village and family have been destroyed by the plague convinces the Grand Prince to let him make a beautiful new bell. The boy, named Boriska (and played by Nikolai Burlyaev with a whipsawing combination of youthful exuberance and self-flagellating despair), comes from a family of bell makers. Boriska claims that before his father died, he revealed to him the secret of casting a bronze bell. The boy, fresh-faced and inexperienced as he is, is hired. He enlists a small army of workers and runs them ragged as the seasons pass. Bouncing around like a busy bumblebee, he berates them about the right kind of clay, the right kind of pit, the right amount of silver, and at one point even has his best friend flogged for insubordination. Only briefly, and secretly, does he betray any hesitation, any sense that he might fail. Giant holes are dug; coarse chunks of dirt pass among dry, scabbed hands; massive fires are built; mad, exasperated eyes stare out at us in indignation, fear, doubt, petulance. Are these people forging a bell or a new world?Finally, the bell is built, and hung, and rung. We wait an unbearably long time for its clapper to finally strike and send off a loud, low, clear, and perfect chime; Tarkovsky was known for making long, deliberately paced movies, but he was also a master of suspense. Having succeeded at long last, Boriska collapses in tears and frustration. Now, the film's protagonist, the legendary Russian monk and icon painter Andrei Rublev (Anatoly Solonitsyn, in one of the great passive performances of cinema history), comes to the young man and comforts him. Amid his tears, Boriska reveals that his father never imparted to him the secret of bell making. The boy has been, essentially, flying blind.Rublev is a mesmerizing portrait of an artist and cleric undone by a world that is cruel, chaotic, unexplainable. And it's obviously about a lot more than medieval Russia; Tarkovsky never shot an impersonal frame, and he spent his entire career struggling for the integrity of his work. Suppressed by Soviet authorities, Rublev wasn't seen in the USSR until 1971. Tarkovsky's diaries from the period, among the most candid and anguished writings you'll ever read by a filmmaker, are filled with exasperated accounts of officials placing obstacles in the path of his picture's release, even as it garners praise and awards internationally. When the movie finally opened at home, the director saw no ads or posters for it anywhere, even though it was selling out its screenings. Many of his later films would suffer even worse fates.Rublev's crisis of faith comes as a result of confronting a world that doesn't seem in any way to reflect the divinity to which he's dedicated his life. He's a monk wandering a godless world, unsure if there is anything beyond the misery and horror he sees all around him. Boriska has the bell he doesn't know how to make, and Rublev has the icons he's forgotten how to paint. To that duo we may also add Tarkovsky, with the films he's not allowed to direct, or release. All three men must find a way to persevere, to not only act as if there is a different, better world, but in some way to help bring it about through - and, perhaps more importantly, within - their work. What if, Tarkovsky seems to ask, the silence of God is the very essence of God? What if the fact that there is no secret is the secret?


                
Most viewers should think twice before trying to watch this film. It is not a story so much as a series of scenes recalled by memory- i.e. fuzzy, disjointed, and sentimentalised while still being personal. To say the film has a plot or story- per se- would be misguiding. Asking what purpose it does have is probably fairly misguided, as well. Like scenes from our own life, the scenes in this film just happen to us and we are the higher intelligence responsible for imposing order and specifying why they have happened or what they signify.Like impressionism in painting, Tarkovski's objective is to create works that directly interact with the human mind's tendency to convert symbols into emotion. The experiences and environment of Andrei Rublev's life is crafted for us by Tarkovski. The cruelty, hardship, and frank confusion of his life is patiently rendered by Tarkovski in his impressionistic style that seems oblique to "conventional" cinematic sensibilities but which is remarkably direct about evoking the desired emotional response. The film is replete with remarkable scenes- the balloon flight that opens the movie and the casting of the great church bell being two of the most memorable. The latter could be construed as either the power of an individual's vision or as what anyone can do when God wills it. Either interpretation would have inspired the creative efforts of any artist.Obviously, some cross-comparison with his other films should be in order. Solyaris (1972), his cult Science Fiction masterpiece is a marginally inferior film that still manages to be, for me, more satisfying because of my sentimental romantic tendencies that allow me to overlook the disjointed plot, poor editing in a few scenes, and the occasionally wooden or otherwise unconvincing dialogue. Andrei Rublev is better in most of these respects and is well photographed on a fairly consistent stock of Black-and-White film. Black and white definitely suit the movie, too- colour would have given the scenes too much "presence" and made them seem more mundane- black and white help preserve a sense of reverie. In both films, there is not great sense of urgency and scenes play out in their own (occasionally tedious) pace. Both films feel much more spontaneous to me than Tarkovski's last work- "Sacrifice" starring the great Erland Josephson and this seeming artlessness gives them a vitality that this last film lacks.In conclusion- this is a fine Tarkovski film. It is as good a film as any of his for introducing new viewers. Viewers should approach it with the proper mindset, however. Their objective should be to experience the film and their reaction to it. Obviously, interest in Russia around the 13th century will probably not hurt appreciation. While the film is, in its totality, different from most films, the individual scenes are not weird- no strange camera work, no sudden introduction of esoteric symbols, just fairly honest attempts to record an individual person's impression of what viewers today might find to be unusual experiences.


                
For his cinema perhaps all has been written, a dozen books at least. With only his second feature he was where other filmmakers would be at the end of their careers. A vision of how to see the world fully formed as its own chapter of cinematic history, where a tappestry rich in spiritual textures is entered and abandoned at will, the frame experienced then as disparate planes of existence which overlap, supersede and inform one another. His masterstroke is the removal of the cut, whereby essentially different scenes can now be read as a flow of life. And again in how reality is understood as a continuum that flows in and out of the mind, where shadows and reflections manifest where they shouldn't be.This is the first point I stand on, that Tarkovsky's world in this film cannot be fathomed outside of the mind, without the shadows it casts around us. The mind is then a fundamental tool where the formations of life begin.The existential problem posited by the film is how man, who is shown to be small and incomplete himself, can muster strengths and passions to complete a world left incomplete by creation. Having started out as mere characters in the middle point of this narrative we call life, how to become authors who can understand what has been created in order to write the chronicle of it. How to paint the face of god? And how to meditate on that struggle in film? Into this terrifying dilemma of existence, which is the quest for meaning and pattern, he places the artist with the divine spark, he who must paint the face of god. This is the starkest contrast of the film, the mechanism that drives it forward, how this humble man can accomplish this great spiritual task in a godless world where the face of god is precisely absent. It's not strange then that the icons of the Orthodox church portray Christs as lean, stoic figures. Suffering in this part of the world which now and then Attilas and Khans devastate it, is to be abided as the only mandate of god. Art then imitates life, these faces who must survive in the wastes, elevating it to a representation of the divine.We see the artist suffer a crisis of conscience at the face of this violence, a refusal to be the divine vehicle anymore. How Tarkovsky resolves this crisis is where the film falters for me.In watching a young boy cast a bell, a holy fool who succeeds against all odds, his faith is restored. Having wandered the latter part of the film a pathetic, passive figure of silence, he is made whole again by this meaningful, but chance event. The tools then by which we can understand meaning and purpose to life are not discovered inside, through a stillness of mind and right concentration (which in meditation is experienced as the appearance and disappearance of forms, leading at the ultimate stages to the disintegration of the mind and body), but rather are encountered as apparitions.Whether or not then god speaks through the ringing of that bell, the echo of it reveals the men who created it to be still small, prone to the same despairs and suffering. Essentially humans, aching for salvation in an ugly world. How to transcend then this mortality, the need for salvation which is a form of clinging that clouds the soul, this much remains outside the movie's interests. For that we'll have to go ahead to Solyaris.


                
A truly unique movie, the closest you'll get to seeing Breughel or Hieronymus Bosch in cinema. Tarkovsky shows us the life and times of Russian painter Andrei Rublev (±1365-1430) in a way that only Tarkovsky can, his trademark meandering camera hypnotizing the viewer, enabling an almost meditative state that allows us to gain deep insights into art, religion and the human condition. Parts 4, 6 and 8 in particular are fantastic, revealing the chaos and trials of medieval Europe in haunting fashion. The payoff comes in the form of the gorgeous, timeless finale - so well executed.Still, this is not as perfect a work as Stalker or Solaris. I found parts 5 and 7 to be outright boring, perhaps because some orthodox religious themes were lost on me. But these are minor quibbles - take your time to absorb this movie, even if you don't consider yourself the type to enjoy 3 hour allegories about obscure Russian icon painters. For better or for worse, it will be a once in a lifetime experience.


                
It's not a biography by any means, it's largely fiction - it's only loosely based off Rublev's life. The film focuses more on his dedication to Eastern Orthodoxy, as well as its role in his evolution as an artist. There are certain characters that each represent different philosophical outlooks under a single unanimous religious belief. In particular, Theophanes is an interesting take on someone being God-loving yet simultaneously overly cynical in his repulsion by His man's vile nature. Outside of characters, the story is alright. The second half is mostly boring in my opinion. Being shot in black and white to emphasize the colorful ending - no doubt to add "life" to the conclusion - is kind of gimmicky, but otherwise a decent film.


                
This is the second of Tarkovsky's films that I've seen, and on first viewing I can detect deep and very individual stylistic similarities with "Stalker." But "Andrey Rublev" is a still broader and deeper film, and I can also tell on first viewing that I will want to watch it again, and that the opportunity to do so will uncover worlds more. In fact, this is a difficult comment to write because it seems like any attempt to encapsulate the experience of this film in less that it's slow, still, and sometimes turbulent full length would be in vain. This is ostensibly a film about the medieval Russian painter Andrey Rublev, but Tarkovsky has taken the opportunity to make it a film that is really simultaneously a stunningly full portrait of the both loft and low Russia of his day, and a meditation on the nature of power, art, and religious faith.It moves at a deliberately very slow pace, but in every long, still shot where life is allowed to play out without the boundaries imposed by quick cuts, something subtly and revealingly fascinating goes on. We follow a half-nonsense peasant dance, for example, for longer than we would ever expect in a film, and that length is at once uncomfortable an very revealing. It's beautifully photographed, and must have had lavish resources behind its simple-looking recreation of a rural Russia of centuries ago. It's easy to see why the Soviet government was divided and eventually changed its mind on the release of such a beautiful film, honoring a national hero, but showing Christianity favorably in contrast to the invaders and questioning art's subservience to authority. I know I'll be rewarded again by letting the scope of this film wash over me, and letting the various elements making up the conversations on its thematic elements work against each other in my mind in new ways each time. In that way, it is, though much more laconic, reminiscent as some have observed of Dostoevsky.


                
Caution! This film is well worth watching BUT only for those who are willing to take the time and effort (nearly 3 1/2 hrs - at least) to watch and think about the meaning of the various stories that make up this epic work of art.Perhaps the film can be viewed and enjoyed in a single sitting, but I doubt it. The closest analogy I can offer is that watching the film is like viewing fine paintings in an art gallery or savoring the taste and aroma of vintage wines.(SPOILER) Visually the scenes are striking with many panoramic views. The use of black and white (until the very last few minutes of the film) creates a hypnotic, dream-like effect that heightens the mood of the scenes. Some scenes show cruel treatment of animals and barbaric treatment of human beings.
To me, this movie wasn't really boring at all. Some scenes seemed to misguided, but overall the movie had a pretty good flow. Solaris was boring as hell, with shots that just hang there forever. Why? Rublev has some amazing camera wizardry that kept the story interesting. The disconnected structure was good to paint an overall portrait of an age. The movie brilliantly captures and creates a despairing mural of a time and place that seems to have been amazingly cruel and harsh. This is one of those movies, like the Godfather, that creates its own little universe. We rarely question the authenticity of the settings or characters because it all feels so real. The main charcter could have been explored or externalized a bit more, i thought. There are many scenes where we're not really sure what he's thinking. Not sure why he's doing what he's doing. This gives the movie a kind of floating dreamlike quality that kind of mesmerizes you.      But the film has its share of awesome violence, like during the Tartar raid. How some of these scenes where directed I don't know, but they are amazing examples of Tarkovsky's versatility in handling material. He navigates between thunderous attack and quiet reflection so smoothly the movie is rarely jarring in the usual way. A hollywood movie would be edited for maximum dramatic impact, whereas the terror in these scenes builds up gradually. For me, the singular image of the movie is the young squire being shot in the back with an arrow and slowly collapsing into the stream. That scene is one the most disturbing things i've seen in a movie. It's rendered beautifully, quiet and solemn.


                
Some beautiful, some terrible, some peaceful, some violent. The great Russian icon painter Andrei Rublev lives among the great turmoil in Russia's 15th century with princes' fights and rivalries, Tatar invasions and heathens' ceremonies. There are also religious discussions and faith affirmations among the characters suitable to an epoch of intense spiritual religious life like it were Middle Ages. There are extraordinary sequences like for instance the sack of Vladimir and the casting of the huge bell for the prince. Andrei Rublev goes through all this somehow anguished and without feeling to decide to go painting the icons on the Trinity Monastery like he had been asked to. At last and after the bell was built and put to work he finally decides to go to the Monastery and paint those admirable icons we can see at the end of the movie.
The life, times and afflictions of the fifteenth-century Russian iconographer.Before director Andrei Tarkovsky made "Solaris" and "Stalker", he made this -- while not his most popular film (your average movie goer will not enjoy over three hours of film), quite easily his greatest masterpiece.And screenwriter Andrei Konchalovsky went on to become a notable director in both Russia and the United States, making "Runaway Train" with Jon Voight and Eric Roberts, as well as the action film "Tango & Cash" starring Sylvester Stallone, Kurt Russell, Jack Palance and Teri Hatcher.This is a terrible review, but that is okay. Much more informed people have written wonderfully positive reviews. I guess the point, in short, is you should not be reading reviews -- you should be watching this movie.


                
