Soviet-Russian screenwriter, film editor, poet, film theorist and director Andrei Tarkovsky's second feature film which he co-wrote with Soviet-American screenwriter, producer and director Andrei Konchalovsky, is somewhat based on the life of 15th century Russian painter Andrei Rublev and is a Russian production which was shot on locations at the Nearl River, in the city of Pskov and Vladimir, the rural village Lzborsk and the town Pechory and Suzdal in Russia. It was screened Out of competition at the 22nd Cannes International Film Festival in 1969, was released in the Soviet Union in 1971, five years after Andrei Tarkovsky had completed it, and was produced by actress and producer Tamara Ogorodnikova. It tells the story about icon painter and monk Andrei Rublev who once upon a time in the 15th century leaves his peaceful and secluded life in the Andronikov monastery and embarks on a personal journey towards medieval Moscow with fellow monks Danil and Kirill in search for work, inspiration and wisdom. The moralistic, innocent and idealistic painter has been protected from the darkest sides of humanity for a long time, but on his way he is faced with real evil for the first time in his life and this encounter challenges his ideals, his view on mankind and his faith in his religion and art.Distinctly and engagingly directed by Soviet-Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky (1932-1986), this quietly paced, historic and epic story which spans over two decades and is mostly narrated from the protagonist's point of view, draws a pervasive and incisive portrayal of a man's metamorphic voyage through medieval Russia in the early 15th century. While notable for it's versatile and atmospheric milieu depictions, sterling production design by production designers Sergei Voronkov, Ippolit Novoderyozhkin and Yevgeni Chernyayev, black-and-white cinematography by Soviet-Russian cinematographer and professor Vadim Yusov, costume design by costume designers Lidiya Novi and Maya Abar-Baranovskaya and use of sound, this character-driven, dialog-driven, narrative-driven, mysterious and biographical period drama depicts an empathic and internal study of character and contains a prominent score by Soviet-Russian composer Vyacheslav Ovchinnicov.This contemplative and psychological examination of an artist's conflicts with his faith in life, art and religion, his relation to the world and the consequences of his confrontation with the world, is impelled and reinforced by it's fragmented narrative structure, philosophical and mindful dialog, multiple viewpoints, voice-over narration, colorful characters, substantial character development and the fine acting performances by Soviet actor Anatoly Solonitsyn (1934-1982), Soviet-Ukrainian actor Nikolai Grinko and Soviet actor Nikolai Sergeyev (1894-1988). A poetic, spiritual, existentialistic and masterful piece of art cinema that leaves an unforgettable impression and which gained, among other awards, the International Federation of Film Critics Award at the 22nd Cannes International Film Festival in 1969.


                
Andrei Tarkovsky is one of my favorite filmmakers of all time. His films evoke mysterious feelings that I rarely find in other movies. Not only do his films have impressive cinematography, but they also come with grand stories despite how simple they seem at first. Since this film was over 3 hours, I was a little concerned that I'd have trouble getting into it. However, I found it to be a truly engaging experience.A couple decades in the life of the famous medieval Russian painter Andrei Rublev is depicted in this epic. We see his interactions between other painters, buffoons, pagans, and Tatars. These experiences shape and influence his actions over the course of the film.I first began to pick up on the movie's themes when I asked the question: What caused Andrei to refuse to paint the church walls in Chapter 5? When I re-watched the movie with this in mind, I began to see the movie as a representation of dehumanization. In several of the opening chapters, Andrei witnessed many people either get beaten or killed. He also witnessed several bizarre sites such as seeing a group of naked pagans running through the woods. These experiences effected him in many ways such as how he refused to decorate the walls of a church or how he murdered a Tatar to save someone during a raid. With this, Tarkovsky is saying that the brutality of the world caused Andrei to lose interest in painting.I also liked the prologue and the final chapter of the film. At first glance, the prologue felt misplaced as the characters in the opening scene were never seen again. However, I think Tarkovsky did this on purpose as he was trying to let the audience know that this was one of the films' most vital scenes. I've seen a few theories on what purpose the opening serves. Some people said that it exists to introduce us to the brutality of the world. My interpretation, however, is that it and the final chapter serve as bookends to Andrei's journey. The opening scene depicts a man named Yefim escape an angry crowd in a hot air balloon only to crash and, presumably, die. The final chapter shows a boy named Boriska attempt to build a bell for the Grand Prince. The thing that Yefim, Andrei, and Boriska have in common is that they are all artists and visionaries in some way as they attempt to overcome odds to create something awe-inspiring. Both of these men bookend Andrei's journey. Yefim represents the death of an old artist while Boriska represents the birth of a new artist. Near the end of the film, Andrei comforts Boriska after he admits that his father never told him the secret to building bells. I interpreted this scene as Andrei trying to encourage the boy to remain interested in art, so he could eventually replace him.Tarkovsky usually handles dialogue exceptionally. If I pay close attention to the dialogue in his films, I find a lot of it to be thought provoking and powerful. There were many great lines of dialogue in this film. The first great scene of dialogue is in Chapter 3. In it, Andrei has a conversation with Theophanes, another famous Russian painter. Their dialogue shows the main difference between them. During their conversation, Theophanes says "People will lump the blame for their sins on one another...will be justifying themselves before the almighty." Andrei replies to him with "I don't understand how you can paint, having thoughts like that." This scene shows the personality traits of both men. I explained earlier how this film is based heavily on dehumanization. Their conversation is a great representation of this. The reason Theophanes has these thoughts while Andrei doesn't is because Theophanes is much older than Andrei. He has seen more of the world's brutality. Andrei hasn't seen enough of it yet to relate to Theophanes' world views. Another great scene of dialogue happens in Chapter 6. After Andrei survives a raid, he encounters the ghost of Theophanes. Andrei tells Theophanes that he is disgusted by how he killed a Tatar during the raid. He mourns the loss of his work and the evil in the world he lives in. He may not have agreed with Theophanes in Chapter 3, but later on, he eventually concurs with him. The reason for this change is because the numerous instances of brutality Andrei encountered caused him to become dehumanized over time.The cinematography was also haunting. A lot of classic movies which were praised for their haunting cinematography back in the day don't unsettle me that much. However, there were some legitimately unnerving moments in this movie which held up pretty well. Most of them were in Chapter 6. Some scenes which stood out from that sequence was how liquid metal was poured into someone's mouth, when a horse fell down a flight of stairs, when a cow was lit on fire, and, like I mentioned earlier, the conversation between Andrei and Theophanes. There's also numerous shots of horses which Tarkovsky said were a symbol of life, the most famous of which occurs at the final shot.In my review of "Stalker", I compared Tarkovsky to Stanley Kubrick, my favorite filmmaker, by calling him the "Russian Kubrick". I feel like this is a valid comparison, because both filmmakers create movies with simple, yet grand stories. The more I watch Tarkovsky's films, the more this viewpoint gets enforced. "Andrei Rublev" sets itself apart from other movies based on true stories due to its thematic power on dehumanization, which is carried from the first half to the next.


                
The film's final version, shown on Canne film festival and shown in many countries afterwards, is titled "Andrei Rublev". So-called "original version" today was titled "Passion according to Andrei"(<U+0421><U+0442><U+0440><U+0430><U+0441><U+0442><U+0438> <U+043F><U+043E> <U+0410><U+043D><U+0434><U+0440><U+0435><U+044E>). I think that they are different films, and all shortcomings that many reviewers of "Andrei Rublev" pointed out are far more obvious in that "original version" (which was released on DVD,unfortunately, by "Criterion", famous level among cinema lovers).Tarkovsky himself, after his emigration to West, never complained as if Soviet authorities had spoiled his film by forcing him to re-edit it.Of course he knew that the long period of re-editing, which was really annoying for him at first, allowed him to clear up surplus shots and episodes(including those of lengthy animal abusing, of wrestling of Great Prince with his younger brother on snow) and to correct inadequate editing(especially that of "Bell").So I recommend everyone to watch "re-edited"version, which is really "Andrei Rublev", and not to see lengthy 3 hours and 26 minutes "original version" which is half-made product. But if you are interested in the practical technique of editing film, maybe comparing these two films is useful. My rating is for "Andrei Rublev", which was a favorite film of I. Bergman and is probably still so for many other filmmakers.


                
In 1966 Andrei Tarkovsky directed Andrei Rublev, also known as The Passion according to Andrei. The film loosely depicts the life of Andrei Rublev, an early 15th century monk who is renowned as Russia's greatest creator of religious icons and frescoes. Tarkovsky used this historical figure to anchor the film in one of Russia's most tragic period, making Andrei Rublev not only a witness of his Time but also depicting the artist's creation process, the importance of his faith, the Loss of it and more importantly how the two (Art and Faith) can help go through event you can't really grasp or even understand. The complexity of the film as well as the political implications explain why Andreï Rublev was not released in an atheist USSR until 1971 and in a censored version mind you.The film starts with a prologue where we see a man call Yefim taking off from the roof of a church in a hot air balloon and escaping a mob trying to prevent the Take-off. Yefim seems highly exited and delighted by the sight he experiences from the air; but as the air balloon crashes, we understand that elevation in this obscurantist time is not going to be easy. We fall before we reach enlightenment. This is our Human Condition, this is what Life is about and the shot of a Horse lolling in the grass by a river bank epitomizes Life, its struggle and its beauty. This prologue summarizes metaphorically the seven chapters that follow narrating the trepidations of Andrei Rublev looking for elevation and falling back into his Human condition.For Andrei Rublev, Faith and Art are intimately linked, he paints religious icons and frescoes because he believes this is his priesthood the only way he can transmit his Faith to the people. Losing his Faith in Humanity might imply losing his Faith in God and so in Art. It's only when Andrei witnesses the casting of a bell that his life turns around. He meets the character of Boriska,the bell caster, another creative character a reminiscence of young Andrei and when Andrei sees the young Boriska collapsing on the ground of fatigue and breaking into tears, he takes him in his arms to comfort him and break his vow of silence. He understands he is not alone struggling with the concept of artistic creation and Faith as both (the young Boriska and the older Andrei) brought people so much joy. An artist with a vision can create and eventually echoes god's power of creation by using his or her technical skills but more importantly his or her heart and Faith.The "tour de force" of Andrei Tarkovsky is to use the same creative process than the one of his film's protagonist. By putting his heart and soul in the core of his cinematographic technique he transcends the genre and the medium. We understand that "in cinema it is necessary not to explain, but to act upon the viewer's feelings, and the emotion which is awoken is what provokes thought". To this respect Andrei Rublev is a film to experience and I humbly suggest we experience it with our heart and soul.


                
There isn't much more you can ask of a film. It is more than the story of a painter, it is the story of a time and a people that is underrepresented in cinema. Everything about it is top-notch. The sprawling landscapes used as the background for much of the movie is as visually stunning as you will see. The epic narrative, though a bit harder to follow because I had to rely on subtitles, is nearly unmatched in scale. The philosophical questions posed (blatantly and subtly) are as thought provoking as any. And the switch to color was one of the most amazing things I have ever seen in a film. Another particular moment that I found incredible was when Foma collapsed into the water after being struck with an arrow and the splash seemed to jump out of the screen. The actor who played Boriska was excellent, I never thought I would care so much about whether a bell worked or not.
"Andrei Rublev" is undoubtedly considered as a masterpiece of the Soviet cinematography created by Andrei Tarkovsky. The movie tells the story about Andrei Rublev, showing his life path, his thoughts, feelings, concerns, and contradictions he had on his way of becoming the famous icon-painter of the Medieval Russia. The movie encompasses the period between 1400 and 1423 which is one of the most difficult times for Russian Empire and its people. Taking into account the historical aspects, the movie could accurately depict the unfortunate plight of Russian people by showing the scenes of Tartars' raid on the city of Vladimir, the coming of the famine and plague. Throughout these scenes, the movie is smoothly accompanied by Andrei's reflections about the sin, the God, and the essence of being, that makes the movie thought-provoking for its audience. From the first scenes, it is difficult to follow the idea behind this movie and some scenes are very confusing, however, with the gradual flow of the plot, you start to find the answers and understand the plot little by little. 
Questions that come to the mind after watching this movie is how to find the true essence of the life, how to believe in the existence of God when you think that God left you with the unfortunate destiny and challenges of life. Andrei Rublev is not presented just as an ordinary monk who paints icons in monasteries, it is the character who falls into personal quest of seeking to the unity with God and finding own "calling". 
It is shown in the movie that ordinary people, peasants went through many sufferings. The world is full of cruelty and sufferings at that period of time. Andrei Rublev also suffers from this, he does not know how to endure this heavy burden, which affected his paintings and personal thoughts. Gradually, movie reveals the true essence of Rublev, he thinks and grieves a lot, he is unable to find his true self nor to understand his true talent gifted to him from God. He thinks deeply about the good and evil, about the sins, God and about ordinary people who forced to live such unfortunate lives, and those who have sinned against God. He saw many people, their actions during the Tartars' raid, pagan feast, and he gradually became disappointed in people due to their lechery and sins. Rublev also admits that people are ignorant. But despite all of this, we can feel Rublev's love toward a human being and especially Russian people and his belief in the unity with God. He says in the dialogue with Theophanes the Greek that even though "Russian people suffer from Tartars' raids, famine and plague, but they are working very hard bearing their cross with humility. They never despair, but endure their sufferings silently, and only after praying to God to give them more strength, the Almighty can forgive them their ignorance" (Tarkovsky, 1966). That shows the importance of believing in God and praying to him even in the hardest times of life. However, Rublev still finds himself in conflict, in the struggle with himself as he finds himself as a sinner after killing man. He gives a vow of silence and falls into a personal quest of seeking the answers from God and unity with him. 
Tartars' raid on the city of the Vladimir, destroying the cathedral describe the cruelty of human beings and shows the godlessness. Here comes the notion of desperately finding the God: how to find consolation and salvation, to what believe in when everything is surrounded with aggression that makes you think that God left you. The construction of the bell in the last chapter is a very important scene here. The bell is like the divine presence, like the place where you can find the God and unify with him leaving all your sufferings behind. The last chapter is also crucial as it makes to realize that not only the seeking of God and the meaning of life is important but also finding your "calling" is essential for human being. Only after seeing that Boris, the person who falsely claimed to know the secret for constructing the holy bell, could build the bell that made him to have the real talent for casting bells, Andrei understands the importance of his own talent to the humanity and accepts God's gift and finds his calling for painting icons in Trinity. 
This epic masterpiece does not just show the pathway of Andrei Rublev in becoming the well-known icon-painter in Russian history, but also it delivers to the audience the importance of finding the true meaning of life, finding the God and unify with him and finding your own purpose, your true "calling" in life. This movie makes to realize that even if you have sinned against God, or you are going through many challenges in your life, you need to believe in God and believe in the unity with God. The movie provokes its audience to think about your own faith and ponder many things.
I never expected action scenes in a Tarkovsky movie! This is probably the most dynamic and diverse movie from his entire filmography!
Deep, epic, emotional, meditative atmosphere, shocking scenes, philosophical themes, subtle dialogue scenes, stunning visuals; I'm telling you... this is the opposite of boring!


                
It's such a bold stroke of cinematic prowess to make a film like Andrei Rublev, let alone at the age of 32, 33 that Andrei Tarkovsky was. This is a film that, while (from my perspective) imperfect, breathes with the freedom and abandon of a cinematic artist paying tribute to art itself. In this case, Andrei Rublev was a real icon painter from 15th century Russia, who witnessed many a strange, amazing scene in his time, and all of which helped make him a better, more confident artist attached to his faith. I saw mostly the end section of the film a year ago, the part titled 'The Bell', as well as the end sequence in color, and was really drawn into the story of a young man obsessed with building an object that might help him in some way, but in the end reveals something rather astonishing. The end sequence itself, too, I might mark as one of the most beautiful, deliberate, and successfully astute scenes of capturing art ever put to film. It's all images of the real iconic paintings, all still around after centuries, put to music that adds such a religious height that even for a non-believer such as myself it was quite moving.This being said, as a non-believer, here and there in part 1 of Andrei Rublev, aka the Passion According to Andrei, a little much religious talk ensues and almost threatens to dull some of the effect of the film. Not without interest, of course, but scenes where characters or Rublev himself start reciting passages from the bible (with one insert even of a simulated quasi-Crucifixion) drag the film's pacing a little bit, which is important in its three hour+ running time. Simply put, it's really, really worth a viewing of the film if you're at all interested in the "art films" of the European 1960s, as it represents a filmmaker's freedom in expressing the subject matter, while still having a deep personal connection with the material. And amid a scene or two that doesn't quite work, there are at least three or four that do fantastically. The sequences of the tragic-comic Jester, the bizarre 'witchcraft' portion with the pagans (quite amazing considering the time it was filmed, very entertaining), the violent, engagingly horrific raid, and the other sequences mentioned earlier, all make up the best scenes in the film. Amid the artistic dilemma that poses for Rublev, he is surrounded by the will, the damnation, the violence, the strength, the equal measures of ignorance and intelligence, and cinematically it all does come together quite well.With cinematography that's top notch (with OK editing), a good, if very large, cast, and a real vision put to the test, this is a thoughtful, faithful kind of epic that is rather daunting to finally see in one sitting. But it goes without saying that there are scenes which could possibly stand alongside those of Eisenstein as the most powerful, emotional, and challenging-to-conventions-of-cinema type moments from Russia, or even Europe for that matter. 9.5/10


                
A must for people liking 'il Decamerone' from Pasolini! (or any other work)beautiful pictures, philosophies on life (Tarkovsky being quit russian), finalized with some good story lines on the 15th century.Though the film might be a bit long, and don't expect a proper story.


                
Wow. I've had problems rating movies before, but I felt really unable to give this movie a rating because it didn't feel like a movie to me. I would say that "it's more like an experience", but that seems too trite and meaningless. It's uncanny.I went ahead and gave it a 9 because Tarkovsky did the same thing he did with Stalker with the ending, and that was give away enough information to lessen the ambiguity a bit... Somehow, I was getting hypnotized by the fact that I was watching a movie about an iconographer in which the icons weren't ever being shown... the ending ruined that a bit.But still... Whereas it's easy to say that this movie is about faith, or devotion, contemplation, or existential dread, or anything like that, it didn't even FEEL that way. When Andrei Rublev is on screen, it feels very self aware and confined. Time stretches out, everything feels over emphasized and weighted. When Rublev isn't on screen, it feels detached, dreamlike, even sometimes absurd. Movements feel light, like clouds, and even warfare and orgies (especially with the score playing) feel like you've been hit by some weird detachment from reality... and it becomes more graceful and gorgeous for it. It all culminates in a weirdly introspective experience... this may be the one film where the movie is more about what you feel while watching it than it is about the character or the director.That said, there's a lot to say about the comparisons between Andrei the director and Andrei the character. The conversations about craft, form, meaning, feeling, faith, and power all seem to apply both to director to character; a lot of the tasks met feel like parables for the film industry, like for instance the conversation about "I've washed paintbrushes for three years... I must build my way up"; even similar things happen, like the fact that both Andrei's had their work burned up a structural fire. I'm not entirely sure those comparisons are intentional (and the burned work definitely wasn't, as Andrei Tarkovsky's Stalker was burned AFTER Andrei Rublev came out), but still, the original title was, "The Passion According to Andrei". Some ambiguity was intended, for sure.--PolarisDiB
An epic that succeeds in all of its three hours (I say this because several versions exist), Tarkovsky's preferred vision stands as one of the greatest Russian movies ever made. Because only little is known of Andrei Rublev's life, a heavier focus is made on the hardships and violence of medieval Russia. In doing so the film can approach themes such as artistic freedom, religion and (Ironically) repressive authority (As the film was banned in the Soviet Union, until a few years later when they released a censored version).Though it strangely begins with an unexpected hot air balloon ride, surprisingly in these few short minutes the film has featured many of the themes that will be present throughout the picture, such as life and creative hopes dashed. Religious icon painter Andrei Rublev (Anatoly Solonitsyn, in the first of many Tarkovsky productions), and other wandering monks seek work as they travel across the fields and treacherous landscapes of 15th century Russia. Ever the observer, Rublev is forced to hear the arrogance and shortcomings of his companions, as well as the locals whose lifestyles can be seen as sinful to others, and will eventually fall to the wrath of Prince's and Tartars. It's a long narrative where more hopes are crushed than realised, but ultimately depicts the violence and hardships of the time effortlessly.I've come to respect that the film's focus switches from Rublev and his surroundings, as the cinematography and shots that Andrei Tarkovsky and Vadim Yusov employ just blend the multiple narratives seamlessly. As for music I can only really remember the last 6 or so minutes of the film, but the hundreds of extra's, set pieces and moments I don't want to spoil has its own kind of musical rhythm. The recurring themes are ever present, and the early moments of Tarkovsky's references to classic paintings start here (Such as "A detail of The Hunters in the Snow" (1565) by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, though it features much more prominently in "Solaris", 1972). Of course there is the small amount of infamous animal abuse of a cow and a horse, but I also sternly believe that it was kept to a minimum and handled very well given that the cow was covered in asbestos, and the horse was heading to the slaughterhouse regardless (Trust me, it really isn't all that terrible considering some other movies).Final Verdict: Actions speak louder than words in "Andrei Rublev". Whilst not deeply ambiguous, it certainly fulfils an artistic purpose that never comes off as arrogant. It is as epic and grand as the paintings themselves, and whilst not my favourite of his works it could most definitely be Tarkovsky's masterpiece. 9/10.
This film makes an interesting bookend with Antonioni's L'Avventura. I watched both films recently and they both absorb you into the world each movie is reproducing. Deep in visual metaphor and amazing to look at. The only problem I have with both films is they are both so deep in meaning (both hidden and apparent) that they require multiple viewings, which I'm having a hard time finding the time for. 9/10


                
What intimidates on first glance: a 3-hour plus Russian movie, told in chapter form (like a proper 1200 page Russian novel), about a famous Russian painter, and realized on screen in a deeply sustained, poetic film style, is hardly the best offering to a man or a woman (or a subliterate teenage boy) expecting the latest in nutritional entertainment from t.v or the local cineplex. But no, this flick is gripping, stark, visually mesmerizing from start to finish due to director Tarkovsky's ingenious eye, and full of unsettling, intense scenes of intellectual as well as spiritual action, man. Got it! And, yes, there's plenty of atrocities, as well. You can't film over 5,000 extras and not expect some excitement, especially when the subject covered is the wasteland that was 15th century Russia. And the damn thing even has rampaging Tartars in it, with only a sadly absent soundtrack of decent metal making the experience a real head-trip. Not convinced? It was banned in Russia. Lots of powerful contemplation on hand here, as the subject is really creativity; what motivates it, what sustains it, and, most importantly, how can man justify being creative and producing art in an evil, uncomprehending world? Of course other equally light, philosophical issues are explored as well, like religion and war, etc. Film's final chapter, depicting the trial of a teenage bell-maker and his comeuppance at the hands of an evil Zsar, is by far one of the most poetic episodes I've ever seen on film. Well worth the time. Additionally, the only film I've seen to document 15th century Russia and include the popular Rudy Ray Moore epithet: "motherf---er!". Powerful.
Russians must be really proud to own one of the greatest director, Andrei Tarkovsky and Alexander Sokurov, his unique successor. Well, I'm proud for them.Knowing nothing about this film but its director, I bought this DVD and set out watching it. Its vigour and beauty really overwhelmed me to the core. Even in black and white, Tarkovsky's cinematic language is surprisingly daring and comprehensive. Getting used to the tranquility in his later works, now I'm convinced he's capable of dealing with other uproarious themes like violence and comedy.As Tarkovsky showed me this grandiose historic event, I unconsciously related it to Sokurov's "Russian Ark". I found that living in a country of great amplitude really endows people with special talents. Russia becomes a magic country since the first time the two directors captured my heart.This film contains many subtle, symbolic elements both in dialogues and camera, keeping you observing and thinking. It's a panorama of the medieval Russia in a episodic style. Each story directly or indirectly affects the life of Rublyov. With all the characters not associated in a classical way, its cinematic style is itself a memorable attempt to portray a helpless individual in a historical fate.I wonder whether it is just a coincidence that the great painter in the film and the great director out of the film share the name Andrei. Maybe like what Tarkovsky said in an interview, all the artists share the same fate to go through the unpleasant darkness of the world to create genuine artworks.He told us to learn to enjoy loneliness. I did for long. He loves horses. I'd occasionally stop my footstep, trying to hear a horse running by.I'm not superstitiously worshiping him. I'm just trying to dig some of his feelings --- the inspirations that have enlightened a great director.


                
The solace journeying of a young monk who's skills as a religious icon painter correlates as he travels from one monastery to another, this documents giant historic swaths of Russian history. From the terrors of marauding legions of Mongul hellions to celebrating pagan spring rites on a lovely riverside evening. Andrei Rubliev in his clean slate of uncluttered preconceptions walks a kaleidoscopic pallet for every being encountered, large and small, through this cinematic sojourn as a medium is redefined in the eyes of director Tarkovsky. It is a beckon of film creativity unmatched at the time of production. Suppressed for many years and shown sparingly in shortened forms in European art houses it remained largely unseen. Legend/myth/facts collide as Martin Scorsese finds the original unedited 208 minutes version under a mattress in countryside Russia in latter 1988, or so the story goes. This is a must see film for anyone who ever considered they thought themselves a critic or chronicler of cinematic poetry. The behemoth tale requires some serious attention and perhaps a token smidgen of bloodletting. After my initial viewing I wanted to toss half my DVD collection as this is what a movie should be. This could appear on most of not all 100 best films ever list if one cares. Watch it and have your inner life saturated with an abundance of celluloid wonder.


                
The first time i watched Andrei Rublyov was without subtitle then i watched it with subtitle and of course i felt more interesting. i hope you watch this film in his director's cut"205min"because that's very important for director like Tarkovsky his effect appear in every scene and every shot.you must know that Rublyov is an untraditional artist and one of the best icon-artist in the world.this film full of many themes about war and art that maybe cause some confusion.it's great but somehow complicated.the many details maybe confuse any one watch the film so you must watch it more than one or two time and i am sure you will enjoy every time you watch it.i must praise the actors"Anatoli Solonitsyn,Irma Raush and Ivan Lapikov"and especially"Nikolai Burlyayev"the clown who appear in the second scene and near the end.there act help in translate the soul and feeling of the film to me.this film isn't like others Tarkovsky's films(solyaris,zerkalo,stalker,nostaghia and offret)in those films he reach the tranquility which distinguish Tarkovsky for other directors.


                
I first saw Andrei Rublyov when I was a teenager in a late night TV showing of one of the longer versions.  I was transported, and those three hours gave me a deeper understanding of medieval life than all my school history lessons.Tarkovsky manages to mix tiny details of everyday life, desperate tragedies, deep theological arguments and huge historical events into one epic story. The film remains one of my all-time favourites.


                
