I'm no prude, but this show is insulting, debasing, and disgusting. It portrays people as the lowest form of animal. We see a 40 year old man performing cunnilingus on a teenage girl who is in a coma. We see gratuitous sex that is about as subtle as two ugly dogs going at it at the dog park. It is a revolting, disgusting experience and it just shows how western civilization has fallen at an accelerated pace. It's now in free fall.When I was a first grader in the early 1960's, I could walk to school alone, which was a mile away in a large city, and not worry about being kidnapped. I could be six or seven years old and walk to the shopping center by myself or hunt for lizards in a field without fear of being kidnapped or killed. Now these days, children need to be under constant supervision or they will be grabbed from their front yard, raped, and killed. "Shameless", with its perversions and filthy language,accurately reflects the sick times we live in.
Shameless US apparently has the right to exist since it has a heap of ecstatic reviews (even if the majority of them are from US audience). But to me personally it seems an incredibly huge failure. Being a real fan of the original version I still had no prejudice and did hope that US would turn out brilliant as well, offering same great plot but in a different geographical and cultural environment (we all know for sure that Americans "can do" and there are plenty of talented US shows filled with irony, witticism and charm). But what we have here is just a pale shadow of the original. Bloodless. Tasteless. It's just all the way wrong from the script and dialogues to casting. No humor left, no irony. The characters seem strangely superficial in comparison to British ones. And speaking of actors, this is, of course, a matter of taste and a discussion leading to nowhere, but<U+0085> What are all these talks about looks? Seriously? HOW can one find the actors in US version prettier? I'm not speaking of UK and US looks in general, only about these particular cases. I just admire the UK version casting. Each and every actor. Terrific choices. Sexy as can be. All of them. Each in its own way. This is my own personal view, of course. Sorry if its sounds offensive to US version fans.


                
Well, the liberal writers ruined yet another good show by turning it into an hour of political Trump bashing. You are here to entertain us, I don't care about your politics so leave it out of the shows that are supposed to make us laugh and forget about the real world for an hour of our lives, if I want some good ole fashioned Trump hating I'll just turn on the news!! Never watching again!!


                
This American adaptation takes the original show's plot and ideas, but lacks the emotion, humor and convincing characters. The original series had just the same amount of sex, drugs and violence in it as in here, but it was really all about COMPASSION - about COMEDY. It took a broken family story and made it funny, cheerful, hopeful.The American version lacks all these qualities. You are left with a bleak reality filled with one dimensional characters, meaningless sex and violence. If that's your thing, congratulation! TV is endlessly filled with this kind of bleak, empty entertainment.Just so you know, I don't despise all American humor. The American "Office" was an amazing adaptation, and WAY better than the original British show. But this here is not the case. Steve's actor is a piece of cardboard compared to the original, excellent James McAvoy(Who played Professor Xavier in the last X-men: First Class). Watching this show was Painfully boring. Want to prove me wrong? Just watch season 2 episode 1, I dare you to find ONE single joke on that episode..Go on and try..send it to me..


                
It used to be what the title of the show was. Now it turned into a libtarded safe zone.


                
If I could have given a review with ZERO stars, I would have. This series is that bad. The nudity, profanity, drug use, chain smoking and violence does NOTHING to contribute to the story telling. Nothing. Note, this series is supposed to be a "dark" comedy, and yet, there is nothing laughable in any of the episodes. And....I'm ashamed to admit, I watched ALL FIVE seasons....EVERY episode. I didn't laugh once. Big Tobacco MUST have been a significant financial backer for this Showtime fiasco. The cigarette smoking was so excessive, I found it difficult to imagine how many packs of Marlboro's the cast went through. There were scenes with 11 year old kids lighting up. I wonder if Worker's Comp for lung cancer is in their future? Gross. Excessive. Sad. The chain smoking did nothing to contribute to the story line. It's as if the writers were trying to draw a thick, invisible line connecting low income, working class people with stupidity and smoking. Yes, it's stupid to smoke, but one has nothing to do with the other.You can be filthy rich and be a chain smoker. You can also be filthy rich and be stupid. One act does not require the other, yet the writers of Shameless obviously want viewers to connect those lines. They also expect us to connect with characters that are so incredibly unbelievable and colossally stupid. No amount of chain smoking or drug use could render an entire low income family that stupid. Shameless writers actually thought episodes filled with excessive profanity, full-frontal nudity (in EVERY episode), chain smoking, drug use, and violence would fill the massive holes in unbelievable story telling. It didn't work for me. Obviously it worked for some, but I am still waiting for the HUMOR. Please give me one episode with a shred of truth, a tiny touch of comedy and I may add another star. If the writers haven't figured this out thus far, chances are slim for future seasons. I, for one, won't be wasting my time. I'm ASHAMED I watched every single episode and remained hopeful to the end.Shameless....NO. Shameful.....you bet.


                
I watched all of season one and decided not to watch anymore. At first the show grabbed me with its multitude of characters that you want to see more of. Unfortunately it started going downhill later in the season. Apparently the first few episodes, the ones I liked, are basically shot for shot remakes of the original series. Once the series started going in its own direction it got extremely frustrating and climaxed in a finale that brings nothing but shock value to the table (not really surprising considering that's just about all Showtime does). While the first half of the season is pretty strong the main characters get really annoying with their stupidity and you go from one shocking situation with little lasting depth to the next.


                
It's hard to see through to the cast/acting/storyline given the downright sadness of the underlying premise of this poor, living-on-the-edge family. It's the kind of thing you'd see for two or three minutes in an episode of SVU: kids poorly cared for by an older sibling, parent(s) who don't care, awful living conditions, etc. SVU does it to paint an image and then moves on with the story. With Shameless, it is the story and is a bit much to take for an entire hour. Maybe I'm overly sensitive. I live in the suburbs and my kids were bathed and in bed by 8:00 when they were young. As they grew up, they were similarly cared for. I find it hard to stomach a show based on the suffering of children. I understand it's done to evoke a response, but it's done so often that it becomes the backdrop of the show. It's just very, very sad.


                
Being a fan of the first 3 series of the Channel 4 show (not BBC!) I was immediately disappointed by the opening credits of the American remake. I saw the first 5 minutes and could not stand it any longer... Utter rubbish! Watch the original version for something you will actually like. Just comparing the opening credits proves the original version was going to be a hit and gets you hooked, even if he does have a "quirky" British accent from Manchester.Yes the actors are more pretty in the American version but that just dilutes the whole atmosphere of the show. The original version was that bit more believable simply because the actors were not straight from a modeling agency, they were REAL people, not beautiful people who get actor roles based on their looks.


                
I tried to see the point of the show Shameless. What kind of message the creators of this show want to send to young people born in the poor parts of the city and in troubled families.
I got the impression that the creators of the series were just trying to figure out a way to earn money and attract a lot of attention of viewers forcing young actresses to undress almost in every episode. 
The real fates of the young people born in the ghetto are enough difficult. I think that this show can only lead them to a wrong direction without providing any solution for them. 
It is hard to believe that the directors of this series, if they have already acquired the popularity and attention of the audience, could not have made at least one character and through him to send a message such as: USE CONDOMS AND READ BOOKS!!! Condoms and books are not expensive. It's not all about sex, there's something about love and your head.


                
I watched a few of the episodes. The show is boring, depressing, not funny, and lacks any depth with constant vulgarity. I'm not prude or constantly look for deeper meaning in entertainment either. One of my favorite movies was The Wolf of Wall Street. I simply don't see this as entertainment good for the soul, and I know you drew a religious parallel there, but I am not at all religious (agnostic here) or a prude once again. The show is just low class. Watch something a little more sophisticated.Not to mention I learned it is a copy of a British show. Why do we (I am American) need to copy things? To make it American? Make something new.


                
If i could give this a 0 i would, it is an exact copy of the UK version, which will never be beaten, same characters, same stories, what is the point. If you want to be entertained by the same story and characters, get the UK version box set and you wont be disappointed. Shameless in the UK is my favourite TV show ever, and the fact that this has been made and has copied is a farce. I am a massive fan of shameless, and feel that it shouldn't be copied, if other countries start ripping it off, it will be disaster. Those who are a fan of this us version please just watch the original series from the UK, for laughs, great story and characters.


                
This is a farce. A perfectly good British show that any moderately intelligent American can understand without the need to recreate with American actors. This is frankly a big steaming pile. It is an exact replica of a show that is already in English. I'm an American and I think that producing this show at all is an insult to every literate person in this country. What are they going to do in this show that i didn't see in the seven seasons of Shameless that I have already seen. Anyone can take something that already exists and regurgitate it all over an American screen using different actors and a different setting. Garbage!


                
William H. Macy is a great actor, but very niche oriented. He's an annoying person to me, and not one that I find funny. His role as Frank is so far off point that I could barely make it past the opening credits.Now that being said, I have watched all 7 seasons of the original e4 British version, and I found it to be one of the best things on Television, anywhere in the world.Perhaps it's this that has skewed my vision. If there is nothing to compare to, one could view this as another American drama, but lacking in the comedy, delivery, timing, and regular Joe like fashion of all the characters.Ian wants to be in the Military? Come on, there's nothing about this in any episode of the original. This is just an attempt to bring some new plot to the US viewers by diving into the discussion of the "Don't Ask Don't Tell" Military policy currently up for review.Veronica is Black? Nothing against anyone, but the original, in England, people really aren't that integrated. The only non white person you ever see is Norma, and she's alone camped out in the Van in the yard. People are more segregated in the lower income housing areas in England. I'm not sure about Chicago, but in Detroit, New Jersy, Philly and the rest I see a lot of segregation of communities. Once again the writers have chosen to "Throw a bone" at a target market to include them. Oh yeah, and Liam is black too? Are they saying that Frank had this baby with neighbour Veronica? I've tried to watch this full for a week now. I just can't get through it, it's annoying, contrived, and reeks of everything that's wrong with the US media right now. Like casting "Hotter" females as one poster put it. Yeah, right on, be one of those kids who wants the perfect girlfriend which doesn't exist. You want porn and masturbation material, go online and find it. Don't look to television to deliver this to you. Makeout scenes do nothing for the general plot, except show who's interested in who. There doesn't need to be nipples, or skin, to make a scene sexy.Also the fight scenes have changed, all the camera angles are working exactly from the original. They should have just bought the rights and broadcast the original to America. I really believe that it's not that hard to get.References to Gordon Brown, or Tony Blair, or Margaret Thatcher, are understood by all classes of all nations. Government does things we all don't like, and we all think we could do a better job if given the chance. It doesn't matter if you speak ghetto English, text English, or British English. It all comes through and if you don't get what's happening because of the accent, well then, you're not capable of hearing English as it is.Once again. William H. Macy, is the worst part of this show. They should have got a nobody who actually looks haggard and worn down. Same with all the characters except Steve. He's the only "Pretty Boy" in the show. The rest of them don't care about it, and don't have the money to support the American Plastic Body looks. It's about family togetherness, the relationships between everyone in the estate/community, and how they all work together. Not just about who's hot, and who's doing what.Rubbish indeed, take something that's not yours and ruin it, but then again, that's what the USA has been doing since it was founded I guess, so there's nothing to be surprised about.
I like the actors here, especially Macy, and I was introduced to Rossum when she was in the movie version of "Phantom of the Opera." I found this series on Netflix streaming and had high, or at least moderately high, hopes.I watched the first episode of season 1, what a strange bunch of characters. So I watched the second episode, still very strange. Just in case this was first-season growing pains I skipped over to an episode in the third season. Still strange, worthless drivel. For the life of me I cannot understand why some viewers think this show is great. Instead of airing my own objections I will quote a few points I agree with that are already written:"While the first half of the season is pretty strong the main characters get really annoying with their stupidity and you go from one shocking situation with little lasting depth to the next.""You are left with a bleak reality filled with one dimensional characters, meaningless sex and violence. If that's your thing, congratulation! TV is endlessly filled with this kind of bleak, empty entertainment.""... this show is insulting, debasing, and disgusting. It portrays people as the lowest form of animal. We see a 40 year old man performing cunnilingus on a teenage girl who is in a coma. We see gratuitous sex that is about as subtle as two ugly dogs going at it at the dog park. It is a revolting, disgusting experience.""Shameless writers actually thought episodes filled with excessive profanity, full-frontal nudity (in EVERY episode), chain smoking, drug use, and violence would fill the massive holes in unbelievable story telling. It didn't work for me.""If you want to fill you mind with filth, garbage and liberal BS, the show is just for you. It undermines everything humanity should be about and reach for. Instead you see a complete dysfunctional alcoholic father, who behaves lower than an animal.""You would really need to release all modicums of taste and scruples or be similar to enjoy it...It's a parade of all the most terrible and cringe worthy human characteristics served in a neat little bag of vomit."
Holy cow did I hate this show,, alcoholic father normalizing neglecting kids, giving them drugs and alcohol,,, teen girls giving blow jobs in front of her mom,,, sick stupid, rape culture and horrible...
Look, I'm streetwise and this show shows outright child abuse as if it's funny.. 
I repeat, I hated this show...


                
The "Fuck-Swipe" episode finished it for me. As nasty, dysfunctional and irresponsible as the Gallaghers et al were through the first seven seasons, there were always redeeming characteristics to be found (even in Frank). But this episode just seemed gleefully degenerate, narcissistic and mean-spirited, and nothing or no one to empathize with. I'm done.


                
I'm a huge fan of the Original UK Shameless. But, I decided to give the new US version a chance (I'm American, living in Ireland). Regardless of whether or not I had ever seen the original, I would have nothing good to say about the US version, besides the fact that Emmy Rossim is pretty hot and a decent actress and Macy is also a great actor, who is just not cut out for this role.The entire show seems very.... constipated. It is all very forced and all the actors seem like they have no emotion and can't relate at all to the script. The storyline (so far) is completely mirroring the original. I feel like what makes this show special and so well loved, for the past 8 seasons, in the UK, is not present in this version. It just doesn't seem right. There is something very disheartening about the US Shameless, and I don't think it's going to get any better.


                
Really bad idea. Maybe it will get better but all these actors are really bad fits for this show. William H Macy, is stilted and awkward in the roll of Frank, He's too good for this role, the Sex scenes are just not sexy, and the brutal genius of the original series just doesn't translate. At all.The Awful, Awful, (and occasionally charming) people of the original series is just going to be to hard to recreate. It might be different if I hadn't seen the original series (the one I continue to watch) but the complete degradation, attitude and flat out despicable-ness of the original characters can in no way be mimicked in a new version. You had to grow with these characters in order to mine the depths of the ugliness they create for themselves, and I can't see myself going through this again in an American version that I already know the plot to. For me it doesn't work at all. For those who haven't seen the British version, maybe it will work.


                
I don't see the point of this version of Shameless. It's a rather sad clone of the British version, just with American accents and frankly, poorer acting. William H. Macy may seem an untouchable national treasure to many in the US, but he doesn't hold a candle up to David Threlfall when it comes to playing Frank. Sorry, USA. You are missing a true acting master class. Are Americans incapable of trying to understand English spoken with a Manchester accent? You really had to remake it? I mean it borders on cultural arrogance. Your loss.


                
This show sucks it hard. The acting is terrible, the plot line is useless and the ups and downs are so unauthentic it makes the WWE feel real. F the "edgy" content, this show is terrible, period.I'm adding more content as IMDb requires 10 lines or more. So here's some insight on a few shows that don't make you want to kick your TV in. All comedies.1. Tim and Eric - Because the comedy is not forced. And when it is, it's done gracefully. Yep, a gracefully forced comedy.2. Super Jail - One of the best animated series of all time. I need not even begin to describe the genius involved. Stop reading this and watch it.3. Californication (Season 2) - Without a doubt one of the very best seasons of any show.4. Weeds (Season 1 - 3) - Hottest TV milf ever.Nothing more.


                
Why cant yanks (americans) create something creative ??? What is it with 'stealing" and remaking these classic shows?? If its not British it's Australian... and its all CRAP... they've remade all their own stuff and it STINKS... no creative juices left in the US I think... I mean really come on be creative !!!! Stop pinching stuff and thinking its great...ITS NOT !!!!! STOP RIPPING OFF CLASSIC British AND Australian shows...I mean can you imagine us Aussies doing a Married with Children or MASH or Seinfeld... it wouldn't and doesn't work... because WE have creativity... something the American Film and TV makers lack.... COME ON... you did it in the 70's and even the 80's....you can do it again... tell ya what... I'll come over and write for ya...I'm cheap !!!!!!


                
Was already gonna give up on it on season 8, but with Fiona and Ian I wanted to watch season 9. Waste of time, you can basically guess how they both leave and there is really no story lines just a political agenda that is shoved down your throat like anyone even really cares
The main female character is alttile loose. Maybe instead of advocating teen sex along with drug and alcohol use. Try to implement so positive moral and ethical values. Just because you come from poverty does not imply you are white trash. This is really a harsh depiction of a lower class family with worthless addict parents.


                
I was originally attracted to this series due to Emmy Rossum's participation in it. Having seen her in a number of films which I liked -- such as 2004's "The Phantom of the Opera" -- I assumed that this would be a high-quality show. Boy was I wrong! This is not the young, innocent character she plays in the aforementioned film. This is someone entirely different! To the point, while one can sympathize with her family and personal struggles in the early episodes of the show, it soon becomes apparent that she is quite the foul-mouthed slut who can't control her libido.All of the other characters, beginning with William H. Macy as the constantly-drunk father, Frank Gallagher, are equally as controversial, with few exceptions. In short, the show is full of liars, deceivers, selfish and conniving manipulators, drunks, thieves, drug users, thugs, hookers, Bible bashers and other unscrupulous characters.To say that this show is liberal in nature is an understatement. It doesn't take long before the LGBT agenda is shoved in our faces again, and again, and again. It becomes more forceful as the seasons progress, to the point of becoming shamelessly disgusting and nauseating, so that one wonders when it will stop. But it never does. This is propaganda TV at its best, and they offer no apologies.This series clearly makes a statement regarding the American viewing audience. For any show to endure for eight seasons -- and have a rating of 8.7 here on IMDB -- is quite a feat. I can only assume then that this is what so many Americans want, and I suspect that it is because it feeds their base instincts.


                
