I have never watched the British version of this show so I cannot comment on the original. I was under the impression it was a new Showtime story. I have to admit that started watching because I have always been a fan of William H Macy. However, viewing Macy in this kind of role was startling . I had always seen him in more conventional-almost typecast - parts. I knew that Joan Cusak was a quality actress which lent the project some further credibility. At first the show seemed to be almost forced. The plot seemed bizarre, and unbelievable. It seemed awkward. Its quite common for shows to take time to develop chemistry when the actors haven't defined their characters yet. The same can be said for the writers. However, I had never seen anything like it. In that regard it was dynamic and worth the time. The young actors soon found their roles and by the 5th episode I found myself thinking about the show every day. Now I cant stop watching. Im addicted. The actors are fantastic. The plots are far more developed. The supporting players play a big part in the series, and new characters keep rotating in flawlessly. The show has evolved . And just for the record, Im getting really sick and tired of people trashing the show because in their minds it doesn't measure up to the original. Its not supposed to be the original. If you don't like it, stick with the British show.


                
I've grown up with the original Shameless. It's a fast paced Comedy-Drama like no other, in that it lends itself perfectly to both without apology or hesitation.Whereas the British original finds it's characters living, fornicating, screaming and jumping in the revelry of zero-expectation in a rigid class system, the American remake masterfully equivocates the triumphs and the tribulations of a lower class family existing on the edge of acceptability at the heart of society in a flawless, delicate and shameless manner.The pilot introduces the characters, much like their British counterparts, not in an effort to garner their sympathy but simply as a statement of fact. The aspiring teen marine struggling to hide his homosexuality only fears losing the love of his brother, the absent drunk dad who loves his children but through the haze becomes a heckling prophet - a Shakespearean fool who sees through the thin veil of sanity and order, a young woman struggling to keep the family together seeing a way out through a handsome highwayman. These people are not bad even if they do bad things. Society has forgot about them and for that they couldn't care less for it.The whole cast is tremendous but William H. Macy rises to the occasion with the father, a Frank Gallagher straight out of a bar in Memphis at 3 a.m. on a Wednesday, last orders, don't interrupt him because he hasn't finished yet, he's got to tell you what's wrong with the world before he wakes up and it all ends. You would believe this guy was a war vet or something with the confidence and delirium at which he pontificates.No matter what your race or background you can take something away from Shameless. Most television that likes to call itself Comedy, Drama, or both, tends towards a particular demographic, offering an escape fantasy for, say, the 'off-beat' teens in Glee or the sexually deviant young adults in True Blood or the repressed housewives in that show about the repressed housewives.As the designated guardian's new boyfriend takes a seat at the head of the table, he pushes Frank's legs aside as he crashes drunk on the floor. Shameless doesn't escape anything, it lives in the world it is given and every so often reminds you, during those joyously chaotic scenes, that the sweetest lemonade is almost bitter, so it's just as well every episode is only an hour for you to laugh, cry and enjoy.Moments of anarchic jubilation inter lap, run over and sometimes juxtapose flourishes of near-the-bone reality, served eloquently on a fresh platter to which America needs to to have the stomach for.


                
I was halfway through the American series before I even KNEW there was a British series. I think a was a little disappointed that we didn't create it, but I was also happy that it was one of the few shows that we copied without ruining it. When I checked some of the user reviews, I was surprised to see how many thought the show to be appalling. OK, not everyone will share my love for the show, but to rate it SO badly? But when I looked, the author of nearly every bad review was a fan of the original show. This simply sounds like a case of liking what you know. "I don't care how good their cooking is. It ain't as good as my Mom's!"Once I finished the American series, I gave it about a month to settle in and then started watching the British series. But I'd like to think that I was objective enough to judge it on its on merits, and not simply that it's different than what I'm used to.Since, as many have pointed out, the script is nearly word-for-word identical, the difference lies mainly in how the actors portray the characters.So I'm going to give my character-by-character head-to-head appraisal of UK vs. US. I'm going to use the character names rather than the actors' names for simplicity. Starting from the youngest...Little Debbie: UK wins this one hands down. No contest. She steals every scene she's in. Who can not fall in love with this girl???Carl: This one's close, but the UK one is (at least in the first season) a little more deranged and fun to watch.Ian: Another close one, but this goes to UK, too. US Ian is somber and good looking, but UK Ian always seems a bit panicky, and the wide-angle closeups of his face make him look pretty bizarre. Lip: This is solidly with the US. I like US Lip's darkness. He seems more responsible and intelligent. UK Lip is just kind of impish and unsure. You can depend on US Lip and he offers some of the only real family support to Fiona.Kevin: Dead heat.Veronica: Very different performances by each, but in the end, I like them the same.Fiona: This was a difficult one to call, but I'm giving it to the US. And this is probably because I saw them first. I just like her better. Hard to put my finger on the reason.Frank: Sorry, UK, but I just don't like your Frank. I understand the character is usually drunk, but he seems that way even before he starts drinking. He seems clinically stupid. US Frank (Macy) is equally as obnoxious, entitled, selfish and deluded, but he only seems drunk when he's drunk. At other times, his pontificating is fun to listen to. You feel good about hating the guy, because he's like this by choice. With UK Frank, you have to pity him. I feel like I'm laughing at someone who's mentally challenged.


                
Many of the reviews on here are complaining about how much the U.S. version copies the original. I've not seen a single episode of the original and, to me, the U.S. version is well acted, entertaining and perhaps one of my new favorites. I could care less that it's word for word from the original because this is all new to me. The actors portray the characters amazingly and I feel the storyline represents struggling families realistically. Each character will remind you of someone you know or have known. So for those who are like me and you've never seen the original, I absolutely suggest checking out Shameless, the U.S. remake. I look forward to seeing the rest of the season and maybe one day I'll even check out the original.


                
I cant seem to understand the hate for the American version, i am a huge fan of the Original series, actually the preview for this got me into the original series! after watching the pilot of this, i can say its gonna be good, and its something America needs, besides another "reality series" whether you're watching the original or American remake its still a good show. however there are a few things changed in the American remake and they are very subtle changes, like Ian being interested in the military and Liam being black, those are the only huge changes. there were allot of drastic changes made to the original series which made it much better, such as getting rid of some characters and adding a bunch of new ones. lets just hope this remakes gets to live 7 seasons.


                
Shamelessly loving this show and binging bad every night but if the producers have no idea how to end this crazy thing, then maybe they could consider an End of World scenario and see who is the last standing..... and we all no who that would be!!


                
Lovable characters.
Believable (mostly) characters.
Crazy funny stories going on and on.
It's terribly funny, sad, emotional, tons of action, intriguing, crazy.
Has it all and all is well done.
One of the best TV shows I've ever seen.


                
I actually subscribed to Showtime for this and it was completely worth it. I stumbled upon the original (UK version) last year before I even knew about the U.S. remake. The UK Shameless was unlike anything I'd ever seen on TV here and immediately I became fascinated with it. I couldn't tell if it was a comedy or drama. Finally, I decided it was both. However, after the first two seasons, the show started to go downhill. It had its moments but hardly any of the cast stayed. This is where I'm hoping the US version goes differently. Already this show has established itself as more than just a "remake". I have to say that this is one of the few American remakes that I like better than it's original. I don't know if it was just because it's easier to relate to or because the US Lip is so amazing... but either way I love this show. The first two seasons are very different than that of the UK version. So if you've watched the original and don't want to give this a try, I strongly recommend you change your mind. Another person who reviewed the show compared the characters from both versions which I thought was great so I'd like to give my own input. *Also note there may be spoilers for UK version. Frank- US is better: I think the UK Frank is drunk way too often, and yeah, I get that he's an alcoholic/ a drunk, but there's no reason that after hours and hours of sleep he should still wake up wasted, slurring his words. US Frank is just more realistic to me.Fiona-US is better: While watching the UK version, I found Fiona to be really annoying the entire time she stayed in the show. She had her moments but US Fiona is generally more likable. I think it's not just the acting, but the changes made by the writers/creators/whoever of the show.Steve-UK is better: It's kind of a close call, but the UK actor's really good looking and he always seemed more in love with Fiona than the US Steve does with US Fiona. UK Steve and Fiona have extremely good chemistry but I just realized that the actors got married in real life so that helps make the relationship more realistic. Lip-US is so much better: I just love Lip. I like the drama surrounding the UK Lip more, but US Lip has swag. Ian-US is better: I didn't really like Ian as a character in the UK version (actor was too awkward?) but the US Ian is more likable. I'm more interested in his story lines. Debbie-UK is better: As a little girl, she was much cuter, but then as the show went on you could see her character develop and I always liked her. Carl-UK is better: Kind of an unfair comparison because judging on the first two seasons alone they would be equal. Since I've seen every season of the UK, I know how Carl turns out there and he is by far the best of all the Gallagher children. I love the actor and his character just as much as US Lip.Liam is a baby. It would be unfair to compare.Karen- hate them both equally, but US is betterSheila- US is better: It's Joan Cusack. UK Sheila was like a completely different character and I thought she was super annoying.Veronica- equal, like them both Kevin-uhhhhh equal but it's a hard decision because I love the UK Kevin... and the US Kevin. Kevin's a great guy. Mickey-same Mandy-US is better: I liked the first actress to play US Mandy in season one, but they replaced her. I still like her though. Like with Lip, I like her UK story line more, but her story in this version is so out there.So yeah, that's basically all my comparisons. I have to say that this show is absolutely amazing- probably one of the best shows on TV now. I'm surprised by every episode and I'm always left wanting more. I think it's very well written and very believable/ relate-able in a comical kind of overdone way. The whole family is lovable and despite the fact that they're not always 'good' I find myself cheering them on at every obstacle they face.
I feel like Shameless is super underrated! It's a show where drama and comedy make a very good mixture. They strengthen the veracity of the events from the show, because this kind of things represent the cruel and bitter reality we live. It's an amazing show that'll hit you right in the feels. It's one of the most realistic show I've watched. It's an one of a kind show. Oh and... that love/hate relationships with many characters (beacuse you'll have them) will make you love this show even more.


                
I can understand some observers finding this show to be provocatively disturbing but cannot agree with them. This version is so much more adducing to North American life than the original English version. The situations are vastly different, in that the social situations are vastly different. Being from Lancashire but living in Canada for a long time, I am able to appreciate both versions to the fullest. This US version is superior and to my mind is the very best entertainment I have ever seen on this continent. The casting is brilliant,the performances are superb. There are almost no untruths the honesty is just amazing. The nudity is never gratuitous,the humour is both blatant and subtle. Achieving a production this controversial with so many youngsters in the cast,has to be a veritable challenge. Macy is a way better choice than Harrelson for this role. All the actors are convincing and that says it all. This the closest to real life in a scripted show that has ever been produced in the Americas.


                
I am a big fan of the UK series and expected the US remake to be a diluted and sanitised version of the original.I'm surprised to find I'm enjoying it as much as the original.The cast members have been brilliantly chosen and the show has lost none of its edginess and originality.The conversion of the setting from the UK to the US is treated brilliantly. The only thing that seems strange is that the original character names have been retained which don't always seem to very American (but maybe that's just me).I'm looking forward to season two and will be interested to see if it starts to divert from the original story lines.


                
I saw Emmy Rossum's interview with Chelsea Handler & decided to give it a watch. My hopes weren't that high because the USA hasn't done too good a job of bring UK shows over and keeping everything that made them great in the UK. This show demolishes that stereotype. The characters of Veronica and Kevin are definitely the funniest characters on the show. Frank's character makes you hate him to the core but not enough to destroy the show. Fiona is the one you all love and hate you love her for everything she does but sometimes hate her for some of her decisions she makes them for the good of the family not necessarily for the good of herself which isn't what we've come to expect from TV. This show is just amazing & is killing me for making me have to wait until 2012 for season 2.


                
This is my favorite show of all time! I'm very disappointed that Fiona is leaving, take Debbie instead!
This is a great show with unexpected twists all the time. Always entertaining. However, as poor as this family is supposed to be, I wish the producers would pay more attention to details, such as brand name items in the kitchen. People who pawn xbox and laptops to buy food would only have cheap, generic stuff in the house. Just sayin'.


                
I believe this is one of the best shows ( and I'm including movies too!) I've ever had the pleasure of viewing! Be ready to experience many of every possible human emotion that can be felt (sometimes all at once) per episode!! It's a roller coaster ride of the dysfunctional American family experience that many can identify with. I'm extremely sad to see Emmy Rossum exit the show. She is in my opinion the heart and soul that held such a dysfunctional family together giving each (of the well executed/ casted characters) of the family her all, equating to the benefit of a hope and belief, even when she didn't believe it herself, of a better tomorrow in such a f--cked up existence. You'll miss out if you don't watch! If you watch you'll become an addict too! Shameless has a roster of some of the best actors in the industry most of whom either cut their teeth in the craft because of working on this show and it went on to star in other well known tv, movie, or plays or who already had many years under their belt. Either way it's worth watching it if only to see who will show up on the next episode but beware, if you watch one episode you will become Shamelessly addicted!!
Shameless is one of the shows I have watched that pulled off the tragic comedy genre. I watch a LOT of TV shows, but his one is absolutely unique. For anyone contemplating whether to watch this show or not, just watch the first episode and your decision will be clear. I mean that might not be be enough but most TV shows are like that. Get into the first season and you will be hooked. The Gallaghers go through a lot to resuscitate their family. I can honestly say that even if the show ends soon (which isn't happening), my first plan of action will be to start the series all over again. This is my second best TV show after breaking bad which is my all time favorite.


                
It is an absolutely awesome show, a lot of American remakes of British TV shows suck, i.e Skins, but than you get the good ones like Being Human and this. This show pick a bunch of actors who are well suited to their rolls, including Joan cusack, who hasn't seen much lately, but she found her way as a crazy Agoraphobic. The show is entertaining, also includes a great comedic side, but holds it's family drama genre in place, it's interesting to see the outcome of each episode. It has good music, intriguing themes and great use of a comedic look at an alcoholic father unlike a lot of other dramas. can't wait to see more.


                
This show makes you feel the hard stuff they are feeling right down to even crying or feeling guilty for anything wrong you might have done. It is a show that makes you think about life and helps you make choices. It's like the characters are doing the wrong ones so you don't have to. So sit tight, for you may feel guilty for being in prison from your own couch and then cry at the sight of freedom! The casting director is a genius man! Sheila, Lip and Fiona are a fresh breeze of new acting, while all the rest are simply delightful! All the actors in this series are excellent. Some may say that the script is exaggerated, but once you've seen 3 episodes you will soon realize it's really not! Discover for yourself why!
I am a movie and TV hound. I watch tons of shows and really it's not often that a show is done so well that I can't stop watching it. I Started watching after the second season had already aired and I have caught all the way up and I cannot wait until Season 3. They got me hooked like a fish on a treble hook. Love it, Love it. Well written and produced all the way around an excellent show. I gave it 10 out of 10 because that is what it deserves. If your looking for an entertaining show that you can fall in love with the actors and really feel like your part of it then this is one you should watch. (Two Thumbs Up) Need I say more. Watch this show.Spoiler Alert: If easily offended then this show may not be for you. Graphic Nudity Sexual Content Language Violence About everything that you would expect to go on in real life in south side Chicago. Spoiler Alert:
This is one of my all time favorite shows, I have watched the UK version and the US version and both have their own taste.People who complain about how the story is exactly the same as the UK version is half correct. The American version has characters each person can relate to rich or poor but the premise and reason for connecting with this show stems from the UK story plot. Much like the US version of the show skins (A terrible remake of the amazing British original) (Not supporting it, simply awful) it makes you feel like you could be in it/live like them. If you are reading reviews to tell you if you should watch it....don't, explore for yourself. I love to agree with people and show my opinion that I hope it is picked up for a third season with the same cast. Acting and scene cuts are fluid, and it is simply easy to watch by far nothing new or groundbreaking, just a great time. Other shows I really enjoy are. (no specific order)-Game of thrones -Southland -Southpark -Archer -House of Lies -Skins (UK) -Californication -Bobs Burgers (occasionally, some episodes are not funny similar to southpark) -Mad Men -(Sometimes**) The Big Bang Theory -(Sometimes***) How I met Your Mother -Parks and Recreations -30 Rock -Up All Night -Tosh.0 -(Only watched one episode) Smash -And others I am probably missing I am an 19 year old male so obviously take the demographic into account.


                
I am a massive fan of the original Shameless series here in the UK, so I was very sceptical about a new US version of it and wondered if such a drama could be staged in another country. Happily all my doubts were dispelled, this US version is every bit as good as the UK's and it makes a refreshing change to see a US drama that is gritty and realistic, rather than the Hollywood style dramas that we get here, that show everyone as rich and stunningly beautiful, all living in mansions.I particularly like the characters of Philip and Fiona,in fact, I think I prefer them to their UK counterparts, but I'm sorry US, I don't think anyone can take the place of our Frank Gallagher here in the UK.


                
What started out promising to be one of the best shows of the last few years, suffered what I can only describe as a writer's block unsuccessfully treated by a diet of hard liquor and cheap cocaine.All the characters you learn to know and love lost their main traits by episode 8 of season 2, and around episode 9 you just end up feeling violated by the sheer volume of major, life-altering situations per character that get crammed within a single episode.All of a sudden Lip is an insecure half-girl unable to live without Karen, Karen's character gets downgraded to an evil demon whore girl, Ian goes out clubbing with his estranged mom because she's gay too and that's what you do with a parent who dumped you for 2 years..you go to a gay bar and talk boys; Mandy is sporadicly thrown in on out of the show which makes you lose any empathy for her character only to learn she was knocked up by Lip whom she obviously (obviously??) had feelings for??And to top it all off...it takes Fiona about half a day to warm up to her idiot mother being back in the house after she tried to abduct her brother last season and run off with Bob..because, well, mama made breakfast and asked her about boys..oh shucks. Seriously?! Seriously??There are enough interesting characters with perfectly believable stories and neurosis to make for a very long-lasting show. Please don't cram it all in the next 3 episodes.
I watch a lot of television and this is by far my new favorite show. I don't care if there were a UK version, I don't want to see it and I don't need to see it. The US version is simply amazing and keeps my attention the entire time. I laugh the entire episode and crave more! All of the actors are excellent and fit their character perfect. To all of the users giving this show bad ratings, we don't need your bad ratings so don't watch it if you think it is that terrible. My husband and I had a 3 month trial of showtime and added it to our direct TV contact just to watch this show. I recommend that everyone give it a try. A + in my book!


                
Arguably my all time favorite television series. It's the story of Fiona Gallagher and the adversities she's forced to face while holding together the family which invariably looks to her, at twenty years old, to solve the problems of everyday life. The Gallaghers have unfairly been referred to as dysfunctional but their family dynamic does work, albeit just barely, because of Fiona.Abandoned by her mother at eighteen, her father a raging alcoholic, Fiona was forced to adopt the thankless role of head of the family and performs it with fierce determination and love. An amazing cast which includes Emmy Rossem (Christine Daae) as Fiona, William H. Macy as Frank, and Joan Cusack as the agoraphobic neighbor Sheila delivers this irreverently delightful tap to your solar plexus on a regular basis.


                
In watching this show, I was hoping to see the Emmy Rossum, that I saw in Phantom of the Opera, an incredible talent with a lot to offer the world as an actress and this first episode she did not disappoint. Emmy's performance was so well layered it blew my mind. Great range and I can't say enough good things.Being from the Midwest and more specifically being born in Chicago, I can honestly say the director, writers and actors got this down perfectly. This is a very accurate portrayal of life in the Midwest. Forget that it's a recession... it's like this all the time.Furthermore, I was impressed with all of the actors. Excellent job, I am watching every week and telling my friends.The Hollywood Foreign Press should get one thing right... Emmy Rossum best actress in a TV show!


                
