I used to love this show but the last few seasons just keep getting progressively worse.. I am literally forcing myself to sit through episodes now.. This whole Fiona storyline happened in season 4. It's been played out already and now they are just recycling bad storylines. And now since Ian left they are randomly making other family members gay? Lip used to be this genius who could outsmart everyone and scam the system and it's like the writers have forgotten that the last couple seasons. Like you can be a recovering addict and still be smart and cunning.. It's just not good anymore and I have no idea how it got renewed for another season. The acting is still incredible but the writing is horrible.


                
Just got around to watching season 8. Cutting right to the chase, this season, in dialogue, directing and acting, has been a cross between a bad soap opera and a worse low-budget porn. What happened?


                
/* Update Season 4 - warning spoilers*/I am absolutely disgusted by season 4.Am I the only one to think the evolution of most characters doesn't make any sense at all?Fiona, a paragon of responsibility, strong enough to support a family of lunatics, juggling between so many jobs suddenly does drug, lets drug in range of her baby brother and most of all refuses to take full responsibility for the incident? She dates a brother and sleeps with the other one many times ?Lip destroys a handful of cars in front of the university but isn't expelled or investigated in any way ?Seems only Carl acts like he always had.Medically, we have one miracle after the other. Frank survives despite having been diagnosed by two doctors as being days away from his death. Kevin and Veronica having babies in spite of a 99,999 % odds against.I sure hope season 5 reverse the trend or I'm done with the series./* End Update Season 4 - warning spoilers*/After all that happens she has no other idea than violate her house arrest to almost overdose with the brother that destroyed her life ?Shameless is a TV series with lots going for it.The excellent cast makes the many relationships (love, romance, brotherhood, friendship) credible, interesting and even addicting.The writers manage to intertwine many stories at the same time with different views and outlook on life, from kids to elderlies, which is quite refreshing.While it relates quite a hard and sometimes horrendous reality, the ever present humor helps make it palatable, as well as the drive, the courage and the sense of community of most family members and friends.It is quite heart braking to watch Monica and Frank though. While most characters in spite of their darkness have some redeeming qualities (the grandmother for example who in the end gives the money to her sons and even wants to get additional city money by trying to get run by a bus) it is very hard to find anything positive about the parents. They are absolutely selfish and one episode after another is a show of how they constantly bend everything to their advantage.Frank in particular is a tough sell. He will go so far as to kill for money (preventing a heart transplant) and thinks of only one thing: himself.It is a testament to the brilliance of the writers as well as the formidable acting of Macy that one still cares about his character.
One of my friends told me to watch this show and I think I managed to watch like a season before stopping. Its ok, I guess, but overall I found it boring and the characters annoying. I asked the friend why she liked it and she answered "all the sex scenes" so I guess that''s why people are watching it.


                
The show started out great, but the latest season 9 feels preachy. Do we need another show that raises "awareness" about gay rights and the wage gap? Pretty sure the people watching the show are already "aware" of these things.


                
*Contains Spoilers*Firstly, I would like to state, I was a big fan of the first season. It was refreshing to see a show about real people with real problems, rather than, "middle class" families with perfectly mowed lawns and new cars. The Season 2 premiere was a shock and disappointment, suddenly they are all buffed up (Lip and Ian). Also, where did they get those clothes? Boating shoes,rolled up skinny jeans.. cheap clothing does not fit that well. When we learn Kevin is a marijuana cultivator and needs $8000 for an electric bill we also suddenly learn Kevin and Veronica have up to $10000 in savings. Are these people who have money, savings, and just decide to grow marijuana and have this lifestyle for the fun of it? I just feel like the message is getting lost. Fiona, the rock of the family who was always exasperated being the mother, father, sister, friend and care giver....now is partying after work with some rich rebound guy leaving her 11year old sister to run a day care. I loved the first season, because these were kids brought into bad circumstances who although, struggled everyday to make ends meet and keep their alcoholic father from getting all of them thrown into foster care, were smart, caring, fun, and unique individuals. All the over production and incomprehensible plot that is solved within one episode is condescending and insulting to the people that were being portrayed. Based on the new season premiere I am giving the show 4 stars just for the amazing actors who made up a talented ensemble cast.
The show is eventful and it's distinctive. It portrays unlikely characters and they tackle serious problems in society. And while those traits are all good and well the show fails to impress.They got this poor-but-united-family going that just seem improbable and forced. Maybe I'm being cynical but I just find that to be cheesy. They taunt with nude scenes and dark plots to give the show an edge but it's just... meh.Granted, I've only seen the first season and not even the entire season, but the interaction at its core is just lame. Just so very lame(subjective, I know - but it's honestly the best word to describe it with). And you know that's never gonna change unless there's a new producer/showrunner etc. And so I disadvice you from diving into "Shameless".


                
Vulgar glorification & reinforcement for today's misled youth.


                
I wish I had known there was a British version before I had watched the entire first season of this one. This series is okay, but I always felt unsatisfied with it. Is it a comedy, or a drama? It can't seem to decide. Its performance in both areas ends up being mediocre. William H. Macy is way too nice of a guy to be believable as Frank. Emmy Rossum works as a white- trash-type girl. Her boyfriend in this version and the British version look eerily similar. American Debbie is an annoying-looking little ginger girl, which ends up making me not love her (she is supposed to be the most lovable of the group), as opposed to the sweet-faced British Debbie.What really irked me was that, not only did they copy the first episode of the original series (like The Office did), they essentially copied the entire season! What the hell?! How lazy. You're gonna rip off a show, its characters, its plot, and its series-long storyline, and just replace it with new actors in a different setting? Why do American rip-offs of British series insist on doing this? And more importantly, why do the series's original creators allow them to do so?The British series is hilarious, and as usual, better than the American one. I don't think we've had one successful British adaptation outside of The Office. It'd be nice if we could take the hint and stop stealing their ideas, and instead actually put effort into making good, original shows.


                
Letting Noel Fischer go was their biggest mistake. When Mikey & Ian aren't together, there's no reason to even watch the show anymore. Their chemistry was amazing. I'm not a big fan of attributing a preference to one actor or another in a show. Ian on meds like cutting a character in half & was just sad to watch. In the end 5 stars for 5 really good seasons. Then subtract one for cutting off your nose to spite your face. You now have a tv show about a bunch of Jerry Springer wanna be's.


                
With several first-class actors, including William H Macy and Emily Rossum this series could be, and ought to be, at the very least in "weeds" territory. By rights it should easily surpass the latter. Instead it has the two main stars doing, well, nothing much really. What is this show trying to be? A dark comedy, like "Weeds"? Nope, the laughs are too few and too far between. A hard-edged drama like "Breaking Bad"? It's not that either, since none of the characters, except Macy, even have much of an edge to them. Macy and Rossum want certain things, of course - even if it's only to better themselves or in Macy's case, to stay loaded as much as possible - but when they do get something they want, or solve some conflict (the essence of all drama, of course) it's hard to have much reaction except indifference. As good as the actors are, the writing never lets them soar, or even lets you care about them much. 
 There are many long, drawn out scenes - but these seem to be done not for the sake of the story so much as filling airtime cheaply. I read the IMDB rating and the rave reviews here and expected a lot more then I get... but even if I had no expectations this show is a dud. I'll admit "Shameless" might be one of those shows I just don't "get", but I know the difference between good and bad drama and if this is a sleeper classic of some sort, I've never seen any of the elements that would even make this a decent watch.. And if this is supposed to be a "comedy" then I'm completely clueless. The actors, especially the two stars, make the very most with what they have to work with - but even they can't save "Shameless" - or even make it watchable.


                
The first season was enjoyable but like every Showtime series goes down hill in the second season.Like "Californication" and "United States of Tara" this series is missing something that I just can't put my finger on. The presentation style is the same in all three programs and its lacking something I can't define. Each program presents the material is some quasi hip annoying manner. -.- Another program from Showtime to stop watching after the first season. Do yourself a favor and stick to the UK version which is available on YouTube. -.- The first season just copied the UK version and did so well. The second diverges and lacks any comedic or dramatic appeal. -.- Avoid the rest of this series. I rented the full second season and regretted it. From now on I will only rent Showtime series a disc at a time to prevent wasting a queue. -.- Screw me once Showtime - shame on you, screw me twice - shame on me. To avoid future shame I will avoid Showtime's poor production attempts. In that way, I can be Shameless.


                
So. We have an interesting setting with the alcoholic father, and 6 kids fending for themselves as a low class family in modern America. This would all be well, except the inherent drama is being taken light of. This picture is still too glamorous for a family like this. Like right off, in the first episode the oldest girl in the family meets a prince charming who will be perfect in every way? Do you really want to sell us the same romantic bullshit we have been force fed since romanticism? In reality 9 out of 10 guys would have left her after getting some sex. Where's the drama in solving her problems right away with some sugary romance? She just finds the perfect guy off the bat? Where are the parts that make up these people's lives for the most of it? THe despair, the sadness, the boring monotony of manual labour that is like a mud, the more you try to get out, the quicker it takes over you? This sugarcoated version of real life makes me sick to the core.
