This show was so addicting at the beginning i watched 5 seasons in 2 weeks which is impressive for me, but after the fifth season it started to get boring the same things are happening again and again there wasn't anything different that made me excited. I still watch it though I can't help but to know what is happening with the gallaghers. So i think 10 seasons should be enough. I'll miss shameless but at least it won't get worse by adding more season.


                
I like many am an avid fan of shameless since it kicked off many years ago. I was never into comedy/drama's but this show changed that perspective within the first season. It took nearly 4 months to bring myself to watch season 9 due to the poor ratings and season 8 being abit plants aswell. The Irishman? What a bore, along with the whole gay thing, you just say to yourself, MOVE ON ALREADY! season 9 is how most are saying. Average at best. I only watched it as I was stuck for things to watch. There's maybe 2 good episodes. Needs alot of spice to get it back the how brilliant it used to be


                
as an USA spin off off channel four shameless they capture the spirit off the UK version and made it there own.good performance all around by the crew, lead by the excellent William h Macy a very good actor indeed.overall a solid show.


                
It's not bad to be honest, the reason I started watching Shameless as a kid was all the gratuitous nudity in it, and the American version has a much more attractive cast (I'm referring to the females, but I'm sure the men are better looking too), so this gives it a slight edge on the UK version, it also seems to be a little bit more explicit (another pro). However, I AM a fan of William H. Macey but he just doesn't seem like Frank to me; I know comparing it to the UK version is pointless but William didn't impress me at all in the pilot; however the rest of the cast were pretty awesome. I hope the plot deviates completely from the UK series however, and just goes in a different direction; although I would like the Maguire family to appear at some point. I'm going to give Shameless US about four or five more episodes to rope me into watching it and I suggest you do the same. Solid 7/10 for the first episode.
First of all, I should tell you, I didn't watch the BBC* version of this. Actually, I'd never heard of it until I saw this version. So, unlike 90% of the other reviewers, I'll give you an honest opinion.Is it wonderful? No. Is it worth the watch? Sure. The cast do a wonderful job of portraying this (overly) dysfunctional family as realistically as they can, given that they're all pretty much cookie cutter characters. It's not, by any means, the greatest thing I've ever seen on TV, but it is an entertaining hour of television. I actually am looking forward to seeing the show again next week and finding out what other mess these kids can get themselves into. If you stick with it and actually give it a try, you might find that you like it, despite it being a remake of a BBC* series that has been running for years now.*Apparently, it's Channel 4, not BBC. Sorry about that, as I said, I've never heard of the original until now.


                
Most of time, when people try to remake British television shows in the U.S., they don't work because of all the cultural difference. This has always been the case with two exceptions, The Office and Shameless. For those who think that Seinfeld is the only show about nothing, they've never seen Shameless. That show followed the day to day antics of four friends in New York City. This show follows the day to day antics of a deranged family living in Chicago.In a Emmy winning role, William H. Macy stars as Frank Gallagher, an alcoholic man with six kids, who will do absolutely anything to get money without having to work for it. Frank's antics are really something to see, but as with most of the shows story lines, there is an underlying sadness to the whole thing. Deep down Frank cares deeply for his family and wants to change, but every time he appears to turn a corner, things just seem to get screwed up.Frank's opposite is his daughter Fiona, played admirably by Emily Rossum. This being a comedy show and her not being very funny, has cost her the acclaim that Macy has received, but she is every bit as important to the story, as she's the one whose put her life on hold to raise her brothers and sisters.The other stand out in the show is Cameron Monaghan, who on top of being part of a dysfunctional family, is also dealing with being a gay teenager in a traditional Irish family. He too has his funny moments, but is also the character, that most people can relate to on the show, not because he's gay, but rather he's in a place that he feels he doesn't really belong. He knows for as much as he loved, he will always be seen as different.The lack of a solid story line most certainly effects the show, as most developments only last a couple of episode, but even after five seasons, the antics and scheming of the Gallagher family hasn't gotten old. For me one of the best parts about Shameless is seeing the characters develop and change over the years. When the show started, most of the cast were just kids, trying to find their way without any adult role models. They learn and grow as they go and to me that's more interesting and important than all the odd ball schemes and dirty words.Shameless is unique in that the focus, direction, and characters are always changing. This is great for fans who are into the show, but it also makes it very difficult for people who are trying to get into the story. With so many things happening in such a short period of time to nearly a dozen characters, it is almost impossible, to figure out what lead up to what your watching, if you haven't seen it from the beginning.Overall this show is hilarious, but has an underlying sadness to it. Everyone can related to at least one character, and we all know at least one family that's forced to live this way. We feel for them, but at the same time we are laughing voraciously and are thoroughly entertained by the antics of the entire Gallagher family.


                
I watched the first season of both over the Xmas holidays and I recommend if you like the US version, watch the UK version. The UK version is a bit lighter, the events as the unroll are clearer and after the first shows which are almost shot by shot the same, they begin to deviate in plot. The American version of most UK shows tend to be more restricted in their content, while the fun of UK versions is they are a bit more forthright in what is being suggested.I also prefer the ending to the UK season 1 with the family working their way through their recent challenges. The U.S. version felt like a setup for season 2. Also, the U.S. version seems to suggest a more preachy approach, while the UK version is more like, that is just another day and we handled it as best we can.Although I liked some of the plot deviations, like with Laura Wiggins and her father in the U.S. version, I prefer the treatment of Steve at the end of the Season in the UK Version. So go enjoy and decide for yourself.


                
I stumbled on the series in year three and used on demand to catch up. Normally, I'm not drawn to shows that show the dregs of society making one bad decision after another but for some reason this shows pulls it off. In large part to the acting William H. Macy and Emmy Rossum. The entire family is one chaotic amalgamation of people behaving badly and making bad choices somehow though, the writers keep it entertaining. Any given season may have you disliking or liking a character only to be doing the opposite the following season. Some of the adult humor and situation is honestly a little too depraved for some of the younger actors to be portraying. Even though I'm sure much worse happens in places all around this country. The humor of the situations of course is delivered in a much more sophisticated manor. This show is worth your time if your looking to be entertained.


                
Great show, I've had some good laughs and gotten really involved in it but one thing persistently bothers me about it: The guy who plays Lip really doesn't act. I don't know if he can't or won't but he's so damn wooden that it's hard to watch. Maybe just seems that way next to Macy, Cusack and Rossum but who cast the dead-eyed, mouth-breather as a genius? That actor's not from the poor part of town and it shows in his painful performance. The character was interesting for awhile but the taking things for granted, suffering under pressure and having so much expected of him routine is so played-out and so badly delivered that I just roll my eyes through most of his scenes now. Still stands up as one of my favorite shows.


                
Note: I have seen 4 seasons, and I will edit this review if I finish more seasons.This show holds nothing back, and not just in a non-family-friendly way. It packs emotional punches just as often as it provides serious laughs. As the show's lead, Rossum gives an awe-inspiring performance, which she maintains for the entire series. A few other characters also have their moments to shine, and all of the actors have excellent on-screen chemistry. The show relies pretty heavily on a "shock factor" to keep the audience wondering what will happen next, and the show begins to lag a bit as the shock factor wears off, so this might be a show that you should avoid binge watching.Season 1 - All around fun, enthralling, and repulsive. It's truly amazing and hilarious to see the absurd extents the family goes through to help each other. And just when you start to get really wrapped up into the fun, a sucker punch of a series finale puts everything in perspective and makes the viewer realize that the Gallagher lifestyle is nothing to idolize. I think this is head and shoulders above all the later seasons, and I recommend that you stop watching after this season. 8/10Season 2 - Taking a noticible change of pace, it appears to try and latch onto the grim and gritty realism shown in the season 1 finale. The result is one depressing episode after another, which almost made me stop watching the series. However, Macy does get more time to shine. 4/10Season 3 - Attempts to find a balance between the first two seasons, which results in a series that's toned down craziness from the first season and a little more upbeat than the second. While the turn away from the depressing side is welcome, toning down the absurdity is not, which result in a series that is not quite as entertaining as season 1. 6/10Season 4 - Same pattern as season 3, but Macy, Rossum, and White all share the spotlight instead of focusing primarily on Rossum. 6/10


                
Did you ever think this series was serious? Every thing, since day one, has been facetious. No one in real life acts like the people in this show.


                
This is a pretty crazy series. It is about a severely dysfunctional family and their neighbourhood. It has many charming characters and if you follow the series there are a number of young actors that we get to see grow up inside of their crazy Chicago world. It has many great moments, yet also moments that are really offensive. It is a rich Hollywood version of a messed up family, not a real one. It is a dark satire. having said all that, William H Macy plays a person so disgusting, so filthy, so low that every episode we are all waiting to see who puts a shiv into his chest. His character "Frank" is so disgusting, it may in fact kill Macy's career, because Frank is truly loathsome. I sometimes fact forward through his scenes because they are so vile. In real life someone who put him down for sure. All in all this is a fascinating series that may in fact often cross a line, but ends up redeeming itself with the outstanding performances by the supporting cast. I am waiting for the "serial killer" episode where everyone is killed.


                
Very entertaining and often poignant, this show is very worthwhile but you have to keep it in perspective. It's a sensationalized, idealized, and sometimes glamorized view of a poor family struggling to survive. Oddly this show is about as realistic as the Brady Bunch or Leave it to Beaver -- it just happens to be looking in a different direction. I have some experience in this. Growing up I knew all kinds of dysfunctional poor families, I grew up in one. And I can promise you that a lovable alcoholic dad who does not routinely abuse his children verbally or physically is about as common as the always unflappable, constant, and perfect father Ward Cleaver. The absent mother is another rarity, as is an older child who could admirably fill in for absent parents. The other problem I have with the show is its reliance on shock. Seems almost mandatory for non-network shows but it gets old and feels insulting at times. Well all that aside, this is a very entertaining and compelling series with top notch acting notwithstanding the occasional excess baggage from Macy and Cusack.


                
Watching this show makes me think that not everything is so bad in my life. However, I wouldn't let my kids watch it as "Never do like this" manual.


                
I was absolutely LOVING this show until Season 8 then I absolutely HATED it. Even though the show has A LOT of nudity and sex scenes which I could have lived without, I just fast forwarded through most of that BUT when season 8 shows people worshiping Ian as "Gay Jesus", and chanting absolutely disgusting things about Jesus & God, that was it for me, I had to quit watching. I'm not a religious nut or anything but it was just beyond anything I think a normal person would be ok with. I give Seasons 1-7 nine stars (would be 10 but it's way over the top on the nudity & sex scenes), and I give Season 8 zero stars. If they would have made the same references about Muhammed or Allah, it would have started a holy war!When I started watching the show, the very first episode I found more sad than funny because the father punches his you teenage son in the face (not too funny). But my friend urged me to stick with it and I'm glad I did because it did end up being a very funny show in a dark-comedy way.


                
William H. Macy is the part part of this show. Movie actor decided to find a TV project and went into it as the big star but everyone else around him shines brighter. Every time he has a scene he seems out of context, like he is try to be something he isn't. Fiona is excellent. She is the center of the show and the kids as well. I recently watched Fargo and William H. Macy was brilliant. He lost that character actor brilliance here. Guys like Macy are not meant to be stars, when they do, it falls apart.


                
