I don't leave reviews very often but I had to for this show. I have not seen the UK version and don't really care to because this show is just top notch. I had never heard of this show since I work overseas but ended up catching the 5th episode and absolutely loved it. I told all of the guys in the fire station about it and ever since we have had to catch up on all of the previous episodes. Everyone in the department loves this show and that is a hard thing to do. All of the characters are just great and have so many flaws. William H. Macy does an awesome job as the dysfunctional father. I gave it the highest review I think a show can receive because I don't think there is a perfect show, but this comes darn close. I definitely recommend this show.


                
I've followed the original version in the UK since it started and it's still going strong (to correct an earlier reviewer it wasn't aired on the BBC, it's a Channel Four series). I therefore approached this with apprehension. To take a loved UK program and set it in the US has a history of failures but I liked the look of the trailer and gave it a go. I have to admit that throughout the first episode I was constantly thinking 'oh she's not as good as so and so' or 'I much prefer David to William'. However there was a lot packed into that episode and the script was pretty good. Come episode two I was hooked and to honest much prefer this version.It has cleverly achieved what the UK version has in taking a subject and a group of characters that most people should loathe and turned them into a lovable group, all beautifully portrayed. Real, rounded, believable characters and so many of them too. Many people will have been turned off this by the trailer and thought it's not for them which is a shame. It really is extremely well written with great pace and some superb performances. I love Emmy Rossum and her portrayal of Fiona is astounding. I agree that William H Macy's Frank is more likable since he isn't always drunk and Joan Cusack is perfect as Sheila (I found the UK Sheila quite annoying).We are only up to episode 7 of the US series here in the UK and its top of my weekly viewing. Great to see they are making a second series in the US and in fact given they have plenty of material to use, since we are up to Series 8 here in the UK, I hope it has the same longevity.


                
Absolutely Loved the first few seasons, however this Fiona storyline is ruining the show!! Add in the political agendas thrown in your face and it's time the Gallagher family to move to the Northside<f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BD>


                
I really enjoyed watching "shameless" because the of the great play of actors, and also because of the interesting story. The series feel so alive and real, with all these problems always coming up with the Gallaghers. This family is so messed up and fun to watch, that I can't have enough of one episode at a time, I need like two at once to get satisfied. This poor family, always stealing, cheating and lying to survive, doing drugs and so on, one can never get bored with their chaos and dysfunction. I am planning to watch the original version so that I can compare the both, it's really interesting to see all the characters in another way. A great thanks to the guys that shoot this series. I have not yet watched the original version of "shameless", but I am sure that if I do watch the British version, I will still love the both of them the same.


                
I watched a lot of television, and this is the best show on TV!Excellent cast. writing and direction. Engaging, thoughtful and entertaining, every moment of each episode. More happens within the first 30 minutes of this program than a full hour of most other programs. William Macy is at his very, very best and Ms. Rossum is a pure delight! If he wasn't a star before this, Jeremy Allen White is someone you better pay attention to because he is magic. But no one gives me more joy on this program than Ms. Joan Cusack. If she doesn't win an Emmy for her performance as the reclusive, bewildered and wacky Sheila Jackson then there's no justice in the world. Performances by Emma Kenney and Steve Howey are two more stars of this excellent ensemble enterprise that are not to be missed. This is appointment television at it's best and you know that because when each episode ends, it leaves you wanting more.


                
I love IMDb for all of its reviews that come across from people who deliver their most sincere views on production values, location, actors etc. 'Can't believe it' (sic) said one hot tempered Luddite, 'It's the same; word for word'. Well, as the our friends across the pond would say, 'If it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck... it's a duck'. English people certainly don't get up in arms when they see another Romeo and Juliet. I would never say, 'I saw the original. Magic it was. Magic. Halcyon days. And the Yanks ruin it with West Side Story'. Tosh. This version of a brilliant piece is BRILLIANT! Don't miss this for the world. The production values are higher which can take away from some of the more grubby aspects of the English version but, as one reviewer said before me, visually it adds the darkness needed, the actors salaries, directors, etc. Personally, I've never seen a show, this one or the UK one, that really showed me that father Christmas was my dad drunk in a fat suit. It's real and life moves that fast and you don't know what your getting in to till it's too late. Long Live Frank!!!


                
Confession first - I usually like British TV shows, but have always found US adaptations lacking. For Instance, I really like the UK version of Being Human, and cannot make myself watch a complete episode of the US version; I would perhaps feel differently if I hadn't seen entire UK version before watching the US version.Well I'd never seen or even heard of the UK version of Shameless, and I only started watching the US version from the beginning of season 2. Somehow I stumbled across an episode earlier this month, and read largely favorable reviews, save some who'd seen the UK version first. I then used Showtime On Demand to watch the entire second season. I highly recommend the show, but believe that some people might be offended by the harsh language, nudity, and sexual content as the show is full of all three. If this were a movie playing at the cinema, it would likely be rated NC-17; as it's on subscription TV, it's rated TV- MA (Adult Content, Graphic Language, Nudity). If such content offends your sensibilities, you will not like this show, and should just avoid it; this is no show for children.Shameless is a good title for the program; an alternative, more descriptive title might be "Social Dysfunction Olympics: One family's race to the bottom". It's listed as being a Drama and Comedy, but the comedy is usually of the tragic or dark variety. The core family, their friends and neighbors are multi-generation families in a poor neighborhood on the south side of Chicago. The current generation of siblings have largely raised themselves because the parents are too busy chasing their next score, whether that be money, booze, or drugs; you quickly realize that sex is often a tool used to score.The father and mother are perhaps the most reprehensible people one could imagine, but the way it plays out, they usually show just enough humanity to allow the audience to not want to kill them. The children are better people than their parents, and the parents are perhaps slightly better than the grandmother. It's all so tragic, but there are also heart warming scenes. Each episode is like an emotional roller-coaster ride, eliciting concern, fear, frustration, and laughter from the audience.If you have not seen the show before, there is a writeup at wikipedia which gives plenty of background on each of the characters, but also contains significant spoilers. Make sure to lookup the US version as the UK is different and also listed.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shameless_(U.S._TV_series)


                
Wildly, Absolutely, and Unapologetically "Shameless"I always become furious watching "relevant" TV these days. Glee, Vampire Diaries, Jersey Shore<U+0085> its' all crap to me. I don't care about your Drama/ Music club, I don't want to know how brooding, love sick vampires get girlfriends, and I definitely don't care about how many STD's Snooki has gotten over the past several years. Look at where we all are, we are in a recession, schools and public works maintenance funding is in the tank, rich get richer, poor die young young, the public representation in government is nearly zip, and etc. So why is popular TV "sunshine and rainbows", fake, expensive tans, and rich white kids (with some of other ethnicity to have some scope in minority television ratings) singing? Here's the deal<U+0085>I don't enjoy High School, I hate Twilight, and I don't like to date stupid alcoholics. I want a show about life, "real life", as it is for the majority of this now crazy and defunct America. I wanted Shameless.Shameless is SHOTIME original drama series that centers on the dysfunctional family of single father, dead beat, and alcoholic Frank Gallagher, played by Oscar Nominee William H. Macy. While at first glance the Gallagher's everyday grind of trying to get through the day living below the poverty line in Chicago may come across as just another crass, American, and unrated, comedy series. And it is. Frank and his kin are constantly landing themselves in crazy "stranger than fiction" circumstances which are an absolute thrill to view. From scamming thugs to pay bills to shooting yourself in the hand with a nail gun to keep getting disability checks, the Gallagher's know how to party.At the same time though, the comedy is also a great false pretense that I works very well in the show's favor. As soon you become hooked to the offbeat and racy humor you very soon start to see the very real stories that the actors flawlessly bring to the small screen with their performances. Lip(Jeremy Allen White), the oldest son in the Gallagher family, is a certifiable genius but is at odds with whether or not he is content living the way he has and could more than likely end up like his loser father, Frank. The other biggest plot line is that of Fiona(Emmy Rossum), the eldest daughter, who has to choose between her own happiness or keeping up with her supposed obligations to provide for her family since their mother ran out on them several years ago. And while the Gallagher's are a dysfunctional family, it's easy to sometimes watch in awe as they are able to still pull together at the end of the day, despite everything, and enjoy life.This show may turn some off though, that is expected. We all enjoy different spectrums of life that we make ourselves want to believe in. But as for those of us living in this country and finding ourselves not quite getting sucked in by Glee or whatever, this is a godsend. People like us want what is real, what is willing to show us the grittiness of society. But show all of it, the good and bad. Not all of us can drive Beetles or Hummers and go drinking on the boats our parents buy us. Some of us have to worry about real life right now, probably more than we care to admit. And that's what Shameless is about, being more real than we care to admit. The first season is now on DVD and BluRay, and the show's second season is now on TV, pulling no punches as expected. It looks like my winter/spring is going to be one well spent with the Gallagher family. Although, I think I might tune in once or twice to Jersey Shore to watch Snooki drunkenly run head first into a wall.


                
This show put me off at first, but I got hooked because the characters are so likable that I watched Dragonball Evolution. I never had any desire to see that movie before. I've never heard the theme song "The Luck you Got" before this show but I really do dig it though. I think this show is very well cast and I can never tell what is going to happen next. It's a very effective break from real life. I suppose the main reason that I like it so much though is because I identify with one of the characters and it reminds me of my crazy ass family. Anyways I'm just trying to raise the rating of Shameless because I want to see more episodes. So watch the show.


                
I loved the 4 first seasons and 5 and 6 where good. The last 2 season have been boring bad writing just not good I think.
Season 9 for me have been the worst. First four seasons 9/10 five and six 7/10 last 3 4/10
I don't care to see the British version but may in the future. It only took watching a couple episodes to get me hooked and telling everyone about it. I describe this show as horribl--y funny. Cause it's both horrible and hilarious! Just when you think it doesn't get any worse, it tops itself! William H. Macy plays a great role as an alcoholic father who doesn't take care of his many children and keeps dragging them down in his schemes and vices. It sounds horrible which I'm sure has turned a bunch of people off but when they finally jump on the bandwagon, they always wished they had started it sooner and are hooked. I would definitely recommend this show to almost anyone with a sense of humor, except for children of course. This is definitely not a family show. :)


                
I adore this show. I love when a character has their faults but they still make you love them and that fits about 90% of the cast on this show. This show is realistic and unapologetic about it, and that really keeps you on your toes. There have been several moments that I was totally blown out of the water by.It's cliché, but this is really one of those shows that will make you laugh and cry. The Gallaghers are one of the most dysfunctional families to ever exist, but they're still there for each other and you can't help but root for them. I can't wait for the next season.


                
I really enjoyed the US version of Shameless Season 1, good humor, interesting characters, I watched all episodes in one day, really breathtaking and enjoyable experience, it became one of my favorite series to date. I have never been a great fan of William H. Macy's roles but I feel he has born to be Frank Gallagher in Shameless. So I recommend season 1 for anyone who want to spend some good time. Season 2 is really uninteresting, as if I am watching a completely different show with different plot and characters. I was really eager to find out what happens with the Gallaghers next, but not anymore. The jokes are not funny, the drama is boring and cliché


                
I watched this series first, and then the British one first, and they're both amazing! I like how the 1st season of the U.S version is almost exactly the same as the British one, and then starts going off on it's own in the 2nd season. The only thing I disliked about the 4th season was Sammi. It's like oh how convenient that I have this other daughter that none of you know about, or has been mentioned, and just so happens to be the match for Frank. Sammi just bugs me so much. I also thought that Sheila is getting more annoying (and shellfish) as the series goes on. I like how Debbie's story lines are becoming more grown-up, instead of her plots just being fillers. And Ian is just pissing me off in season 4.
Since this new Showetime series has aired I must say that I've highly enjoyed it "Shameless" really stands up to it's name as this family isn't that proud, yet still they are happy with what they got even though it may not be much. The Gallagher's are outspoken, blunt, brash and in the meantime wild and outrageous. The clan will clearly get what they want even if it means breaking the rules. Still aside for all that you as a viewer will like this bunch for their boldness.It centers around a Chicago family the Gallagher's and the father who's a widower and that's the crazy and raw Frank Gallagher(William H. Macy)and this man is a wild alcoholic drunk who doesn't care! And get this he has six children. It's up to his oldest daughter Fiona(a super and wonderful performance by Emmy Rossum)to raise the rest and watch over the family. And this girl always has her hands full it's tough for her to get time for a love life and to be content. Just to mention some of the kids are wonders others misfits especially two sons as Philip is a brain very book smart and one of the others son Ian is discovering he's gay! Also a real treat is seeing one of Fiona's friends next door neighbor Veronica Fisher(Shanola Hampton)and this girl is outspoken and very sexy especially when she sports those sexy colored bras! Plus she shows her bluntness by romancing a white man as they often engage in erotic and kinky sex! Also veteran actress Joan Cusack stars as Sheila a local lady who knows the family and she befriends Frank as she's a sheltered and phobia and nervous religious nut! That's a funny character to follow.During all of this madness this series is refreshing and bold it feels good watching it as this family is clearly not boring they stand by the motto of doing it their way! As one can respect a little bit of outrageousness and raw living just enough to get by. Nice treats to watch is the work of Shanola Hampton and especially Emmy Rossum she should be a rising star. I will tell you "Shameless" doesn't disappoint.


                
My friend kept twisting my arm, and I finally come around have. A lesson learnt here: give things a try. All I can say, is that I gave Shameless a go. I must first congratulate the high calibre writers, who provide such classic dialogue, one line comparing an ATM, to a vagina. The other thing I love here, is of course. the great William H Macy, the troubled guy who blew his brains out in Boogie Nights, and decorated Burt's wall with blood. He's just bloody fantastic. Despite his vices and low acts, you can't help, but love this guy. He grows on ya, and just in the first viewing. He lives in this beat up house, with his six kids: you can't say you didn't ask for it, where they're all got their own troubles. Some moments really had me in ribtickling laughter, gold, the same kind of laughter I got, and forgive me, for saying this, which I know you won't: Dirty Grandpa. They are hazy comparisons with this and Modern family, where again, here, they're not your ordinary family. Cruel, crude, heartless, and a little shocking, on the verge of pushing the envelope somewhere, this is a pull no punches original with wonderful acting, and characters, some which you will abhor, as to their motivations, and who they are, but make no mistake, this is a must see, which after, you be the judge, and give me your opinion. Another guilty please.


                
I had to go back and watch the first two seasons. A friend finally coerced me into watching Shameless in Season three. I had a taken a pass because I had heard all the stories about the ridiculous nudity and sex and, frankly, I am just saturated with it. I was prepared to be annoyed. Boy--was I wrong! I once owned a four-flat in Canaryville Chicago, so believe me I know these people. Shameless has em pretty well nailed. And as a writer, I know good writing when I see it. This is it! I have never seen so many fine actors so perfectly cast for their roles. Oh yes, there's a hiccup or two. For one, I just can't see the character of Lip as a sex chick magnet, but it still seems to work. Young 12 year old Carl has inherited his Dad's (Frank's) messed up DNA. He is wonderfully portrayed by Ethan Cutkosky of St. Charles, Illinois. Carl has two main fantasies in life, guns and breasts.Joan Cusack is a marvel every time she opens her mouth. A real treat from an actor who knows her business. William H. Macy is perfect as a modern day Fagan with no moral fiber at all but lines handed up by the writers that are perfect for his filthy unshaven mouth. (Some of the threads involving Frank can be tedious, but I forgive them.) The gay lovers Mickey & Ian steal the show especially in Seasons 4 & 5. God these are two great actors made all the better because they have good directing and really, really great dialog from the writers. Noel Fisher was born to play the closeted hood thug Mickey who falls hopelessly in love with the high school soldier boy Ian.Yes, it is filled with nudity, sex, filthy language and adult situations. Yes some of it is very unnecessary and totally over the top. But it works. Why? Because the whole premise of the show is like a giant ghetto cartoon. It survives because it all is so totally ridiculous.Frankly, I would never allow my teen-aged children to view this. But all in all it is one of the best series Showtime has ever produced. (And they've had some dogs.) Shameless is redeeming.
THE SHAMELESSShameless, the 1st idea that we get from the word shameless is we are doing something against the rules and norms set up by society, the boundary wall, the limit, beyond which they won't tolerate, what if I were to to tell you otherwise that you can be as shameless as you want to be, its your life and u alone have to live it, no one's gonna come and live it for you. They 'The' society will only criticise, they want u in control, control which our parents kept us in for 17 long years, but I did turn out to the guy which somehow I was gonna turn into anyhow.This is what I see in show shameless, that's an awesome depiction of how people suffer and the how every time they break a social constrain they feel bad about themselves, sometimes they feel it for themselves, but most of the time society and people make them realise they are wrong, they are doing something bound and which they should not do. The show shows a clear picture of a family devastated by the drunkenness and notorious behaviour of their father, he Smokes, cracks, shoots, snuffs and what now, don't pay a rats ass to his children, the children they are just themselves, some impact of the environment is there on their behaviour, but that's how life is we are all different from one another, that's what defines us if not for the 'change', show clearly shows how everyone in their life gets to the point where they think they have made a lot of mistakes and gripped by the shame of their doing consciously or unconsciously. They at the depth of being alone, helpless. Which is their own doing, the changes and the circumstances are the excuse that they have put forward, because it's all relative, I haven't done as bad as him, I am doing OK, there is nothing as absolute wrong, humans have no right to judge fellow humans, ''insan insan ka gunehgar hai'' (hindi) and no one can help u fight humans than yourself, so the show goes and point out how messed up they are, alternating with happiness and deep sorrows, disgust, jealousy and the very basics of human nature, desire, lust, pleasure, all being a part of it. What I learn from the show not from the words but by the spoken thoughts that can't be heard, but listened, like someone's wisdom is truly being passed and it's not sounding foolish, it usually does. The whole purpose is not to make u feel good or bad or make you realise you are here on earth to make the most of it, it not being doctor engineer or architect, it's the sole purpose of living, nothing else matters, nothing that you would do matters, it's you at the centre of the earth being shameless and exposed to the indifferences of other beings around you, where you don't have to live other's life or to follow the plans of the people around you but what You and I have to discover and follow till the end, that's nirvana, that's salvation. We are here in this life to enjoy our pleasures and suffer our sins, but we run for ambition. Purpose of life is being shameless, in the truest sense, being vulnerable and bold at the same time, challenging the unexpected and realising the reality around us. Around me, myself and I.


                
So if memory serves me, 2 seasons ago it was getting dry & I thought it was going to be canceled, but it's picked up since then.The show lays it ALL out there (definitely NOT PC) not holding back ANY punches, which makes it a one-of-a-kind show.It also brings up VERY important issues we have in society & projects them in a slightly funny or down to earth manner, so that I HOPE people take a serious look at them.It may lean a little life, but also brings up the opposing conservative side which gives it more balance.As disgusting as it is the way some lower class people live/behave, the fact that they have a family that sticks together & loves one another, shows that it's NOT the level of class or money you have, but the family & love that makes it REAL.I'm low income, but was raised in a lower middle class family, so I have learned a lot about how this side lives & I appreciate that.The writing is always good & the acting has gotten better overall.I hope it stays on air for many more seasons to come.


                
Great acting throughout! W H Macy and Emmy Rossum especially!


                
The first six seasons are amazing and groundbreaking and DEFINITELY worth a watch- I binged it all in a month and surprised myself. It kind of needs to end but the characters are great still and


                
Growing up in Chicago, and now living abroad, I could watch Shameless all day long just for the nostalgia, let alone the ridiculously dark and vulgar humor and the almost schizophrenic writing style. First of all, let's not forget this is a fictional television show about a fictional family's fictional life. That means, obviously, that a show like Shameless is here primarily for our entertainment. Don't watch something like this expecting that every wild situation depicted be totally realistic, or logical, or even feasible. Yes, the south side of Chicago can get pretty nuts at times, which is why it was chosen for the US version of the show, and some of the situations the characters find themselves in are actually relatable to people who grew up down there but again this is TV; it is grossly exaggerated for a reason. It's SUPPOSED to be ridiculous. That's what makes this show so much fun! But this doesn't mean they don't do a wonderful job of exploring human emotion, desire, corruption, hell, human LIFE. The acting is absolutely superb, especially on the part of William H. Macy, Emmy Rossum, Jeremy Allen White, and Joan Cusack (in one of her most outrageous roles of her career). I love the way Shameless can, within an episode's time, explore themes of substance abuse, coming of age, human sexuality, inner-city life, urban poverty, and love, all while throwing in both tasteful humor and tasteless comic relief for often stressful and intense interactions and situations. The first 3 seasons stick more to an almost slapstick, vulgar, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia/Seinfeld sort of "oh my god, these are the worst, most horrible people on earth, but they couldn't be more lovable" style of humor. Season 4 starts to get a bit more real and dramatic, and therefore depressing, after some pretty dark and twisted (but strangely necessary) character development, but come season 5 they seem to pick up the comedy right where they left off at the end of season 3. Shameless is not for the faint of heart, the easily offended, or those looking for documentary-esque realism. Shameless is for anyone who has struggled, hurt, laughed, cried, loved, hated, won, lost, or simply lived life as a human being, and wants to take an hour at a time to both think about and laugh at this nonsensical world we all live in. If you haven't watched Shameless..WATCH SHAMELESS!! You'll see what I mean..
Shameless is well worth the time, it is funny and just straight out crazy. Shameless is about a dysfunctional family, the father (William H. Macy) is an alcoholic and the mother left years ago, it is now up to their eldest daughter Fiona (Emmy Rossum) to take care of her 5 younger siblings. While trying to keep her brothers and sisters out of trouble she gets herself into trouble. I think the US one is a lot better than the UK one. The characters are very likable and have very heart warming stories. The show has characters from all different backgrounds and is relatable in a lot of ways like having money issues or trying to raise kids. This show reminds people that not everyone is perfect.10/10 can't wait for the next season.


                
This is my first review ever on IMDb board but I had make one just for this show.I have never been invested in any show such as this. Every episode has been great so far. Sure it starts as just as a regular drama show but once you go past that phase you will be hooked. The dark comedy of this show is what it makes it so special. So many things are happening with each characters that it'll be hard to focus and pick on just one. All the characters apart from few are really have been stand out. Lip ,Fiona ,Frank ,Steve/Jimmy ,Kevin all have great story lines. The twist are also done in persistent pace with proper back up. Comedic and dark moments are so excellently blend together that you want more and more. Lastly If you are looking for a new refreshing and original dramatic show ,then think no more and give this a try.
I had been trying to watch this Showtime original series for YEARS now- came across the original British version, and watched THAT entire series off Netflix for the past three years. I finally got around to seeing this American remake off my free 30-day Showtime trial off HULU!. I will say I like this version of the show- it's really just about as good as television gets. The pilot is basically a remake of the pilot of the Brit version. Like the Brit original, WH Macy is a drunk working class father to a whole slew of kids, who struggle to make it the world, mostly due to their big sis in this version played by Emmy Rossum!!- Gagaga- she is SOOO frickin HAWT! I've seen her in several other things over the years, but particular recall her great performance in a little period film called "Songcatcher". Okay, well, so far so good. That actor who plays the James McAvoy role is spot on as well. But I do notice something as I am watching this- having been so used to the English version all these years. I keep half- expecting everyone to speak with the Chatsworth accents- AND, in spite of this show being set like in Chicago or someplace, keep thinking in the back of my brain this is working class England-?? LOL No matter, definite recommend on this show whether you watched the original series or not!.......Please check out all my reviews, plus lots of good interaction and group discussion about anything/everything movies/TV/entertainment at: https://www.facebook.com/groups/movie.holiks/Email us at:movie.holiks@groups.facebook.comAnd don't settle for second best!- lots of copy-cat and imitation groups out there, but "the REAL movie-holiks" is THEE original one!
