Regardless of the many classic films Stanley Kubrick made over the years, he started out his career with a very bad one.  The same goes for James Cameron who, after his debut with a disastrous Piranha-sequel, only made superb films since the year 1984.Even though I respect everybody's opinion regarding this film, I find it very hard to believe that "Dr. Strangelove" is a brilliant and hilarious masterpiece.  Personally, I think it's one of the worst films I've ever seen.  And since there wasn't a single joke in this film that amused me, it simply has to be one of the most boring comedies ever made.  The acting was below average, but that's because the film is filled with many tiresome characters.  Peter Sellers, normally a good actor, also fails in saving this picture.I've tried to watch and enjoy this film twice, but in both cases it was too monotonous to finish it.  It would have been so much better if Kubrick had left out those stupid jokes that ruin the movie and make a war-drama instead.  The one and only interesting thing about this film is Kubrick focusing on how it's possible for one man to start a war after going completely insane.  Unfortunately, this quite original idea does not work well in a bizarre comedy such as this one here.  With a slightly better storyline and less boring characters, "Dr. Strangelove" truly might have become worth watching.And that explains the very good reason why this is Kubrick's first and only comedy.  He's one of the best directors of all time, but he's not capable of making a decent comedy; so much has been proven here.  Of course you can't blame the man for trying out different kinds of genres.  As far as I know, Stanley Kubrick is one of the most varied film directors of all time.


                
Not one single attempt at humour for the first 32 minutes. That's a third of the film, After that the jokes come at about one every 5 to 10 minutes and at best made me smile but mostly made me cringe.This is another example of the Kubrick delusion. The faithful dogmatically believe that the lord Kubrick is all perfect and everything he does is utterly wonderful, every film he makes is the finest movie masterpiece there is.If Kubrick says it is a comedy then his worshippers announce it the funniest film ever made.This film is NOT funny however many deluded fools say it is. This is barely even a comedy by any definition I am aware of.If you are a massive Kubrick fan then maybe you should watch this film but go in with open eyes and accept that you won't laugh, not even once.1/10


                
One of my fav films is 2001 and I really like Kubrick's's films. My fav comedy has Peter Sellers in it. I like dark humour. But I found this film to be total crap, didn't laugh out loud once. This could have been so much more and if Peter Sellers was not in it this flick and Kubrick did not have his name to it then this film probably would have been placed in the correct chart ie the worst of comedy.On a positive note some of the characters are good ie the base commander, and Sellers as his side kick. Plus some elements of the war room were good and lets not forget the lad flying the bomber. But again, this could have been so much more. Big let down in my eyes!


                
This is another one of those films that contrarian snobs love.If you are the type of person that lives to praise films that most people would hate just so you can feel like you that much deeper than the masses, then enjoy yourself.Bottom line is that outside of a couple of funny moments by Peter Sellers (which are readily available in any Peter Sellers movie by the way) this movie is a snooze fest.It is not funny. It is not entertaining. Its satirical poke at the cold war and the arms race isn't anywhere near as clever as you'd expect it to be.Kubrick is hit and miss. This was a miss.


                
Last night I noticed the best comedy according to IMDb was on HBO on-demand so I figured I would watch it and see how funny it really is.After watching it for about 30 minutes I thought to myself... "Wow, when is the comedy going to begin?" Before I knew it the movie was over and I had yet to laugh. I don't understand how so many people could of voted this to become #1, its amazing so many have a sense of humor this dull.Maybe it was funny when it came out 41 years ago, but I would not recommend it to anyone who is younger than 25 years of age.I could easily say that I would rather have watched any Adam Sandler movie, and we know how bad some of those can be.


                
I love Stanley Kubrick. I love Peter Sellers. I even love James Earl Jones. But this movie is not a comedy. It's not funny. Someone falls down. Someone else gets shot in the eye with a spray of water. If you've seen Full Metal Jacket, don't expect that level of humor. The characters are poorly sketched. George C. Scott is awesome, but he's toned down for some reason (PG rating perhaps too cautious -- I'd go with G). This doesn't reflect the talents of any of the crew or cast. And you probably won't laugh once. War sucks. Granted. You don't need to have a shoddy accent and physical comedy to prove it. Oh and PS - irony should NOT make you laugh out loud. PLEASE. DON'T.


                
Probably the only funny part of this movie was Slim Pickins riding the bomb. Otherwise, I just didn't get it.  You have to be a huge Peter Sellers fan to like this one, I guess.  My sense is that if you like Mel Brook's flicks, you'll probably like this one.


                
I just rented this movie out and to be honest I couldn't even finish watching it..I really thought it wasn't funny or whatever it was suppose to be.First of all it started out really boring, I usually love black and white movies but this one was really bad for some reason..I didn't like the shots and the picture anyhow.I just don't understand how this is one of the best movies in the history.Can somebody tell me what is it that so good about it I'm really interested to learn about it..Also was this suppose to be a dark comedy??? It was really bad I don't wanna disappoint people who love this but I really couldn't even watch it I could hardly stay on my seat.. .


                
First off, why would they put this sap-like slow director's ego trip in the comedy section? I laughed a grand total of 3 TIMES the whole movie! This movie is confusion between a badly scripted thriller and a stale black humor comedy. Anybody name more than three parts of this movie when you laughed and why you think it was funny. The one positive of this movie is Peter Sellers acting. The character development was terrible. The scene definition was pale. The ending was a horrible attempt at "different". I can probably name 10 movies from the 60s that are decidedly better than this movie and I could probably name 100 comedies that would make the majority of viewers laugh harder and more often than this flick. If only I didn't feel horrible for spending any more time critiquing this film. This movie is an utter disgrace to all other top 100 movies to IMDB and a definite waste of your time. Avoid at all costs.


                
OK, let me first say this: I saw this for the first time in 2008. That might have been too late. Much too late. Or maybe not, since some of my all time favorite movies are Mel Brooks early works, Kurosawas, and some Orson Wells.So here is another timeless-classic I have yet to experience. Wow! I practically stared in disbelief through the whole movie. What the hell is this? Is it a comedy? It's not funny (at all). I did not even smile once, was I supposed to? Is it supposed to be funny or serious, because it is neither. It's just super boring and pretty lame and stupid in some regards as well. I think you've got to be a pretty old bastard to fondly remember this one, I am 28, and didn't get a thing. Well, I get the general idea, but it's not really a good subject for a comedy. If they would have treated it seriously, it might have worked, but who knows. I bet the book is better.Maybe it's just me, but I bet none of my friends would like this movie, they would think that I'd lost my marbles if I tried showing it to them. But on IMDb I am clearly in a majority so what are you gonna do? Check it out if you insist, and if you're around my age and have seen a lot of funny comedies and good political thrillers, there's a good chance you'll feel the same (that this movie should have the same placement on IMDb's bottom worst-list!)


                
Watched this movie because it is supposed to be one of the best comedies ever and I did not laugh a single time. It was a struggle to get through and I kept thinking that something was going to happen that would make this movie a tiny bit funny but it never happens! I feel like I just wasted the last two hours of my life and felt I had to write a review so people would think twice about watching it. Please don't! Maybe if you are into really really dark old comedies you might enjoy it but otherwise stay away! The only funny character is General Buck and he is only mildly amusing. Terrible! I don't get why people like this movie so much. Maybe I just don't get it and I understand that it is supposed to show how stupid nuclear war is and the people that were for it but it is just awful. Please don't waste your time like i have.


                
From the opening credits, I could tell that this movie was going to be a low budget piece of crap. It's so bad, they have to use the same, robotic actor for three uninventive, one-dimensional characters. Had he focused his efforts into one role, albeit one that this no-talent hack could handle, he might have been able to stumble through the film without drawing too much attention to his ineptitude. However, because he is forced into three roles, his completely uninspired 'acting' takes this movie down a notch from 'utter trash' to the realm of 'camp'. The completely unfunny dialogue gives a whole new meaning to the word 'boring'. The rest of the actors are just as bad as that three-role guy. Thank goodness they aren't tripling up on their duties as well. If, by chance, you can actually pull off sitting through this tripe, you'll wonder where the last couple of hours of your life went, and you'll wish you had done something more productive, like monitoring the growth rate of your lawn. The only funny moment comes in an ironic twist, when the man rides the bomb. It would seem that the entire crew of this film was riding a bomb the whole time. Don't let over-zealous pretentious wannabe eggheads and intellectuals convince you that this film is at all worthwhile. These people are intellectual midgets who think they can come off as intelligent by praising a film that in all respects should be disregarded. In all my years of watching and appreciating films, I have never come across such a worthless, putrid, vile, unintelligent, unfunny waste of celluloid as this. There are no redeeming values whatsoever. The only smile that will cross your lips is the one that comes when you can finally breathe a sigh of relief as the end credits role. I leave this film behind as one would leave behind excreta. What in God's name were they thinking when they made this film? That is a question that we should all ponder until the end of existence.


                
Regardless of the horrendous movies that Stanley Kubrick has made during his disappointing career, such as "2001: A Space Odyssey" and "A Clockwork Orange", I still gave "Dr. Strangelove" an honest chance. And unfortunately, Kubrick failed to deliver once again. My main problem with the film was that it's far too monotonous to be truly funny. I'm not exaggerating when I say this: every single attempt at humor in this movie fails. Every single one. Most of the blame goes to the poor script, and some of it falls on the actors on portrayal here. Peter Sellers fails to deliver his lines with wit or charisma, and it doesn't help that he plays three characters. It's bad enough he does poorly in one of the roles, but all three? Truly disastrous work. How he was offered roles following this movie is truly a wonder. Moving on, I feel that the visual effects in this movie are a bit dated. Some of the sequences seemed totally unrealistic, and drew me out of the scene. If they had spent a little more time on the visual effects, and added some wit and humor to the script, they might have had something to work with. But there's truly nothing going on here. The narrative is a mess, and there's no sense of coherency or reason behind any of the choices that the characters make. There's no reason to see this movie, and it's painfully sad to see a movie that could have potentially succeeded in the ways that "All About Steve" did, but unfortunately I don't think we can expect anything better than this at the hands of Kubrick.


                
How is it possible so many positive opinions? I must say I was surprised to find a movie that couldn't take a simple smile out of my face. I think that people that voted before could be in majority North American, well I'm not, I'm South American (Argentinean specifically), for me the jokes don't seem funny at all. I expect some colorful humor for an artist like Peter Sellers, the kind of jokes I'm used to enjoy from him, instead of this I just found some delirious characters without grace for my taste.My conclusion is that you must feel identified with cold war, or feel somehow involved with military politics.


                
I almost fell out of my chair when I saw the ratings for this movie. There must have been something I missed. I thought the movie was terrible. I didn't laugh once and what comedy was intended ended up being irritating to watch. To me, real comedy to me is White Chicks and Nutty Professor (Eddie Murphy version). The overwrought and over-the-top acting ends up being annoying instead of amusing. Although less than 100 minutes in length, it took me three nights to get through this garbage and even then I couldn't finish. With 4 minutes left in the film I thought I had enough. I really didn't understand what the movie was about. It is so dialogue heavy as to put you to sleep. I can't believe this is the same person who directed Spartacus and 2001. They appear to have nothing in common with Dr. Strangelove.


                
This movie is supposed to be a comedy, well the comedy in this film is really really bad if you can even find an interpretation of comedy in this boring black and white snooze fest.Comedy films are meant to make people laugh and put them in a good mood well this movie does none of that and the actor Peter Sellers is a very boring actor who lacks charisma and character.What i gathered this film is about a bunch of very dull old men who sit around and discuss things about the cold war in a supposedly funny manner, the black and white and atmosphere of the film make it very hard to understand what is even going on. I wouldn't watch this movie if you like comedies where things actually happen.


                
The movie suffers from being out-dated. It is very difficult to appreciate the satire or message it tries to convey, when you don't live in a time of "Cold War", or constant Nuclear Threat. You can imagine this being gripping indeed, coming off a scary historic incident like the Cuban Missile Crises, but it just doesn't hold that type of fascination in this day and age. Finally, I must say the characters are annoying and the dialogue is painfully pretentious and irritating. It is also a bit racist too, since the only person of color that I saw was James Earl Jones. I know it was 1964 and all, but that just underscores the irritating and never ending racism of America, and just adds another discredit to this painfully boring film.


                
no no no no no, ok so this was the biggest waste of time I've EVER encountered.. Sorry to all the Kubrick fans out there, but this was absolutely HORRIBLE.... The movie is chaotic, STUPID, all the characters drove me NUTS, the funny stuff was not funny at all, no, thats not true, the only funny part was the dialogue between the two leaders of america and russia, the rest was LAME!!! Sorry, dont waste your time or money by ever renting this movie... YUCK!!


                
Every now and then there is a movie that it is hard to find a bad review about. This is one of then. And like most movies it is hard to find a bad review about I t.o.t.a.l.e hate it. Why do people like this movie. It as an awful story line. And an awful ending. It is a comedy movie. It is not funny. It just boring. It was got to be one of the worst comedy movies ever. It is just an overrated pile of pooh. It as some good actors and it is just a wast of there talent. It is just a big pile of stinky pooh pooh. Stinky stinky stinky pooh. Does nothing for you except wast you time and your money. Stinky pooh. Stinky stinky pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh.


                
I wanted to watch this film because I was interested in famous movies by some famous directors. Found Stanley Kubrick, cause I don't know about him much, and began to watch "Dr. Strangelove..." in English with English subs. I understood all the stuff that was happening: nuclear bombs thrown on Soviet Union, some warriors, presidents, an ambassador from USSR(who was a stereotypical Communist, atheist and was awfully looking, the actor who played him couldn't speak Russian at all, and spoke with an awful accent). Secondly, the main protagonists, the US soldiers were speaking about Russians like "they drink only vodka, blah-blah-blah...". Yes, movie was made while the "Cold War was all around, but I didn't enjoy it and dropped in the middle. And there was a moment with a woman ONLY in underwear who spoke on the phone! That was really ridiculous!
I don't know if I'm just to young and didn't understand the movie,but I've seen a lot of older movies and a lot of comedies and I didn't get this one.First Its not funny I didn't laugh one time not even a smile.I like Kubrick I think he has made some great movies but this one I don't understand how it has a high rating and in the top 250.To me one of the worst movies I have every seen don't understand how it as a movie got a Oscar nod for best picture.Just my opinion not a critic not movie buff but I have seen good movies and this isn't one of them.I have to make 10 lines so I'm going to say again that this movie was awful and I'm not good at writing things but I just felt a need to write a review on this movie because it is classified as one of the greatest movies of all time and Its not. maybe for people that lived though the cold war and missile crisis era but I went to school and learn about all that and it still wasn't good.


                
Oh boy, but was he right...-1 star for giving russians huge imaginary military capabilities and portraying them as untouchable threat. 
-1 star for portraying the general as crazy, by enforcing made up conspiracies about water and showing him off as weak by saying that his war idea came when he couldn't satisfy a woman.
-1 star for mistaking hitler with stalin. 
-1 star for not showing/solving the real problem (agen). 
+1 star for amazing acting, production value and the only sane idea which made it's appearance but alas, was quickly diminished.This is what happens when an excellent producer makes a movie about the topic he has no insight in.


                
Stupid, living in the past people overestimated this boring, nonsense, not funny at all movie. People see 'cult' directors names and already like the movie.


                
