I never really bought into the Kubrick hype. I mean: don't get me wrong; I like all of his films very much - but to me, they all feel somewhat over-constructed and lack a natural flow. And then I finally got to see 'Dr.Strangelove'. Wow. What a terrific, pitch black satire. This film is so wild and mean and funny - and Peter Sellers gives THE performance of his career. Unlike in any of Kubrick's later works, there's a sense of playfulness here that gives the whole movie a crazy kind of energy; I'm guessing that Seller's love for improvisation forced Kubrick to ditch his usual perfectionism to a certain degree (and the film is all the better for it). Sharp, outrageously entertaining comedy/satire by one of the most revered directors of the past century. 10 out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
DR. STRANGELOVE.... is a satirical black comedy or rather an ironic approach to decisions and information in the Cold War madness. The smart choice is the mother of all wisdom. It is loosely based on Peter George's novel "Red Alert".A crazy American general has ordered, due a bizarre reason, a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union. A bit absentminded captain has realized that a general has lost his mind. Meanwhile, a President meets with his top Pentagon advisors, including a passionate super-hawk general, who sees this as an opportunity to do something about Communism in general and Russians in particular. However, the Russians have an "automatic" response...This film loses all touch with the reality on the one side, and yet, it directly affects an image of a disturbed political reality on the other side. The irony stems from human stupidity, irresponsibility, suspicion and arrogance. Mr. Kubrick has created a satirical hopeless situation, through a conflict of mentality and a sense of patriotism, after which, a bizarre - moral winner rises. The highlight of satire is that world diplomacy rejects itself on multiple occasions.However, there is a lot of questions. Why give so much power in hands of a few people? One of them, I mean all, are mostly crazy. Why use energy resources to build nuclear weapons? Probably because we do not have better things to do. Is it wise to make fun of a defense system of the strongest force in the world? Of course it is, one day, we have to stop being afraid of each other.That's why this film is a satirical warning in an universal time, because we live in a time of a political satire with very serious consequences.I am thrilled with a fact that this film does not have a trace of cynicism. Of course, there is plenty of satire, sarcasm, irony, perhaps exaggerated caricature, but there is no cynicism. Mr. Kubrick, you're a genius! The characterization is excellent.Peter Sellers (Captain Lionel Mandrake, President Merkin Muffley and Dr. Strangelove, the wheelchair-using nuclear war expert and former Nazi) is simply awesome as a kind of voice of reason, incompetence and insanity at the same time. It is a strange kind of patriot, savior and avenger.Sterling Hayden (Brigadier General Jack D. Ripper) is a paranoid ultra-nationalist, who shows his madness through a serious facial expression.George C. Scott (General Buck Turgidson) is the personification of chauvinism. He expresses his anger and paranoia of communism in a very comical way.


                
Spectacular and chilling to watch Dr. Strangelove in May 16, 2017. I'm not going to talk about prophecy not even coincidence. Art has a way to warn, express or simply entertain in a way that its relevance will always be renewed. That opening with George C Scott's secretary, in her underwear, answering the phone for her boss in the most professional tone imaginable, is a masterful way to introduce us to the normal absurdity we're about to embark on. Terry Southern's extraordinary script (sharing credit with Peter George and Stanley Kubrick himself) is a masterpiece of intention and execution. The film doesn't have a moment of emptiness nor a single cheap shot. Everything works with the irrational logic of tradition and set standards. How can something so serious and ultimately terrifying can be so funny. I think that's the definition of film art. I don't want to sound pompous but that's exactly how I feel. I've seen a 1966 movie by Stanley Kubrick in 2017 that's better, more relevant, ingenious and even revolutionary than anything we've seen in a long, long time. Peter Sellers, fantastic three times over (and he was also going to play the Slim Pickens part) George C Scott in one of the greatest comic performances ever put on film and Sterling Hayden in a frighteningly credible show of abuse of power, complete the pleasures of this remarkable film.


                
What makes this film so powerful is the message that it made at the time of its release. This film came out at a height of paranoia of the nuclear age and the Cold War, right around the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis. This film depicts a horrible, tragic incident in which a breach in the government and a few diplomatic mistakes result in nuclear holocaust. So, why didn't this film inspire panic? Because of the brilliant way in which Kubrick presents it... as a satire. The scariest thing about this film in retrospect is not how it depicts the impending doom of the Cold War, but how it makes you laugh at it. By presenting it with humor, it conveys just how much of a farce the nuclear arms race was in real life. And I don't think that any other film has captured the absurdity of war nearly as well as this one has. And I am not likely to believe that one ever will. In my opinion, Kubrick has never made a better film since. And kudos to George C. Scott for his astounding performance, as well as Peter Sellers for the most versatile acting I've seen from an actor in one film, and to Sterling Hayden, for performing the most serious, yet the most hilarious role in film with perfect accuracy. Beware of fluoridation!


                
Stanley Kubrick's "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" is cited as one of the director's best films, and one of, if not the best satirical comedy in cinema history, and with very good reason.Dr. Strangelove exceeds exponentially in many ways, the three main being the direction, writing and the unforgettable performances from George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden and of course, Peter Sellers. Kubrick's direction is perfect, the film is perfectly paced, no scene overstays it's welcome and the editing and camera angles do their jobs greatly at conveying a time of nuclear crisis but at the same time remaining darkly humorous. One of the more obvious factors of the film is that it is shot and presented in black and white which works perfectly with the film, the dark representing the terror of the situation and the white representing the comedic side of the film. Kubrick also manages to assist in the comedic side of the film, he achieved this through using 'rehearsal' takes and allowing Peter Sellers to improvise. The level of film making is exquisite, Kubrick uses mostly steady camera shots when in the War Room, and hand-held camera shots when inside the B-52 bomber, he also frames each image with perfection and creates incredible compositions. He never cuts too often or ever drastically changes the angle, thus never confusing the viewer and allowing the scenes to flow. The B- 52 models on real life footage backgrounds may look dated, but oddly enough it still works well with the overall tone of the film, in fact it could be argued that it even adds a small comedic aspect to the film.In my opinion, this film's writing was quite underrated, many people remember the genius unforgettable lines that were likely ad-libbed by Peter Sellers, but overall the film's dialogue and plot is incredibly well written. The plot goes that the general of an air force base goes mad and without-authority, commands a large number of B-52 bombers to attack their targets in Russia, and the men and President in the War Room, desperately attempt to prevent this from happening. This plot is outright brilliant and is executed brilliantly, there is no outright exposition in the dialogue, and any exposition there is, is not jarring or comes of as lazy at all. The film does an incredible job at creating an environment of sheer crisis, with George C. Scott's character explaining that there are very few options in resolving the matter, and the reveal of Russia's top secret 'Doomsday Machine' which adds an almost unbearable amount of tension to the film. The film reaches it's inevitable end of Nuclear Annihilation, after one of the B-52 bombers manages to hit one of it's targets, thus triggering the Doomsday Machine and ending all life on Earth. I found this ending not only to make sense, but also to fit perfectly into the film's tone, there is also a great comedic value to the end, with it coming so suddenly and playing classic music over the footage of many nuclear bombs detonating.Overall, I hope it is clear that I see this as simply one of the best comedies ever made, or even perhaps one of the best films ever made. The film is incredibly unique and although the more satirical points of the film may not be quite as relevant now, they are still hilarious to experience. The film holds up incredibly well even with it's clearly dated visual effects and somewhat dated humour, but Peter Seller's performance alone will allow for this film to be seen as one of the funniest satires ever made even long after the events the film is poking fun at have ended. And even if you don't find the film particularly funny, you can still be in awe of the genius film making and incredibly suspenseful plot.
This movie is possibly the best comedy ever made, only with one fact against it: it's not very "comical". Hilarious? Yes. Comical? Absolutely not. The horrors of the nuclear war caused by a simple mistake materialize before us, directed with skill by the late maestro, Kubrick.There are simply not enough words to describe Peter Sellers's BRILLIANT performance in three roles: A british officer, the U.S president and Dr. Strangelove. He is hilarious as the british officer, with his wonderful accent, gloomy and neurotic as the president and simply insane as Dr. Strangelove.Also note that this movie includes a performance by very young James Earl Jones, who we now all know as the voice behind Darth Vader.The ending scene is also a masterpiece.


                
Few films are able to take a deadly serious issue and place it within the context of a broad comedy successfully.  Dr. Strangelove does exactly that. Kubrick's masterpiece illustrates in brilliant fashion the idiocy of nuclear war and the idiots who are orchestrating it. What strikes one most however in this cinematic gem are the individual characterisations of Sellers, Scott, Hayden and Pickens. To refer to them as memorable roles is a gross understatement. With names such as President Merkin Muffley, General "Buck" Turgidson, General Jack D. Ripper and Major T.J. "King" Kong, you know that these characters will not be soon forgotten. Other features of the film such as the remarkably designed "war room" set, the hand-held camera techniques employed by Kubrick and the black and white cinematography of Gilbert Taylor only add to the power and impact of "Strangelove."  Quite simply, the greatest American film by the greatest American director.


                
This movie is absolutely brilliant! It might not be THE best movie ever made but it certainly is one of the most entertaining and fun movies ever made. It isn't even Kubrick's best but it certainly is perhaps his most accessible and entertaining movie.The movie its story and humor are subtle and perfectly makes fun of the whole Cold War situation in the '60's. With some subtle dialog Kubrick perfectly makes fun of a very serious and relevant topic. I mean, the story of this movie isn't that unlikely and could had actually really happened. As a matter of fact, it could still happen today. It's frightening but thanks to Kubrick's directing the movie never really becomes serious and remains fun, hilarious and entertaining from beginning till end. It is the only movie that makes you laugh at the end of the world.The actors are also what makes this movie fun to watch. Peter Sellers is nothing short of brilliant in the three different roles that he plays; Group Captain (G/C) Lionel Mandrake/President Merkin Muffley/Dr. Strangelove. But also George C. Scott is comically brilliant in this movie as Gen. 'Buck' Turgidson and he perhaps plays his very best role. Other actors that stood out were; Slim Pickens and Peter Bull. This movie also marks James Earl Jones his very first appearance in a movie.This is perhaps the most subtle and 'darkest' comedies ever made. Everything about it is shear brilliance and even now 40 years later, it hasn't lost any of its power. The movie still looks like it could had been made a couple of months ago. A movie that will never feel outdated or too 'old fashioned' to watch. In 50 years from now, this movie will be just as good and hilarious, as it is now. Mark my words.The movie is filled with some truly classic long sequences and has countless unforgettable moments and dialog in it. Especially the last sequence, involving Dr Strangelove, is absolutely priceless and unforgettable.Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant!10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
Who'd have thought that Kubrick had such a great sense of humor? I mean, in most of his films, there are snippets of humor, and Barry Lyndon has a definite irony, but I hadn't expected him to be able to direct such a hilarious and thoroughly entertaining comedy. I had known for a while that this was the highest rated Kubrick film here on IMDb, so naturally, I was excited to find out if it was really his best film. Even though I haven't seen Lolita, Spartacus, Eyes Wide Shut or his first few films(the shorts he made before his feature), and even though I thoroughly enjoyed his other films, this very well may be his best film. Made in a period of time where the thought of nuclear war was a terrifying idea, that was believed to be a reasonable fear, the film takes this idea and turns it around, makes us laugh at it. The film was made during the Cold War, which must have taken quite a lot of guts on Kubrick's side... then again, he did start out, intending to make a thriller/suspense film about the subject, but ultimately realized that a comedy with a lighthearted look on the situation would be a better idea. So, he turned the idea of impending doom from nuclear holocaust into a black comedy. Personally, I think he did a damn good job of it. I haven't laughed that hard and for so long at any one time for quite a while... in fact, I might never have. The comedy isn't overplayed, in fact most of it is presented in a dead-pan, matter-of-fact-like type of way... what's even more hilarious is that the better part of it is completely accurate. No dumb stereotypes, no old clichés... just logic and simple, good old-fashioned observation. The plot is excellent, and very well-paced. In my opinion, Kubrick's most well-paced film. The plot takes off almost immediately and moves at a great pace throughout the film. The acting is flawless. Absolutely flawless. Not something completely unusual for a Kubrick film, but still. George C. Scott and Peter Sellers are amazing. Normally, I'm not too fond of Sellers, but here he was brilliant. The characters are well-written, diverse and interesting. The cinematography is great. Just like Kubrick's other films, this one has some very memorable scenes, one of which(the bomb-riding sequence) has been referenced and spoofed a huge number of times... possibly more times than any other sequence in Kubrick's films, which is quite impressive. The dialog is well-written, well-delivered and memorable. Plenty of quotable lines. I can't really say much more about the movie without ruining one or more of the innumerable great jokes... so I'll just suggest you see it. Seriously, if you enjoy Kubrick's sense of humor as seen limited in his other movies, you're going to enjoy this film. Maybe not as much as I did, but you'll most likely laugh. A lot. I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick, black comedies, Peter Sellers or just comedies with a dark basic theme to watch this. I can't praise it enough. See it, unless you are offended by the themes the film presents. You won't regret it. I know I didn't. Not by a long shot. Hilarious film with a provocative plot and basic idea. 10/10


                
This film has become a cultish film because of the subject of course but especially because of the tone that is really entirely conveyed by two actors, Peter Sellers and his three roles and George C. Scott. We could add Slim Pickens in the batch with his phenomenal dive into nuclear annihilation at the end. The subject is central in our post WW2 world since it has to do with nuclear weapons and war. These weapons have only been used once, in fact twice, by the USA against Japan in 1945. The deterring effect of the possession of such weapons is supposed to keep the world as peaceful as it can be, though we all know it is not exactly true since wars have been going on practically constantly since 1945, for oil, for uranium, for who knows what other resources or tribal heritage from the centuries of slavery imposed onto black Africa, or the centuries of rife between sects in some religions. But they were always limited geographically. Most of these wars, apart from the direct colonial wars of Great Britain (not so many) and France (essentially two in Indochina and in Algeria) were the deeds of the USA: Korea, Vietnam, and the Middle East, and should I not mention Granada and Panama? The Soviet Union only had one in Afghanistan and they stepped out of it in front of the resistance from the Taliban and the Mujahedeen, armed and financed by the USA and the CIA. These movements gave rise to Al Qaeda and later ISIS. In 1964 just after the missile crisis in Cuba the world had just gone through a terrible scare and Stanley Kubrick wanted to produce a film that would make the world realize how dangerous these weapons can be and how little we can stop them when they are already in the air. He decided to make it a comedy by using Peter Sellers in three different parts in which his improvising was able to make a real hit on the psyche of an audience. And it is a success and it is still valid.The argument is that there will always be some crazy guy who will be able to bypass all limitations and firewalls to play a trick on the world, on the USSR at the time and Russia nowadays, or even China for the more reckless, and manage a bomb and today a missile to reach the other side and start the ABSOLUTELY AUTOMATIC responding defense that would become a tremendous back-attack or act of final justified but lethal compensation. As the one who started the scare in this film, and the final holocaust, says so well just before committing suicide "I believe there is another life on the other side!" That is in the drastic situation the most humorous, a very black humor indeed, remark you can utter.The mad Nazi scientist Dr. Strangelove is the most frighteningly hilarious character you can imagine, selling his nuclear knowledge and knowhow to the USA with only one intention: to get to the nuclear holocaust he had been preparing in Germany for Hitler and he was not able to perform or achieve. He is mad, he is deranged, he is physically handicapped, he is erratic and his artificial arm is only remembering his glorious Nazi time and is taking over from time to time to salute his leader, Heil and Heil again. All that is dealt with humorously but it is dramatic and today in the situation of two wars, in Afghanistan on one side, and in Iraq- Syria on the other hand, plus the Korean situation that is poisoned by the unpredictable erratic attitude of President Trump in front of a young leader in North Korea who is either right to resist American imperialism or wrong to endanger the survival of the whole planet, today we can feel it resonate with strength and power. Can there be any reasonable tempered, and well-tempered at that, moderate and realistic compromise to find a solution to the problem without having the USA continuing in their unacceptable track of dictating what one man, one president wants, even when this is purely unethical and absurd? No one in the world, and certainly not any god in existence, has the right to dictate to other countries what they have to do and what norms they have to respect and implement: the one size fits all of the Monroe Doctrine has to be once and for all sent back to the prop-store of an out-of-use theater.Dr. Jacques COULARDEAUTO DIE IN ORDER TO SURVIVE, WHAT A JOY! Amazon February 11, 2001Kubrick touches a very sensitive subject in this film, a subject that should remind us of man's supreme ability at destroying himself and surviving his own destruction. He points out how any nuclear protocol has a hole somewhere or a loophole to go around any kind of security precautions. Nuclear weapons are our unredeemable doom. They can only lead to a catastrophe. And humanity is such that it will enjoy destroying itself and then mobilize its intelligence to just survive in order to start again. There is no hope what so ever. Kubrick deals with this subject in a very humorous way but every detail is there to show that the patriotic motivation of any man justifies in his mind any possible crime or just folly. Man is a fool and his foolishness can know no end. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.
One of the best films ever made, this remains timeless despite changes in technology, foreign policy and world politics; the military/political madness remains the same.  Gets better all the time, with successive viewings and its luster has not dimmed since its first release.With three show-stopping performances from Sellers (amongst his best work, if not THE BEST), and an unexpectedly hilarious turn by George C. Scott (if Sellers weren't SO dead on-target, Scott would easily steal the show), STRANGELOVE is filled with cartoonish, over-the-top characters that, despite the lunacy, still ring true.  Special mention must be made for Sterling Heyden's controlled, brooding paranoia as General Jack D. Ripper.  He's funny, he's scary.All-in-all, a brilliant piece of work by all involved.


                
Entertainment Weekly called this one of the funniest 100 movies ever made. It also happens to be one of the most disturbing movies made. The humor is right there in your face, however, there is always an underlining political critique under every character, every line, and every government representation. Slim Pickins is the never quit Airman. He is a representative of our entire military system of the time. The president, played beautifully by Peter Sellers, is a demure, calm presence trying to deal with the Russian premiere. His perfect counterpart is a war hungry General, ready to accuse the Russians of any small infraction. This leads to one of the funniest lines in the whole movie. Sellers also plays a British airman who has to deal with the crazed general in the usual polite British manner. Seller's third role is that of the title character, Dr. Strangelove, a former nazi and weapons designer for the Americans. He represents the scientific community of that time period; those who worked tirelessly to build a better bomb. These characters, all of them strongly parodying a cross section of society make for an odd story. The final scene, while played for laughs, is actually a frightening image of a communist future. The final moments are frightening in their truth leading one to put themselves in a position of the characters. Dr. Strangelove is the funniest disturbing film I've ever seen.


                
Stanley Kubrick always likes to try something new with each movie he does, and this proves it. This is truly one of the grittiest, and best dark comedies I've ever seen with some crude moments and some odd ones (who'd think to have Slim Pickens riding a bomb on it's way down). It turns into a flat out masterpiece though with the spectacular acting by Peter Sellers (in three separate roles), George C. Scott (his facial expressions are a crack up every time), and a supporting cast of crazies in a government of loons, the most impressive of these being the incomparable Sterling Hayden in his best dramatic/funny role. It contains a resonance as well that sticks till today, as corruption and pig-headedness rules in all sorts of governments, but most of all in those with the most power. It's almost worth it just for the opening credits and end sequence with "we'll meet again".


                
Who else than Stanley Kubrick could take a serious subject like the cold war and tell the story like a comedy ??? He proves his genius in this film more like in any other film of his. It's the story about one general ( with the very appropriate name Jack D. Ripper) gone mad and he launches an attack on Russia all by himself. He's mad, but still smart enough to prevent that anyone can stop him. He's got this strange ( but very funny ) theories about body-fluids, but his men respect him and do everything he says. So 34 fully-armed plains are sent to as many targets. Meanwhile his Colonel, Mandrake, tries to talk sense to him and the president and another General are trying to warn the Russian prime minister. You can have nothing but great respect for Peter Sellers. He plays three roles in this film and every single one of them is flawless. The doctor Strangelove character is hilarious and creepy at the same time. His appearances as the doctor are, along with the telephone conversations between the president and the Russian Prime minister the funniest moments in the film... Also the classic bomb-ride of Major Kong off course. George C. Scott is clearly having fun in his role and the debut of James Earl Jones is also definitely worth mentioning. Like I said already...a must see film if you're a film lover in general.


                
Director Stanley Kubrick made three films of absolute genius: PATHS OF GLORY (1957), DR STRANGELOVE (1963) and 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY (1968). The first two were on the subjects of war and treason, but while the former was extremely serious, DR STRANGELOVE is a dark comedy which tells many truths about the delicate balance of the nuclear bomb and peace, in contrast with FAILSAFE, a film which came out on the same year but which approached the subject of nuclear conflict from a much more factual and formal angle.I can safely say that DR STRANGELOVE made me far more aware of the world's perilous balance, because my guffaws at some of the film's funny lines caused my mind to imagine the real consequences much more realistically than the serious-minded FAILSAFE ever could. To that end. the acting was first class: Peter Sellers is very good as a feeble US president, a powerless British commander, and the mentally disturbed Dr Strangelove, who reminds me of Werner von Braun, with his SS past and trip to the Moon future. Sadly, Sellers gives Dr Strangelove a distracting Indian accent, otherwise he is a joy to watch. George C. Scott is marvelous as the US Armed Forces commander with side interests and an eye always firmly tracked on the military solution, conveying suspicions about the Ruskies and sending shivers down your spine with his mad eyes and his confidence in US military capacity; Keenan Wynn does well with a tiny part and his quip about Coca Cola Company's power is so outlandish that it is frightening; Peter Bull is superb as the Russian ambassador called to the War Room, who uses the opportunity to take spy shots; Slim Pickens, as commander of the aircraft which delivers the bomb, is memorable in his desire to serve his beloved country, to the extent of going down with the bomb; and Sterling Hayden is also at the top of his form as the base commander who loses his marbles and orders the air attack on Russia, and then takes the coward's way out.Great photography, special effects, fitting soundtrack, and fantastic dialogue, full of sharp one-liners, always pursuing the absurd and darkly comic angle, complete the bouquet. Masterpiece! PS: And so I learned not to worry... if not quite to love the bomb!


                
This film is scintillating, excoriating, scorching...think of any violent word you can and it will describe this film. Forget action movies with their death counts of dozens or thousands of people. The stakes in this film are as high as they can be, with the world on the brink of nuclear war. The mechanics of military command are ruthlessly exposed and somehow I found the procedural details on B-52 bomber horribly enthralling. Oh, and it's very funny. Peter Sellars plays three roles and nails them all. The sequence of events is wonderfully absurd, except that there was a short talk before the screening I saw and the academic who spoke explained that declassified documents have revealed that the only false thing in the whole film is the disclaimer at the start (demanded by the airforce?) that says it couldn't happen. Alert to the prospect of a strategic strike on Washington that would destroy the only people capable of authorising a nuclear attack, the US government implemented a system just like the one in the film whereby individual generals could launch a nuclear strike.Similarly, the paranoia rings true - if the US had launched a nuclear attack, of course Soviet intelligence would have had every incentive to deceive those carrying out the attack into believing the order had been rescinded. And the fear of being left behind in any technological race rings true as well.Also it's hilarious: that music that plays every time the scene is on the B-52 bomber! But poignant and beautiful. The mountains sticking up above the clouds at the beginning are breathtaking and somehow sad and, particularly early on many of the shots of the plane flying are gorgeous. And the war room is such a brilliant set.So although satire can sometimes be distancing or alienating, with this film be prepared for lots of feelings.


                
Stanley Kubrick directs "Dr Strangelove." The plot? General Ripper, a manic US general, orders a nuclear attack on Russia. He believes the "purity of his essence" has been contaminated by the enemy, the mere existence of whom threatens his gene pool. To maintain the purity of his lineage, Ripper thus initiates "Attack Plan R", an order which results in the 843rd bomb wing leaving their fail safe points and proceeding into enemy airspace. In response, the Russians reveal that they are in possession of a "doomsday device". Throughout the film, Americans and Soviets will attempt to defend and propagate political ideologies that mutually define the other as a danger to purity.Ripper, like most of the film's characters, is sexually dysfunctional. He misinterprets his post coital fatigue (or erectile dysfunctions) as a Communist plot and believes that "the enemy" is sapping his "sexual essence". To reassert both himself and his masculinity, Ripper sees it as his duty to deny or destroy Russia. As he gains power, Ripper munches on phallic cigars and unsheathes huge, eroticised machine guns.Group Captain Lionel Mandrake (Peter Sellers) tries to stop Ripper, but is himself too weak and effeminate to overpower the psychotic general. Mandrake, a nervous flight commander named after a flightless male duck, has a broken leg, frequently stammers and proves not "masculine" enough to overpower the deranged Ripper. This tension between masculine/feminine/creation/destruction permeates the entire film.Enter Buck Turgidson (George C Scott), a warmonger who seeks to capitalise on Ripper's sneak attack. The ball's already rolling, he says, so let's roll along with it. Buck's name is symbolic of sexual virility (Buck: vibrant male, turgid: swollen).But once again, Sellers plays the effeminate foil to his hyper-masculine counterpart. He's President Merkin Muffley, a bald and small man, unable to commit to combat and constantly seeking to "work with the enemy". "Merkin" and "muff" are slang terms for pubic wigs and female pubic hair respectively.On the other side of the Atlantic we join Major Kong, a George Bushesque Texan warmonger. His B52 bomber is making a run for a Russian base at La Putta (the whore). Unfortunately, a Russian missile damages the aircraft's radio and they are unable to receive the recall code. Kubrick's films frequently deal with systems, machines and communication networks breaking down. Here, a bizarre and complex series of freak accidents - impurities or oversights in the system - essentially leads to Armageddon.The recall code is itself discovered by Captain Mandrake. An acronym for "Purity of Essence" and "Peace on Earth", the code points to both party's fascist mindset: for peace to arise, there can only be one pure lineage. The Other must be eradicated. When Kong reaches his target, he rides a bomb down to ground zero. This activates the "doomsday device", blanketing the earth in a series of atomic explosion. Like most Kubrick films, the film climaxes with a system failure. The irony here is, not only that base human drives result in intrinsically corrupt and inherently stupid systems, but that it's precisely a series of fail safes and precautions, a neurotic desire for total control, that kill us. Once an irrationality (or rather, super rationality) is introduced via the psychotic Ripper, the system self destructs.Before the film's iconic finale, its cast of world leaders listen as Dr Strangelove, a wheelchair bound ex-Nazi professor, describes the steps "necessary" to preserve life. With passages equating US presidents to "fuhrers" and with world leaders discussing fascist policies and eugenics, its clear what power and ideology has ultimately triumphed. The film ends with bombs going off in tandem with the "newly risen" capacity of Strangelove and his Nazi affiliations.With "Strangelove" Kubrick recognised the inherent beauty of the mushroom cloud as well as its horror. Spectators often embrace apocalypse, or unconsciously desire some idealised notion of it. But rather than the arms race, it is libidinal drives which Kubrick satirizes. Think Major Kong straddling a 20 megaton thermonuclear bomb as it plummets towards a soviet ICBM site, hollering inane Texan war whoops as he falls. If violence always has a sexual element, and vice versa, this is warfare as a kind of sexual hysteria, Kong whipping his bomb in a masturbatory frenzy, hat in hand, before the screen is engulfed in the brilliant over-exposure of nuclear detonation, the perfect oneness of pleasure, where the intersecting vectors of sex, death and speed collide headfirst in an orgasmic explosion of fission, fcking and fallout. The great black joke of "Strangelove" is that war stems from the phallus and that nuclear stalemate is a kind of sexual frustration (or strange love) to the technocratically evolved male; there are forever strong, dangerous unconscious drives conspiring to launch the ultimate attack. No surprise then that the film is awash with sexual imagery. Phallic Guns, cigars, swimsuits, playboy centrefolds, dominant young bucks, sexually dysfunctional wheelchair bound degenerates and a narrative book-ended by copulating aircrafts and an atomic ejaculation...the film's entire semiotic language is a consistent ballet of creation (sex) and destruction (war). This is combat out of obedience to the crotch, war as the drive to dominate and possess (there is a "mating-warring association" deep in the male brain, dominance associated with the phallus; think how phrases like "f*** you up" and "get some action" have double meanings), man seemingly raping/pillaging to create space for his dark cycles of creations.The film is also unique in the way it blends genres (comedy/thriller/documentary). Kubrick's camera is initially detached, godlike and methodical, coolly milking the suspense, while the film's second half, with its outrun missiles and nervous faces awaiting annihilation, plays likes a precursor to contemporary "ticking clock" action movies. Kubrick changes aesthetics styles once again for the film's (now much copied) ground battles, which incorporate urgent documentary-like war footage. The rest of the film swings between comedy/satire, and straight drama. This results in strange and complex juxtapositions.10/10 - Masterpiece.
Now this is some seriously funny stuff gentlemen! You gotta see it yourself, it's(probably) the end of the world as we know it, and we feel more than fine! We take it with a happy dose of sarcasm and black humor! :) I absolutely love it!


                
A great movie, made all the greater by Kubrick's willingness to treat a deadly serious subject with a fabulous combination of satire and black humour. The futility of the nuclear deterrent and the twisted, inescapable logic of mutually assured destruction is brought slamming home in a perfect movie that does everything film should do. You can't ask for more if you've been amused, thrilled, shocked and forced to reflect on a giant issue!The question I suppose now is what we should take from this today. The bombs are still about, the arguments for having them seem the same, and politicians seem just as ready to reach ridiculously extreme positions very easily. Plus, we still have 'fail safe' systems to stop them from launching, don't we? Well, don't we? It's awfully frightening when you think about it. The bombs might be targeted elsewhere for now, but lets not forget about them.This must have been a real eye-popper in 1964. It is even more amazing that after the end of the cold war these babies still exist. What price a remake either real or on celluloid?
I first saw this movie a little over three years ago, when I was on a trip to Australia. I was very eager to get my hands of the Stanley Kubrick Collection, which by then was just released. The first one I watched was Dr. Strangelove. Never before had I even heard of this picture, yet it surpassed everything I had ever seen before. Do not miss this movie.I like everything about this movie. Peter Sellers, Sterling Hayden and George C. Scott are all supreme actors and do excellent performances. The story and the script are wonderful. And what can go wrong with Stanley Kubrick as director? Nothing. Yet I am surprised. Considering how amazing everyone who has seen this movie thinks it is (everyone I've talked to), there are a lot of people who haven't even heard of it. Do not miss this movie.I must admit I haven't counted: but I must've seen this movie around ten times, and I still find it amazing. In my world, this is the no.1 movie of all times. A crystal clear 10/10. Oh, and DO NOT miss this movie.


                
This classic by Stanley Kubrick is not only a cracking good story but reflects the times in which it was released. A stellar cast combined with silky black and white production, this film has so much going for it, it is hard to know where to begin. This is satire at its best. Each fully developed character is played with gusto, especially Peter Sellers who has no fewer than three roles. George C. Scott as General Buck Turgeson is also granted some terrific lines that he delivers with a almost child like awareness, completely oblivious of the import of what he is saying. The film switches between artfully crafted, beautiful composed cinematography and a rugged hand held documentary style. There are scenes in a b-52 bomber that are so realistic that you feel you are right in the airplane. Anyone who wants to see a group of actors and a brilliant director, all at the top of their game, will enjoy this movie.


                
It can safely be assumed that DR. STRANGELOVE could not have been made in the Eisenhower years. Even after Senator McCarthy's fall from public support, Ike and the Republicans (and the Democrats) were too involved in the politics of the Cold War to consider the ultimate point of containment and confrontation of the Soviet Union and the Communists as a subject worth laughing at. I can only think of one film, THE ATOMIC KID, that appeared in the 1950s, and somewhat spoofed nuclear disaster. In that film Mickey Rooney stumbles into a cabin stocked with supplies when he and his friend/partner Robert Strauss are looking for assistance (their car broke down). Rooney is at the site when a nuclear bomb is dropped on it (it is the target). He survives, and the only rationale for it is that he was eating peanut butter sandwiches. The antics of American and Russian agents get involved in that film, as does the American habit of looking for the main chance (Strauss sees Rooney as a potential gold mine in the advertising world). But it is pretty lightweight stuff - and miles away from the real sense of dread surrounding STRANGELOVE.Make no mistake about this darkest of comedies. For all the humor involved, it shows the human race is so paranoid and so stupid that we will stumble very easily into our own obliteration at each other's hands. It's hard to argue with that view. And note that two years before Stanley Kubrick's film was released, the world came very close to a politically caused nuclear Armageddon in the Cuban Missile Crisis. This film remains potentially true.General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden's role; I love that name) orders a secret nuclear attack on Russia because he has become convinced that the Russians are using fluoridation to undermine our virility. He has shut down the Burpleton Airforce Base (it has a great sign - "Peace is our Business" - on the field), so that nobody can reach him to order the planes back. Only his British military aide, Major Lionel Mandrake (Peter Sellers in his first of three roles) is available (despite Ripper's overwhelming presence) to try to undue the damage.In the meantime other U.S. military forces tip off the Pentagon Brass and President Merton Muffly (Sellers in his second role) about the launching of the attack. The leading adviser on the Air Force, General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) comes into the meeting from enjoying his bodily fluids (he tells the girl to say her prayers). Scott is taken to task by Muffly about the failure of a comprehensive psychiatric test for upper level officers that failed to reveal General Ripper was insane. Turgidson suggests that one failure does not disprove the system doesn't work. Muffley is also turned off by Turgidson's suggestions that rather than stop Ripper's attack, we should go fully ballistic on the U.S.S.R. "I can promise," Turgidson rattles off, "thirty million U.S. casualties tops!" Muffley tries to prepare the Russians - he invites their ambassador De Sadeski (Peter Bull) to the Pentagon War Room, and he tries to warn the drunken Russian Premier, Dimitri Kissoff, but has to reduce his serious warning to almost a fairy tale ("Well...one of our generals went a little funny in the head.").The contemporary serious film FAILSAFE had similar problems emerge when a computer system erroneously triggers an attack. The President there (Henry Fonda) was not confronted by as many forms of idiocy as Seller's Muffley (including his own). Fonda actually does reach the planes but they refuse to believe he is President. Muffley too gets to the planes (once he gets the correct code used) but one plane has a busted radio and never hears him. That is the plane of Major "King" Kong (Slim Pickens), who has the most famous last fatal ride in cinematic history.Most of the figures in DR. STRANGELOVE are based on real life figures. Muffley was based on Adlai Stevenson, a well-intentioned man who twice ran for President, but couldn't sell himself (against Eisenhower, who could?). Ripper (forgetting who his name is based on) is based on General Edward Walker who openly espoused anti-fluoridation and John Birch politics in his job. Turgidson is based on General Curtis LeMay, a great Air Force figure from World War II, but too openly anti-Russian in the Cold War. De Sadesky (who shows a sneaky side twice in the film) seems based on Andrei Gromyko, the Russian Ambassador to the U.S. in the Missile Crisis. Kissoff may be based on Nikita Khrustchev.And then there is Strangelove (Sellers in the best of his three performances). A neo - Nazi scientist transported to the U.S. (a beneficiary of "Operation Paper Clip" at the end of World War II, where scientists like Werner Von Braun ended up in the U.S. for our military's purposes), he has elements of Von Braun and Edward Teller, the Hungarian-born scientist (so-called father of the Hydrogen bomb) who hated the Communists or anyone who might start defending them (he did a number on J. Robert Oppenheimer). Anyone else? There has been a persistent suggestion that Strangelove is based on Henry Kissinger, but this seems not to be true. Certainly the crippled madman, with his mechanical arm that won't behave itself (it keeps "heiling") is one of a kind, suggesting a sexual paradise in the future within the abandoned gold mines and cold mines of America. At the end he rises from his wheelchair without thinking, and suddenly announces, "Mein Fuhrer...I can walk!" In the thermonuclear age as Armageddon advances our leader shows he has barely stopped being a crawling baby!!For the sake of that performance alone the film is worth seeing. Definitely worth seeing for the performances of the whole cast and Kubrick's directorial excellence.
Just about everything in this brilliant satire of Cold War politics is perfect. Kubrick created his first template masterpiece with this hilarious comedy that sees military bureaucracy as a comedy of errors and a hot-line conversation between the President of the US and the Premier of the USSR as a snippy fit between quasi-lovers. You have everything you could ever want here: great dialogue, fantastic acting, flawless directing, cool sets, and timely political farce (that could still ring true today in this age of Bush America, Institutionalized Fear, and the War on Terror).Everyone deservedly raves about Peter Sellers in his multiple roles (as Mandrake, the President, and Dr. Strangelove), but I dare you to find a funnier performance than that of George C. Scott as the slapdash over-zealous General "Buck" Turgidson, especially when he falls over backwards in the War Room and gets up and continues his speech without missing a beat. Also of note is Sterling Hayden as Jack D. Ripper. His riffs on the purity of essence, bodily fluids, and Communist infiltration through fluoridation are laugh-out-loud funny. With characters like Colonel "Bat" Guano, and Slim Pickens' Major Kong, great scenes naturally flow forth, and Kubrick's one take on pure comedy is simply genius. He was wise never to touch the genre again fully (although "A Clockwork Orange" will always be a comedy in my book), as he made the perfect example of the form here.


                
When "Full Metal Jacket" was released in theaters in 1987, it was said that the timing couldn't have been worse because of the huge success of the movie "Platoon" the year before, without adding the quantity of Academy Awards picked up by the Oliver Stone film. However, in January 1964, it was the exact opposite that was said about "Dr. Strangelove".Today, the Cold War issues remain present, but they're far less important than the scenario that was being drawn at the end of the year 1963, that is the moment where this classic Stanley Kubrick comedy was shot. It was the time of the "Freezing War", the scary Cuban Missile Crisis was still fresh in the collective mind and the young President Kennedy was just being assassinated.That's when arrived this movie, which dared to show a nuclear apocalypse with a comic eye. But what could have been funny in there? It's possible to laugh of the mishaps of somebody other than ourselves, but when everybody is concerned, it's far less funny. Just remember the 9/11 aftermath, when rumors of WWIII surfaced...But Stanley Kubrick, being a master of virtually every genre, conceived an astoundingly funny comedy, skilfully mixing the suspense from a man-made end-of-the-world with the absurdity of the characters who act in, sometimes without knowing it.Kubrick worked with a talented screenwriter in the person of Terry Southern, but especially with prodigious actors. I'm evidently referring to Peter Sellers, whose three roles entered into the legend, and George C. Scott, whose role quality rivals with his Oscar-winning performance of General Patton in the movie "Patton", released six years later.Based on the theme of the failure to communicate, the movie is set in three different places. Primo: the Burpleson Air Force Base, headed by General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden), a psychotic obsessed by fluoridation which "saps and impurifies all of our precious bodily fluids". His aide de camp is Group Capt. Lionel Mandrake (Sellers), a timid but highly competent English officer who doesn't buy Ripper's theories.Secundo: a B-52 piloted by Major "King" Kong (western star Slim Pickens). We see Kong and his crew (which includes young James Earl Jones) preparing themselves to the nuclear strike and composing with unexpected difficulties which will provide even more thrills.Tertio: the Pentagon or more precisely, the War Room. It's there that the three most interesting characters of the story are located: President Merkin Muffley (Sellers), General Buck Turgidson (Scott) and hilarious mad scientist Dr. Strangelove (Sellers). They try to communicate with drunken Soviet president Kissoff, but in vain."Dr. Strangelove" is among the greatest comedies ever made, but this statement isn't based upon the quantity of laughs that the movie unfolds. In fact, the first time I watched it, I only laugh wildly twice: when Turgidson stumbles in the War Room and when Dr. Strangelove is struggling with his uncontrollable alien right hand.Instead, "Dr. Strangelove" plays on tongue-in-cheek humor and the absurdity of the characters, as well as some subtleties. The best example is the impossible names of the characters, which have almost all a sexual connotation. There's a list: Merkin Muffley, Turgidson, Kissoff, de Sadesky, Bat Guano and Jack D. Ripper. We also laugh of improbable messages or writings, like the post in the base on which it is written: "Peace is our profession", at the moment where soldiers are fighting each other. There's also the useless " NUCLEAR WARHEAD – HANDLE WITH CARE".It is obvious that the movie wouldn't have been so successful without the exceptional performance of its three main actors. Peter Sellers is remarkably all-round and he's an unequaled master with different accents. His Dr. Strangelove role is probably the greatest of his career, even if the character himself appears on-screen for about ten minutes only.George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden and Slim Pickens are the other mentionable actors. Scott is very funny with his character who spends most of his time at chewing gum, making ridiculous facial expressions and insulting the "Russkies". Hayden is disturbing with his perpetual cigar and his monologues about fluoridation and "Commies". The orders he gives to his troops before the base attack are particularly absurd, especially when he says: "Don't trust any man, except if you know him personally". As for Pickens, he will always be remembered for his idiot but enjoyable-to-hear speeches and for his cowboy hat which he wears until the end, during the most memorable scene, where he rides the bomb like a matador riding a bull in a rodeo.Not only is this movie very funny, it's also very pessimistic. How many times do we speak of prejudices and no-confidence between people? Even at the end, when doomsday is unavoidable...And I've almost forgotten to mention the precious aid from production designer Ken Adam. Without him, there wouldn't be no War Room, this fictitious but pop culture-iconic room. The interior of the B-52 is also well-made.However, the plane exterior is the main problem of the film. To suspend a plane model in front of the camera with a Russian land background is a big disappointment, especially when we know how fussy director Kubrick is.But from the opening title sequence, where a plane refueling looks like a jumbo-size sexual act, to the final scene, where a sequence of nuclear explosions is accompanied by the famous Vera Lynn song "We'll Meet Again", it's guaranteed that "Dr. Strangelove" never bores. Even if universal peace happens someday, we'll watch this movie with a large smile and a satisfied mood. That's what we call a timeless classic...
I saw this film originally when I was about 12 and I wasn't super-impressed by it--particularly since my father was a bit like George C. Scott's character in the film!! However, years later (long after the threat from nuclear annihilation from the Soviet Union has greatly diminished), I was a lot older and experienced and thought the film was brilliant--and not the "Commie Plot" my Dad had envisioned!The film features some amazing performances that are absolutely mesmerizing. Sterling Hayden is excellent as the schizophrenic general that orders a first strike on the USSR--he's gruff, weird but pretty believable. However, his performance is unfortunately overshadowed by two other actors. My favorite of these was George C. Scott. Although he didn't need to do the amazing multiple roles that Peter Sellers did (the man was AMAZING), the one character he played was hilarious and chilling. He was the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff and you just have to see and hear him to believe him. Although technically NOT schizophrenic like Hayden, he was a totally insane general that actually seemed to look forward to a nuclear war with the "!@&%@# Ruskies!". His swagger and bravado was perfectly balanced with all the truly stupid things the character unintentionally said--again and again.Now as for Sellers, he was such a great character actor but all too often, he was remembered more for Inspector Clousseau (a good character, but only one of MANY the man was capable of doing) or he was remembered for all the BAD movies he did in his lifetime. It seems for every great film he made (such as THE MOUSE THAT ROARED or BEING THERE), he also made crap (such as THE PRISONER OF ZENDA or THE FIENDISH PLOT OF FU MANCHU). His lack of discernment tended to hide his brilliance. And, in Dr. Strangelove he was absolutely brilliant--playing three totally different roles. As the British Colonel, he was quite believable and underplayed the role. As the President, he was a little more comical and yet pretty convincing. And, as Dr. Strangelove, he was an over-the-top ex-Nazi (not all that "ex" if you ask me) madman. The variety was stunning and almost without precedent--except for a very similar multiple role situation Sellers also played in 1959's THE MOUSE THAT ROARED--another brilliant comedy about nuclear war.In addition to the great acting and writing, I do have to take my hat off to Stanley Kubrick. In past IMDb reviews, I was not particularly kind to several of his "masterpieces" (I am one of those who actually disliked 2001, CLOCKWORK ORANGE and BARRY LYNDON). However, I hope I am intellectually honest enough to view his films individually (PATHS OF GLORY, THE KILLING and SPARTACUS were wonderful).The bottom line is that this is a great film and can be enjoyed by anyone who has a decent handle on world events and history. Unfortunately, for a generation that now is at times obsessed with Paris Hilton and SURVIVOR, I also believe that the film is quickly becoming one that is simply beyond the capacity of many to even comprehend, as they can't even remember the past and have no trouble living that way.


                
