I find myself in agreement with the minority on this one. The film is disappointing. Kubrick is one of the greatest directors and I have admired and seen most of his films. My guess is that politically conscious critics who fiercely supported its message raved and started a herd mentality. I, however, did not find it funny at all. Most of the film is comedic in nature in a sort of clever way but it wasn't funny. The best scenes are in the war room and I didn't find them hilarious like most critics do. I have a suspicion the praise for this film has gathered along the years is mainly for political reasons and of course, it's great director.


                
Why this film is so popular is beyond me, first and foremost because it is not really funny (yes the no fighting in the war room remains a great gag as does riding the bomb, but the rest of it....) the satire is about as subtle as an oil tanker and to be honest misfires. The camera work is average, acting average, but the use of music is good. Ultimately it is a film locked into time and place - and that is quite damning enough.


                
I love Stanley Kubrick. He is, in my opinion, one of the best directors of all time. I'll admit that the riding-the-bomb scene at the end was classic and iconic. But I did not find this movie funny. before i watched it, i was thinking: "okay, it's a black comedy movie about nuclear war in the 60s. dark humor, but will be funny, based on all th people saying it's the best comedy ever." I'm watching it, and just thinking: "this is a serious war drama. This is not funny. " George C. Scott was probably supposed to be funny, but I thought he was just mean. Peter Sellers did some great acting, but not comedic acting. There were definitely some really good moments, but most of the film was trash. It was NOT FUNNY!!! What I'm saying is, it is a terrible comedy, and an average movie. Kubrick's other films were masterpieces, but this was below the bar. Monty Python is funny. Mel Brooks movies are funny. Airplane! is funny. Now THAT'S a real disaster comedy! Overall, this film is mediocre at best, and i think it has not aged well. This may have been edgy and even funny in the 60's, but I think everyone giving this a super positive review is just jumping on the critic bandwagon that apparently thinks this movie is a classic comedy. IT IS NOT A COMEDY!!!!!
I don't get it!!!!! I haven't written many reviews but after watching this, I feel compelled to do so. I have heard this movies' reputation for YEARS about how GREAT it is so I got the opportunity to watch it and I did and I will say it again......I don't get it!!!! I found it neither funny OR good. How can a movie about the end of the world be funny??? The war room scenes are long, drawn-out and tedious and the scenes in the airplane are repetitive(sorry about the spelling) and BORING!!! What is SO good about this movie??? Someone please tell me!!! I invite fellow IMDb users to tell me or am I just missing the whole point to the movie???


                
I am not quite sure why this movie is so highly regarded, as it really bored me. My brother and father assured me it was the funniest movie they have ever seen, yet I noticed a complete lack of laughter out of them (and definitely myself).I do not know, I must be missing something. George C. Scott's character is OK... I guess.Also, this being my first comment, the commenting feature on this website is quite terrible. I will never again submit another comment, as there are strange, arbitrary rules about formatting and content. This makes me somewhat inclined to boycott IMDb.This is filler to meet the minimum of 10 lines of text.


                
To me, "Dr. Strangelove" is a British comedy masquerading as an American movie. It's sexual innuendo, mockery of political and military leadership, and attempts to play tragic situations for laughs are all characteristics of British humor, as seen in this link: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_humourI doubt that much of the American audience really understood the movie and that it was most appreciated by critics who were familiar with British humor. Also, the movie's politics could be described as anti-anti-Communist, showing anti-Commuists as just as dangerous, if not moreso, than Communists. God bless.


                
I've never been a Kubrick fan, he moves too slow and he bores me. This movie is no exception. I did not find this movie funny. Granted there are a few laughs, but mostly they are close to the end of the film. No, let me phrase that stronger : A lot of the film is not funny by any stretch of my imagination. Don't waste your time with this movie, it is undeserving of the reputation it has received. This movie falls in the same category of humor as Repo Man. I think a lot of the humor was time-sensitive and has been lost over time. Maybe I'm too young to appreciate it. I feel I have to be the boy that yells "The emperor wears no clothes", but that would not be fair... he is wearing a clown suit


                
Now, I apologize if I am giving negativity towards "Dr. Strangelove," but while most people find this funny and excellent (and near the top of the list of the greatest comedies ever made), I feel different about this film.First off, people claim this to be a comedy. Yeah, right; what is there to laugh about in this film? I'm sure many things; but for a person like me, I guess I don't understand that type of humor that much to really appreciate this film.And also, when people claim this to be such a great film, are y'all talking "Citizen Kane"-type excellence? I nearly died watching this film; that's how bored I was! When I heard the "Mein Fuhrer! I can walk!" line, that had given me a jolt out of my seat! But still, I give this three stars because you gotta love those flight sequences!


                
The acting is great in this movie, especially Sellers. He is a great and versatile actor. Other than that I was not impressed at all. I can't understand why it receives so many high reviews, or why it is listed under thriller. I found it highly predictable and only laughed aloud a couple of times. Kubrick has so many movies that are much better than this, in many aspects. If it was not for Sellers, I probably would not have finished watching it. The rest of the cast also contributed to my not giving it only 1 star. In short: mildly entertaining, but thanks to all of the highly praising reviews greatly disappointing.


                
Peter Sellers, whatever his personal life was like, was a fantastic comedian, and this film really highlights that.He dominates every scene he is in, playing multiple characters with ease. He makes a ridiculous plot entertaining and enjoyable for an audience.While it's never going to be one of my favourite performances from him (the Panthers and Being There take that position) this is a different side to him, and he excels.Overall I'd recommend this film to people who have always wanted to see Peter Sellers in another role to that of the infamous Inspector Clouseau.


                
I watched this yesterday - it's not every day you get to watch something that mythical. So what was all the hype about? Dr Strangelove has a reputation, but that's about it. The plot itself is the weak point of the film: it's irrelevant to us today.Was it more relevant for people during the cold war? Probably. But for a film to be a classic, it cannot age if the politics have changed.The treatment of the topic is funny, but only at times (about 3 times during the whole film). I found it long, tedious to watch, and it's not a long film. Peter Sellers is good, but it takes more than his individual talent to lift it up. It was like a story I can't relate to.It's directed by Stanley Kubrick? So what? I don't rate a film according to who directed it, even if the director is considered a god by some. After all I disliked Eyes wide shut and found 2001 boring too.So I guess it's probably because I'm not a Kurbick fan in the first place.


                
Who really cares about one man's "essence?" This was a comedy that I really didn't find too funny. Some films are hard to imagine watching them without wide screen, and this movie is a perfect example of that. There was low key lighting throughout the film and it wasn't that great. I think Kubrick did a good job directing it, i just personally didn't enjoy watching this movie. The camera work on some parts of the film was shaky. It worked for certain parts (like in the beginning when the men first got the message of the attack on the plane, the camera was shaking and it gave the illusion you were on the plane with them -mis-en-scene-) but other times when the camera was shaky it just made the viewer dizzy. This was a very feminist movie, with many sexual references throughout it. I mean there were sexual references put into every thought of this movie, even down to the characters names! I mean really "Merkin Muffley" Merkin meaning a female pubic wig, and Muff is just another name for public hair. They were basically calling their president a vagina! I got a slight over all message through the movie of the corruption in our government at the time, and how Kubric wanted to make a mockery of it. Some parts of the film had great comic relief, but i didn't understand much of it. Over all- wasn't a huge fan. It was good, but not great.


                
