The only other Stanley Kubrick movie I've seen is A Clockwork Orange and I quite liked it. I will eventually see more of his movies because this does take a while to get going (mainly for the reason of describing the plot really doesn't sound like the plot to a comedy) it does get insane with it's humour and it never stops. The plot is... Well I warned you this doesn't sound like a comedy - A General paranoid with fear and Xenophobia as to what The Russians are doing launches the emergency plan to nuke hot-spots and eventually start World War III, not content with just that he also locks down his own base telling his men to shoot everyone on sight if they aren't known to the soldiers personally. While this is going on American politicians and other such people that supervise war are scrambling to make sure World War III doesn't happen. We also see a fighter jet that gets the crazy General's message. As I said for a comedy this has probably one of the gloomiest plot lines in existence. Somehow they made it insane such as people prioritizing shooting a Coca-Cola vending machine over trying to call the President on a payphone or saying that the Russian President has a doomsday weapon capable of destroying the world will be revealed soon because "He likes surprises"... That sums up the tone for this movie better than any description of the plot can ever do. I'll also say the cinematography is quite good too and the acting is suitably over the top. I'd say watch it but as I may have said earlier it does take a while to get into, at least for me anyway.


                
Classic black anti-war comedy with magnificent acting by all-star-cast , lavish production design by Ken Adam and masterfully realized by the always original Stanley Kubrick . It deals with an insane Brig. Gen. Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden was patterned after Gen. Thomas S. Power, LeMay's protégé and successor as Chief of the Strategic Air Command) triggers a path to nuclear holocaust that a war room full of politicians and generals frantically try to stop . There intervenes a motley group of offbeat characters such as a scientist (Peter Sellers was paid $1 million, 55% of the film's budget ,Stanley Kubrick famously quipped "I got three for the price of six") whose artificial arm repeatedly makes Heil Hitler sign as an involuntary reflex action , a hawkish general named Buck Turgidson (gunchewing militarist excellently performed by Geoge C Scott , this character was patterned after the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Gen. Curtis LeMay, who was renowned for his extreme anti-Communist views) and the US President Merklin Muffley (inimitable Peter Sellers , this role was patterned after Adlai Stevenson II, who lost two presidential elections to Dwight D. Eisenhower )to deal with consequences a nuclear attack .This splendid film contains unforgettable scenes such as a soft drinking vending machine dispute , sketches involving a phone call to the American President and the movie's funniest the notorious Slim Pickens's wild ride on the bomb . Based on the novel "Red Alert" by Peter George, and originally conceived as a tense thriller about the possibility of accidental nuclear war. Stanley Kubrick was working on the script when he realized that many scenes he had written were actually quite funny , he then brought in Terry Southern to turn the story into a satire . This was the final collaboration between controversial Stanley Kubrick and his producing partner James B. Harris , as he left to begin his own directing career. Harris was involved in the early development stage of this production. It was during this stage that, according to Harris, Kubrick began to toy with the idea of turning it into a comedy .Very good acting by Sterling Hayden as a crazed general initiating a nuclear attack on the Soviets and George C. Scott was reputedly annoyed that Stanley Kubrick was pushing him to overact for his role , while he vowed never to work with Kubrick again, Scott eventually saw this as one of his favorite performances and many fans consider it some of his best work on-screen . And of course, the great Peter Sellers who plays a tour-de-force triple role , as he improvised most of his lines . Sellers plays Dr. Strangelove , a wheelchair-bound adviser who apparently suffers from agonistic apraxia, also known as "alien hand syndrome¨ , an useless President and General Ripper's assistant . As Columbia Pictures agreed to provide financing only if Peter Sellers played at least four major roles , in their eyes, Sellers playing multiple roles was one reason Lolita (1962) was so successful. Peter Sellers was the first actor to be nominated for a single Academy award , best actor , for a film in which he portrayed three different characters in the same film . Furthermore , an awesome support cast with triumphant acting from Keenan Wynn as Col. 'Bat' Guano , Slim Pickens as Maj. 'King' Kong , Peter Bull as Russian Ambassador Alexi de Sadesky , Tracy Reed as Miss Scott and film debut of James Earl Jones. This was apparently one of the first films in which the US Air Force's new B-52 Stratofortress bomber was featured. It appeared in a number of films afterward, notably A Gathering of Eagles (1963), and By Dawn's Early Light (1990) and the first Bombers B 52 (1957) . In fact , in the early 1960s the B-52 was cutting-edge technology. Access to it was a matter of national security , the Pentagon refused to lend any support to the film after they read the script , as set designers reconstructed the B-52 bomber's cockpit from a single photograph that appeared in a British flying magazine. Atmospheric musical score by Laurie Johnson , including some classic songs . Brilliant Cinematography in white and black by Gilbert Taylor , being Stanley Kubrick's last black and white film. . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Stanley Kubrick , as research, he read nearly 50 books about nuclear war . This is probably the most famed picture -with the possibly exception of 2001 A space odyssey- of the relatively infrequent movies directed by this extraordinary filmmaker.


                
Like "Cool Hand Luke" which followed several years after this and then other films of the mid-60s, this was another milestone in Liberal advancement in Hollywood movies. Here, instead the rebel, anti-authority hero exemplified in the above-mentioned film, here we see another theme that have been repeated endlessly since the '60s: the military as the enemy, as a bunch of gung-ho war-bent trigger-happy idiots who get sadistic pleasure out of needlessly killing the enemy. Terry Southern, one of the big protesters of the '60s co-wrote this story with Stanley Kubrick and Peter George: not exactly three "moderates." The movie also pokes fun at those who opposed Communism, which helps explain why they investigated Hollywood in the first place.Nevertheless, once you get past that agenda of the film, it's very entertaining thanks to funny characterizations by George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, Keenan Wynn and others and by some excellent black-and-white cinematography. Peter Sellers plays three roles in here, but is best as the President of the U.S. Scott, with an outlandish Patton-like performance (no wonder he got that role later on), is particularly good with his facial expressions as "Buck Turgidson." Hayden, meanwhile, was always a favorite from the 1950s film-noir days. There are some good facial closeups of him, too.The ending of this movie is quite memorable, with Slim Pickens riding shotgun on a nuclear bomb as it descends. Now that is good, dark humor, punctuated by the tune "We'll Meet Again" as atomic bombs go off.Very biased, but a funny and entertaining 93 minutes and photographed so well it's fascinating to watch for that alone.


                
In a cold war time and right after JFK assassination, what does Kubrick is indeed original: it's like if today we did a comedy about terrorism and while America keeps tight, only France did it so far with Youn and Vive la France.
Here the premise recalls what happens in Wargames (the human element to launch a nuclear attack) but in a reverse way (the attack is launched!): It's funny (and comforting) that the path to the actual detonation is very complicated and not limited as a single red button to push like we are told. The military sets and equipment looks very accurate and in this cold, serious world, it's very unusual to find indeed comedy: I remember Hot Shots but here there's no really patriot feeling but frightening humans behavior: the military mind to look for an enemy to attack, the amoral and amnesic use of Nazi scientists for the arms race... There is also a lot of hidden things to notice: I like the army tagline Peace is our profession because it parallels our french name of military forces: Defense Ministry while in fact we keep attacking!
Scott is really good as a obsessional general (wilder than Patton) and Sellers is indeed a master of disguise because I didn't get he was also playing the President (that's explain why I found this character a bit soft!). Watching him is a bit like watching another comedy genius, our french Les Nuls: he acts like Chabat with the look of late Bruno Carette.


                
Hyperbolic fun, with strange characters to highlight the point. Has a unique story that is executed very well and tries to show what could possibly happen if nuclear weapons were used.I enjoyed the characters of Buck and Mandrake, both are unlike any other characters I have seen before. Buck has a great delivery of lines with his booming voice whereas Mandrake has a likable charm. The president was very interesting too, his conversations on the phone are so absurd they become funny. However, sometimes I found it a little hard to follow the plot.The editing and cinematography are very good too, with a large long shot that is contrasted with an extreme close up later. This highlights the tension between the characters and is key to the understanding of the film. Overall, a great satire with great cinematography.


                
From Peter George's book "Red Alert", turned by writer-director Stanley Kubrick into a movie signpost of the paranoid times. Plot has the American President trying to assimilate and explain unprovoked A-Bomb attack by the U.S. on Russia. Peter Sellers (in three wonderfully different roles) is amazing, George C. Scott just as good as matter-of-fact sergeant. Dark-humored essay on the craziness of war is troubling, disturbing, often highly entertaining. Kubrick, who co-adapted the screenplay with Terry Southern, does fabulous work. Supporting cast (including Sterling Hayden, James Earl Jones, Slim Pickens--in a marvelously showy role--and Keenan Wynn) are top-notch. *** from ****


                
At Burpelson AFB, Gen. Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) has decided the time has come to rid the world of Communist infiltration of the water supply, and sends his B-52s on a sneak attack against the Soviet Union. Months of drinking nothing but rainwater and grain alcohol, not to mention denying the women in his life his "essence," apparently went to his head.On one of the B-52s Ripper sends out, Maj. T.J. "King" Kong (Slim Pickens) dons his cowboy hat and tells his men folks back home are counting on them to see this through: "That goes for every last one of you, regardless of your race, your color, or your creed."As Kong's plane approaches its target, his progress is observed worriedly in Washington D.C. President Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers) tries diplomacy with a drunken Soviet premier, while Gen. Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) suggests going through with a full-scale attack."I will not go down in history as the greatest mass murderer since Adolph Hitler," President Muffley says."Perhaps it might be better, Mr. President, if you were more concerned with the American people than with your image in the history books," Turgidson replies."Dr. Strangelove," like the War Room where much of it is set, is a cold and imposing work of art, impressive though distancing. As a film of its time, "Strangelove" is arguably Kubrick's most important work, a cultural crossroads between nihilism and pop where anything goes, and everything does at the end. All that, and it's pretty funny, too.Sellers plays three roles, though his antic comic energy is largely tamped down with two of the characters, Muffley and a RAF officer assigned to Ripper's base. His third character, the titular Dr. Strangelove, is a wonderful Germanic riff and the film's zaniest figure, though the farthest removed from events at hand. He's all for war, but whether that's because he's as mad as the others or trying to make the best of a bad situation is left unclear.I don't love "Dr. Strangelove," and there are things about it that grate, like the long inventories and protocols we see in the B-52. Scott has his great moments as the unwound Turgidson, but overacts shamelessly in others, which Scott blamed on his director. Keenan Wynn as a colonel named Bat Guano is stiff, too, but Sellers is very good and Pickens and Hayden even better, playing their roles straight with just the slightest sense of irony. (I think both knew they were in a comedy.)For a film about mutually assured destruction, there is a nice MAD magazine sensibility to this film, in the goofy names and outré situations, that fits the mood of the times and makes this an enjoyable black comedy. The jokes hit their targets, and points are made without deference to a particular ideology, as hawks like Turgidson and doves like Muffley both take fire. Kubrick made films liberals love, but he himself wasn't a true believer of any stripe, and it shows here.The best part of "Strangelove" for me is the titles sequence, showing B-52s refueling in flight. Even after you get the joke behind it, there's still something to those remarkable images, an aerial ballet perfectly synchronized with the Pablo Ferro titles and a violin-heavy rendition of "Try A Little Tenderness," that strikes a chord deep inside.Maybe the chord struck by the rest of the film is not so in evidence anymore, but "Dr. Strangelove" is still a good comedy and valid social commentary worth watching.


                
I didn't live through the major events of the 60's, but i still appreciated the point this movie was trying to make. When movies can make a really good point using humour, but without the humour being offensive or seemingly inappropriate, then it is a success in my view. I particularly liked Seller's Mandrake role, he had some very funny scenes. I would recommend this to people of all ages, it's funny and makes you think.


                
There have been a lot funnier Peter Sellers films in the past but i doubt there has been a more iconic one than Dr Strangelove. You forget how obsessive people used to be about the nuclear arms race and this film is a delightful , tongue in cheek look at look at what could happen is something goes wrong. It looks very fresh , even though it is black and white and the dialogue is very funny but not is a rolling around on the floor kind of way. Although the lead actor is Peter Sellers ( he plays three parts) the man who steals the show is George C Scott who plays the war mongering commie hating general. The scenes in the Aeroplane that is on course to drop the bomb is very interesting and i love the bit where the pilot rides the bomb. If you have not seen this before i recommend you get hold of it.


                
(The following may contain spoilers, read at your own risk.)While the manifest content of Dr. Strangelove is about nuclear war, it's also an interesting social commentary rife with satire and tongue-in-cheek humour. The "comedy" is obvious in some of the characters names: Jack D. Ripper and Amabassador Kissoff as well as several ironic visual cues: (signs around the US Army Base) "Peace is Our Profession" and "Civil Defense is your mission". The dialogue is also replete with double entendres and irony.President Merkin Muffley to General Buck Turgidson: "You can't fight in here, this is the War Room"And, a clueless Colonel Guano to (Seller's) Captain Mandrake during an exigency to "unlawfully" obtain coins from a vending machine. (The change is required to place a phone call to the President to stop the impending nuclear holocaust):"Okay. I'm gonna get your money for ya. But if you don't get the President of the United States on that phone, you know what's gonna happen to you? You're gonna have to answer to the Coca-Cola company."I'm not generally impressed with performances in comedies, but Sellers had the daunting task of playing a trio of characters, and pulled it off amazingly well! His performance as Dr. Strangelove was deliciously funny as he was constantly beating down his wayward and uncontrollable right hand. Hmm, what is Kubrick trying to say, that in the Army, the left hand doesn't know what the right is doing?
Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb came out in 1964 during the height of the cold war. Kubrick's film has many recurring political themes such as improper leadership and nuclear war. It also has a deep theme of how pointless the tensions between the two factions were. Despite the film's subject matter the film is a comedy. Although, one could call it a dark comedy because it's almost impossible to take such serious themes and make them comedic. Kubrick was able to balance the line of seriousness and comedy to create a very intuitive film. 1964 and the sixties in general were a very tense time for the eastern and western world. Both sides were contending with a nuclear arms race, which terrified the public of both nations. This was most notably apparent in the Cuban missile crisis, which had just occurred a couple years before the film's release. This tension led to racism between the two worlds. In democratic countries this racism was connected to the "red scare". Both sides were very subjective of each other just because the country's governments were having issues with each other. The public was very frightened during this time. Kubrick took this opportunity to create a very controversial sort of film. He took a large risk when he decided to portray such a serious situation in a humorous light. The unique thing about this film is that mostly every thing is realistic and believable. The plot itself seems like something that could of actually happened during these times. A general who is so brainwashed into hating the communists so much that he becomes paranoid and finds a loophole to start a nuclear war. These circumstances seem true to life. Even the protocol the characters assume seems realistic. From meting at the war room, to contacting the leaders of Russia and hiring experts (Turgidson and Dr. Strangelove). However, despite having such a realistic and believable setting and plot the characters in the film create a large juxtaposition. This is where the film turns into a comedy. The characters are very tongue and cheek. General Turgidson, played by the late George C. Scott, is a perfect example of an unrealistic and "goofy" character. Turgidson constantly finds humor in dark situations, his girlfriend calls him during important meetings, and he is extremely racist. Then there is Dr. Strangelove who is supposed to be a genius scientist. He is an oddball character whose ideas and theories are only weirder than his need to call the president "mien fuehrer". All of these comedic characters add levity to the realistic situation that the film's plot has formed. One can say that Kubrick's characters are his "weapons". He uses his characters to poke fun at the cold war conflict. It's possible that the point of the film was to show how pointless the whole conflict was. The scene where General Turgidson is urging the president to create a mine so they don't have a "mine gap" is obviously alluding to the nuclear arms race and is showing the futility of such a thing. Perhaps Kubricks intentions were to ease the public's fear by showing the situation in a comedic light. It all depends on what the viewer takes away from the film. Dr. Strangelove was most certainly an intuitive film for weaving together serious issues and politics, and making it comedic, while still having a deep message to communicate.


                
I haven't watched many movies from the 60's but found Dr. Strangelove to be witty & relevant. The conflict was an interesting situation birthed by Cold War paranoia and I was surprised by the hilarity of it all. It was interesting to note the limitations of technology & the part that played in a crisis involving the future of the entire planet! I also enjoyed the lackadaisical attitude the General had toward the whole thing and his typical American fear of the (at that time the "Rooskies")Commies.(I also finally found the sound clip the band Passifist used on their song Christ of the Nuclear Age!)


                
When images are coined of the Atomic Era, there will always be references to 'Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb,' Stanley Kubrick's 1964 comedy whose figures and situations remain clear in the mind. Widely considered as the greatest political satire in film history, 'Dr. Strangelove' still carries vitality today, despite being over four decades removed from the height of Cold War tensions. The question that Kubrick poses, after all, is still with us: what would happen if nuclear capabilities fell into the hands of a total madman? Such trouble is brewing in Kubrick's version of the Pentagon. General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden), the paranoid commander of Burpelson Air Force Base, is convinced that American water supplies have become 'polluted' with fluoride in a vast Communist conspiracy. Ripper decides to unleash war on the Soviet Union by using a technicality in Wing Attack Plan R that allows him to send a fleet of patrolling B52s into nuclear counterattack on Russian targets. In the now-famous War Room, General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) must break the news to President Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers), a weak but levelheaded figure modeled after Adlai Stevenson.While Muffley tries to negotiate with the drunken Soviet Premier via telephone, General Ripper is being sweet-talked by Group Captain Lionel Mandrake (Sellers), his Royal Air Force attaché, into revealing a three-letter code needed to access the B52s' radio systems and countermand the attacks. It is soon revealed by the Premier that his countrymen have built a 'doomsday machine' that will automatically explode if any nuclear attack occurs, much to the delight of Dr. Strangelove (yes, Sellers), a wheelchair-ridden Nazi physicist hired by the American government. A total retreat of the B52s becomes imperative as a plane headed by Major T. J. Kong (Slim Pickens), whose radio has been destroyed by enemy fire, stays determined to reach its target. The survival of mankind will hinge on this lone bomber, which is unfortunately run by competent pilots.Needless to say, 'Dr. Strangelove' hinges on the comic mastery of Peter Sellers, who had already filled the role of Clare Quilty in Kubrick's 'Lolita.' Sellers's portrayal of three men (including an interweave of Muffley and Strangelove) is a major comedic achievement that deserves his Oscar nomination for Best Actor. Sellers's primary talent is his total embodiment of character; he lives roles instead of merely 'playing' them. His working of all three personalities is complete and flawless. George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, and Slim Pickens are excellent in their supporting roles, conveying the film's berserk atmosphere. James Earl Jones also makes his cinema debut as a pilot on Major Kong's bomber; Tracy Reed appears in the only female part as Turgidson's secretary.'Dr. Strangelove,' at least in my opinion, plays out as a tongue-in-cheek satire rather than a laugh-out-loud farce. Much removed from 1964, the political implications of 'Strangelove' have a subtlety that has grown with time. Kubrick's decision to make the film comical rather than melodramatic (such as 'Fail Safe') was a brilliant one that shows the true absurdity of our Nuclear Arms Race: gangs of oversexed half-wits playing out the fate of mankind like a poker hand. Nuclear armament reached our world from Pandora's Box in 1945, becoming a threat that can only be avoided with delicate juggling acts. A tough question is whether or not we're choosing the right jugglers and what the repercussions could be if there's a foul-up. As 'Dr. Strangelove' shows, it's not even animosity between nations that can result in nuclear war, but the tiniest flaw in a military's checks and balances.If there are any flaws to 'Dr. Strangelove,' it is moments of humor that are overripe; while Sellers portrays Strangelove brilliantly, the relative calm of Muffley and Mandrake cause him to look ham-fisted. The fact that General Ripper sets the three-letter code without anyone else's knowledge (including the Secretary of Defense) is also a huge plot gap that fortunately doesn't become noticeable. Satires will always have moments that do not entirely work, but 'Dr. Strangelove' has far more good moments than bad ones. Terry Southern's screenplay (adapted from the Peter George novel 'Red Alert') contains dazzling dialogue and uses stereotypes that only add to the film's comic value. And as long as there is international conflict, 'Dr. Strangelove' is guaranteed its social importance.'Dr. Strangelove' has enjoyed two incarnations on DVD, the first of which happened in 2001 as a Columbia Pictures 'special edition.' The 2001 disc presents 'Strangelove' in Kubrick's original filming ratio of 1.33:1, thus appearing on TV screens in full frame. Picture quality is fair, with noticeable grain that does not spoil the overall black-and-white effect. Audio is available in English, French, Spanish, and Portuguese with subtitles in seven languages. Dolby-mastered sound brings across dialogue, sound effects, and Laurie Johnson's music clearly.Extras are aplenty, with everything you need to know about Strangelove's production. Supplemental material includes 'The Art of Stanley Kubrick: From Short Films to Strangelove' and 'Inside the Making of Dr. Strangelove,' two recently-made documentaries; footage of mock interviews with Peter Sellers and George C. Scott; a gallery of advertising spreads; bios of the film's lead actors; the theatrical trailer; and a four-page booklet with production notes. Columbia also retailed a 40th anniversary edition of 'Strangelove' on two discs in 2004, with enhanced audio options and further supplements. Viewers appear to have been satisfied with both releases, but 'Dr. Strangelove' is a classic piece of film-making either way. It's required viewing for fans of vintage cinema.*** out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr
Despite being one of the finest examples of genre-filmmaking that's neatly crafted, superbly scripted & wonderfully performed, Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove is a film that I admire more than I love. I've no hesitation in calling it the ultimate black comedy or the perfect satire but I also won't deny that my experience with it was pretty ordinary, regardless of the few laughs in between.Set during the Cold War era, the story of Dr. Stangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying & Love the Bomb concerns a paranoid Air Force general who green lights a nuclear attack on Soviet Union without the knowledge of his superiors, thus causing mass panic in the Pentagon War Room where the President, his advisers, key officers & others desperately try to recall the bombers before they reach their destination.Directed by Stanley Kubrick, the film is another masterwork of precision craftsmanship from the legendary director for I've nothing but admiration for its incredibly detailed & well-lit sets, the ironic elements in the script & its depiction of the complete absurdity of war. Camera-work is marvellously carried out especially during the base attack scene, Editing nicely balances its different subplots & its background score is another plus.Coming to the performances, the film features an impressive cast in Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden & Slim Pickens. Sellers here plays not one, not two but three different characters & is excellent in each one of his roles. Scott only gets better as the film progresses, Hayden is pretty grounded despite his unhinged character while Pickens doesn't leave much to complain about & plays his role straight.On an overall scale, Dr. Strangelove might very well be the best political satire of all time for it criticizes the nuclear conflict between US & USSR in the most biting manner possible, but the farther we're moving from the Cold War era, the weaker its impact seems to be getting. It's full of crazy characters, is filled with memorable quotes & crafted with panache but despite its strong legacy, I felt no love for it. Maybe one day I will, but today is not that day.


                
Of all the Kubrick films I have seen, this is by far the funniest, although it was never the initial intention of the director to make it so, the preposterous nature of events contained within the script led it to be altered to a dark comedy after work had begun.In saying this, however, the film is not an out-and-out comedy. The subject matter would not allow it to be so. If anything, it is a very dark comedy.The events may be serious, but the characters who create the tensions and events vary in hilarity. Peter Sellers plays three of the characters exceptionally well. His comic timing and ability to ad lib help create a bizarre atmosphere and ultimately a classic film, devoid of too much seriousness.This is not in any way Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece, but it is definitely a memorable piece, with memorable performances and a unique slant on the events leading to nuclear warfare.


                
What makes this film so powerful is the message that it made at the time of its release. This film came out at a height of paranoia of the nuclear age and the Cold War, right around the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis. This film depicts a horrible, tragic incident in which a breach in the government and a few diplomatic mistakes result in nuclear holocaust. So, why didn't this film inspire panic? Because of the brilliant way in which Kubrick presents it... as a satire. The scariest thing about this film in retrospect is not how it depicts the impending doom of the Cold War, but how it makes you laugh at it. By presenting it with humour, it conveys just how much of a farce the nuclear arms race was in real life. And I don't think that any other film has captured the absurdity of war nearly as well as this one has. And I am not likely to believe that one ever will. In my opinion, Kubrick has never made a better film since. And kudos to George C. Scott for his astounding performance, as well as Peter Sellers for the most versatile acting I've seen from an actor in one film, and to Sterling Hayden, for performing the most serious, yet the most hilarious role in film with perfect accuracy. Beware of fluoridation!
Amazing what a difference forty years makes in looking at a film.  While some work becomes more and more appreciated, some of it. . . well, some of it just doesn't hold up.  About forty years ago Dr. Strangelove seemed cutting edge, strongly satirical, and vibrant-- today, seen again by means of an original print on a full size screen (thanks, Madstone) it makes you flinch.  I remembered a couple of minor technical bobbles from long ago.  Today, sitting in that big, dark room with sticky floors I lost track of the lighting problems, the bad plates, the voice and foley synch errors, and found myself wincing at poorly thought out writing and acting that should have been kept under control.  On a small screen at home it doesn't look nearly so bad, but in a theater?  Go to see it as a document of history, not as a work of art.  Now it is obvious that Kubrick had an anti American bias-- of which he was accused then, but without the hysteria of the cold war polarization to cover it, is now blatant.  While it was known, and even acknowledged in the preamble that there were safeguards that would prevent this from occurring, today we know that five years before Kubrick filmed Dr. Strangelove this problem was addressed by military and civilian leadership in both the USA and the USSR.  It was a serious concern, but Kubrick treats it shabbily.It feels strange to watch a DVD of Dr. Strangelove and enjoy it as a light satirical comedy, then to go watch it on the big screen and wonder if it would be considered even fair work today from the technical standpoint. Maybe this was the best they could do "way back then."  Trouble is, other work from way back then does not have the bumbles, the flaws, the bias, and the heavy handed political message.Take a look at Runaway Jury-- in the same way a heavy handed political message is used to justify the actions, there are technical errors throughout it, and the flaws overwhelm the whole; even so, it will be acclaimed by people who are unwilling to hold it to the standards all of the non political movies are held to.It is a pity, and it hurts to see just how bad on the big screen a great memory and good DVD can really be. .


                
In 'Paths of Glory', Kubrick attacked the military hierarchy system and the concept of war and blind patriotism from a moralistic standpoint. In 'Dr. Strangelove' he does somewhat the same thing in the form of satire. He managed to generate humour out of a disturbing scenario of a mentally unstable army officer starting a nuclear war without the knowledge of his superiors. Although personally I love 'Paths of Glory' much more than 'Dr. Strangelove', however this is the film where the quintessential Kubrickian style of direction and storytelling was born. One can notice the black comedy, the formal visual style(like camera placement, lighting and editing) and a distinctively deliberate coldness in 'Dr. Strangelove' that would become a staple in pretty much all of Kubrick's subsequent films irrespective of the genre.There are a lot of laugh out loud moments here. The satirical tone infused by Kubrick is overt and unavoidable. Pretty much every conversation scene is rich with sharp dialogue and scathing criticism. However I'd be lying if I say the film stayed with me and lingered in my thoughts for too long. I understand what the film is doing and I admire the technical precision involved, but 'Dr. Strangelove' didn't blow me away like most of Kubrick's later films do. The film tends to meander a bit with unnecessarily extended scenes where we spend time inside the fighter planes during which I genuinely found my interest waning due to the overabundance of technical verbal exchanges. I also think the film's ending should have been stronger.Acting wise I have to mention Peter Sellers, George C. Scott and Sterling Hayden. Sellers(in multiple roles) and Scott provide the eccentric and over-the-top comedy, while Hayden is the deeply intimidating psychopath.I do like 'Dr. Strangelove', but not as much as some of Kubrick's other works


                
Dr.Strangelove:Or How I learned How to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb -While Peter Sellers gets all the acclaim for his multiple roles- it is George C. Scott,Slim Pickens and Sterling Hayden that make this a lot of fun.Especially George C. Scott as General Buck Turgidson- he literally mauls the scenery in every scene and is funny while doing it.I fully admit the impact of this movie was lost on me- having heard many of it's best lines thru the years-but it was more entertaining than the dour Fail Safe -something I also watched this year.This dark comedy skewers the military and the whole concept of mutually assured destruction.I think my favorite Sellers character is the understated president who is cajoling the Russian leader on the phone.Worth a rental. B+
I have to say it: I was quite disappointed with this movie. I originally wanted to see it because of the fact that it is number one for comedy, voted by IMDb users. However, I found myself asking<U+0085> when will it be funny? Perhaps I am just not one for dark comedies, but I just didn't find it funny. That being said, I was especially impressed with the comedic talents of Peter Sellers (who plays four characters: Group Captain, Lionel Mandrake, President Merkin Muffley, Dr. Strangelove), the atmosphere that is created and the message behind the movie. But I didn't find it funny. Sorry. Maybe it will grow on me.U.S. Air Force General Jack Ripper goes absolutely mad, and sends his bomber wing to destroy the U.S.S.R. He suspects that the communists are conspiring to pollute the "precious bodily fluids" of the American people. The U.S. president meets with his advisors, where the Soviet ambassador tells him that if the U.S.S.R. is hit by nuclear weapons, it will trigger a doomsday device which will destroy all plant and animal life on Earth. Peter Sellers plays the three men who might prevent this colossal tragedy: British Group Captain Lionel Mandrake, the only person with access to the demented Gen. Ripper; U.S. President Merkin Muffley, whose best attempts to divert a momentous disaster depend on a drunken Soviet Premier and Nazi genius Dr. Strangelove (who, in my opinion, was the funniest).I think there is a truly good message behind this movie: if we don't do something, this is what will happen. I was very much impressed by that. Comedy wise, I laughed a couple of times, but that was it. That's the problem with critically acclaimed films <U+0096> you have high hopes for it, and when it doesn't live up to your expectations, it is twenty times more disappointing. Nevertheless, I appreciate the brilliant performances, the message and Kubrick's clever directing. I enjoyed it, but in my opinion it does not live up to the hype.


                
This movie is very good. It shows (liked or not) the exaggeration in fearing of communism. I did not live then and there, and I can not imagine and feel the emotions and fear of American people to communism and cold war. But as far as I'm acknowledged with the history of cold war, this film had to be a very top in the film industry of its time. Its has very positive roll: its shows that, the nuclear weapon shouldn't be used at any cause, even thou if the enemy are Russians. Only the mad general would use the nuclear weapon and start a war. Nowdays just a simple black and white comedy, but in those days it had to be a black humor comedy and almost an horror movie. Its like in now days we would be seen a comedy of Bin Laden's attack on Europe or USA. Greetings


                
Dr Strangelove, Kubrick's "black" comedy about nuclear war was filmed in 1963, the year I graduated from high school, and I finally got around to seeing it in 2000!Although the special effects are crude by current standards, they are pretty good for being filmed almost 40 years ago! I have a very difficult time seeing this movie as one of the 10 best of all time.  It definitely is worth seeing, but it is such a strange juxtaposition of comedy (Peter Sellers playing 3 different and funny roles) and tragedy (battle scenes of soldiers shooting and killing each other, nuclear bomb explosions)that one doesn't quite know how to take this film.  You never really get caught up in the drama because the director is always poking you in the ribs with "Ha, watch how I spoof this next situation."  It reminds me of a short story I wrote when I was 16, "The Edge of Night", and in my spoof the hero, "Her-Bob", was a little late coming home and died when the "edge of night" fell on him and crushed him. Just because it is radical and different doesn't make it great.  I give it "8" of "10" for a very entertaining almost 2 hours.


                
Dr Strangelove is a dark comedy which makes fun of the Cold War.For a film that is so acclaimed for its comedy, I found myself sitting through much of it, thinking 'Is this it? Where are the laughs?'. A lot of it just seemed quite serious, but it did have some surprisingly good laughs here and there. When the comedy did start, it was good. Some well written jokes and dialogue.There was some pretty good acting by Peter Sellers (who plays two characters here) and George C. Scott, as a patriotic military general.Overall, this is an entertaining film. The comedy was quite infrequent, but it served up some good laughs.


                
Unfortunately I know that many people will not really enjoy what I have to say about Dr. Strangelove. I found it particularly enjoyable the first time around, but unfortunately the only reason to come back to it is for the Bomb Squad scenes and George C. Scott. I can't imagine how controversial it must have been for the time, but like a political cartoon it has its time and relevance. A lot of my family do not like Peter Sellers, or this movie at all and when showing this to a couple friends not too long ago they were not really impressed either (I was born in 1992, the Cold War was way beyond my time). Kubrick is my favourite director, but that doesn't mean I am also inclined to enjoy all his movies as well. Reasons I adore Kubrick are the many diverse genre movies he made, and his meticulous attention to detail. I think of all that wonderful hard work was not needed for a comedy of this calibre, but again the stories on set are quite charming. Kubrick wanted the War room table to be green like a poker table (Seeing as how these men were essentially gambling with the future in a black and white movie), Peter Sellers was originally set to play much more roles than the three he did, and he also had Kubrick rolling on the floor laughing in-between takes. Finally the original pie fight ending scene was scrapped for various reasons, ranging from being too farcical or unfortunately timed with President Kennedy's death by assassination.And honestly, I think I am right. I love that Kubrick attempted a comedy, and I think the movie is a wonderful classic and successful most of the running time. However as time goes by, this is the one Kubrick picture to me that will age the most. Of course this film would have been very risqué and controversial at the time of release, as it was a black comic adaptation of a very serious 1958 novel "Red Alert" by Peter George. But aside from a few scenes, nothing really makes me laugh aloud and the acting really falls apart no matter how wonderful I think George C. Scott is.Still I guess the positive things to say is I could watch it again for things like the "War room" set, which was great after so many iterations were developed off screen. Again, I did not hate this movie and the whole thing is a wonderful farce which I guess what was Kubrick's intention to show us in the first place (Believe me if the Cold War could be remembered as just a farce, Oh what a dream it would all be). Maybe as I get older some of it will grow on me, but I don't think I will change my opinion of it lightly. If the movie has anything going for it, I would say it possibly has the greatest end credit sequences of all time.Final Verdict: Obscurely enough, I found an old review I wrote at 18 writing how much I loved this movie. As I get older it just doesn't hit as high a note for me anymore. It's a political cartoon realised, and I would advise everyone to at least watch it once. 7/10.
I actually thought it was funny in some parts - I usually don't for old movies.I thought it tackled the theme and feel of a doomsday scenario pretty well - likely better than many serious movies have tried to or could have.The acting was decent and the music was not bad.It would have been nice to also see the Russian side of things from their view to let everyone see all sides to it.The only issue I had was that the Dr. Strangelove acting I didn't really find funny. I also found him a bit too exaggerated. Also didn't really see why the whole movie was named after him.
