What can be said about this movie? It's a classic. One of the great films. A silly comedy about a very serious subject. If you haven't seen this one yet, it's about time you did.


                
Though i doubt it deserves the place it has in the lists of best movies of all time, it is a very smart movie with a lot of debt and subtle comments on the world we live in and the absurd global situation we still find ourselves in.The idiocy of propaganda, the power of millitary, the social status of corperations, the danger of mindless patriotism, it all gets ridiculed in a dark but funny way.It is for sure the best social critique i have ever seen.Sadly a lot of people who comment here are not able to pick up on it nowdays anymore. What used to be absurd sarcasm and caricature has now become the reality we live in.I wonder if kubric intended it to be a window into our future.


                
Spoilers herein.Different things characterize a Kubrick film: cold style, a languorous deep camera, intellectual humor. But for me, all of these pale compared his primary concern: investigating who the narrator is.He hated `Sparticus' and struck out to do intelligent work. His collaboration with Brando failed, so he bought `Lolita,' the most adventurous narrative literary experiment til then. It featured a narrator who is obsessed, possibly mad and surely not to be trusted. Kubric (rather radically) translated that layered presentation into the POV of Quimby, who assumes multiple characters, either driving or populating Humbert's worlds.He would later hit paydirt in `2001' with the idea of three battling narrators (human, machine, alien) for control over what we see. And later with `Orange' about a film that indocrinates itself through film.Along the way, he tried this: four narratives all provided by Sellers. The idea was that each man imposed or reported his own reality and you really wouldn't know which to trust. Our man Peter broke his leg though and the whole thing shifted, but it was changing character throughout based on other accidents as well. Yes, I know there is a story, but it really doesn't matter. In fact it matters so little it changed every day, and so did the tone of the film.Scott turned out to be comically stronger than guessed. The president morphed into someone less fey, the pie scene (which was to be a Marx Brothers tipoff) failed. So I see this as minor Kubrick, a failure of what he intended. It is a great Sellers film for the Von Braun/Ed Teller bit, and for that it is appreciated. But if you want to see a master succeeding at something only he seems to be able to do, you'll need to look elsewhere.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
Watching "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" was a refreshing comedy on mass destruction and the insane predicament during the Cold War and the Nuclear arms race. "Mr. President, I'm not saying we wouldn't get our hair mussed, but I do say no more then ten to twenty million killed, tops. Depending on the breaks." is said by General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott). Turgidson says this to President Muffley (Peter Sellers- in his first of three supporting roles) in the "War Room" as Gen. Jack Ripper (Sterling Hayden) has gone "psychotic" and ordered 34 planes to Nuke Russia (U.S.S.R) because he thinks the commies are trying to spoil their "precious bodily fluids." He says the meaning is "water," but the low angle shots, almost as if the camera is in Hayden's lap, of Ripper sucking on a large cigar only scream of something more than just bodily water. I don't know what to make of that. As Turgidson debriefs the President, some of the best scenes of the film are shot in this one room- the War Room and let's be perfectly clear, there's no fighting in the war room. Turgidson informs the President that Gen. Jack Ripper has complete control and has shut off all communications to the base and the secret code, that only he knows, that can get in contact with the planes pilots have no contact with anyone. So, the President has no way of stopping the planes from dropping the bomb because Ripper has shut off all communications- sounds like some of the stories you hear from the 60s. This leads to a great, one-sided, phone call to the head of Soviet Premier, Dmitri, that might leave younger audiences thinking this is some kind of impersonation of President George Bush, but it's not. Peter Sellers best performance of the three roles comes as the President. The scenes between Scott and Sellers are both electric and very funny that hit on all six cylinders. President Muffley informs Dmitri that he's very sorry that 34 planes are on their way to drop a bomb that will ruin the entire civilization in the USSR, so he orders his own plans to be shot down and assists in the attack giving it the okay. Turgidson disagrees with the idea and would love to wipe out the entire Communist regime, but US policy is not to Nuke first. We Nuke second. It's only proper. "I'm sorry, too, Dmitri... I'm very sorry... *All right*, you're sorrier than I am, but I am as sorry as well... I am as sorry as you are, Dmitri! Don't say that you're more sorry than I am, because I'm capable of being just as sorry as you are... So we're both sorry, all right?... All right." President Muffley sounds very sorry. Quite panicked as well (Not really, which makes it all the more funnier).I thought Sellers gave the best performances as the incredibly off-the-wall, enthusiastic General with more plans on his mind than destroying millions of people- like getting back to Miss Scott, who's in his bedroom on a countdown. Sellers, as Dr. Strangelove is exactly how you think he would look and act. Is it over the top? Yeah, very much so, but his ridiculous quirks and possessed right arm that seems to have a mind of it's own is very funny, especially when you couple that with his survival plan for when the "Dooms Day Machine" goes off. That's the really big nuke that will kill everybody on the entire planet if the USA pilots reach their targets and in order to save the human race, Dr. Strangelove says all the top generals and leaders of the world will have to live in a coalmine for about 100 years with a 10:1 ratio of women to men. This perks up the attention of General Turgidson and puts a smile on the face of Dr. Strangelove, even though he has a permanent smile on his face. The best scene in the film may come when the pilot of one of the planes is riding the bomb on it's way down to earth as if he's at a rodeo just living it up. That wonderful bomb has so many great advantages when you really think about it: A lot of sex with a lot of different women, you can ride on them like a cowboy, you can eliminate millions of commies<U+0085> there's just much good that can come of a bomb such as this. The fact that this was made right in the middle of the whole fire storm makes this film even more appreciable, now, more than ever. There are some great performances, good laughs, and a very engrossing look on annihilation and mass destruction as numbers are thrown around like numbers instead of human casualties. Other than the look of the airplanes resembling more paper planes on strings than actual airplanes, there's really not much to dislike. Very rarely do you see a refreshing comedy that was made over 40 years ago, but I've seen just that as "Dr. Strangelove" has some serious staying power. It's a near-masterpiece. This should be Kubrick's best film, but I certainly see why "2001" may be regarded higher.


                
Dr. Strangelove must be the best political satire to have come out during the cold war era. As the president puts it to the soviet premier "one of our base commanders went little funny in his head and did a silly thing". Apparently the silly thing that president is talking about is that this commander ordered his planes to attack Soviet Union and drop the hydrogen bomb. As a deterrent, Soviet Union has a doomsday device which, if attacked, will automatically get triggered ending the world and both the processes are irreversible of course.The conversation between the president and the soviet premier has to be one of the funniest that I have heard. The statement "gentlemen, you cannot fight in a war-room" should be taught in colleges as an example of irony. Peter sellers in a triple role is absolutely amazing. It is ominous, it is dark and it's hilarious.


                
The movie is hilarious from the beginning till the very end. Peter Sillers performs naturally and the trademark of Stanley Kubrick can be seen in every shot. The unique concept and the funny presentation makes this movie enjoyable.


                
Stanley Kubrick always tries something new. This time he is with one of the best dark comedies ever made . Set up in the cold war era with US and Russia in neck to neck race in every sphere be it arms, space or any technology .It shows the tragic incident of a US general going berserk and ordering the nuking of the Soviet Union while at the same time high tension prevails in pentagon in order to stop this. The movie never loses its class and the plot still seems so fresh. If it would not have been presented as a satire it would definitely have caused a major panic all around the globe. Peter Sellers who plays three different roles: Dr. Strangelove, President Merkin Muffley and Group Captain Lionel Mandrake along with slim pickens give a amazing performance. Its a milestone in the history of cinema.


                
My favorite Kubrick film.I was born the year this movie came out, I think I saw parts of it in my teenage years, and could not understand it. I saw it again later in my 20's, and still did not understand. I suppose I am not the sharpest cheese in the "Fridge". Seen it 3x since, today being the last. All I can say is after 52 years, I finally get it.Peter Sellers and the writers are brilliant, George C. Scott, Slim, and all actors are perfectly executed. The movie to me for years was absurd, I always figured it was some inept way to make people look foolish. Well, people are foolish and as absurd as the movie may seem, it portrays just how silly we can be and I would never put it past humans to "not" let something like this happen.Spoiler follows: BRILLIANT, great movie, must watch several times, the war-room seance with George C. Scott explaining what is going on is absolutely hilarious, unreal yes, but plausible. And the "President" talking to Dimitri... LOVE it! My favorite line is when The Ambassador passes Comrade Dimitri off to the President and he warns him, "he might be drunk".And when the Pres says to Dimitri, "Put everything you got to that sector, you cannot miss!" LOL
The strangest film I've ever seen is "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying And Love The Bomb." Kubrick just about made a weird film describing the apocalypse, and does it well. (Psst... This is better then "Armageddon." Then again, so were a lot of films.)For those of you too lazy to read plot summaries, it's about general Jack D. Ripper going crazy and telling an airplane to bomb the missile base or whatever it was in Russia, which contains the Doomsday Machine. Meanwhile, at a war room somewhere near or in Washington, DC (I don't know if it was said or not), General "Buck" Turgidson (what's with the weird names? read trivia), President Merkin Muffley, and a billion other people (that's what it seemed like) talk about the nuclear war that's sure to happen.Got it now? (And I'm talking about the film, by the way.) Watch it. Don't like it that much? Watch it again. Still don't like it? Watch it again! Still don't like it? Watch it again, or take yourself to the nearest sanitarium.BTW: I last watched this nearly a week after 9.11.01. Even though we may go to war, this seemed funnier than the first time I watched it.Rating: 6/6 (but that isn't the best)


                
The best satires are ones that aren't done with a tongue in cheek or a wink in an eye, but rather with full sincerity all the way. Dr. Strangelove: or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb is a prime example of how to make a satire the proper way. There aren't any quick nods to the audience to let them know that the film is in on the joke, or cheap low-brow comedic moments to let everyone feel safe in accepting that this is a straight comedy. No, instead the film takes itself just as seriously as Citizen Kane and it's that blunt honesty that makes it so hilarious.It's a wickedly intelligent script, conceived from the genius mind of Stanley Kubrick who realized the comedic potential in the material (the source was a very dramatic affair before he turned it into satire) and all of his actors come along and play the game exactly as they should; as if they were acting in something out of a David Mamet play. There's never that nod to the audience, but instead the film trusts that the audience is smart enough to get it and thus everything becomes hilarious instead of tired and trying.Peter Sellers is a work of art here, practically deserves a medal for his seamless ability to portray three different characters (in three different accents no less) with full believability. If you didn't know it was him in all three roles there really wouldn't be any way of telling. Each character is so distinct and created so fully by him and the writing, and he gets a real kick out of playing off the different supporting members of the cast. Sterling Hayden is a commanding force of hilarity, but for me the entire film was stolen by George C. Scott, in a comedic work of art rarely seen in cinema. Scott has the capacity to be a viciously intimidating presence and he utilizes that ability to poke fun at his ignorant and childish character, but only in the sense that the audience can see what a dud he truly is.Scott is the ultimate representation of the film as a whole, an absolutely ridiculous situation played with the utmost sincerity. He dives into this character full on and removes any of that artificial vanity that comes with being an actor, and as a result he got major laughs from me all the way. The film is loaded with iconic lines that delivered all the way, but even the moments that I hadn't already heard about were leaving me in stitches. Tremendous work socially, politically and comically.


                
Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Stopped Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964)Number 1 - 1964Top 15 - 1960sReleased amidst the height of the space and technological race, between the USA and the USSR, perhaps the peak of the mutual nuclear terror that was the 'Cold War', and a 36 year old director named Stanley Kubrick manages to encompass the whole subject and satirise the hell out of it. 'Dr Strangelove' must not only be approached as an ingenious, innovative comedy, but also as a frighteningly alarming montage of the almost unlimited power possessed by our governments. Strangelove is no less relevant today than it was 40 years ago.When an insane general starts a process of nuclear extermination against Russia, his manic executive officer Captain Mandrake (Peter Sellers) tries to persuade him otherwise. The news spread quickly and the government's top officials meet in the War Room in the Pentagon, where the president Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers) is enraged at the possibility of a nuclear holocaust occurring within minutes and without his permission. A supporter of 'Plan R' is General Buck Turgidson, played by the superb George C. Scott, who exercises his facial muscles very much like Jim Carrey without seeming outrageous. The other character is of course Dr. Strangelove (Peter Sellers) an ex Nazi government scientist who has an idea of building of post-apocalyptic society with '1 man to every 10 women'.Kubrick's masterpiece is undoubtedly one of the most sarcastic, intelligently written films of all time. The script is sheer genius. Based on Peter George's Cold War thriller 'Red Alert', a serious and frightening novel, the adaptation became as Kubrick himself described 'a nightmare comedy'.Peter Sellers is without a doubt astonishing and so is George C. Scott in a masterful comedic performance that is equally admirable as that of Sellers.The film is filled with sexual innuendo, from its characters' names (Strangelove, Jack D. Ripper) to smart undertones present so frequently, you can probably spot more each time you watch the film.Sexuality is a main theme in Strangelove (look at extract below) From the opening scene of the B-52 "mating" in flight with the KC-135 Tanker (set to an instrumental version of "Try a Little Tenderness") to General Ripper's sexual frustration being at the root of the eventual apocalypse, sexual references are apparent throughout the film.The character of Dr. Strangelove is laced with innuendo, even aside from his suggestive name. He is the character responsible for creating fantasies of a polygamous post-apocalyptic society with a ratio of "ten females to each male", suggesting Nazi efforts like the Lebensborn project. This raises the possibility that the subtitle of the film refers to Dr. Strangelove as the "I" who learned to "love the bomb" <U+0096> because the mutual destruction of the U.S. and U.S.S.R. would make way for the return of the Nazis.General Jack D. Ripper is named after Jack the Ripper, the infamous serial killer who murdered prostitutes in London in the late 1880s. General Ripper's primary concern about Communism is his assertion that water fluoridation is "a Communist conspiracy to sap and impurify all of our precious bodily fluids," of which he was made aware when his "loss of essence" during sexual intercourse greatly fatigued him. He continues to explain that women "seek the life essence" and then states, "I do not avoid women...but I do deny them my essence". Here, "essence" is used as a synonym or euphemism for "semen".Many characters' names involve sexual wordplay. Group Captain Lionel Mandrake's last name refers to the Mandrake plant, which has mythical fertility properties. The Soviet Ambassador Alexei de Sadesky is named for the Marquis de Sade, and Premier Dmitri Kisov's last name is pronounced "Kissoff"; literally a pun on "kiss off". Major "King" Kong rides a phallic-looking H-bomb, which explodes as he approaches the "target of opportunity", Laputa (in Spanish: la puta means "the whore"). President Merkin Muffley's first and last name each crudely imply that he is a pussy by nature, since a "merkin" is a female pubic wig used mainly by prostitutes in the 18th century, and 'muff' (pubic hair) refers to the area where the wig is applied. The name of General Buck Turgidson is derived from turgid, a biological term meaning full of fluid to the point of hardness, as in an erection, applied to "buck" as an explicit symbol of virility.Colonel "Bat" Guano's name literally means "bat-feces", whereas scatological and sexual humour are often combined. The term 'bat-shit' is also a slang word for insanity. Although sent to arrest General Ripper, Colonel Guano turns out to be another Anticommunist who feels the Communist threat as sexual, namely "preversion".There is only one woman in the entire film; General Turgidson's secretary. She appears not in an office, but in a small bedroom with twin beds and a sun lamp, wearing a bikini swimsuit. The General, when he appears from the bathroom, also wears bathing trunks. Although she tells a caller that she and the General are completing paperwork, the clear implication is that they have a sexual relationship. In fact, in a later phone call, Turgidson tells her that he does not love her only for her sexual favours, and that he intends to make her his wife.This apocalyptic, darkly humorous cult film come highly recommended to anyone with a little wit and appreciation towards the medium of film 8/10
This is black comedy taken to its most ridiculous extreme -- by satirizing a topical 'worry' that wasn't funny at the time. It's not that nuclear war or communism could ever really be funny; by skewering McCarthyists and John Birchers, we can see here how the joke was very much on us -- on our cultural reaction to those phenomena. Today, we can laugh at this in comfort, because of the distance. Consider how many ways this has influenced our culture, from "A Boy and his Dog" to "Wargames"...and not just movies, but popular music as well; "Grace Under Pressure" immediately comes to mind. It is this self-rejuvenating quality of the priceless fragments that makes Strangelove so important. The key was the implementation of Sellers as the narrator(s). He would famously say in interviews that he thought of himself as having no inherent identity, only the identity of the character he played at any given time. Here he's in his element...imagine what an even greater coup he could have pulled off if he hadn't broken his leg during filming. He still gives us 'Mandrake' played as Clouseau, 'President Muffly' played as Adlai Stevenson, and the evil 'Doctor' played as a Fritz Lang/Albert Speer concoction; all three fight for control 'in' the movie and 'of' the movie. In the end, only the Doctor gets what he wants, prompting his symbolic erectile response...this is juxtaposed with the phallic bomb causing the fireball 'orgasm'.This is an early fruition of the Kubrickian 'camera participation' approach to film-making. Irreducibly hilarious pieces here, maybe not so much the entirety.


                
The Cold War was a period full of tensions, uncertainty, and the constant fear of an all-out nuclear war was on everyone's mind. Stanley Kubrick's fearless vision, to make a satire out of a subject so relevant and serious at that period should be appreciated. Yes, and guess what? He made a film, so rich in well-rounded characters, sharp humor, and the underlying goofiness that stayed throughout its run-time. The film pokes fun at a lot of subjects, the US military, the Russians (called Commies), and it was a pretty ballsy move, in my opinion.The cinematography was great, and all performances were excellent. A special mention should go to Sterling Haydon, who played General Jack D. Ripper, and Peter Sellers, who played three characters in the film, Dr Strangelove, The President, and Mandrate. Some sequences were shot really well, and I was pretty awestruck after watching them.This is certainly not the best of Kubrick. The first act of the film was pretty slow paced and the film did pick up in the second and third acts, and it turned downright hilarious to watch!


                
General Jack D. Ripper, who is more than a little insane, uses an obscure emergency procedure to order a fleet of bombers armed with nuclear warheads to attack Russia. Only he knows the recall code, and when he commits suicide can the President and the Joint Chiefs of Staff find any way of preventing World War Three <U+0085> ?Written by Kubrick, Terry Southern and Peter George, based on George's novel Red Alert, this brilliant black comedy of nuclear annihilation remains perhaps the funniest and most savage military / political satire ever made. The story and its details are completely credible, the characters - despite being twisted buffoons - are instantly recognisable and human, and the movie is both hilarious and terrifying at the same time. The entire cast find exactly the right tone for the film. Sellers repeats his Lolita trick of playing three different parts, Scott is possibly funniest of all, Hayden is perhaps the definitive first in a long line of Kubrick's crazed, staring, psychos, Pickens and Wynn both give career best performances, and watch out for a young Jones as the bombardier. A lot of critics seem to find this film (and Kubrick's work in general) very cold and misanthropic, but this really misses the point. First of all, as satire, it merely serves to remind us not to place too much faith in government / technology / procedures / what have you. But more importantly, it's really a celebration of human ingenuity. The reason the bomber gets through is precisely because they don't follow procedure, they adapt to a new situation, use intuition, solve difficult problems and work out a new plan for themselves. The end result may be catastrophic, but it's also a celebration of individuality and mutability. Kubrick may have been a bit controlling but he really understood people, and that's what makes his work so good. Featuring great sets by James Bond designer Ken Adam, and brilliant photography by Gilbert Taylor - don't miss the shots of an angelic Strangelove surrounded by a halo of light. This movie is packed full of incredibly funny dialogue; if I had to pick a favourite line, it's General Turgidson's masterpiece of understatement, "Although I hate to judge before all the facts are in, it's beginning to look like General Ripper exceeded his authority.". Kubrick died ten years ago, but his influence as a giant of both film-making innovation and insight into human nature still permeates all cinema. He was thirty-five when he made this movie and lost the Best Director Academy Award to sixty-five-year-old George Cukor, who won for My Fair Lady; does anybody want to argue with me about which of these was a more talented director ? Do not miss this brilliant film.
This movie is pretty cool.  I love the names of the men...they're so funny! My favorites are Major T. J. "King" Kong, General Jack D. Ripper, President Merkin Muffley, and, of course, Dr. Strangelove.  Peter Sellers is amazing at portraying three different characters.  I also think that George C. Scott is really, really good as General "Buck" Turgidson.  He says one of my favorite lines in the movie: "Mr. President, I'm not saying we wouldn't get our hair mussed. But I do say no more than ten to twenty million killed, tops...depending on the breaks."This is certainly an interesting and very different movie, as are all of Kubrick's movies.  Some parts can be a little boring, but the end with Slim Pickens and James Earl Jones is really full of suspense.  So, I give "Dr. Strangelove" a 9 out of 10.


                
Dr. Strangelove is a satirical make-over of the book 'Fail Safe' by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler. The book is fantastic and definitely NOT a comedy. 'Strangelove' follows the lines of the book fairly closely but with a comic twist which, at the time it came out, was sorely needed. I was 12 years old at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis and we all thought we were going to be incinerated at any moment in a nuclear holocaust.'Dr Strangelove' can best be described as a "black comedy" in which a deranged wing commander of B 52's sends his entire force to bomb what was then, the Soviet Union. Desperate attempts to recall the wing are aided by British liaison Captain Mandrake, played by Peter Sellers who also plays President of the United States Murkley Muffly, and Chief Of Weapons Development Dr. Strangelove. Unknown to the Americans the Russians had been working on a doomsday device which ensured destruction of all life on earth if even one bomb were detonated in Russia.Stanley Kubrick at his best. This classic still endures as both an entertaining story, a history lesson in cold war politics, and a veiled warning.


                
Mark Twain once said 'A classic is a book that is often talked about but never read.'  I get the feeling that most of Stanley Kubrick's films fall into this category.  I have seen most of Kubrick's films now and I really have to say I think they're not very good.  There are exceptions; 2001 and Lolita stand out as great films.  But the wife and I bought this one tonight and I really think this a pretty boring movie.  It has it's points, it has irony, it could probably even happen.  I think however, the acting sucked, the jokes were out of place and ill timed (and yes maybe a bit too subtle) and it has lost most of it's relevance today.  I put it in the category with 'A Clockwork Orange' and the apallingly boring 'Eyes Wide Shut


                
I've have seen this movie three times and l didn't find a masterpiece,a really good movie certainly it is,the unique character whose we could call funny is Dr. Strangelove with your german accent and mannerism,in very short appareance by the way,apart from that all character are quite normal,maybe George C Scott as General has a strong desire to destroy URSS,the phone calling conversation between USA's president and URSS's premier is quite funny,Slim Pickens must be remembered for a good action as a crazy pilot,Trace Reed is eyewash for such sexy single scene...but over it call a masterpiece has a huge distance....8 out 10 fit in perfectly!!!Resume:First watch: 1983 / How many: 3 / Source: TV-DVD / Rating: 8


                
An insane general (Sterling Hayden) triggers a path to nuclear holocaust that a war room full of politicians and generals frantically try to stop.What is better than Peter Sellers playing three completely different characters (far better than Eddie Murphy could) and George C. Scott over-acting against his will? Not much.Say what you will about Stanley Kubrick, but he was not afraid to take risks and go in different directions. He was not a science fiction director (despite "2001" and "Clockwork Orange"), a war director (despite "Paths of Glory") or a noir director (despite "The Killing"). He did it all.Here he takes on politics and the Cold War, and gives some great satire at a situation so dire you can do nothing but laugh at it. Is this an exaggeration of reality? Of course. But still recognizable enough that we know such a thing is not entirely impossible -- making it such a great satire, even today in a post-Soviet world.


                
Dr. Strangelove is definitely an 'oddball' film. When looking at the plot, it all seems pretty simple, but once it is over it can be digested more thoughtfully. That is not to say that it wasn't entertaining, because it certainly was. In fact, it stands out from the other Kubrick films because I find that one can easily come in at anytime and start watching it and still be amused, even if they don't understand everything that is happening. The screenplay is fantastic, and the ensemble cast as well. There is some brilliant dialogue in here as well.Overall, very satisfied with this film and it only strengthens Kubrick's filmography.


                
It's an influential Kubrick movie any serious film buff should see even though like me you've probably seen the infamous bomb sequence before out of context, ruining a bit, but not all, of the ending. This is one of the best dark political comedies out there. It has great lines, strong performances and Peter Sellers was tremendous in his very different roles. His character Dr. Strangelove has little screen time but is pure comic genius. The other standout was the general played by George C. Scott. I think no matter how much time passes, this will always be a cautionary tale about absurdity, the military and blind patriotism. Rating: 8 out of 10


                
The obvious movie to compare this to is "Fail Safe" - made at about the same time and dealing with essentially the same scenario <U+0096> an accidental nuclear bombing mission by American jets over the Soviet Union - that no one seems able to stop. The difference between the two, of course, is that while "Fail Safe" was deadly serious, "Dr. Strangelove" is a black comedy <U+0096> and a wonderful one, beautifully developed all the way through by director Stanley Kubrick. In fact, the thing that made this so funny was how realistic everything seemed. As you watch the events transpire, you find yourself asking the question "why couldn't this happen" - and it's not easy to come up with an answer.Sterling Hayden plays General Jack Ripper, commanding officer of a U.S. Air Force Base who goes insane, becomes convinced of a Communist conspiracy (after all, fluoride was introduced into drinking water in 1946 <U+0096> it must be a Communist conspiracy) and takes it upon himself to issue orders to his pilots to nuke Russia. Meanwhile, his second-in-command Group Captain Lionel Mandrake, a British officer on an exchange (played by Peter Sellers, who also plays the title character, as well as the U.S. President) realizes that Ripper is insane and tries to find a way out of the mess. Back in Washington, Gen. Turgidson (George C. Scott), who commands the Air Force, sort of sums up the whole mood of the movie when he reflects on why current policy won't allow any way to recall the bombers: "don't let one little slip up" - even when that "one little slip up" is the nuclear bombing of the Soviet Union! - "ruin the whole program!" There's a lot of good comedy here. I loved some of the conversations between the U.S. President and the Soviet leader ("Dimitri, turn the music down, I can't hear you"), thought the emergency rations given to the place crews (including prophylactics and nylons) were a scream and it was hilarious to watch as Mandrake is trying to get in touch with the President to explain what's been happening but can't get through because the only phone he can find is a pay phone and he doesn't have the right change. Interestingly, in addition to the comedy, there's a good build-up of suspense as well.The title of the movie is interesting, because Strangelove (a German apparently brought into the service of the U.S. After World War II) actually only appears in 2 or 3 scenes, but Sellers manages an over the top performance with him when given the opportunity, replete with Nazi salutes and references to the President as "Mein Fuhrer!" I would rate this as one of Sellers' best performances. In fact there isn't much of anything to dislike here (although to be honest I found Slim Pickens a bit irritating as Major Kong, the pilot of the plane trying to bomb Russia.) Otherwise, this was great. 8/10


                
Being a fan of Kubrick's for some time before seeing this film I had mixed expectations; Kubrick is known for his savagery and brutality behind the camera. But, could he do a comedy? I bought this film sometime last year (it came in the Stanley Kubrick collection) and sat down with huge expectations. Although, the first time through I didn't really appreciate it; I thought I'd give it another go to give it a fair chance. The script is what holds this film up over time, I think. Peter Sellers is an extremely good performer and George C. Scott was great, and often subtle while being surrounded by over the top performers. The sets and models of the film are, of course, dated. But, at the same time it's nostalgic to me and I enjoyed it. The direction is always top-notch in a Kubrick film, so don't expect too many innovations that you've yet to see from Stanley, because all of those came with two of his other, and I dare say far superior, films; 2001: A Space Odyssey and A Clockwork Orange.Of course it's funny, but it's subtle humor. If you're a fan of someone getting kicked in the face thinking it's funny -- don't stop here looking for a laugh. If you think Kevin Smith is the funniest director working today -- pass by this one. But if you're a fan of Charles Chaplin and enjoy older, more subtle, humor; give this a look.Also, riding the bomb out of the plane is one of the most memorable moments in cinematic history -- and I'd long since knew of it before I knew this film existed. Rating: A-


                
Best way to describe this movie is by saying: "A Brilliant Comedy"But, this is not a light fun movie, this movie creates a drama and suspense and has you rooting for the good to prevail , the truth to come out, the world to be saved, but it just doesn't seem to come. In a comedic whirlwind , this movie really did irk me at times. In a weird comedic way.Otherwise, this is a truly well made movie. A superb comedy, quite unique in it's style.Casting: 9/10; Watchability: 7/10; Brilliance: 9.5/10; Enjoyment: 7/10 Real overall rating 8.5 Could give it an 8 or a 9. Went with 8.
Every time you see a great film, you find new things in it. Viewing "Dr. Strangelove" for another viewing, I discovered what makes this film so funny.To spoil Dr. Strangelove would be to deny a film lover a fresh experience that is unlike any than they could ever dream. The results are that wonderful. This is a dish best served cold. The less you know about the film, the better.For those that insist on an explanation of plot, it is fairly simple. A United States General, Gen. Jack Ripper (Sterling Hayden) goes insane and launches and all out nuclear attack on Russia. The movie is about how global leaders, a British officer, and a fighter jet respond to the situation. That's all I am going to tell you. I won't even use the film's greatest image-- one of the most glorious and wonderful images in all of motion picture history-- in the pictures accompanying this review. Those that have seen the picture know the classic image I am talking about-- and if you watch the movie for the first time that magical moment will be blatantly obvious.This is a perfect movie. It is perfect in its direction, casting, dialogue, set design and cinematography. The music-- particularly the classical use of the American classic, When Johnny Comes Marching Home, is pitch perfect. Notice the way the tempo of the score increases and becomes more dramatic as the tension in the film progresses. That is true genius-- the choices that were made are so completely intelligent that they are seamlessly integrated into the experience.The movie is funny because it does not know it is funny. Classic lines like "You can't fight in here, this is the war room" are written practically into the situations that are taking place. Even the most absurd parts of the picture are historically accurate. For example, Gen. Ripper's conspiracy theory of fluoridation was actually something that hundreds of people believed in the 1950's. Survival kits did come with condoms back then. Even the moments that seem like slapstick come from practicality-- such as when Lt. Bat Guano (Kennan Wynn) shoots the Coca- Cola machine. It seems at first like a cheap gag when the soda shoots into Guano's face-- but think about it: he shot a Coke machine. What else would happen?Kubrick knew when to embrace the inevitable-- some day, some ridiculous, stubborn, and completely misguided but passionate idiot will bring about the end of the world. We could disarm-- but that would require trust. It is sad when the reality of the world is so bleak it is funny- but this is how it goes.
