Stanley Kubrick's wickedly hilarious end-of-the-world black comedy gem about an impending nuclear war caused by human error straddles a fine line between being fiercely funny and genuinely chilling throughout: As evident by the gross behavior and arrogant attitudes of various high-ranking officials in positions of power that they are neither smart nor mature enough to properly handle, the greatest threat to mankind's safety isn't the existence of nuclear weapons; instead it's such all too real and unavoidable human foibles as pride, stupidity, and incompetence that we should all be more worried about.The savagely mocking script by Kubrick, Peter George, and Terry Southern pulls zero punches in its no-holds-barred satirizing of said foibles and offers numerous uproarious moments of inspired dark humor: The meek and ineffectual President Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers in one of three bravura performances) informing the drunken Soviet premier over the phone about the nuclear strike, the hysterically loony speech made by unhinged paranoid General Jack D. Ripper (robustly played with snarly aplomb by Sterling Hayden) about preserving his precious bodily fluids, gung-ho redneck bomber pilot Major 'King' Kong (a marvelously spirited portrayal by Slim Pickens) riding a nuclear missile like a bucking bronco on its final drop while whooping it up, and the gloriously insane plan for survival that batty ex-Nazi adviser Dr. Strangelove (Sellers again at his most sublimely deranged) proposes to President Muffley.Moreover, the zestful acting from the first-rate cast keeps this movie humming: Sellers pulls off a terrific troika of impressive and highly distinctive turns as Muffley, Strangelove, and uptight RAF group captain Lionel Mandrake, George C. Scott has a field day as bellicose commie-bashing hawk General 'Buck' Turgidson, Keenan Wynn does his usual sturdy work as the gruff Colonel 'Bat' Guano, Peter Bull likewise excels as the shifty Russian ambassador Alexi de Sadesky, Tracy Reed briefly steams things up as sexy secretary Miss Scott, and James Earl Jones handles himself well in his film debut as the thorough Lieutenant Lothar Zogg. Kudos are also in order for Gilbert Taylor's sharp black and white cinematography and Laurie Johnson's rousing military marching band score. Worthy of its classic status.
Stanley Kubrick's pitch black satire about the nuclear threat and the ends of which mankind is capable of going to prove its superiority.The plot goes that a US general has gone rogue and ordered a nuclear attack against the Soviets. The radios have been disabled and there's no conceivable way to call off the attack. Men in the War Room argue back and forth, assigning blame, getting desperate, getting emotional. While on the skies the planes march towards Soviet airspace - undetectable, unstoppable.It's a beautiful scenario, made even more poignant by its sheer absurdity. It tells something about a movie when it opens with a message from US Air Force, stating that the thing showcased in the movie could never, ever, under no circumstance, no way, no how, happen. Now please crawl out from under your beds.And this could be an unbearably heavy movie. But Kubrick helms it as a satire. The characters are amazingly out there, as are the lines of dialogue, the sets, the music. But the subject matter is still so large, so huge, so scary, that horror lurks underneath all the comedy. It underlines every scene, every moment. Most of us now have grown up in a world where nuclear war has always been a possibility. And in this film that fact can never be forgotten.The acting is also superb with the MVP award easily going to George C. Scott, playing the role of one the president's military advisors.Fantastic scenario, fantastic film making, fantastic actors. You'll laugh, while also feeling the cold sweat dripping down your spine.


                
In all the years of film making, Peter Sellers never disappointed an audience. No matter what the part, he always seem to find the perfect voice and therefore, his character. If you put him together with other equally great character actors like, George C. Scott who plays maniacal Gen. 'Buck' Turgidson and Sterling Hayden as the insane Brig. Gen. Jack D. Ripper (Jack The Ripper?) and the Slim Pickens as Maj. T.J. 'King' Kong, James Erle Jones as Lt. Lothar Zogg, the bombardier and Peter Bull as the Russian Ambassador Alexi de Sadesky, then you not only have an award winning film, but the secret formula for a Classic. The story is set in the sixties, during the Cold War and a lunatic Air Wing Commander intentionally gives the "Gold Code Signal for his wing to attack Russia. What follows is a dramatic minute ticking film, designed to illuminate the military's ignorance, stupidity and final acquiescence of the doomsday, 'Fail-Safe' device. The entire movie is a comedy of errors and one reflected of Standly Kubrick's genius. The one sequence where Major Kong rides a nuclear missal to its target is synonymous with the mentality of the pentagon. Through the passage of time, this superb movie has not only become a Dark Classic, but a possible statement of the future reality of the human race. ****


                
Funniest movie I have seen in my life (and for that alone, it earns my first review). There are moments during movie that you follow the dialogue and watch it progress and you feel fine, but then there are verbal 'bombs' (for lack of a better word) dropped on you and you can fall on the ground for laughing so hard.At some point in the move I was thinking: is it inappropriate that I'm entertained, and then I looked it up on IMDb to see the genre: and felt a bit relieved to see that it is indeed a comedy.The pace was so slow (and in the best way possible): you wonder how Kubrick managed to squeeze so much in so little screen time, yet nothing feels rushed, and everything gets enough time. Loved it! Recommend it to everyone!


                
The film definitely is a masterpiece if it comes down to demonstrate the irrationality of cold war rationality. How better to illustrate that cold war rationality only works out if all players involved always act rationally. Should we really be surprised about someone getting paranoid with all the ongoing propaganda involved?Also the action that follows the lonesome and paranoid decision of General Ripper to launch a nuclear attack is strongly influenced by emotions and human weaknesses that are hardly compatible with cold war rationality. In the Pentagon war room General Turgidson (great performance by George C. Scott) wants to return as quickly as possible to his girlfriend, the Soviet president turns out to be drunk, commander Kong of the decisive B52 bomber is taking his decisions based on a Texan cowboy attitude and Dr. Strangelove, the scientific advisor to the US government, turns out to be a left over screwy Nazi, just to name a view. This may seem to be a bit overdone but when watching the movie it does not seem to be completely unrealistic, especially when compared to some actual political narcissisms and in the end, the movie is meant to be a sharp satire. Only be aware that the laughter may get stuck in your throat.The only safe harbors with concern to rationality seem to be the American president Muffley and the British Group Captain Mandrake, both convincingly plaid by Peter Sellers. Unfortunately this will not be enough to prevent the catastrophe, also owing to the safety precautions that were originally designed to correct lonesome misjudgments but which are paranoid in themselves.Quite remarkable is also the fact, that the movie is almost entirely restricted to 3 locations, i.e. military air base Burpelson, the war room in the Pentagon and the interior of a B52 bomber. This is enough to tell the whole story, in which also a Coca Cola vending machine plays an important role besides the fluoridation of water, but see for yourself.
The year is 1964. The world is starting to regain his consciousness fro WW2 and just entered the Cold War era. People are full of fear about the nuclear war. And in those days were the American film industry was launching movies about spies and Russian espionage, one of the greatest (if not the greatest) movie director of all time creates also a movie about nuclear war only this one is a bit... different. "Dr. Strangelove" is not a film that glorifies America neither Russia. Is a film that satires both this countries and the "ideology" of war in general. Peter Sellers is doing one of the best performances of his whole carrier in his triple role in the film; As group captain Lionel Mandrake a British RAF exchange soldiers who has the bad luck of being locked in the same room with the maniac that launched the attack, as President of the United States Merkin Muffley and Dr. Strangelove a former Nazi and now nuclear war expert. All three of this roles are presented excellent from one of the most talented actors ever. All of them are caricatures and are mocking the principles that each one represent. Also we have an amazing performance by George C. Scott in the role of General Buck Turgidson an aggressive and jingoist Chief of Staff. But this is not a movie which is only worthy for the performances. The topic is so modern even for today's standards that makes this film so accurate is almost scary. While it's a comedic film it is not funny. It's hilarious of course because of the characters and the amazing dialogue, but in the back of your mind you know that it's not the characters that you are laughing with but the human stupidity. And there's a lot of human stupidity in this film. Watch it, have fun, but above all think.


                
Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb is a 1964 movie directed by Stanley Kubrick. It is a brilliant dark comedy depicting the paranoia and fear surrounding the nuclear proliferation at the heights of cold war.The plot of the movie revolves around the arms race and cold war between USA and erstwhile USSR resulting in a nuclear fallout throughout the world. The movie starts with United States Air Force Brigadier General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) giving the go code to B-52 bombers of his wing for a nuclear attack on USSR without any provocation. He goes ahead and seals himself in his air-base and cuts off all communication knowing fully that it is impossible to recall the bombers without his recall codes.An emergency meeting is called by President Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers) of high profile generals of US Armed Forces at Pentagon. General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) briefs the President about the impending 'moment of truth' and tries to convince him for an all out attack on USSR which is ignored. Meanwhile back at the airbase, Group Captain Lionel Mandrake (Peter Sellers) finds out that General Ripper issued the go code for no good reason other than 'the commie boogeymen trying to pollute the natural fluids their enemies' and struggles to recall the bombers.People at Pentagon are also informed of the unstoppable Russian Doomsday device by Soviet Ambassador Alexei de Sadeski (Peter Bull) built to wipe out all life on earth in case Russia is attacked by Nuclear weapons. The combined efforts of Russians and Americans to stop bombers from reaching the target and the American adviser Dr. Strangelove (Peter Sellers) talking about steps to take in case of doom make the climax of the movie.Coming to the performances, Peter Sellers without a doubt shines brightly throughout the movie. He managed to play his three characters with equal finesse. George C. Scott and Sterling Hayden did full justice to their respective roles of General Turgidson and Brigadier General Ripper.However this movie solely belong to its director. Kubrick has managed to highlight the absurdity of the unfounded contempt of one towards the other and its consequences. He also brilliantly depicts the dangers of lack of credibility of elements of a power structure.This movie is definitely among the best political satire movies of all time.


                
The topic of nuclear apocalypse might be a dark and chilling subject, yet, it doesn't mean we can't laugh about it either. This 1964's political satire black comedy film showcase, not only the dangerous of atomic weaponry, but also the pure human stupidity that comes with it. Directed by fame director, Stanley Kubrick, Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb tells the story of the President of the United States, Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers), and his staff, trying to recall a squadron of air-force bombers heading toward Russia, after an unhinged United States Air Force general, Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) declare nuclear war on the Soviet Union. Can the group save the world in a last ditch attempt to prevent a nuclear apocalypse or will we all, be listening to the tune of 'We'll Meet Again' by Vera Lynn in the end? Watch the movie to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, as a Cold War nut, I found this movie, very interesting. Instead of creating, a serious drama of author Peter George's thriller novel, "Red Alert'. Stanley Kubrick chose to take a more escapism route than a oversaturate melodrama route at the time. I guess, he can already sense that a lot of Americans at the time, were already on the edge because of the threat of Nuclear War, and people need a laugh, more, than being put into fear. However, Stanley Kubrick was face with a few problems. First off, Columbia Pictures would only finance the film if actor Peter Sellers played at least four major roles. I guess, they like Seller's performance in Kubrick's previous film 1962's Lolita, because the fact, that he assumes a number of identities. In my opinion, having Peter Seller onboard was the greatest thing, this movie could had done. He was hilarious as the President, Dr. Strangelove, and Royal Air Force (RAF) officer, Captain Mandrake. All of them, were very different characters, and none of them, seem like it was played by the same guy. However, his performance as Dr. Strangelove was a bit, over the top. Despite that, I still found it, to be amazing. That's how great, he was, in this film. I just glad, he only did, three roles, rather than four. I really didn't see him, playing the Texan, Air Force Major T. J. "King" Kong, the B-52 Stratofortress aircraft commander at all. In my opinion, Slim Pickens was a better choice. Glad, they went with him, instead of Sellers in this case. Another key character in this film, had to be George C. Scott as uber-jingoist, General Buck Turgidson. Wow, just wow! He was laugh out loud, funny. He really had that sense of command in his tone. Ever since then, a lot of war comedies, have use his sense of tone as a comedic general. The movie dialogue helps the acting, a lot. There were a lot of clever funny jokes and memorable lines, throughout the film, like 'You'll have to answer to the Coca-Cola Company ', 'Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room!" & 'Mein Führer! I can walk!' It was all very well-written. I just glad, they stick to the ending, we got, instead of the pie fight ending, they originally wanted. However, the effects of the Kennedy assassination on 1963, did change a few parts of the film. Any mention of the city of Dallas was clearly cut from the film. Another problem that Stanley Kubrick had to face, was 1964's Fail Safe, a film with a similar theme, was being produced. Although Fail Safe was to be an ultrarealistic thriller, Kubrick feared that its plot resemblance would damage his film's box office potential, especially if it were released first. So, a lawsuit was filed by Columbia Pictures and himself on Fail Safe. Kubrick argued that Fail Safe's own 1960 source novel Fail-Safe had been plagiarized from Peter George's Red Alert, to which Kubrick owned creative rights and pointed out unmistakable similarities in intentions between certain characters, despite Dr. Strangelove being loosely based on Red Alert. The plan worked, and Fail Safe opened eight months behind Dr. Strangelove. Fail Safe open up to mediocre success, while Dr. Strangelove open up to mostly success with people, but a few controversy and mixed opinions from certain critics calling it a 'juvenal satire'. Yet today, this film is considered to be one of the sharpest comedy films ever made, and I have to agree with today's standards. Indeed, Stanley Kubrick's deserve the praise. This is my favorite movie of his. I love how it's shot. The whole Black and white feel to the film, remind me of the 'black and white' views of the Cold War, so much. While, most of the sets, visual effects and action scenes can seem a bit dated. Comedy films like these, are one of the very few comedies from the 1960s that I can still laugh at. Overall: It's an outstanding, timeless masterpiece that must be seen for anybody looking for a good hoot! An explosive of laughs.
Maybe there is something wrong with me. I have watched this film twice and I still don't get what all the hoopla is about. I'm not saying that this isn't a dark comedic masterpiece with a first rate cast, director and writing but I don't think it is as funny or dark as it could be. It takes a lot to watch it without being distracted. George C. Scott is brilliant as is Peter Sellers CBE. Sterling Hayden, James Earl Jones ,and Keenan Wynn are also great in the cast. Kubrick was known for his perfectionism and I'm not surprised by this film. It's short and maybe too short. There is a lot going on in the film. There are funny lines like there is no fighting in the war room is classic but that it's about it. The film is too short, too clever for my taste.


                
Beginning with the most famous auto erotica shots in film history and ending with a nuclear Armageddon serenaded by Vera Lynn, Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove (or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying And Love The Bomb) is a movie that hasn't aged a day. Even now, forty plus years after its debut, it retains a satirical bite that still horrifies and amuses in equal doses. As a parody of the arrogance and insanity at work during the arms race, it rewards repeat viewings and should rightly be considered as one of the director's masterworks. Whether it is better than the likes of Paths of Glory, 2001 or A Clockwork Orange is down to personal choice, but as far as I'm concerned, Strangelove is the moment where Kubrick proved his worth without question.What makes Dr. Strangelove so enjoyable is the combination of the horrific and the hilarious. Nuclear Armageddon was the most terrifying possibility of the Cold War and yet Dr. Strangelove is a comedy. Of course, the idea of all life on earth being blasted into atoms is so terrible it is painful to think about, but Kubrick's film doesn't tackle the subject with kid gloves. Rather, it shows of the folly of human nature that would lead to such a catastrophe which provides a lot of black comedy to the proceedings. Mercifully, rather than mugging the camera, the cast play it straight all the way through and to see the straight-laced Sterling Hayden declaring his resolve to prevent Communism sapping America's precious bodily fluids is just the tip of the iceberg.Everyone in a position of power is mercilessly ripped into. The President (Peter Sellers) is a fussy individual, almost completely unaware of what his own staff are up to and prone to chatting idly with the Russian Premiere as atomic weapons hurtle towards his country. The Generals in the shape of Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) and Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) are paranoid, gung ho conspiracy nuts. The bomber pilot Captain Kong (Slim Pickens) is a decent enough good ole boy but so determined to follow orders that he will embrace genocide and the chief of defence, the titular Doctor (Sellers again) is a former Nazi who has changed his name but not his ideologies. All of them are foolish men, full of pride and ambition but whose shortcomings are all too apparent, an ensemble cast this strong has rarely been matched.Admittedly, Kubrick's anti US military bias is a little overbearing (notice the only man in uniform with any sense is a British RAF Officer) but it doesn't matter in the long run. One sided it may be, but Dr. Strangelove isn't a documentary by any means, it's a satire rooted in reality but sufficiently distanced from it enough to raise smirks when millions of people are consumed in a fiery inferno.If you take anything away from Dr. Strangelove, it's most likely going to be either Peter Sellers embracing three roles at once or a man riding a falling H-bomb to his doom, cheering all the way, but it's well worth watching multiple times as each viewing opens up new layers. The incredibly quotable script is one such joy ("Gentlemen, you can't fight here, this is the war room!") as are such instances as machine gun battles in front of peace signs or the barely contained delight on the staff faces as the "ten females for every male" plan unfolds.In short then, a parable of fear that somehow became one of the most powerful comedies of all time. It taps into the political anxieties of the Cold War with aplomb and can teach even a casual viewer a thing or two about the period. Highly recommended and if you've already seen it, just watch it again.
In mine and many other people's opinions, I feel like Kubrick is one of the best directors of all time. He has made many films which are widely considered to be the best of their genre. "Paths of Glory" (1957) is widely considered to be one of the best war films, "2001: A Space Odyssey" (1968) is widely considered to be one of the best sci-fi films, "The Shining" (1980) is widely considered to be one of the best horror films, "A Clockwork Orange" (1971) is widely considered to be one of the best violent films, and "Dr. Strangelove" (1964) is widely considered to be one of the best comedies.After an insane general named "Jack D. Ripper" triggers a plan to start a nuclear holocaust, a room full of generals and politicians desperately attempt to stop him before it's too late.Before watching this, one would not expect for it to be a comedy since it's about a nuclear holocaust, a serious topic. However, I was very impressed with how Stanley Kubrick went and did it anyways. I feel like this is actually a very good topic to make a film off of. With that being said, it succeeds on different aspects of comedy.One of the reasons why the comedy in this film works so good is how they get delayed so much. While President Merkin Muffley is warning Russia of the attacks, their conversation gets drawn out, and it makes the audience ask "Shouldn't they be trying to hurry?" In most other films, this would be a flaw, but since this is a comedy, this can be excused as it represents more about the comedy. Another great scene is when the U.S. army tries to take over a base with Ripper inside in hopes of finding the recall code to get the planes to abort their mission. Kubrick takes advantage of every single way how this scene could be drawn out, and it leaves the audience laughing at how unlucky everyone is getting. I'm not going to spoil how this film ends, but it's a really great scene which uses this concept.Another great thing about this film is some of its dialogue. My favorite line from the film is: "Gentlemen, you can't fight here! This is the war room!" It's a simple line, but it's very effective. Also, some of the one-liners kind of take into effect its comedy where it delays scenes. For example, the scene where Gen. "Buck" Turgidson explains Ripper's plan to Merkin Muffley is full of many funny quotes like: "Well sir, I would say that General Ripper has already invalidated that policy!". Also, there is the classic ending quote.Finally, there are some jokes that you have to think about in order to get what they mean. Some of them are even left up to interpretation for what they mean. For example, the scene at the end where the Russian ambassador steps away from everyone, and does something with his watch takes a bit of thinking to determine what he's doing, and how that ties in with another scene. Also, the classic quote at the end: "Mein Fuhrer, I can walk" has a ton of interpretations that can come from it. Another ambiguous joke is the increasing level of "Alien Hand Syndrome" that Dr. Strangelove experiences throughout the film. Finally, there can even be discussion for what the title of the film, and its alternate title mean, and why Kubrick chose those 2 titles for the film.One thing I really like Kubrick for is how he tells simple, yet grand stories with his films. The comedy in this one represents that real well because the more I think about the comedy in this film, the more impressive and mind-blowing it seems.Another great thing I got to mention about this film is its great acting. It is actually very easy for me to decide who my favorite actor is in this film, and it seems like a very obvious choice. My favorite actor from this film was Peter Sellers. He plays 3 different characters (Group Captain Lionel Mandrake, President Merkin Muffley, and Dr. Strangelove). I don't think that his performance was weak for any of these characters, and he gave a magnificent performance for all of them. However, my favorite character that he played was Dr. Strangelove. He is able to act in a weird and goofy tone without ever being annoying. It's hard for an actor to successfully accomplish this, but he did it exceptionally well. His other 2 roles were also great and believable as well. Without a doubt, he stole the show.While Sellers is clearly the best, that's not to say that there weren't any other actors who blew me away. In fact, if I could give almost equal credit to another actor who did a great job as well, it would be George C. Scott as General "Buck" Turgidson. He also gave a convincing performance, and he stood out a lot as well. Other great actors include Slim Pickens as Major "King" Kong for his consistent, upbeat attitude that he maintained throughout the film; even at times of despair, Sterling Hayden as Jack D. Ripper for his way of sounding like this was a real life, serious film; not a comedy film, and Peter Bull as Alexi de Sadesky because of the suspicious tone he had which unintentionally gave him some charm.In conclusion, this is another masterpiece in Kubrick's brilliant body of work. It hits numerous layers of comedy that can sometimes be pretty deep - this evokes Kubrick's talent of making simple, yet grand stories. Also, the acting is really good as well, especially coming from Sellers who played 3 roles exceptionally. It's no wonder why Kubrick is considered to be so good by his fans, and he continues to impress me even more every time I watch another one of his films.


                
Shooting the breeze with some close friends and fellow film enthusiasts a few evenings ago, talk turned to the cinema of Stanley Kubrick. Due obeisance was paid to 2001 A Space Odyssey, the possible long term psychological trauma induced by watching A Clockwork Orange at the age of 14 (as my son claims to have done) was chewed over, and 'what the hell went wrong' with Eyes Wide Shut was debated. My personal favorite from the Kubrick stable — the sharply intelligent and insanely hilarious 1964 cold war spoof — Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb. Three Peter Sellers, one George C. Scott, a loony general obsessed with contamination of bodily fluids to kick off the glorious madness, and the most hysterically funny phone conversation you will ever hear between the President of the United States and the Premier of USSR. The film is rated #49 in the top 250 films of all time on IMDb, so I'm not kidding!


                
I usually don't like comedies very much. In this case, I've got to say that this comedy is amazing. You can appreciate the subtle view of the world during those years: the war was changing the world and people's mind. There's some irony in it: a theme like the war was taken into consideration in an ironical and safe way. I consider this film, one of the best films about the cold war. And Kubrick has made a great work.
No need to repeat consensus on the movie's general brilliance. As I recall, Kubrick's withering black humor created quite a stir, coming in the midst of Cold War conformity. In loony jest, it even suggests our leaders might be no better (maybe even worse) than the perfidious Soviets. Needless to say, that appeared unpatriotic to many. Nevertheless, it's the inspired lunacy of the acting and writing that makes this bitter pill go down. What stays with me is the movie's obsessive attention to technical detail, whether switch flipping in Kong's bomber, communication set-ups stateside, or the War Room's big board. Lying at the core is that utter contrast between technological expertise, on one hand, and mocking lunacy of the guys in charge, on the other. What the movie seems to say, if you will, is that the same collective intelligence that can create technical marvels is too wacko to use them intelligently. I suspect the lesson still applies, as the movie cleverly implies.


                
Never has the absurdity of war been so bitingly and accurately skewered as it was in the 1964 classic Dr. Strangelove: Or How Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb. a scorching black comedy that sheds a very unflattering but unfortunately probably spot-on look not only at war, but the mental capacities of the people who have their hands on the button.Director Stanley Kubrick has created his masterpiece here, chronicling what happens when a clearly insane military general who triggers an attack on the Soviet Union that could lead to nuclear holocaust and how the President of the US and his advisers try to deal with the repercussions.Released during the infancy of the Vietnam War, this film probably ruffled a lot of feathers in Washington, though I don't know for sure, since I was only six year old at the time, but the film can now be cherished for the scathingly brilliant satire that it is.Kubrick's masterful direction is only surpassed by the brilliantly tongue-in-cheek screenplay by Kubrick, Terry Southern, and Peter George, that was clearly robbed of an Oscar. As for casting, it's perfection...Peter Sellers' powerhouse performance where he effortlessly brings three different characters to life is a joy to behold. Sellers, too, was robbed of an Oscar for Outstanding Lead Actor. My personal favorite of his three characters was President Muffley, who is given the best line in the movie and whose first phone conversation with the President of the USSR (Dimitri) to explain what's going on had me on the floor. Sellers has never made me laugh so hard, and I've seen most of the Pink Panther movies. Kubrick pulled the performance of his career out of Sterling Hayden as the insane general as was George C. Scott's bigoted military leader who is possibly as crazy as Hayden's character. Scott is brash and funny and was Oscar-worthy as well. Kubrick's attention to detail in bringing this epic story to life works on every level. The black and white photography only adds to the realism and there is impressive art direction and inventive camera- work, but it is the Oscar worthy work by Kubrick, Sellers, Scott, Southern, and George that make this one sizzle and earn it the well-deserved reputation of a classic.
Did this movie fueled hippies with motivation and passion to do what they did?
Nevertheless, as a citizen of the former Soviet Republic, it was simply hilarious to watch an American movie (made during the pique of Cold War, which deserves additional applause to the crew) portraying that the situation and people's common belief was nearly the same even overseas: the belief that the "enemy is near and is gonna kill all of us one way or another". 
Jack Ripper reminded me so many acquaintances of mine who lived back in days!:D Impervious, harsh, brutal, passionately believing in his own truth and sort of a satiric character for all of the listed above. The only difference is that their favorite line was: "It's all America again", but in the movie you can watch the vice versa.
Great movie, yet, the question got me thinking: did both parties actually enjoy dropping another war using force and guns less than a couple of decades after the hell on Earth called WW2?
P.S. The fictional president of the US being the most sane character of the movie probably "saved" its reputation back in times IMHO:)
P.P.S. Spoiler: get ready for the then existing post-WW2 stereotypes about super cold and *still-kinda-nazi* Germans, cynical yet *cowboy-minded" Americans and always up for a drink Russians :D
Dr. Strangelove Or : How I Learned To Stop Worrying And Love The BombIts quite clear from the title that the movie doesn't have anything serious to offer even though being Stanley's work (which I have to say this is the best one) but that also doesn't mean that it doesn't raise any serious issues, it's just that they do it with some levity.


                
No film has so brilliantly combined broad comedy and sharp satire to the degree of "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" — before or since. Stanley Kubrick made many incredible films in his lifetime, but none of them have the unique, distinctive edge of "Strangelove." The prodigious auteur made plenty of anti-war films both prior to and following this film, but it's "Strangelove's" manifold comedic gifts that elevate it to the level of classic.Anchoring the entire film is comedic genius Peter Sellers playing three vastly different characters with impeccable prowess, a feat that still has no equivalent. He loses himself complete into the roles of Captain Lionel Mandrake, President Merkin Muffley and Dr. Strangelove — it would be no surprise that if shown to large number of people without any previous knowledge of the film or Sellers, that a large percentage of that group would not realize all three characters were the same actor. He's brilliant, on a whole other level."Dr. Strangelove" imagines a ludicrous doomsday scenario in which a rogue Air Force general, Brig. Gen. Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) sends codes to initiate a massive nuclear offensive on the U.S.S.R., enacting a plan/loophole that would allow him and only him to send the codes that could abort the mission. Ripper holes himself up in his base with Mandrake, who is subjected to his wild conspiracy theories and warped world view. Meanwhile, in the Pentagon War Room, Gen. Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) briefs the president and they weigh their options.The script, written by Kubrick, Terry Southern and Peter George (based on George's non- satirical book "Red Alert") expertly skewer the Cold War mindset at a time when nuclear war was still a paralyzing concern in the world, especially America. The strength of the writing lies in the way the characters behave and say things that are exaggerate but don't feel implausible. Turgidson talking about the benefits of killing 20 million people as opposed to 150 million has both validity and absurdity to it and proves that such drastic matters are better off out of the hands of men. And how deep the trenches of distrust and machismo go in regards to the arms race and other "races" against the Soviets is both insane and reflective of how some people probably felt.The action of "Dr. Strangelove" is largely contained to the deck of a B-52 bomber, the War Room and the military base where Ripper and Mandrake are hunkered down, so Kubrick has to flex the more subtle filmmaking muscles to tell this story in a compelling way. He balances both long takes from a single, wide angle and meticulously strung together, more suspenseful sequences with lots of close-ups. He manufactures a good amount of tension considering the humor of the entire film prevents it from being a thriller like its equally excellent (but for different reasons) cinematic peer, Sidney Lumet's "Fail- Safe." Nevertheless, "riveting" isn't among the words that best describe "Strangelove."Instead, "hilarious" and "sad" are more apt. The film's biggest action sequence takes place at the base in a battle between American forces — the ones ordered by Ripper to protect the base at all costs and the ones ordered by the president to stop Ripper. Kubrick doesn't shy from filming an all-out war scene and the result is comedy at its absolute blackest. The "Peace is Our Profession" billboard is delightful (and sadly non- contrived) irony."Dr. Strangelove" can be interpreted in the more academic sense countless ways, but it really comes down to the comedic achievement. Most films that insist on big performances and other over-the-top elements don't have the intelligence in the writing and storytelling to buoy that kind of swing for the fences. "Strangelove" does thanks to Kubrick's meticulous direction, Sellers' other-worldliness and a comedic conceit that's dead on for its time and place.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more


                
Dr. Strangelove was a film that changed the way I looked at movies. I had just started to get more interested in movies at the time, and my roommate had the DVD and I was interested, so I popped it in, and it changed the way I looked at film.Watching Dr. Strangelove, I experienced emotions that I had never experienced before while watching film. It was gripping. I was physically distraught at the thought that one man's foolish actions could destroy the world, and even watching it without growing up in the Cold War, I still felt fear at the thought that a pitiless machine could right then destroy life as I knew it. But despite this anxiety, I still laughed several times during the film. It was the best of satire, portraying something as both real and absurd.No film is perfect, though, and some parts do move slower, and some juxtaposition by George C. Scott is a little grating and predictable. But despite all that, I would highly recommend this movie to any film lover.


                
The year is 1964. Communists are coming in at all sides, America's biggest fear is to succumb to the nuclear bomb and the Soviet Union. So a movie is made, and Stanley Kubrick is at its helm. The result is Dr. Strangelove.A movie about a meglomaniacal general wanting to foster a war, it starts with its dark comedy right off the bat. I found Peter Sellers in all of his various roles in this movie on the top of his game, I was laughing with every line and thinking about every other line. The framing of each scene was also exquisite, I found myself rewatching countless dialog scenes just to take in all the ambiance.The plot itself was a little tough to follow, with its abstract story structure. That being said, the plot itself I think was taking a backseat to all of the thematic structuring of the United States love affair with the atomic bomb and death and destruction.A fantastic movie, worth watching for any history major.


                
As a film Dr. Strangelove was so well received that a more serious film on the same topic, Failsafe, failed to find an audience. Yet Strangelove made you think as well as entertain which is the ultimate object of any great work of cinema.General Jack D. Ripper has sent out the Strategic Air Command bombers and locked down Burpelson Air Force Base so that higher ups can't interfere. He's struck back at the dirty Communists for pushing fluoridation of the water supply which he feels has interfered with his bodily functions.Ripper might want to have checked with the Air Force Chief of Staff, General Buck Turgidson who when we meet him seems to have all his bodily functions working just fine. A second opinion on Ripper's lack of bodily functions might have revised his reason on why his particular functions weren't doing well.Of course his actions have created a crisis and President Muffley of the United States is busy trying to talk to Premier Kissoff of the USSR to prevent a nuclear war. That is in case those SAC bombers can't be recalled. One of the bombers commanded by Major Kong is anxious to do battle with the 'Rooskies'.Director Stanley Kubrick went poaching on the black comedy normally that would be the province of Billy Wilder. But even Wilder in his wildest dreams never used those wonderful Dickensian names for his characters that Kubrick is so delighting in. My favorite however is the part played by Keenan Wynn as the army colonel commanding the tactical force that liberates Burpelson, Colonel Bat Guano.Jack D. Ripper is played by Sterling Hayden a man consumed by his lack of bodily functions. This is a takeoff on Army General Edwin Walker who commanded US troops in Germany and was relieved when it was discovered he was indoctrinating his troops with John Birch Society propaganda which included their fears about fluoridation of water. Curiously enough that cause was actually taken up by other than fanatic right-wingers, people like Ralph Nader. Could Ripper have been right after all?George C. Scott is cigar chomping, bodily functioning spoof of legendary SAC commander Curtis LeMay. He's having quite the difficult time in deciding just who to root for in this crisis.Peter Sellers got an Oscar nomination for playing three different characters in Dr. Strangelove. Sellers is President Muttley, Colonel Mandrake of the RAF an exchange officer serving under Sterling Hayden and the crazed former Nazi nuclear scientist Dr. Strangelove. Watching the film, it's almost hard to believe this is the same man using three different voices and appearances that makeup alone could not explain. Sellers lost to his fellow British player Rex Harrison for My Fair Lady.In fact Dr. Strangelove also lost as Best Picture to My Fair Lady. Of course George Bernard Shaw never put his legendary wit to the issue of mutual nuclear annihilation. Neither did Billy Wilder, but I have a feeling those two talents together couldn't have done any better than Stanley Kubrick.The image that stays in your mind from the film I guarantee will be Slim Pickens as Major Kong riding that hydrogen bomb down to its 'Rooskie' target like a bucking bronco.Hopefully we won't meet Major Kong again, who knows where and who knows when.


                
"Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room."This is only my third Stanley Kubrick film, but so far it's my favorite. I can't imagine how funny this film must have been when it came out in the mid 60's during the height of the Cold War, because more than 50 years later this black and white comedy continues to resonate in today's modern political world. It's sharp, it's smart, it's dark, but above all it's funny. It seems after so many decades that we haven't learned a thing about the sharp ironies presented here through each character and situation because the story continues to be relatable. The script is hilarious and the delivery from each actor is perfect, with several characters standing out. Peter Sellers does an amazing job playing three very different characters, but I was especially a fan of George C. Scott's portrayal of Gen. Buck. The scenes in the War Room were by far my favorite in the movie, but almost everything worked to perfection in this sharp and tightly written satire. The effects are a bit over the top but I think it simply adds to the overall craziness of the movie. I know I still have a lot of catching up with Kubrick films, but I don't see how his other films will top this one, at least entertaining wise. Satires can become a bit heavy handed after its initial first half, but this film maintains the laughs throughout its entire runtime. I'm surprised that I found this political comedy hilarious considering I'm not into politics at all, but I found it impossible not to watch it with a smile on my face. Is there a better political satire than Dr. Strangelove? I doubt it or at least I haven't come across one yet. What makes this film so relevant is that we are laughing at a nuclear threat in a time when the fear was very eminent. In the opening scenes we are introduced to General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden), who is giving his pilots secret orders to bomb the Soviet Union. Jack has gone mad and is overstepping his authority after discovering a loophole which allows him to order the attack without having to ask for permission from the US government. He has cut off all communication with the pilots so no one can stop his insane plan. Jack is convinced the communists are poisoning the world and he must stop them. When the President, Merkin Muffley (Peter Sellers) is informed of the General's plan he immediately calls his advisers to the War Room in order to try to put an end to Jack's madness. His adviser, General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott), informs the President how Jack was able to overstep his authority and in a hilarious scene through the big board shows the location of every plane as they are approaching the Soviet Union. Against Buck's advice, the President decides to invite Russian Ambassador Alexei de Sadeski (Peter Bull) to the War Room in order to discuss what is happening and to prove he isn't responsible for the attacks. Among the men in the room there is also Dr. Strangelove (Peter Sellers), a former Nazi scientist who is a specialist when it comes to nuclear weapons. The interactions between these characters and their efforts to stop Jack's plan in order to avoid the world's annihilation becomes the focal point of the film. Peter Sellers delivers outstanding work here playing the President, Dr. Strangelove, and Lionel Mandrake, who is Jack's right hand man and the only one who thinks he can stop him from executing his plan. He delivers three very distinctive characters and I honestly didn't recognize it was the same actor. George C. Scott is the standout however in his overly dramatic and serious delivery. His character was the one I laughed the most at. The things he says in such a serious tone are absolutely hilarious. I don't know how much of the lines were improvised or how much of it was actually scripted from Peter George's book, Red Alert, but all I can say is that every line was executed perfectly by these actors. This is one of those films that has transcended its time and continues to make audiences laugh around the globe. http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/


                
I tend to avoid giving movies a ten, and while I gave this one a solid nine out of ten, I do wish I could give it a 9 and a half. Kubrick is without a doubt one of history's greatest directors and screenwriters, and until I saw Dr. Strangelove, I figured I knew the themes of any given Kubrick movie. This movie was no ordinary Kubrick film.The film, based off a more stoic novel, was gut wrenchingly funny. The humor was unbelievably deadpan and dry, but that's intelligent, smart humor I thoroughly enjoy. However, if you scratch beneath the surface, you can see the multiple layers of the film. Dr. Strangelove is one giant critique of Cold War politics, American jingoism, and wartime political scenarios. Any movie that makes you laugh when the plot is about the end of the world is a truly amazing comedy.
Dr Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (I'll refer to it as Dr. Strangelove after this) is a political dark comedy directed by Stanley Kubrick (Clockwork Orange, The Shining, 2001: A Space Odyssey) and was written by he and Terry Southern (Easy Rider, Barbarella, The Cincinnati Kid) and Peter George (Fail Safe) from 1964. It stars Peter Sellers (Being There, The Pink Pather, The Pink Panther Strikes Again), George C. Scott (Patton, The Hustler, The Changeling) and Sterling Haden (The Godfather, The Killing, Asphalt Jungle)Dr. Strangelove is about a mad general (Sterling Haden) who begins the start of a nuclear war against Russia and the president of the United States (Peter Sellers) and his right-hand man (George C. Scott) and a lot of other politicians, including Dr. Strangelove (Peter Sellers), who try to stop it.There are so many aspects of this movie that are great including the acting and writing, but I will talk about a man who does not receive enough recognition for his incredible work despite his two Oscars, this man is Ken Adam (Barry Lyndon, Goldfinger, Dr. No). Ken Adam did production design for Dr. Strangelove and he creates one of the best sets of all time in this film, and that is the war room. This set is enormous yet it is barely filled. It creates a powerful feel while being so simple. This set is so real that people thought it was an actual location and Ronald Reagen even thought it was real! When you watch this film you are in awe when you see the places they shoot. It is simply magical. How can you watch a Kubrick film without admiring the directing? Kubrick takes a quite serious novel and subject and successfully makes it a comedy. Who would have thought in 1964 you could've made a comedy about the end of the world through nuclear holocaust? Kubrick saw this risk and took it. He does some interesting camera work that looks like it inspired Spielberg while making Saving Private Ryan. Anyway, he does a great job directing his actors especially Scott and will be looked at as one of his best films.There is not much I can see wrong with this movie. It is hilarious yet portrays a serious lesson. This is probably one of the greatest dark comedies and comedies in general ever created.


                
After having the pleasure of viewing Dr.Strangelove for the first time, I felt compelled to comment on the sheer cleverness of it ...I knew going in that I was in for a cold war satire, but little else - The contrast between the serious, documentary-style direction with the at times over-the-top characters and dialogue works brilliantly to keep the movie in motion, and the sense of impending disaster is palpable, whilst still allowing the mostly subtle humour to play out. Fairly early in the film, we're given a close up shot of General Ripper's brooding face from an unusual angle, the camera looking up at his visage as if his face were a huge, insurmountable rock - as soon as this superb shot revealed itself I had the uneasy feeling that Ripper might be a bit 'funny in the head' as President Muffley later explains.In his apparent insanity, army base commander Ripper concocts a 'plan' to wipe out the threat of Communist invasion once and for all; unfortunately it involves nothing cleverer than tricking his men into nuking the unsuspecting Ruskies ...The only person in a position to get through to Ripper through his apparent madness is Captain Mandrake (an English officer stationed via the 'officer exchange program'), one of the three characters to appear in the film to be portrayed by Peter Sellers. At one stage Ripper confides in Mandrake as to the extent of the conspiracy theory that led him to his drastic course of action : the Commies are contaminating our 'precious body fluids', most likely through fluoridation of the water supply. How had he come by this umm, interesting theory, Mandrake quite reasonably asks at one point ? - Here, I believe, one of the films key themes and elements are revealed - Ripper tells Mandrake that he first became aware of the Communist 'conspiricy' "during the physical act of love" - Ripper goes on to explain (in rather cryptic terms) that after failing to become aroused, or perhaps losing his erection, he came to 'realise' that his bodily fluids were being taken or contaminated. He then goes to some pains to make it clear that the problem had *not* happened again, and that women still found him 'powerful'.In essence, Ripper's failure to cope with his own compromised masculinity led to his insanity and subsequent order to attack the dreaded Ruskies !! So a madman has potentially started world war 3. No real surprise there, as the focus turns to larger-than-life character General Buck Turgidson - the General is at first unconcerned over a phone call from a base commander, accepted by his bathing-beauty 'secretary', and continues his business in the 'powder room' for a painfully long time before finally deigning to speak to the worried base commander himself.Turgidson decides the situation is serious enough to warrant leaving his young, barely-clad lady friend in their hotel room whilst he puts in a little overtime in the War Room. In a later scene, Ms. Scott, his secretary, thoughtlessly rings Turgidson in the War Room - before hanging-up, Turgidson ever-so-briefly reflects upon the precarious situation at hand and thoughtfully advises Ms. Scott not to forget to 'say her prayers' ...Hilarity and double-speak ensues throughout the entire first War Room scene, Turgidson's zealousness to turn the accidental encroachment on soviet airspace into a full scale strike is demented logic at its finest. Somewhat fortunately, the President, once again played by Peter Sellers, is less of a war-monger than the General, and he enlists the aid of the reluctant and shifty Russian ambassador to contact the Russian Premier, the apparently drunk Dimitri Kissoff. Sellers one-sided conversation with Kissoff is a side-splitter, desperate not to offend the Premier whilst still trying to gently break the news of the impending air strikes. The Russians go one-up on the Yanks though, when it comes to light that they have constructed a 'Doomsday device', which is deadly enough to pretty much f*ck up the world - if the rogue B-52's commissioned by Ripper accomplish their illicit mission, they will unwittingly be activating the Doomsday device ! This is when Sellers' third, and most bizarre, character is introduced, the titular Dr. Strangelove. As he 'helpfully' points out, a Doomsday device is an excellent deterrent for Nuclear War - er, provided the rest of the World is aware of the *threat* first ! However, as the Russian Ambassador points out, the existence of the Doomsday device hadn't been announced to the world at that stage as the Premier had planned to announce it at an upcoming conference, due to his love of 'suprises' hehehe. And so it's all set-up for a tense finale, as Mandrake tries to obtain vital codes from General Ripper to recall the B-52's, President Muffley and his cohorts try to work with the Russian government to blow their own men out of the sky to avoid mass destruction, and a B-52 flown by Major 'King' Kong attempts to deliver it's mother lode upon it's intended target before they're shot out of the sky.I could go on and on about how much I enjoyed this film, it's sharp humour, it's psychological profiles of the egomaniacs that would end the world, their sexual insecurity, the petty bickering over relatively insignificant matters while the fate of the world is being decided - but I'll wind it up here and just urge anyone who enjoys movies that encourage you to think to seek out Dr Strangelove : or How I learned to stop worrying and love the Bomb.


                
