After Fi, I started with a low expectation and continued with admiration. Hakan Günday and Azra Kohen are not comparable to each other. There is no need to look for flaws in Sahsiyet. Thanks to Puhu TV, quality in the Turkish series sector has risen so much. Sahsiyet's story is a bit like Breaking Bad, a bit of a Dexter mix, much more different and much more intimate.Sahsiyet's greatest trump card; Behind the screen are two successful names such as Hakan Gunday and Onur Saylak. Hakan Gunday, one of the greatest writers that Turkish literature has recently released, writes the screenplay of Sahsiyet. The scenarios in each section are overly pleasing. Those who know their books, I am sure they felt this.The second biggest trump card in the series is the Haluk Bilginer factor. As for the Cansu Dere... Everyone has a prejudice against her. But I do not think it's bad. I did not see an exaggeration. Exceptionally lean, understated, with a moderate performance on display, without too much trouble. Only the character Nevra, a little too American. The Turkish police is like a Behzat Ç. Police office looks like the American Police Department in Sahsiyet. It's a very successful mini-series. I wish it was a few seasons. 10/10


                
Another masterpiece from Haluk Bilginer and the full cast. Together they made one of the best TV series of Turkey. It is highly possible that this series become legend. I hope they continue like this.


                
Thanks to PuHu TV for the quality in the Turkish Series! It's getting a lot better.
Not only actors and actresses but also director and soundtracks are very very successful. 
I am very proud of saying that Sahsiyet is a very very exciting and fascinating Turkish TV series, and I am looking forward to see next episodes..


                
I have not watched a Turkish serial in this quality for a long time. I watched while I stick to computer screen. Agah Beyoglu's attitude of "not even hurting the ant" learns that his life is going to change, on the contrary it is just a summary of human being's evolution. Nevertheless, she never gave up on her characteristic of valuing women because the people she killed were from people who had been violent to women. Is it really a single diagnosis of Alzheimer's causing murder? Why do we like Agah even though he is a serial killer?
Master Haluk Bilginer and co-stars Cansu Dere and Metin Akguler and the others (especially young actors and actress did great job). Great cast, unique story and script. For me if you wanna watch fluent tv show dont stop just start to first episode you can find it on puhutv.com


                
It is not only a tv series but also a documantery which shows sociology of Turkish society with an amazing story. Sad but true...


                
One of the best crime series that ever been made. You need full focus, no riddles just go with the flow.


                
The best turkish-made series you've ever seen. fiction made very well. the director of photography has done a wonderful job with blue and red colors. they chose the songs very well. Thanks to everyone who contributed to this series.


                
I am reviewing this series after I finish the whole serie which makes me review it generally, as a whole. After the first 6 episodes the serie gets more exciting and the main idea on the pressure of bigot, typical turkish peoples society comes forward. The idea of imperious, traditionalist peoples influence on women (very common in turkey) is covered in this serie perfectly that I couldn't find another better way to show this truth about turkey to turkish people. Hakan Günday is one of the best writers in modern turkish literature and Onur Saylak directed many powerful literary movies in the Turkish movie history. The acting was also good as well as the soundtrack which reminded me american series. The scenario was very original and the finale was not disappointing. Throughout the serie, there were many catchwords and I felt like I was reading a literary book . Sahsiyet, broke the rules of typical turkish series full of cliches and long glances with a boring background music.


                
"Sahsiyet" is the best Turkish crime series of recent times. This series doesn't. It doesn't extend topics. Every episode makes you astonished. It is a series of crime that must be followed.


                
In the beginning it takes some getting used to the first 3 a 4 episodes. But later it will only get better and better. You can no longer stop watching and want to watch them all! I can advise you not to do that. Save it for later and watch it with a fresh head, then its been better.


                
There are many crime series around the world but this version of storytelling makes audience feel all the emotions. Short but proper and effective.


                
Brilliant acting and beatiful scenes from Istanbul. The storyline is quite interesting and I think it's the first serial killer series that has been made in Turkey.


                
With the incredible, acting, great story, amazing colours this show is a must see on all conditions, You should really give it a chance.


                
A criminal circle which created by people who forget their conscuence in small town.. Connection is extraordinary and every episode suprised me while learning a lesson from every stories ehich they told us. Haluk Bilginer's acting skills are remarkable..


                
Haluk Bilginer is like a master and he knows how to act and how to impress the audience. Do you know why Sahsiyet is so special? This is because, it conteins reality this kind of situations (no spoiler) happens in everywhere not just Turkey and this script writer Onur Saylak knows how to hear his voice about these things... I'm so proud of with these people who gives effort to this....


                
Great acting great cinematography grear scenario must watch


                
This show is so good, Cansu and Haluk are amazing actors. The music the colors, photography all. I loved this show


                
I watch the whole series in a week. Haluk Bilginer is an extremely successful artist. Music is great, Istanbul is great, Story is heartbreaking and little philosophical.
The best, highest quality Turkish Series I have ever seen.


                
The best ever series I have watched including all the series I have seen all over the world. Thrilling, amazing scenario! Even the story is a fiction it is not unlikely to have happened considering the current circumstances of the man dominant societies all over the world. I have very much appreciated Agah Beyoglu character. I ended up in a feminist nature as a man since having watched this masterpiece. I think it must have been a ground breaking series for many people!


                
I don't know why have I delayed this show to watch. A wonderful story, great cinematography, and a flow that does not get you bored. Some how, it keeps you awake. highly unpredictable.
Beside this, the show focuses on some huge problems in turkish society, shamefull incedents and knowing them by a community that act like it is not happening. The show throws this up to us to face this mass so rigorously.


                
When I first saw the cast and Onur Saylak as the director, I really had high expectations, but this series was far beyond anything I expected. This show is totally Turkish in the sense that it is based on a more complex view of Tirkish culture, moving beyond stereotypes.
When one thinks of Turkish tv series, there are so many stereotypes that come to viewers' minds: family drama, intrigue, romance, tears, patriarchal marriage/household settings (Ottoman harem, traditional/modern big house located somewhere in Anatolia or Istanbul) that more or less openly promote male polygamy and female chastity, tears, guns, mafia, more romance, more intrigue, more guns, changed siblings, more tears and so forth. Yes, a standard episode lasts for about 100 minutes. And there is this longing for/hopelessness about seeing Turkish productions made in any of the Western (by Western, here I mean largely Hollywood) genres varying from action to crime, fantasy, science-fiction, horror, mystery, suspense and so on. Longing for: understandable given the situation. Although there have been many successful offbeat shows over the years (Behzat Ç and Leyla ile Mecnun, to give two most popular examples), well, they largely remain marginal digressions. And then, there is this disappointment -and a mostly well-grounded one- that many Turkish viewers express on seeing the few attempts to produce Western/Hollywood style shows: we just can't do it, it looks really odd and pretentious when we take on those genres or themes. Nothing original. Doesn't suit our culture well. Then what suits our culture? Surely, it's not guns and polygamy dressed as marriage or intrigue? People sitting in big and fancy houses thinking all day nothing but pulling the ground off under their enemies' feet? Or shouldn't we perhaps leave those Hollywood dreams, which are more often than not full of stock elements and clichés of their own, and start looking for something different?
This is where this show really strikes the viewer with its freshness. It reflects the complexity of contemporary Turkish society with characters who have psycho-social depth and variety (going again beyond eastern-western which too quickly turn into modern-traditional or secular-conservative binarisms) The values of chaotic cosmopolitan life are depicted with as much intricacy as those of the closed small town community. Universal themes like injustice, oppression and violence, core family dynamics and trauma are dealth with care, avoiding clichés and never without humour too. Great acting, great scenes and great screen writing.


                
This is a series that can compete with European series like Borgen. The acting of Haluk Bilginer is amazing. Also Recep Usta did a very good work as well besides Sebnem Bozoklu, Ibrahim Selim, and Firat Topkorur. I only could not get a lot into the story of Nevra, Ates, and Tolga (I did not like the acting but they also were not bad but I just could not internalize them). But I understand those type of stories make the series sell to different audience also.
The names of characters all mean something, they are not given randomly. This makes the story more epic.
They show Agah representing conscious, somewhat snob, wise Istanbul gentlemen as one generation. They show Nevra, Firuz, Sebnem, Vural, Sefa as confused, somewhat lazy to fight for life and good, irresponsible (always accusing something on problems in life) as another generation (people in their 30s May think and can understand, maybe this is another thing that comes with age and this generation as late puberty).
And there is the new generation with Deva, Suveyda and the girl at the park which has a totally different look into life, somewhat senseless, with loss for fear and pity coming with loss of respect to people ( as oldies say), values, culture.
So I found this series recommendable to anyone who likes thinking but not only after reset of their mind and spend only time.
Unfortunately this is why such stories do not sell in TV but cheap and shallow series sell.
I also congratulate Onur Saylak as a director unfortunately I could not stand any of the series he acted in (not because of his acting but the shallowness I mentioned in the series). I hope he does that kind of job again.


                
This tv series perfectly refletcs some social problems in Turkey such as violence against Turkey. Also the content of the movie goes perfectly fast.


                
Scenario is amazing and each episodes increasing dram and tension....


                
