After Fi, I started with a low expectation and continued with admiration. Hakan Günday and Azra Kohen are not comparable to each other. There is no need to look for flaws in Sahsiyet. Thanks to Puhu TV, quality in the Turkish series sector has risen so much. Sahsiyet's story is a bit like Breaking Bad, a bit of a Dexter mix, much more different and much more intimate.Sahsiyet's greatest trump card; Behind the screen are two successful names such as Hakan Gunday and Onur Saylak. Hakan Gunday, one of the greatest writers that Turkish literature has recently released, writes the screenplay of Sahsiyet. The scenarios in each section are overly pleasing. Those who know their books, I am sure they felt this.The second biggest trump card in the series is the Haluk Bilginer factor. As for the Cansu Dere... Everyone has a prejudice against her. But I do not think it's bad. I did not see an exaggeration. Exceptionally lean, understated, with a moderate performance on display, without too much trouble. Only the character Nevra, a little too American. The Turkish police is like a Behzat Ç. Police office looks like the American Police Department in Sahsiyet. It's a very successful mini-series. I wish it was a few seasons. 10/10


                
Another masterpiece from Haluk Bilginer and the full cast. Together they made one of the best TV series of Turkey. It is highly possible that this series become legend. I hope they continue like this.


                
"Sahsiyet" is the best Turkish series I've ever watched; it's awesome, exciting and very very different. I'm so excited to watch the next episodes.


                
Thanks to PuHu TV for the quality in the Turkish Series! It's getting a lot better.
Not only actors and actresses but also director and soundtracks are very very successful. 
I am very proud of saying that Sahsiyet is a very very exciting and fascinating Turkish TV series, and I am looking forward to see next episodes..


                
Not much of this subject has been done on turkish tv, generaly it is a lovestory between a rich boy and a poor girl and their impossible "love story". But a serial killer on the loose with alzheimer - well that is something brand new ! But Onur Saylak did it!! What a great show with great visuals and sound. The intro by it self is already something never done - and to add the brilliant acting and story, you got an istant HIT. Let's hope that every episode keeps this line steps up and does not fall back on typical turkish tv shows.Haluk bilginer sir, you already proven that you are a great actor. But boy o boy do you keep getting greater and better.From the first episode in I give this show a 9/10


                
I have not watched a Turkish serial in this quality for a long time. I watched while I stick to computer screen. Agah Beyoglu's attitude of "not even hurting the ant" learns that his life is going to change, on the contrary it is just a summary of human being's evolution. Nevertheless, she never gave up on her characteristic of valuing women because the people she killed were from people who had been violent to women. Is it really a single diagnosis of Alzheimer's causing murder? Why do we like Agah even though he is a serial killer?
Master Haluk Bilginer and co-stars Cansu Dere and Metin Akguler and the others (especially young actors and actress did great job). Great cast, unique story and script. For me if you wanna watch fluent tv show dont stop just start to first episode you can find it on puhutv.com


                
It is not only a tv series but also a documantery which shows sociology of Turkish society with an amazing story. Sad but true...


                
This is an excellent serie. 
This is rare to see Turkish TV series competing with foreign ones.
I can say this is as good as famous american crime TV series.
Without spoilers I can just say suprise connections were great.
the only dissapointing thing for me was Zuhal and Deva. Their story was a bit weak.
Anyway I highly recommend to watch this show; even for not Turkish people.


                
With unique story and character (Agah) one of the greatest TV show of Turkish television. 
Haluk Bilginer proved again he is one and only.


                
One of the best crime series that ever been made. You need full focus, no riddles just go with the flow.


                
The best turkish-made series you've ever seen. fiction made very well. the director of photography has done a wonderful job with blue and red colors. they chose the songs very well. Thanks to everyone who contributed to this series.


                
I am reviewing this series after I finish the whole serie which makes me review it generally, as a whole. After the first 6 episodes the serie gets more exciting and the main idea on the pressure of bigot, typical turkish peoples society comes forward. The idea of imperious, traditionalist peoples influence on women (very common in turkey) is covered in this serie perfectly that I couldn't find another better way to show this truth about turkey to turkish people. Hakan Günday is one of the best writers in modern turkish literature and Onur Saylak directed many powerful literary movies in the Turkish movie history. The acting was also good as well as the soundtrack which reminded me american series. The scenario was very original and the finale was not disappointing. Throughout the serie, there were many catchwords and I felt like I was reading a literary book . Sahsiyet, broke the rules of typical turkish series full of cliches and long glances with a boring background music.


                
"Sahsiyet" is the best Turkish crime series of recent times. This series doesn't. It doesn't extend topics. Every episode makes you astonished. It is a series of crime that must be followed.


                
In the beginning it takes some getting used to the first 3 a 4 episodes. But later it will only get better and better. You can no longer stop watching and want to watch them all! I can advise you not to do that. Save it for later and watch it with a fresh head, then its been better.


                
There are many crime series around the world but this version of storytelling makes audience feel all the emotions. Short but proper and effective.


                
Brilliant acting and beatiful scenes from Istanbul. The storyline is quite interesting and I think it's the first serial killer series that has been made in Turkey.


                
With the incredible, acting, great story, amazing colours this show is a must see on all conditions, You should really give it a chance.


                
A criminal circle which created by people who forget their conscuence in small town.. Connection is extraordinary and every episode suprised me while learning a lesson from every stories ehich they told us. Haluk Bilginer's acting skills are remarkable..


                
Haluk Bilginer is like a master and he knows how to act and how to impress the audience. Do you know why Sahsiyet is so special? This is because, it conteins reality this kind of situations (no spoiler) happens in everywhere not just Turkey and this script writer Onur Saylak knows how to hear his voice about these things... I'm so proud of with these people who gives effort to this....


                
Great acting great cinematography grear scenario must watch


                
Just we were about to jump a level up with another series, Fi, Sahsiyet made all of us go multiple levels higher. For a quite a long time Turkish TV series have lacked good substance, good acting, music and originality. Until this one. Very very very congratulations for all who made this show for us. This is a show that gets our hopes up and proves we can do fantastic shows.


                
This show is so good, Cansu and Haluk are amazing actors. The music the colors, photography all. I loved this show


                
I watch the whole series in a week. Haluk Bilginer is an extremely successful artist. Music is great, Istanbul is great, Story is heartbreaking and little philosophical.
The best, highest quality Turkish Series I have ever seen.


                
The best ever series I have watched including all the series I have seen all over the world. Thrilling, amazing scenario! Even the story is a fiction it is not unlikely to have happened considering the current circumstances of the man dominant societies all over the world. I have very much appreciated Agah Beyoglu character. I ended up in a feminist nature as a man since having watched this masterpiece. I think it must have been a ground breaking series for many people!


                
