"Sahsiyet" is the best Turkish series I've ever watched; it's awesome, exciting and very very different. I'm so excited to watch the next episodes.


                
Not much of this subject has been done on turkish tv, generaly it is a lovestory between a rich boy and a poor girl and their impossible "love story". But a serial killer on the loose with alzheimer - well that is something brand new ! But Onur Saylak did it!! What a great show with great visuals and sound. The intro by it self is already something never done - and to add the brilliant acting and story, you got an istant HIT. Let's hope that every episode keeps this line steps up and does not fall back on typical turkish tv shows.Haluk bilginer sir, you already proven that you are a great actor. But boy o boy do you keep getting greater and better.From the first episode in I give this show a 9/10


                
This is an excellent serie. 
This is rare to see Turkish TV series competing with foreign ones.
I can say this is as good as famous american crime TV series.
Without spoilers I can just say suprise connections were great.
the only dissapointing thing for me was Zuhal and Deva. Their story was a bit weak.
Anyway I highly recommend to watch this show; even for not Turkish people.


                
With unique story and character (Agah) one of the greatest TV show of Turkish television. 
Haluk Bilginer proved again he is one and only.


                
Just we were about to jump a level up with another series, Fi, Sahsiyet made all of us go multiple levels higher. For a quite a long time Turkish TV series have lacked good substance, good acting, music and originality. Until this one. Very very very congratulations for all who made this show for us. This is a show that gets our hopes up and proves we can do fantastic shows.


                
The story line of the series was beautifully directed. At least, this series tells us a meaningful and affective story besides other Turkish series.The last episode could be directed in three episodes separately. But the director tried to conclude everything in one episode. And also I didn't like the scene where Ates was killed by a bomb. This scene could be more touching and persuasive. These are the only negative critiques that I can say. Except these critiques, every part was totally flawless. I have finished this series in 3 days, it was so fast-moving. I definitely suggest everyone to watch it.
It is amazing, I am in love with this tv series! If you did not watch this movie you need to see this.


                
