Real good story flow, strange yet captivating characters.To top those, everything has been thought out from the start and without causing any time-paradox as it has been in many of the same genre most notorious being the Terminator. Yet Steins;Gate is not too far off from any other productions of it's genre. No spoilers but not all possibilities have been covered.I do recommend Steins;Gate for its social value, for the things it represents as being a part of a society, sharing and contributing, no matter how different you are. Steins;Gate does marvels about how people are connected to each other and teaches us how every individual is important in a sense.A must watch.


                
Well that's not entirely true. Actually the story gets very complex at times and you may be lost for a moment or two, trying to figure out where you are and what is happening. But the characters are so affectionate and so lovable that you won't have a problem sticking with it. That doesn't mean they don't have flaws, quite the opposite, which is what makes them feel so "real".The beginning episodes may feel a bit "boring" or at least not as exciting as the rest becomes, but you shouldn't have a big issue with that. Also this is necessary for character building/introduction and other reasons. It really delivers on many levels, comedy wise, drama wise and thriller wise. It doesn't shy away from violence either. Though it's not a big part, when it happens you can feel the impact immediately.Weird, nerdy and uncomfortable at times, this really knows what it wants. Great anime show, that produced a couple of games and has way more to explore than just this TV show ...


                
Steins;Gate's early episodes left me puzzled as to what this series was about. I wondered what was the fuss about.As an adult, the "coming to age" and "harem" themes simply don't appeal to me. I suppose I'm not the audience this stuff is aimed at. It is full of references to anime subculture (also the more silly stuff...), that's the only reason I don't give it better ratings. Mind you, the next episodes simply blew me away and I ended up actually caring about the members of the Future Gadget Laboratory, as each of them has to make very harsh choices. This leads to warm, emotional scenes in which the characters react in a sensible way. The time travel bits are intriguing and realistic.All builds up to an intense finale. Here, the writers missed a chance to end it in a sad but beautiful way. Now, we have a satisfying but by no means exceptional conclusion that isn't stupid and dorky like Lost and Battlestar Gallactica.Some anime eventually gets blown up to mythical proportions, as if the writers lose control. Luckily not this one, it's set in a limited set of interesting locations in Akihabara, with a limited number of characters. People with an open mind who want to see something more challenging really should check this out.
This show is extremely absorbing from the very beginning, the ramblings of the mad scientist is confusing at first but once you get the hang of it, it humors you and keeps you entertained. What at first seems like a random bit of cast, pieced together very well by the end. The plot-line is slow in the beginning where you learn a lot about the various characters, giving you space for later on when things go crazy.This piece of time travel is not at all sci-fi, in-fact it is absurd at times to see what these teenagers are shown to be capable of. But give them a little wiggle room, humor them, and you have a really good story.


                
WHAT I LIKED1. The story had plenty of time travel twists, romance, friendship and humour. Okabe's relentless attempts to save his friends were quite emotional.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. The anime could have been trimmed a bit by eliminating stretched parts. The OVA was unnecessary.TOP 5 EPISODES1. Episode 22 - Being Meltdown2. Episode 24 - Achievement Point3. Episode 19 - Endless Apoptosis4. Episode 16 - Sacrificial Necrosis5. Episode 23 - Open the Steins GateVERDICTA great time-travel anime.8/10 - Great
The visual novel version of this is probably one of my all time favourite media of any kind, period. It's laugh-out-loud funny almost always that it wants to be and the slow build up to the climax makes for a hell of an emotional rollercoaster.I'm not quite sure that this anime matches it in pacing or humour/dialogue (but this isn't a slight against it, the original was just very very good). However:This is beautifully drawn and animated.
Direction is unique and experimental.
Audio work is very well done.Overall, I'd say that this adaptation has really brought the characters and world and Steins;Gate to life, even if it suffers from some pacing issues due to it's format. For those unfamiliar with the original work, expect: wacky, endearing characters, time travel (a surprisingly grounded take on it with only one or two liberies taken) and a good many feels.


                
Ever since I started watching anime, it has almost always felt a little different to hollywood movies. It may have been the themes, the execution, or maybe just the concepts. But seeing this anime might have given me an answer. At least in the horror genre (I don't know if steins;gate would be in the horror genre, ut anyway)This review will contain spoilers for the anime (and maybe re:zero), so please proceed with cautions.
Let's compare steins;gate to a show that was very similar. That being Re:zero.
If you have seen re:zero and steins;gate, you know how similar they are. Yes, there are different themes and characters. But the general story was pretty similar in my opinon. But the biggest difference I saw between the story of steins;gate and re:zero was how it handeled the horror aspects. We get to see how the main characters get to experience very traumatic events over and over again. But where steins;gates horror comes kind of naturally, it felt like re:zero felt the need to have shock factor be a part of the horror.
You wouldn't expect horror themes in a cute video game world where there are cute girls and you get to save the world. So when you see those horrific scenes, you get shocked.
Now, I'm not saying that re:zero is a bad anime. It wasn't great, but pretty good in my opinion. But it's a good example of how animes (that I have seen) usually show horror.
But when I saw Steins;gate, it really reminded me of how many western horror movies use horror. At least good ones.
Another thing it reminded me of was how alien set up the movie. Both alien and steins;gate have very long set ups. Steins;gate has 12 episodes of (some would say) boring set up. Alien also has a lot of time to set up the characters and the story. So even though their stories are very different, you can see many similarities.Though, there were things I felt like would have been interesting to see in the story. They touch on the subject of the morality of going back in time, but I would have liked to see it more. Cause Okarin (the main character) goes back in time so many times, and at one point it feels a little wrong. Is it really right to change what was supposed to happen. But the only time they adress this is with one single dialogue that doesn't change the story at all. But please, educate me if you disagree.
Some of the dialogue also felt a little cheap. telling the audiance things that could be told more subtely. The first episode had this problem the most in my opinion.
So even though most of the dialogue was very good, the bad ones stick with me easier.But my favorite part of the show was probably the characters. Most of the characters felt very realistic, likeable and interesting. They all react differently to the horrific events of the story, which was interesting. Though, a few of the characters felt mostly like jokes or very extreme. Daru felt like a one-sided otaku with no life at all. His personality wasn't very interesting either.So to me, this show was an 8 to me
This show is hilarious with fantastic characters and animation. Unfortunately, I stopped watching after episode 15. Not because it got bad, but because it was removed from Crunchyroll and I can't find anywhere to keep watching it.If you can find somewhere to watch it, then I'd highly recommend it.


                
