Well i think i probably haven't added anything to what the other have wrote but actually here are some of my thoughts about the animeThis anime contains almost everything needed, it has a good and captivating story-line. It stays on the story-line in every show and has its good combination of sci-fi, romance, comedy and mystery. the proportions of these factors are chosen in an expert way which makes this anime keep you watching it till the end while keep you guessing from time to time. I felt like it had a little slow start but i'd say it doesn't affect the richness of the series.This anime is actually one of my favorite one. and i hope to see if they make a second one. but chances seem pretty slim.Oh and a personal request please if any of you know some good anime specially in Sci-fi and mystery a reply would be very much appreciated


                
WOW, now this was an amazing anime. Its been a long while since I was this interested in an anime and enjoyed it this much.The characters in this anime are just AWESOME. They are so well made and you just get to love them immediately. The main protagonist is a great one. I immediately liked him and he just kept on getting better and better. Loved his dialogues and character. I self proclaimed evil mad scientist who is a actually a good guy. You get to feel for and love every main character, and even some of the side characters. Their meetings, bafoonery etc etc, its just fun to watch.The writing and dialogue in this anime is another thing I really liked, its just awesome. The anime might seem slow paced to many because it is basically dialogue and interactions for the first few episodes but not for me. It was so enjoyable that it didn't even seemed a tad bit boring or slow paced. Story is also a great one. It is not everyday you get to see a take on time travelling in this way, which is very personal and emotional. You get to see and feel that messing with time, even a tad bit is no joke and shouldn't be taken lightly. It can have great consequences. Even when the plot thickens and gets big, the anime never lets go of its personal touch and feeling instead of pursuing grandeur scenes. The anime is really humorous too at times. But it doesn't get way too much that a person starts cringing or groaning, which is the case with many animes. In fact, the humour in it is one of the best displayed I have seen in an anime which is not specifically a Comedy anime. It doesn't get childish or too animeish etc. It just stays right. I had a pretty good laughs at some scenes while in others a smile was always present on my face.Animation is really good, well defined and detail and pretty to look at. Soundtrack is also really good. Sets the mood in emotional scenes and is rightly appropriate for funny scenes. I do wish that the anime was a little longer so that they could have shown some background of some of the main characters. Overall, I would say, a really great anime and of the best take on time travelling I have ever seen. 9.25/10


                
I just binge-watched the whole series in a few days. It has one of the most compelling story arcs of any anime I've seen. The early episodes are interesting but not exceptionally so, with an unstable protagonist, a schlub, and some idiot cosplay girl. But it's amusing, and various characters are added. The time travel story starts slowly, but this is necessary, and the series becomes incredibly compelling as the results of small time shifts create big problems. At times I got a little lost in the story, but the series does generally catch you up again, and while I would need to see some sort of elaborate diagram to see if this all holds together, in my mind it seems to.The series is swimming in time paradox issues, and at times I think it's closer in spirit to fantasy than to sci fi, especially since there seems to be a rather unscientific concept of fate, but it's incredibly absorbing throughout, and the characters become surprising likable and nuanced as the series progresses.


                
It's been some time since I've seen an anime that I enjoyed so much. Especially when I thought I was done with the genre because of the repeating themes and motifs.Steins;Gate is a cleverly written anime revolving around Okabe Rintarou aka the self proclaimed mad scientist Hououin Kyouma and his meddling with time. I can't tell more without giving the best part of the story away.I started watching the show after seeing that it had favorable reviews and I must admit that the beginning is kind of slow. The spark that ignites the main conflict only shows up later, which is a rather peculiar structural property of the plot. However, I will say this: if you're somewhat appalled by fan-service characters, overly dramatized reactions, childish characters and anime stereotypes, wait patiently because a beautiful story is about to unfold and the necessary plot preparations must be done. For this story, a careful setting of the stage is very important.What I enjoyed most was the chemistry between the two protagonists and the way these character develop. Also, the execution of the time travel story was well done, time travel being a genre that many have failed to illustrate properly.And now, the bad parts. The pace of the show is rather irregular with a slow start and a somewhat abruptly orchestrated (yet satisfying) finish and many of the characters lack depth; they just fill a designated role. Also, science part behind the time travel gadget did not really convince me.I would rate this show with an 8 but in the end, I really enjoyed the characters and the interactions between them. Also, the big WTF moment was really... WTF. That's why I'll be a bit subjective and add an extra point. I would be more specific on the extra point but I do not want to spoil you.I really hope that I will have the opportunity to watch more anime of this quality. Truly, a job well done.


                
i recently watched death note and was confused which one to watch next. it finally came down to choose between code geass and steins gate. I really feel that i made a good choice in choosing steins gate. it took me two days to come out of the mood set by steins gate. so many thoughts kept flashing my mind making me wonder if these things are really possible or not. the story is about time travel. but the complexity and character development is where i fell for in the anime. i wont spoil what happens but it all comes down to a choice between a loved one and a childhood friend. that choice changes everything and makes it much more emotional.it contained everything. comedy,romance,friendship,sadness,death, whatever you can ask for you can find it in this anime. i highly recommend it to anime lovers.
Steins;gate is one of the best anime's out there, it blends a fascinating story with humor and a great roster of characters even if they do carry many stereotypes.Steins;gate boasts fantastic characters; each has individual style and charisma, there is a great deal of humor generated by these characters and the voice work is sublime (Japanese dub).the story is the strong point of steins;gate, it is very unique and thrilling with so many twists and turns, the subject matter itself, time travel, is automatically intriguing. The story does however start out slow, prioritising banter rather than story, but it soon develops into a great addictive, thriller.It does have some plot holes but not anything too major, overall I would give it a 8.6 out of ten with the label 'a must watch'.


                
This show was not what I was expecting at all, and at first I couldn't watch it, but with commitment it is totally worth it. I had to stop watching this show the first time I tried it, it seemed too weird, confusing, random, and I didn't like the main character. And trust me I normally love weird stuff but this was too much. But If you persist, all of the questions, and weird stuff works out. And more important than that, the character development is phenomenal. The characters are broken, reborn, and work through their issues, growing and developing in an awesome way. Also, one of the truest depictions of how I believe love happens. Not through love at first sight, but through persisting through challenges, butting heads, growing to see what you like in people, and in the end, working together. Not a perfect show for me, due to a few odd episodes and characters that never seemed to reconcile with the plot, a constricted setting, and a few too many loose ends. I was expecting more searching for old computers and interesting gadgets, a more epic battle in the post-apocalyptic feature, and more direct battles with SERN and the Organization. It seemed to me, that at the end of it all, despite fixing their own time line, the main bad guys were still at large! But maybe I just didn't fully understand the plot... does anyone?However, this show is a rush! Dig in and work through every episode, you will be mind f*&ked, confused, sweating balls, and freaking out, but in the end it will all be worth it.


                
I happened to find the name of this anime on a meme and felt like wanting to watch it. The anime's setting is in a small Japanese city inside an apartment turned into a miniature laboratory. By chance the team encounters time traveling and discovers secrets of the organisation. Lets leave it at that.The animation appears to be very sharp and crisp. The colours seem to light and yet full. The animation illustrates emotions and expressions with intensity. This illustrating is what makes it appealing and special.The voice actors do their part well and fit the characters. Its as though the characters' voices are their natural voices. You know that voice belongs to such and such, and you can imagine what that such and such would be like from their voice.The story of this anime is what makes it fantastic and the other features complement it. There is mystery involved in the story so being attentive is called for. The plot thickens as the story progresses and after a certain point becomes thrilling.I did not like Kurisu she was overbearing for a main character and yet her being a minor character would not be much better, being a main would be. She appears as the chick flick girl with scientific knowledge. I suppose that is how writers satisfy the drama pangs of those who indulge drama, soap operas and chick flicks.It is a fantastic anime to watch it might be extra light early on, it gets going after with style. Who knows it might become one of your favourites.Enjoy!


                
I loved it so much, I loved all the characters very much, the comedy scenes, the emotional scenes. this show is the best show I've ever seen!


                
First of all I don't think that it's about stopping ab evil organization. This is the story of a teenage boy who accidentally invents time travel and experiments it but puts his friend in danger and fights to save her. He sacrifices much to save her to lose another and then tries to save her too.
It's a bit confusing if you are not indulged enough. It's a sure watch anime and portrays time travel in a different angle.
