I watched this film with the expectation that it would have a good storyline that would keep my interest like Oliver, My Fair Lady, or at least Mary Poppins. I was sorely disappointed. This film has been called "the best" film musical of all time. I do not share that opinion.The characters were campy. Gene Kelly was far too happy all the time and it made it very difficult for me to watch him. The dumb blonde played by Jean Hagen was an exception. I found her to be very funny (apparently so did Frank Loesser in that he plagiarized her character in his musical "How to Succeed at Business Without Really Trying".) The supporting cast was fair and Debbie Reynolds was competent but I really see no reason to rave about this musical.I would take Fred Astaire over Gene Kelly any day for choreography. The story is rudely and abruptly interrupted by this ridiculous "vision" that Kelly has where he is suddenly on Broadway or at a burlesque show and this horrible dance sequence that lasted forever, all in the name of his character finding a good ending to their swashbuckling movie. From swashbuckler to Broadway is a bit of a stretch. Speaking of stretch, visions shouldn't take up half a movie in MY book.This movie was genuinely bad. I am sorry that this is considered a classic. I guess we can look for future generations to hail the Beegee's and Peter Frampton for their "ingenious" work when they name "Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" a musical "classic" as well. After I saw "Singin' In The Rain" I could clearly see why the musical genre took a steep dive back then.


                
The title song is catchy, and it's doubtless interesting for younger viewers (those under 65) to see why this guy was so happy that he'd get all wet and yet remain in high spirits. The whole thing is so clearly fake that the most impressive thing in that scene (apart from the cunning decision not to use cardboard for the lamp-posts) is the wonderful drainage on the set.Hmmm... you write a tongue-in-cheek review with a sarcastic title, and now the reviews are of course reviewed... well, fair enough, this is not a "useful" review, as determined by fans of the film that have been willing to trawl through and rate the 200 or so comments... but for the average Joe who will probably never make it through to the last pages of the reviews anyway, feel free to make up your own mind -- if you're planning to direct or star in your own musical, it may be compulsory viewing -- there's no denying it is a classic that captured the hearts of a generation or two.


                
Very good musical film with great dance numbers,very good color,a good educational story and a cast that looks like they are having so much fun.A great production.Gene Kelly was not as good as Fred Astaire but he still was a great talent and fully displays it here.Could have been a masterpiece with better screenplay and editing.Also,the musical number "Make 'Em Laugh" was irritating and should have been cut.Only for fans of Hollywood musicals and big fans of the lead actors........


                
