And I don't mean that in a good way. Perhaps the most highly acclaimed feature of CHINATOWN is its script, which surprises me because of all the totally implausible elements written therein. Incredulity abounds. For one thing, I found the romance between the two leads to be unconvincing at best. Worse still was director Roman Polanski's rewrite of scenarist Robert Towne's originally happy, originally good ending. (Spoiler coming) Maybe it's just me, but I have a serious problem with the way this movie ends. The emotionally distraught Evelyn Mulwray, her life and mental health in ruins because of her father, is pointing a gun at this heartless monster and only succeeds in shooting a hole through the sleeve of his jacket. Oh, come ON. She got herself killed and all she had to show for it was a ruined jacket? Please! Plus, the fact that our hero keeps screwing up and repeats the past just defeats his own effort to help Evelyn. I'm sorry, I just don't like it. I think it's stupid. Granted, it's well-done overall, but there is just too much material here that stretches the limits of plausibility. The ending, which is supposed to be a very strong point in a film, is far too poorly done. Depressing does not make a movie a masterpiece, nor does its being a "classic."
Got two hours of your life to waste? Want to wonder watch the same actor who scared you in the Shining bore you to death? Want to wish you had not already cleaned out the cat's litter? I have the film for you. Two hours of the most excruciating boredom watching male chauvinistic pigs who think there is nothing wrong in raping, beating or in general any other form of abusing women, sprinkle in some under-age sex with your own daughter (how ironic that three years later the film's director will be charged with such an offence – was he planning his own future? Oh, sorry I forget 15 is too old for him) and add a cherry on top for being absolutely pointless and you have Chinatown. If anyone can tell me what Chinatown has to do with the film's plot I will give you the cherry myself.And before you all start jumping on me I do understand the 'rape' refers to the water supply controversies of the early 1910's. However, please, seriously, do not tell me that you enjoyed this film. I am only saying what everyone else is too scared to say - it really is not that good a film.
Yes this is meant to be one of the best Jack Nicholson's movie but I think I'm probably the only one in the world that doesn't approve of the movie. I didn't seem to see enough action going around and I think Jack Nicholson playing a good guy doesn't suit him. He's mostly better off playing crazy funny characters or a evil beast. I really like him a lot as an actor but I think this is one of the worst in my personal opinion that he has ever done in his film career!I also thought the movie title was a really wrong idea to advertise since it makes you think that a lot of things could happen in this film but it honestly didn't! It disappoints me, I honestly felt I wasted 40 minutes of my life watching absolutely no live happening. I didn't think this movie deserved an Oscar or be Top Rated. It should've been redone again, it was ridiculous!
This would have been better as a one hour short feature. Acting was good, direction (Polanksi) was awful. Did he have a shooting script? I fell asleep - and I was the projectionist!


                
People say this is a great movie. I say this is an over-glorified piece of garbage. The movie with the exception of Jack, makes me want to ralph all over myself. The movie is a decent movie but not great. The story is decent, the acting is above average. But overall the movie suffers. I wouldnt pay to see this movie or rent it. It would take someone paying me to make me watch this movie again. I just don't like it. Out of 10 I'd say this movie is a 5, 6.5 tops.


                
I won't watch the movie. I won't give you the spoiler of the movie, but I can say that it is a Fritzl noir film (incest) with everyone in the characters not giving key information from the detective which they paid him to hire. Imagine 3 clients from a related group of people hiring Gites. And each of them holding key information and a holds a conspiracy too big to handle. It is actually very easy to write a story with Fritzl type movie with a larger then life conspiracy and a detective who isn't too clear and have no plan. In fact I find it a child's play to write movies where it raises too many questions and nothing can be done about it just to overwhelm the senses. One was that mysterious Hal malfunction in Stanlely Kubrick, although no answer was provided, that was provided by the movie 2010, and 2001 remains somewhat of a mystery. And to make it appear complex is actually easy then to make it simple in any scriptwriting work. While critically acclaimed, because of the secrecy and mystery surrounds the movie, it could be a complete opaque. In any event I don't like the movie because it drags, too mysterious and there's nothing you can do about the crime in Los Angeles. The pass the movie as something you just have to accept. I believe can be done about it, but the veil of mystery is gone. The movie explains nothing and writing this style of movie won't get a blockbuster, audiences and just bore someone to tears. The writing style such as this is also easy to do or imitate and this is not the kind of story writing I like other people to emulate either. It's sloppy work to have any story without a clear story or actions by the characters. It makes for a very sloppy writing and is extremely easy to write. Hence, I find the movie bad. I don't want to see writers getting lazy in writing this Fritzl noir films.
