The seventies were the last years of great (American) films. I say films because when we speak of movies nowadays, we allude to blockbusters that generate hundreds of millions of dollars, the least amount of controversy, and are mostly inane crowd pleasers with tacked-on endings.Consider the output of influential film makers Allen during that time: Coppola, Scorsese, Altman, Lumet, Ashby, Bogdanovich, to name a few Americans, not to mention European directors Fellini, Bergman, Wertmuller, Truffaut, Argento, Saura, and Bunuel -- all household names in those days. Before Spielberg and Lucas came along, not a single one of these made movies appealing to the "summer blockbuster tradition," and unlike Spielberg or Lucas, they have a body of work filled in high artistic quality with minimum special effects and a lasting mark on future generations.Polanski is another one of these directors, and with "Chinatown," he reaches his directorial peak amidst the scandals which seemed to taint everything except his art. One can only imagine him in the forties, living his scandals, and transmuting this into high art -- when film-noir was at its darkest. Thankfully he lived in a time which did not demand the "happy ending" or re-shoots in order to be politically correct -- else "Chinatown" would have lost its devastating punch and conformed to the norm.A departure from the horror genre which brought Polanski to stardom, he re-creates an equally grim genre with his jaded view of 1930s Los Angeles down to the choice of the color palette, and using the acting powers of Dunaway and Nicholson to a fantastic effect, he creates haunting characters who can't be easily dismissed as film-noir archetypes without looking very closely at their reactions, listening to their words, and following their progressive involvement in a plot which threatens to swallow them whole, and ultimately does. And having Huston play Noah Cross -- who virtually took noir to its heights with "The Maltese Falcon" -- Polanski hits the mark dead center, because Huston is the hardened heart of the corruption in "Chinatown." In brief scenes he creates a character almost unbearably evil with a hint of madness just underneath, and how he affects the characters around him will pervade the viewer long after the credits have rolled -- after all, he is the person who tells Nicholson he has no idea what he's getting himself into.I doubt this movie could be made today for reasons stated above. I'm thankful Polanski's vision prevailed, and not Towne's. Film-noir is a genre about human darkness, and here, the envelope is pushed all the way through, making this film, in my opinion, rank second to "The Maltese Falcon."
There is a word, impossible to spell, that describes the alignment of solar bodies like the planets when they all fall into place together. A similar word would describe this film. Everything about it is right. Polanski never directed a better movie. The performers, down to the lowest atmosphere person, are superb. The editing, the score, the sound, the decor, the dialog, all are just about flawless. The photography is peerless. The white garden apartments, the terra cotta roof tiles, the palms and desert sand are all painted with a faint gold, faintly ripe with false promise, like the oranges that bounce from Gittes' desperately speeding car in the northwest Valley. Polanski deserves much of the credit. When Gittes surprises Evelyn Mulwray in her car, after he follows her to her daughter's house, her face slumps forward and beeps the horn briefly. Then, so faintly, we hear a few dogs bark in the background. Not only is the scene itself exquisitely done but it prefigures the ending, as does Gittes' remark earlier to Evelyn that she has a flaw in her iris. The movie is too good to deserve much dissecting. It stands repeated watching. If there is anything wrong with it, it is the serious and tragic ending that Polanski always insists on tacking on. Robert Towne was right and Polanski wrong in this case. Everything came together on this film. It's not only the best detective movie ever made; it's one of the best movies ever made -- period. A marvelous job by everyone concerned.I have to add (6/27/05) that the word I mentioned in the first sentence is spelled "syzygy." Man, did I get enlightening email on that. I might as well add two other impressive features of this movie. (1) Polanksi takes his time. Example: Gittes sneaks into Hollis Mulwray's office and begins to go through the drawers of his old-fashioned wooden desk. As he slides each drawer out, Polanksi gives us a shot of their humdrum contents (checkbooks, magnifying glass, and so forth) and we can almost smell the heat and the odor of shellac and sawdust emanating from the wooden containers. The contents reveal nothing of importance in this case. But (2) sometimes irrelevant information crops up that resonates later in the film with its own echo. The detail might be just a word ("applecore") or an ordinary object (a pair of spectacles found in a pond, immediately after Gittes imitates the Japanese gardener's remark that the water is bad for the "glass.") Some of the references may be so consistent as to constitute a theme (water). None of this hits you over the head with its significance. It's all very neatly stitched together.


                
Chinatown is a tremendous collaborative effort that produced one of the most memorable Hollywood pictures of the 1970's. Director Roman Polanski (his last film in America, and the first he made in America after the murder of Sharon Tate), stars Jack Nicholson & Faye Dunaway, and writer Robert Towne, all come together to create a detective story classic. At times it slows its pace down so the viewer can think along with Nicholson's character, to take in the environment as well as the situation he's in (i.e. when he goes to the empty reservoir, when he visits Noah Crosses house the first time). And the script has the perfect sense of drawing us into a story, fueled by curiosity, grit, and cynicism, and engages the viewer by its realistic dialog between the characters. J.J. Gittes (Nicholson, in one of his best 70's performances) is in Los Angeles circa 1933 in the line of private investigator, usually dealing with people who may or may not believe that their significant other is having an affair. Evelyn Mulwray feels this may be the case with her husband Hollis, and Gittes decides to take the case. However, this draws him into a deeper case involving the city's loss of water once Hollis- a major player in the water supply controversy in the city- is found murdered. This eventually leads him to Noah Cross (John Huston), a big businessman and who also happens to be Evelyn's father. Intrigue starts to develop, as Jake's own life begins to be at risk. As a intricate, detailed detective story the film is an above-average work, with Towne's script containing the maturity, and wicked sense of humor, of a James M. Cain or Raymond Chandler novel. When the thrills come they come as being striking. And when humanity and compassion get thrown into the mix, the film reaches a whole other plane of intelligence. The last third of the film could turn off some of the audience (depending on one's own level of belief), but it holds strong thanks to the performances. Nicholson doesn't over-step his bounds in any scene, finding the right notes in suggestive conversations. Dunaway is better than expected (though I'm not sure if it's an great performance). And Huston's Noah Cross is one of the more disturbing villains of that period in movies. Add to it some good cameos (Burt Young as a driver, Polanski playing the little guy in the infamous 'knife' scene), and a smooth soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith, Chinatown comes out as strong piece of movie-making, and arguably one of the greatest in the crime/mystery genre.


                
I knew CHINATOWN was hailed as the paragon of a film noir, and that's why I finally got down to watching it. However, despite having known about the movie for quite a while, I wasn't really prepared for just how dark it could be. The movie starts slowly, with a private detective taking on what looks like a routine case. But soon he finds himself enmeshed in a web of conspiracy, murder, lies and deceit. The plot is like a perfect machine that relentlessly moves towards a final resolution that is truly epic and truly soul-wrenching.In a recent New York Times piece, they called CHINATOWN "a meditation on evil", which is spot-on. Set in 1937, this movie is just all-round perfect, first and foremost how everything is connected within the grand structure of the movie, that is rich in themes (water, evil, trust, guilt, greed) and even richer in suspense, as the audience—just like our protagonist—tries to find out what is happening. The story is "complex" for sure, but it's not "complicated". Everything makes sense in the end and the complexity pays off big time.Besides the impeccable screenplay, everything else about this movie is perfect as well. Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway carry the movie with sophistication and dignity. Dunaway's stunning performance in particular fills every scene with an aura of mystery as you are trying to find out what her motives are. The set pieces are beautiful, the score is compelling; and camera-work and editing could not be any better. There is a reason this one is called a classic! So, if you're ready to delve deep into a richly layered exploration of the dark side of humanity—enjoy the ride. But don't expect to come back unscathed.


                
Polanksi's 'Chinatown' stands as one of the classics of 1970s American cinema, the last classic period in American cinema. It's a great reminder of how utterly engaging cinema can be without the special effects, flimsy plots and outrageous stunts of many major studio productions now, not evening mentioning the obvious marketing tie-ins.The cinematography and screenplay could be considered almost economical in its minimalism as it is really the story, script and characters that drive this movie forward. Chinatown tells the story a detective, confidently played by Jack Nicholson, who gets embroiled in an investigation involving the mysterious murder (suicide?) of the head of the Water Board. During the investigation, he gets involved with Evelyn Mulwray, the wife of the murdered man who appears to want to get to the bottom of the mystery but during the course of the movie demonstrates that she is not telling the whole story and has something to hide.Everything in this movie works from already mentioned tight editing down to the costumes and sets.Nuff said!10/10


                
Set in late '30s Los Angeles this 1974 film opens with a woman, identifying herself as Evelyn Mulwray, asking private detective Jake Gettes to find out whether her husband, chief engineer of the LA Water and Power Company, is having an affair. He follows him and ultimately photographs him with another woman. Somehow these pictures end up in the papers and he is approached by another woman who it turns out is the real wife of Mulwray... and she intends to sue. He continues to investigate Mulwray and suspects some odd goings on at Water and Power... then Mulwray turns up dead; drowned during a severe drought. His continued investigation brings him closer to the real Evelyn as well as into real danger as he learns the truth about Water and Power's activities which could make some people very rich at the expense of other, poorer, people.This film may have been made about a quarter of a century after the classic era for film noir but it perfectly captures the feel of those films. It has morally ambiguous characters inhabiting a murky world that contrasts with the bright Los Angeles sunshine. The story has many twists and turns without feeling unnecessarily complex or confusing. The cast does a great job; especially Jack Nicholson who is in every scene so that the viewer doesn't know anything Gettes doesn't know. Faye Dunaway is solid as Evelyn Mulwray and John Huston is suitably menacing as her father; a man standing to make a lot of money with many dark secrets. Overall I'd definitely recommend this to anybody wanting a good mystery or fans of film noir.


                
While I don't care too much for Roman Polanski's style of direction(maybe I'll grow to like it eventually, maybe not), I can't deny that this is a truly great film. Jack Nicholson really shines through in his role, and his acting in this film perfectly fits the character... his shark smile, his voice, his tone... all of it, perfect. I always thought, when watching films with Nicholson, that he'd make a great lead in a noir film, so when I found this film and discovered that it was indeed noir, I naturally saw it as soon as possible. I found the film to have a slightly slower pace than what I would have preferred or expected, but apart from that minor detail, it was flawless. The plot is great, and thoroughly interesting and involving. The pacing, while not fast all the time, is more than acceptable. There are sequences that are really intense and exciting. The acting is great... like I said earlier, Nicholson shines through and really takes this character and makes him his own. The characters are well-written and credible. The special effects are well-done and still hold up pretty well. The dialog is very well-written and memorable. There are quite a few quotable lines, as well. The cinematography is good, and even when the plot doesn't move a lot, Polanski keeps our interest through interesting angles and sequences. I liked that there was often something subtle going on in the background, while we're focusing on what's directly in front of us. While Polanski certainly doesn't possess the attention to detail that Kubrick does, he manages to put a good bit of detail into many of the shots, and there is fairly little left to coincidence or chance, much like Kubrick. The film has a few twists that are quite good, and they come as surprises... I don't think I really saw them coming, and I doubt anyone would be able to. Of course, some might not find the twists to be that impressive, but the story stands on it's own nicely as well. This is a great movie, which should be seen by just about anyone who can take it(it's more than just casually adult in nature, even though there's not that much violence or sex in it). I recommend this film to anyone who enjoys film noir, watching Jack Nicholson in perfect shape in a role that was tailor-made for him, a good mystery, Roman Polanski's direction and just a good movie with a more adult tone that many others. 10/10


                
"Chinatown" is so good, it's scary. Jack Nicholson is Jake Gittes, the iconic private eye hired to spy on the husband of a woman who suspects he is having an affair. What Jake soon uncovers is a vast conspiracy involving local tycoons and water - heading towards a great conclusion with a classic surprise ending."Chinatown" might not be the best film noir ever made but it is certainly one of the best. Like "Indiana Jones" it is a loving homage to its source - in this case movies of the 1930s, 40s and 50s such as "The Maltese Falcon" (most obviously!) and lesser-known film noirs such as "D.O.A." (which no one else I've seen so far has mentioned in comparison to this, but it does have its similarities).Nicholson is absolutely superb in his role, playing Jake with all the touch panache of an instant classic anti-hero. This was certainly a movie of the 1970s, with its anti-hero being the guy we come to root for.Robert Towne is a genius and I may seem to be giving "Chinatown" loads of fanboy praise but I can honestly say that I'm not obsessed with it in any way, in fact I've only seen it a few times. But it's just a really, really great movie that's perfect in just about every way - direction, acting, screen writing, cinematography, editing, sound...the list is endless. Polanski deserves as much praise as Towne I suppose, because his direction is flawless and very noir-ish. (If that's a suitable description.)Overall, this is a classic - for good reason. After seeing this and "L.A. Confidential" within a few days I can say with confidence that "Chinatown" is much better, and will probably be more fondly remembered years from now.
By now it's only redundant to heap more praise on this film. The writing, acting, cinematography, direction, editing, etc. seamlessly come together as if predestined. And yes, I think Polanski's decision to go with a downbeat ending was the correct choice - that final scene is unforgettable. What I'd like to focus on is Faye Dunaway's remarkable contribution to the film. She reportedly did not get along with Polanski, in fact, was labeled "difficult" on several of her movies. Yet she turned in an incomparable, complex performance. Starting with her look. Hitchcock placed great emphasis on each character's outward appearance, which told us just about all we needed to know. Here Dunaway takes a page from his book and immerses herself in the trappings of a wealthy woman of the 1930s. Compare the way she looked in "Bonnie and Clyde," also set in the 1930s. The eyes and hair are straight out of 1967. Keep in mind that she was 33 when she made 'Chinatown." That's a knowing performance from someone so young. Her cool demeanor when we first meet her turns out to be misleading. She embodies the classic femme fatale until just toward the end, in her famous "She's my sister. She's my daughter" scene, when we suddenly understand she's the only character with an ounce of integrity. There's been quite a lot going on beneath the surface. Next time you watch this film, pay close attention to Dunaway. You won't find a better female performance anywhere.


                
It's difficult to imagine a more flawless movie than this. A youthful Jack Nicholson is at his very best and most plausible in the role of Jake Gittes, featuring in a continuously engaging story, which can be appreciated as a timelessly sophisticated tribute and homage to Chandler. Each scene and every moment of the swiftly evolving plot is redolent of intrigue and anticipation. Dunaway and Huston are also superbly cast, as are Burt Young, Diane Ladd, Perry Lopez, and the entire list. The acting and direction throughout are uniformly professional and superior. I was particularly struck by the old lady in the retirement home. The script is exceptional, and the dialogue totally polished and realistic. There are one or two lines which are directly evocative of Chandler at his best. For anyone with an IQ above moron level, even if only slightly, it is worth investing a profitable two hours of their life watching this film. It is guaranteed to provide enjoyment and will extend their sensibility and general perception to a very great degree. Audiences expecting a mindless crime thriller will naturally be disappointed, as it is highly intelligent, though ultimately shockingly tragic. The relationship between personal conflicts and the wider ramifications of civic and corporate crime and corruption is unusually subtle. Chinatown is an area of enigmatic impenetrability, which is better left alone. Polanski excels himself. A matter for amazement that this masterpiece languishes as low as 127 on the top 250 list. Some time ago I was discussing movies with a friend's daughter, who is married to a man in the film business. After much thought we mutually decided that Chinatown was probably the best film both of us had ever seen. I just watched it again, for the umpteenth time. This is a wonderful, wonderful film. A clockwork jewel of precision.
Of the films this reviewer has seen (and that is quite a lot) this film is one of the select few to come as near to cinematic excellence as possible. From the first shot to the infamous final line, you belong to Polanski; in his hands for the whole ride - and those hands, I think it safe to say, are the hands of a master. The film features a phenomenal cast with Jack Nicholson as Jake Gittes, the beautiful Faye Dunaway as femme fatale Evelyn Mulwray and the excellent director John Huston in an acting role as one of the most horrifying villains in the history of cinema: Noah Cross. Now this is one of those films where little of the plot can be revealed because it's all just far too complicated BUT it's also a film you aren't likely to ever forget. Ever. With beautiful cinematography, a heart- pounding story line, fantastic acting and one of the most atrociously heart-rending finales this reviewer has ever seen, this film is an absolute must. My rating 10/10


                
Chinatown is one of the few movies I consider perfect. I've seen it several times and when I start thinking about it, dismantling the several aspects that constitute it, I don't find anything wrong about it. Perhaps only Lawrence of Arabia has such an equal perfect synthesis of acting, writing, cinematography, editing, story, pacing, music and atmosphere.The movie starts with private investigator J. J. Gittes following a man named Mulwray, whose wife thinks is cheating on her. Gittes takes photos and they make their way into a newspaper. Gittes unknowingly became a pawn in a smear campaign. Furthermore, he discovers that Mulwray's real wife, Evelyn, wasn't the person that hired him. And then Mulwray shows up dead.Chinatown is a movie that simultaneously draws inspiration from the source of film noir and changes this genre. It is not a coincidence that John Huston, the director considered the father of film noir (The Maltese Falcon), plays a supporting role here. Roman Polanski knows his film history and knows how to give credit where credit is due. But Huston was also a good actor so his role here is more than deserved, indeed I could not conceive this movie without his performance: he plays an odious, disgusting, unrepentant bastard with such conviction it's difficult to see where the performance ends and the person begins.And then we have Faye Dunaway, playing one of the greatest femme fatales in history. She's a mix of untouchable angel and demonic temptress; she displays a cold reservation about the people around her, a misleading fragility that hides a dangerous mind. Although I've never liked Dunaway much, I think no one has come close to portraying hopeless despair and dread as she does in this movie.But Chinatown also modernises the genre. Not that film noir was ever bad, but the conception of realism is something that changes with time, and what was realistic in Out of the Past or The Maltese Falcon seems unconvincing nowadays. The tough Sam Spade gives way to J.J. Gittes, a down-to-earth private eye who worries if his involvement with murder suspects and his tinkering with evidence won't make him lose his license; and who wears a bandage in his face almost the entire movie after a knife cut. This frailty, this concern with mundane details was unthinkable in noir before Jack Nicholson. The '70s have my favourite performances by Nicholson – One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest; the movie he made with Antonionni, Professione: Reporter; The Last Detail – and my absolutely favourite is his role as Gittes, an otherwise good-intentioned detective who gets involved in something that's too much for someone as insignificant as him to handle. For although he's the hero of the movie, he's that modern type of hero that achieves nothing.Chinatown is a movie where nobility and heroism meet a dead end. Fatalism, that other gift from classic noir, is much present here. Gittes is a man trying to do good in a world that has no conception of goodness anymore, and he only makes things worse, little by little, until the unforgettable (foretold) ending where everything is tied up. Few movie endings carry such a punch as Chinatown, but it's the only ending suitable.Roman Polanski and Robert Towne, the original screenwriter, deserve all the praise in the world for having created this masterpiece. So do the three main actors. And on a final note, Jerry Goldsmith also deserves recognition for his beautiful score, so beautiful and delicate in its melancholy, that it feels like the movie translated into musical notes. They all deserve to be forever remembered for one of cinema's masterworks.
Directed by Polish-born Roman Polanski, Chinatown (1974) is often credited with reviving the classic film noir detective/crime genre exemplified by such '40s and '50s American films as The Maltese Falcon, Double Indemnity, and Touch of Evil. While classic film noir is characterized by low lit, black and white cinematography, Polanski managed to infuse Chinatown with a profound sense of corruption and nihilism while setting his tale amid the relentless blazing sunlight of a Southern California drought and despite employing two photographic elements previously thought antithetical to film noir style: color film stock and anamorphic widescreen composition. Chinatown's great critical and popular success demonstrated once and for all that the essence of film noir lay mainly in its bleak moral vision, not its cinematographic style.Seizing full advantage of the 1968 demise of the Hollywood Production Code and the subsequent liberalization in American cinema's treatment of sex and violence, Chinatown builds upon the film noir tradition of exploiting and exploding social taboos. Take, for instance, the central plot function of incest or the notoriously brutal scene in which Jake Gittes has a protruding part of his anatomy nearly cut off (no, not literally that part - but the phallic implications are clear and played for sly comedy in subsequent scenes). Yet Polanski also added an entirely new dimension to classic film noir by linking up its darkness with the paranoid/depressive mood of post-Vietnam, post-Watergate America, thereby extending the noir sense of corruption beyond the mean urban streets and to high governmental and privileged economic places. Chinatown may be set in 1930s L.A., but its soul is in the 1970s.Like earlier film noir private detectives, Chinatown's protagonist, Jake Gittes (a role Jack Nicholson was born to play) is derived in large part from the cynical, wisecracking, "hardboiled" detective popularized in 1930s novels by such writers as Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett. Also like many earlier film noir works, Chinatown adopts a storytelling point of view that is analogous to a mix of "first person" and "third person limited" narration in the novel. Such a viewpoint immerses the audience in a subjective search for truth within a maze of deceptive appearances, recognizing or failing to recognize clues (the "bad for glass" seawater in the Mulrays backyard, the obituary column, Noah Cross's bifocals) just as Gittes does and not a second sooner. Indeed, Chinatown is very unusual in the degree to which it sustains a subjective narrative viewpoint, often punctuating it with clever point of view shots using binoculars, camera lenses, car mirrors, and a variety of Peeping Tom setups.Gittes's perspective proves to be much more unreliable even than that of classic film noir era private eyes. Like Chandler's Philip Marlowe and Hammett's Sam Spade, Gittes is courageous and resourceful; like them and unlike the police, he is governed by a code of honor, however unconventional or self-defined. Nevertheless, the world in which Gittes operates is far less redeemable by the actions of a detective hero than was the mid-twentieth century world of classic noir and eons remote from the optimistic 19th century world of such English detective novel heroes as Sherlock Holmes and Hercule Poirot. Repeatedly in Chinatown the private eye code either fails to function or is subject to mockery - until, in the film's shocking last scene, Gittes fails for a second time to save a damsel in distress and is led away mumbling "do as little as possible" while a bought police force ushers the innocent Catherine Mulray into the grasp of her rapacious grandfather/father.Chinatown's representation of another archetypal film noir character, the femme fatale, significantly departs from original film noir conventions as well. The casting of vampish looking Faye Dunaway in the role of Evelyn Mulray would seem to fit well enough, but what happens to the character in the plot and what, even more disturbingly, we learn has happened to her in the film's back-story is not at all in keeping with classic noir. Evelyn's alluring deceptions and even her nymphomania are ultimately the effects of her quite literal violation by patriarchal power, not another instance of female sexuality ruthlessly wresting power in a man's world. If in classic film noir the death or exposure of the femme fatale is requisite for whatever moral redemption is extracted from the darkness, Evelyn's brutal death in Chinatown marks a plunge completely into the darkness.Of course central to the structure of Chinatown is that most noir of all cities, Los Angeles, centered here on its eponymous "Chinatown" district, where the film's plot climaxes. The scarcity of water in Polanski's Los Angeles transforms the city into a symbolic spiritual Wasteland akin to T.S. Eliot's. But here the fisher king won't die because he is an all-powerful capitalist/father figure willing to "do anything" without moral restraint. Played in a great piece of postmodern self-reflection by John Huston, the father of film noir, Noah Cross is also a figure of the Anti-Christ. Note his ironically doubled Biblical name, his favorite lunch (suggestively Christian fish served with the heads on!), and his power over water, which he diverts not to liberate any chosen people but to line his pockets and own everything he possibly can, including "the future, Mr. Gittes, the future." Few, if any, American mainstream films have bleaker, more nihilistic resolutions than Chinatown. And few are more powerful or memorable.
In 1937 Los Angeles, a grasping tycoon (John Huston) takes control of the city's water supply and causes a drought, while a private eye (Jack Nicholson) takes on a case involving the tycoon's daughter (Faye Dunaway), which entangles him in a major scandal.Chinatown is a brilliant mystery, written with an astute sense of narrative architecture and played to the hilt by a terrific cast, including Nicholson, who has never done better work than his portrayal of the insouciant Jake Gittes. It's a rare thriller, one that addresses itself to serious moral and public policy issues while remaining gripping, exciting and finally heartbreaking. In 1991, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."
You have to get a little depressed when people with so much money are dreadfully unhappy!! "Chinatown" is a movie which ends up being an indelible display of how egocentric megalomania supersedes all other emotions! Such abominable behavior reflects a myriad of despicable qualities of many individuals which pertain to the abhorrent aspects of human nature. The director of this film, Roman Polanski, has had a tenuously depraved life. (Including his tragic marriage to Sharon Tate). This movie is considered to be Polanski's best film ever! "Chinatown" is based on a true story, one which inflicted a lot of suffering for the city of Los Angeles, and, the vast majority of it's citizens sometime back in the 1930's!! The intensity of agitation in this film is astounding!! Jack Nicholson's performance in this film is remarkable!! Faye Dunaway's performance as Evelyn Mulray is considered by some prominent movie critics, to be the 36th best acting performance in the history of movie making!! This does not surprise me, I felt that Faye Dunaway's performance in "Network" was the best acting performance I have ever seen!! The movie, "Chinatown" is about people who are unscrupulous and miserable!! Often times, character portrayals about people who are victims of their environment are usually depicted with the indigent or the oppressed, in the movie "Chinatown", the environmental victims were the wealthy and the powerful!! Hatefulness, callousness, not to mention the blatant disregard for hard working individuals, as well as their overall well being, all became second nature reactions with the hegemony of Los Angeles. (i.e. Noah Cross and a handful of pork barrel politicians). "Chinatown" emanates a subtle tolerance for lethal chicanery by making conspiracy, cover ups, and collusion complete and utter masterpieces of understatement. This film evokes a repugnant display of human intuition by merely divulging some simple, yet, clinically ruthless facts!! Accommodating plausibility translated to dollar signs with everyone in the film. Vindictiveness with all of these plutocratic and nefarious scoundrels in "Chinatown" ultimately relegated them to the precarious plight of having to reap what they've sown. Their recriminations became a proverbial case of too little too late. What wound up being the single most appropriate adjective for describing this film, was the cogently riveting one of POWERFUL!! At the end of this film all negative behavioral ugliness patterns propagated a disconcerting state of resonating despair. The directing in this movie is unbelievable. The acting is sensational. The cinematography and melodic genre in "Chinatown" is unprecedented, basically second to none!! Most critics rate "Chinatown" as one of the top twenty American films ever made, I agree!! One of Hollywood's best efforts to ever hit the silver screen!! Especially on account of itemizing the aggregate character assassinations of every main character in the film!!The movie "Chinatown" is AN ABSOLUTELY MARVELOUS CLASSIC OF ALL TIME!!


                
I've never given a movie 10 before. But I just watched Chinatown tonight for maybe the 20th time, and I think it is the most perfect movie ever made. In Polanski's masterpiece of disillusion, nothing and nobody is what they seem. Names are false, motives are false or never understood. Gittes, who at first seems like a sleazeball, is in fact a white knight seeking after truth. The cool blonde is anything but. Other film makers would pull close-ups on the clues that are dropped in plain view throughout the movie, but with Polanski, they are there but you just don't see them, any more than Gittes, until it all comes together at the end. A truly wonderful movie that only gets better with repeated viewing


                
Rarely is a film, rarely is a screenplay so flawless and excellent as it is in Roman Polanski's Chinatown. From the first shot, up to the ending.
And my god, what an ending. 
Along with the Reunion from Shawshank, I can't remember a better, more fitting, touching, yet even disturbing film ending.
Chinatown is one of the most wonderfully acted, ingeniously clever written and excellently directed films of all time. A classic for all ages: 10/10


                
Directed by Roman Polanski and stars Jack Nicholson as a private eye who is hired to investigate and expose her husband Hollis Mulwray but soon finds out that the woman who hired him was not his husband and finds him murdered it becomes something much bigger and much more complicated. To start things off the cast is fantastic in this movie, Jack Nicholson is magnificent especially his subtle acting, for example after Mrs. Mulwray saves him from being shot, the way he looks at her indicates its the first sign he is starting to fall in love her. There is also another scene in the movie where Jack shows brilliance in his subtle acting where he is checking up on Mrs. Mulwray because he feels something suspicious is going on, while he is driving just the look on his face shows that he is tired and he has been through a lot through out the day. Faye Dunaway is fantastic in this film as well and seeing her and Jack work together in this movie was amazing. Just like the acting the movie itself is also very subtle, the theme is not just straight up in your face it does require some thinking. This movie is also very good at foreshadowing for instance when Jake and Mrs. Mulwray are at the restaurant she says that she has had affairs but she would not call it cheating on her husband, that is indicating her father Noah Cross has raped her which is revealed later on in the movie. Noah Cross is a very disturbing villain the more I think about it because he is an old person who has raped his daughter and killed his son-in-law/former business partner and the actor who played him did a really good job. The movie is able to not feel messy even when a lot of things are going on and instead feels contained. The scene where he talks about his past in chinatown I felt like that could have been a movie by itself because in his past he talks about how he tries to protect this woman and later she dies, the same thing happens in the film where the woman who he is trying to protect dies and gets killed, he tries to do the right thing throughout the movie but in the end he is vulnerable and can't win and it was unavoidable and Jake is back to where he was before. The message of this movie is not a positive one but it is honest and it is great to sometimes see a movie that is not perfectly wrapped with a bow and everything is all good. Overall this movie is a must see and I will give this a definite 10 out of 10.
Film Review: "Chinatown" (1974)Character J.J. Gittes, the private eye for tricky matrimonial cases with the usual "inflagranti" finish note to a case, performed to picture-carrying excellence by actor Jack Nicholson at age 36, trusting director Roman Polanksi, at the height of his powers in Hollywood, to wear two third of the film bandaid noise after investigations get all-too-messy concerning a major struggle for the water-supply dominion in Los Angeles county.Producer Robert Evans, in close excutive action with legendary as prestigious Hollywood Major Studio "Paramount Pictures", opens doors for director Roman Polanski, who gets filmmaking freedoms to find classic 1940s hard-boiled film noir homages, when screenwriter Robert Towne's Academy-Award-given original script out of total eleven nominations at the Oscars on April 8th 1975 in its 47th edition, losing all major categories to equal as comparable "The Godfather: Part II" starring Al Pacino and Robert De Niro as Young Vito Corleone directed by Academy-Award-winning Francis Ford Coppola.Nevertheless "Chinatown" strikes an even darker note than its direct competitor, when street-thug-behavior gets respectable due to the shear non-stop endurance and elevated to excellence impersonated by haunting as impeccably-written character of "Noah Cross", portrayed in fine-beat-acting by highly-successful director in his own right John Huston (1906-1987), who shares the highest suspense moments with Jack Nicholson getting seemingly sucked deeper into L.A.'s underworld of contract-making, funds-shifting with iron-fist for the so-called "Future" of mankind with running water in an unless desert city. Director Roman Polanski makes sure that the 125-Minute-Editorial does not fail once to lose its grip onto the audience with additional atmospheric scoring by supreme composer Jerry Goldsmith (1929-2004) and supporting grace and classic-beauty-indulging actress Faye Dunaway as notorious character Evelyn Mulwray, who carries a family that deep hiding in female's spirit that every scene she appears becomes unbearable for tension points that have not been done better in Hollywood-filmmaking ever since.Copyright 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
As Perfect as a Motion Picture can be, "Chinatown" is considered a Masterpiece in "Critics" Circles and Public Opinion Decidedly Doesn't Differ much.It's one of those Films where all the Ingredients that make up a Movie Synthesize in a Symmetric Conglomerate of Cinematic Class.Nominated for 11 Academy Awards (winning only 1, Best Original Screenplay) the Movie was a Bono-Fide Hit with Critics but the Public took a while to Warm Up to its Charms. The Final Box-Office Toll for the Year...it came in 15th.However, since then it is Fondled Over by Fans and Film Historians as an Object of Affection. Movie Making at its Best. A Flawless Film that is Firing on All Cylinders. Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, John Huston and a Great Supporting Cast Deliver the Robert Towne Script Effortlessly.Bathed in a Sun-Baked Glow of Burnt Brown and Yellow with Highlights of Bright Red/Orange, the Cinematography of John Alonzo was an Attractive Anomaly for its Time. Most Films of the Era were Shot in Stark, Gritty, Realism in Sync with a Postmodern Template and Hays-Code Busted, Unfettered, No Frills Format.Alonzo's "Chinatown" is Dreamy as it Lights the "Nightmarish" Underbelly of Evil Displayed by the "Money Men" and Forgers that gave Birth to Los Angeles. It's Pulpish Tonality adds a Lush Layer to the Lured.Jerry Goldsmith's Haunting Score is also Memorable in its Minimalism of Horn and Single Note Piano. Goldsmith was brought in at the Last Minute and Composed the Music in 9 Days.Director Roman Polanski Considers this His Second Best Film after "The Pianist" (2002). Most Agree that the Maestro of "Chinatown" was Surely on Top of His Game with this Homage to Film-Noir where He took Chances with Conventions, Filming in Glorious Color, No Voice Over Narration, and Wide Screen for Example.The Film has many Fascinations and Stands Up to Repeated Viewings. It's a Feast of Film-Making Techniques that, in fact, may Require Repeated Viewing to Fully Appreciate.


                
This film is perfect. I cannot find any flaws in this movie whatsoever. This is Jack Nicholson at his best he is completely engulfed in the role, and in a way there could not be a J.J. Gittes without Nicholson. Faye Dunaway is no exception, she is just as precise as Nicholson, and the two compliment each other throughout the film continually. Polanski is a brilliant director. The mise-en-scene of this film is really unmatched. Everything comes together to give the audience the amazing experience of the movie. The scenery of the desert is perfect for this film. Everything about this movie leads up to the final scene, where you realize that even if you do everything right, and try as hard as you can to do the right thing it does not work out. This film is sometimes categorized as a neo-noir, and the ending satisfies that classification.
"Chinatown" is an absolutely intoxicating mystery set in 1930s Los Angeles where private detective Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) is hired to keep an eye on a water and power executive and finds much more going on than he'd anticipated. Faye Dunaway is his femme fatale, aloof socialite Evelyn Mulwray, in screenwriter Robert Townes' delicious ode to the crime fiction of authors like Hammett and Chandler.Many details add to the enjoyment of this intricately plotted story; what's so great about it is that we discover things along with Jake and aren't able to figure out where it's going next. The story also has a very grim quality to it, one that's actually cyclical in nature as it's suggested that actions that had previously resulted in tragedy are being repeated. Then again, people may not expect just how grim this gets in the end. Additionally, it features some revelations that are particularly twisted and which the viewer is not likely to forget. There's one character who will especially make ones' skin crawl.Many riveting scenes and confrontations play out while everything gets lovingly and beautifully lit and photographed; period recreation is also strong. Director Roman Polanski guides all of it with a sure hand, getting superb performances out of his well chosen cast. A large amount of familiar faces appear - Perry Lopez, Dick Bakalyan, Joe Mantell, Bruce Glover, Diane Ladd, John Hillerman, James Hong, Beulah Quo, Roy Roberts, Noble Willingham, Rance Howard, Jesse Vint, Burt Young, and Lee de Broux, but standing out and delivering a very grandiose performance is the always welcome John Huston. Polanskis' cameo as the hood who slashes Jakes' nose is also a treat.By the end, the separate threads are tied together and Jake realizes that all of his best efforts don't amount to that much; he's unable to prevent the worst from happening. Still, this film offers a compulsively watchable journey on the way to its destination, remaining believable and interesting all the way. Even as it gets very serious, it doesn't miss opportunities for humour, and it entertains solidly for two hours and 11 minutes, rating as one of the most potent examples of the "neo noir" genre.10 out of 10.
"Chinatown" begins in a deceptively straightforward manner but soon develops into a complex mystery which involves deception, murder and corruption. The action is set in drought stricken L.A. during the 1930s and the stylish way in which the atmosphere and look of the period are evoked is just one of the many strengths of this exceptional movie. Ironically, its story, which conveys such a great sense of time and place, actually deals with various forms of evil that are utterly timeless and leads to a grim denouement in which evil is seen to prevail and corruption continues unabated. The sheer power and reality of this conclusion is, no doubt, one of the elements that makes "Chinatown" so memorable and contributes so strongly to its enduring appeal.Having been hired by a client who presented herself as Mrs Evelyn Mulwray, private eye J.J. "Jake" Gittes (Jack Nicholson) tails Mr Hollis Mulwray (Darrell Zwerling) who's suspected of being involved in an adulterous relationship and photographs him with his young mistress. When the photos appear in the newspapers, a little while later, Mr Mulwray (who's the Chief Engineer in the L.A. Water and Power Department) finds that his reputation is damaged and when the real Mrs Mulwray (Faye Dunaway) turns up at Gittes' office and threatens him with a lawsuit, he becomes determined to find out who was behind the scheme to use him to discredit Mulwray.Mulwray is found dead and is believed to have drowned but Gittes suspects that he's been murdered. The investigation he then embarks on, leads to the discovery of a conspiracy to use phony names and the city's water supply to manipulate land prices in the northwest valley. A number of surprising complications also then come to light in the relationships between Evelyn, her husband, her daughter and her father who's a wealthy and seriously corrupt businessman called Noah Cross (John Huston).When the police begin to suspect that Evelyn may have been involved in Mulwray's murder, Gittes tries to protect her and her daughter by arranging a means of escape for them, but things don't go according to plan.Roman Polanski directs "Chinatown" with great skill and some moments of conspicuous flair and the pace of the movie is perfect for the period in which it's set and the nature of its characters. It's exceptionally well written by Oscar winning Robert Towne who times the various developments to perfection and the technique of putting the audience in Gittes' shoes makes the whole journey a riveting experience.Jack Nicholson successfully balances Gittes' cynicism, glibness and sarcasm with his sensitive side in a portrayal which is extremely effective and, by his standards, rather reined in. Faye Dunaway is wonderfully inscrutable as a woman who turns out to be much more vulnerable and damaged than one first suspects and John Huston brings immense power to his role as an incredibly evil and dangerous villain who tries to rationalise his own depravity by suggesting that it's merely the result of unfortunate circumstances.Gittes' experience of working in Chinatown before he became a private eye taught him that in that area, you can't always tell what's going on and that trying to help someone could actually wind up with them suffering as a consequence. Bearing in mind what Gittes learns and feels at the end of this movie, the metaphorical significance of Chinatown is self-evident.
Roman Polanski's wide screen, Depression era detective story is more than just another anachronistic homage to the film noir gumshoes and femme fatales of yesteryear. The serpentine labyrinth of corruption uncovered by tough but intelligent private eye Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) involves nothing less than the consolidation of greater Los Angeles itself, where the most tainted currency of thieves isn't money, but water. This is one of those rare productions where every element seems to fall into place, from Robert Towne's exciting, original screenplay to a definitive performance by Nicholson to John Huston's unlikely but effective portrayal of what must be one of the most depraved villains in screen memory, a man who, by his own chilling admission, "is capable of anything." Music, art direction, editing and photography are all first class, but the true test of any classic is longevity, and in this regard the film passes with flying colors by actually improving with each viewing.


                
It has always annoyed me when a screenwriter's contribution is overlooked so the director can jump to the front of the credit parade, as far as importance to the project is determined. In his book "Hollywood Animal", Joe (Basic Instinct) Eszterhas describes how the man who lensed two of his scripts, Costa Gavras, was talking at a college and the so called film students, who've bought into this auteur theory, didn't really get it that somebody else conceived and wrote the piece in the first place.Robert Towne is a man who apparently is very fast with doctoring others' stories and very slow with the completion of his own scripts. If it really took him seven years to write "Chinatown" (as Robert Evans claimed in "The Kid Stays In The Picture"), then it was worth it for the whole world out there. This is an original work which should be judged differently than adapted projects. In "Premiere" magazine a few years ago, there was a list of the best screenplays ever. Well, to be fair, one should separate the "Chinatown"s of the industry from films that turn plays, TV shows, video games and novels into big screen transformations.Towne's reputation as the guy most young writers look up to is secure, even if he never wrote anything else again. On the commentary for "Wonderland", James Cox and Captain Mauzner are practically jumping up and down recalling a meeting they had with Towne, at which he lauded praise on their John Holmes based investigation/exploration.Yes, Towne can create indelible characters and scenarios which actors and even in this case, directors, should kiss his hand for. I see there is a disc out now with a commentary track featuring David Fincher and Towne. Can't wait to hear that!"Chinatown" was vintage before the recalling of the past was just another cinematic cliché and excuse for young men to wear their grand pappy's old suits. The 1930s are beaming with some promise here and the unscrupulous moguls have a plan to get really rich (as if they weren't already) by screwing whoever they have to out of their fair share of nature's resources.Jack Nicholson and his almost father in law, John Huston, are both perfect in their roles as the detective and the crusty bastard whose evil lies at the heart of this whole display of an era when shame had much more power than it does in today's tell all society. Faye Dunaway has her finest moments in a terrific career in this epic. She shows (and doesn't at key moments) the full range of emotions this resilient lady is always going through and that a woman's world seventy plus years ago was radically different than today's."Chinatown" is certainly one of the great works of art from film's first century. Let's hope some other rich in spirit and plotting screenwriter watches this, for the first or hundredth time, and pens something worth being in the same category of quality.


                
