Chinatown (1974)Not so much a film noir in style or character, but a period crime drama, set in the familiar 1930s of many noir films, and featuring a noir fixture, the loner detective.I say this right away because Chinatown is sometimes called the last great film noir. After this point, noir films (or pseudo-noir, whatever your definition) become either thoroughly modern or openly derivative. The term "film noir" has itself loosened up to include almost any moody 1940s-style film with crime in it, which starts lose it's descriptive usefulness.But Jack Nicholson is, really, a great detective in the Raymond Chandler mode--sassy, fearless on the surface but actually wary and a little scared in the end, playing by his own set of rules, and working mostly alone. As well made as this movie is in many ways, it's Nicholson's physical presence that makes his scenes really work. He's such a natural actor for the camera, hesitating just long enough to demand attention but not so long it becomes affected, he becomes definitive. And that's enough to make Chinatown classic.The plot, too, is great dramatic stuff. Based in L.A., with lots of night scenes and period interiors, it circles around pretty women and rich men and corrupt politicos and dubious cops. And around water. In a way, this makes the movie prescient, almost--water being no new topic for Los Angeles but increasingly pertinent in the 1970s. Water is also a MacGuffin in the plot, a device we don't care deeply about compared to the interpersonal intrigues, the incest, the murders. All this other stuff keeps the movie, and Nicholson, going, and it's snappy and well done. It isn't exactly brilliant, though, and anyone really looking at the screenplay and following the plot might raise an eyebrow now and then, or question some of the hyperbole around the movie.It's fun seeing director Roman Polanski appear as a jerky, power-hungry kind of thug, because maybe it fits him (though his friends say otherwise). He has confessed to raping of a young teenager long ago, but I have never heard of him actually apologizing for it. (I know that's supposed to stay outside of the analysis of the movie, and he did do 42 days in jail.) Digging further in, you can maybe see John Huston's role as a little strained (though I love Huston in general, and his presence is meant to let us connect to a previous generation of Hollywood) and Faye Dunawaye, for all her fame, is slightly cold at times, a little decorative. The movie has lots of strong effects this way, and you know that Polanski is a movie lover, and the result taken whole is a kind of bowing down to this kind of crime film from earlier on. And in that sense, every doubt I have for the movie above could be countered with a simple, "It was intended that way." And the clichés and familiar plot twists are part of an homage to the medium.Which then begs the question--why isn't it filmed with more energy, with less prettiness? It doesn't in fact, adapt to a rigorous, stark, shadowy film noir aesthetic, but instead layers a very well done but slightly 1970s perfect, technically excellent color. Not that it should have been black and white, and not that Farewell My Lovely (filmed the next year in a really vivid, visual, film noir style in color, in L.A.) is the only way to go. But there were options to avoid making it actually too pretty, and too tame.All of this is relative nitpicking. I go back to Nicholson. If you can focus on his role, his lines, his performance, capital P, you will be mesmerized and impressed, again and again. It is a strong movie, and an interesting one, which is a lot.


                
Well, having bought the DVD of this lately, I finally sat myself down and watched Chinatown w/out any commercials. Thank you AMC. Anyways-just what exactly was this 'JaaaaCK' movie/throw-back to the '40's noir flix all about? Why is it praised to the high heavens? Got me.Here's what's good: *Jack Nicholson. Reins in his scenery chewing and gives a terrific, focused performance ala Bogie or Mitchum. I liked this a lot.*Stylish camera-work, period detail, etc. Polanski nails it.*Supporting work by Lopez, Huston, Dunaway and Burt Young, all fine. Huston is clearly a scary SOB no doubting it.*Involving plot, and Towne was right--water rights and reservoirs aren't quite the same as Maltese Falcons--they're believable and mean huge $$ to those who can corner the market.*Downbeat ending. Yah sometimes the baddies win.What's not so good: *Quite slow. This has that '70's d-r-a-g things o-u-t pace, you do wish they'd hurry parts of it along some.*Polanski and his knife cameo. Like bad Joe Pesci. C'mon guys.*Hated seeing Faye get shot.*Dull sorta film overall. You sit and wait for something to happen, and besides a few fights or near drownings, nothing much does for long periods of time save for Jack being...Jaaaaack.Overall--***1/2 outta ****, Godfather Too was better, but the Conversation, that was the best for '74.
Before any of you movie buffs assault me in your minds for wanting a happy ending, I want to say I don't. I want AN ending. Any ending. The ending is the most important part of a film. It sticks with you in ways the rest of the film doesn't.Chinatown's ending sticks with me, but it does so for the wrong reason. I have the same problem with 'The French Connection.' It WASN'T an ending! It just went along, then stopped. Like the editor sneezed while splicing film.Nicholson's character persists in the investigation even when he doesn't need to. I'm sorry, but there's no chance he wouldn't have persisted after the events in the last scenes. The movie failed to end. It just stopped two or three scenes before the actual end. It annoyed me to the point of growling.Is the movie brilliant? Yes. Is the movie a classic? Yes. Is the movie annoying? Hell yes! I don't care if everyone ends up dead and LA burns to the ground and the last shot is of crying babies burning on spikes, it's at least a real ending with no loose ends.Loose ends in a bad movie are derided, loose ends in this movie and it's called a masterpiece? No. It doesn't work that way. I adored every frame until the last scene, when the loose ends burned like fiery wicks into my soul.I want to give the movie a much lower score... but... I... can't. The rest of the movie is just too damned good. But the ending killed it for me. I could never watch it again.


                
"Chinatown" is currently #42 in the IMDb rank list, and based on that I had expected it to be a great movie. While I found it good and interesting, to me it was nothing more than that. My rating is "7" of 10. I can think of a number of "detective/whodunnit" films that are much better.  Reading many user reviews, it seems that many give it bonus points for having an unexpected, and dark, ending. So, maybe if in "Crossroads" the Britney Spears character had fallen off the stage and died right before her first concert, then it too might have been one of the best of all time!?  I watch films to be entertained and for me a good, uplifting conclusion usually works. "Chinatown" does not have that, so for me it just becomes another uninteresting story, although a fictional one, about bad people getting their way.I have always thought Jack Nicholson to be one of the better modern actors, and his performance here is one of his better ones. I don't normally like Dunnaway but I found her performance also to be very good. But Polanski never has been a favorite of mine and perhaps that's why I think "Chinatown" is closer to ordinary than great.SPOILERS - don't read any furtherThe apparent affair with the young girl is just a red herring. She is in fact the daughter/sister of Dunnaway's character, a product of incest. Jake (Nicholson) is an innocent pawn, his investigation is there to divert attention and make it look like the husband is murdered for cause. In the end, the evil father (Huston) who also has the police in his hip pocket gets away with murder, and has his police pawn kill his own daughter. Long live corruption in Los Angeles.
I've often said that if I had the use of a time machine that probably the first place I would go would be California in the 1970's, when filmmakers like Polanski, Altman, Spielberg and even George Lucas were in full swing in their crafts. The 1970's was possibly the last fantastic decade of cinema, where the films were adventurous and the directors were iconoclastic. One of the most revered and famous films from this great decade is Roman Polanski's 1974 crime thriller "Chinatown".Set in the 1930's, "Chinatown" stars Jack Nicholson as Jake Gittes, a private detective who with two associates, seems to specialize mostly in adultery cases. When a woman comes into his offices and introduces herself as Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray, he initially turns down her request to tail her husband. He finally gives in, however, and begins to look into Mulwray's deal. It turns out that he is the chief engineer of the water department, and times are tough right now because of a drought. Jake is confused when he sees Mulwray looking at several parcels of land, but finally meets his objective when he is able to photograph Mulwray with another woman. When the story breaks that Mulwray (currently a controversial figure because he refuses to build an unsafe structure that the public at large thinks is a good idea) is stepping out on his wife, Jake gets a visit from Evelyn Mulwray threatening to sue. Except this Mrs. Mulwray (Dunaway) is completely different, and is the "real Mrs. Mulwray". When Mr. Mulwray turns up dead shortly thereafter, Jake finds himself in the middle of several mysteries, all which seem to point toward the direction of Evelyn and her father, one of the city's richest and most corrupt businessmen, Noah Cross. (John Huston) The greatest element of "Chinatown" is in my opinion, also something that could serve as a deterrent to some. I really liked the slow, drawn out plot. Polanski and Towne did not seem to have a problem taking their time with the pacing on the film, something that I personally found to be refreshing. Instead of rushing to the conclusion, or having fantastic fillers, it is clear how comfortable Polanski is with the material and his actors in that he takes as much time as needed to provide pertinent backgrounds and details. The decision to remove Nicholson's narration and simply have the audience discovering all of the clues along with him was brilliant. Though narration can be a very effective tool, unfortunately it is a device that was done to perfection in the 1940's (and some of the films of the 50's) and emulators don't always do the best job with it. Anyone who is looking for flash and rapid-fire cuts are not going to get that with this film. What one gets is a bright and colorful California setting, where some scenes look like Hockney paintings if they were set in the 1930's. It is hard to describe how lush the cinematography is, but if I had to put it into words, non-sensically I would compare it to butter; that everything looks velvety and soft. Only at night does the scenery turn sharp and slightly harsh.The acting in "Chinatown" was as good as I expected, and that is to say superior. Nicholson, one of the greatest actors of the past four decades, put together a low key, almost introspective performance as Gittes. Though he is indeed mischievous (how could he not be with those eyebrows and that grin, used to full effect in this film) Nicholson seems to temper his normally explosive style. Faye Dunaway, an incredibly talented actress, who, even if she hadn't played her in an infamous film, evokes the memory of Joan Crawford before she started doing her weird films in the 1950's & 1960's, was the perfect counterpart to Gittes. At times icy enough that you would expect her to spit cubes, and other times violently passionate, she shows some of her best work in this film and is achingly gorgeous to boot. The third main figure is probably the best because his performance was most surprising, and that was John Huston's. He not only directed one of the greatest early noir films ("The Maltese Falcon") and is one of the greatest directors of the 20th century, but he really puts in a dark and gritty performance as Noah Cross; and he's REALLY convincing. I was absolutely delighted in the choice to cast him, because while there are admittedly a lot of actors who could have done this role, it was still really cool to see Huston do it.All of this is not to say that I adored "Chinatown". Frankly, I thought it was a good movie, but probably in the same way that people scratch their head at why "Citizen Kane" is often called the best film of all time, I kind of did the same in terms of why say, Entertainment Weekly would name it the #4 film of all time. However, even though I definitely liked it, despite not loving it, I can see its importance in film history and I can really appreciate the technical aspects that made up the film. That is why I have no problem rating it a 7/10.--Shelly


                
Chinatown is supposedly one of the best films of all time and of the 70s. Maybe it is, but it's not for me. You really need to have a taste for 70s filmmaking and noir to appreciate this in its' fullest. I grew up in the 80s and 90s and always had a tough time praising movies of the 70s.The movie has plenty of good qualities such as the style, acting, intricate story lines, surprises, dialogue, and mystery. It's a good film, but I couldn't see all the universal praise it gets unless it's from people who grew up in the 60s or 70s.I fell asleep on consecutive nights while trying to get through it and finally finished it on the third try. While it is interesting and very intriguing, it didn't necessarily "grip" me the way that a mystery/crime drama/thriller would be expected to. The most gripped I was during the whole movie came on my third try to finish it when Nicholson basically domestically abuses Mrs. Mulwray and she reveals something very disturbing. Shocks like this are always riveting, but I was more disturbed than impressed with the reveal. Maybe this was gratifyingly controversial and provocative for 1974? It didn't really work for me.While the film has classic qualities, without a doubt, by the end, for all the light it had shown at times for me, it sort of dimmed down a few points and I'll settle for a solid 7/10. It's a classic crime drama story and film that I highly recommend for that genre's list of originals, but outside of the hype, which by now appears to be bandwagon, I don't see how it's considered one of the best movies of all time. Good, but not great. 7/10


                
Despite its reputation, "Chinatown" lacks the wit, speed and economy of the best movies in the private eye genre: this is no "Maltese Falcon" or "The Big Sleep." It's not bad: Robert Towne gives us a cleverly convoluted script with some sharp lines; the color photography is seamy and compelling; the bluesy Jerry Goldsmith score is hypnotic; and Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway are the perfect 1970s choices for a 1930s private detective and femme fatale. But these things don't work as well if you're not made to suggest things. Censoring bad language, nudity and violence is not an activity just for prudes and moralists; it also forces filmmakers to work harder. Roman Polanski directs and makes room for his typical grotesquery. One scene in a morgue shows us a naked corpse as set decoration: it just lies there, almost out of sight. Why? If Polanski wanted to shock us, why didn't he give us a full view? Why distract the audience from the main action? Another scene is unintentionally campy. I can't describe it fully without spoiling a surprise, but it's the one where Nicholson repeatedly slaps Dunaway. Her line seems worthy of "Mommie Dearest."


                
This was a movie that I had never seen completely until recently. I had really high expectations for Chinatown. From what I had heard and read about this film was that it was as good or better than other 1970s movies such as "The Godfather", "The Conversation", "The Sting", or "Taxi Driver". I thought this was a very good movie, but not an excellent movie and definitely not as good as the Francis Ford Coppola movies of this time.Chinatown seemed a bit slow and long to me. I did like Jack Nicolson's performance however, but his acting along with the good directing wasn't enough for me to call it an excellent movie. The performances of the other actors was good, but I didn't think it was great.I'll watch this movie again in a few months, maybe then I'll feel more highly about it.I rate this movie a generous 7 out of 10. I was thinking of rating it a 6.


                
A private investigator is hired to expose an adultery case, but his investigation turns dangerous as he uncovers more than he bargained for.Roman Polanski's Chinatown stands up as one of the greatest Private investigator films ever, capturing the heat, sweat corruption and development of 1930s Los Angeles.Director Polanski, who makes a brief cameo, makes two daring choices, one, he has his lead sport a plaster on his face for most of the film, and two, a dark downbeat brave ending.Jerry Goldsmith proves another reliable and fitting score. The pace of the film is admittedly slow, but if you allow yourself to be immersed in John A. Alonzo's cinematography of the Northwest Valley, Robert Towne great subtle script it's worth while and rewarding.As the story unfolds there are career defining performances from Faye Dunaway and Jack Nicholson as P.I. J.J. Gittes. Also John Huston and the rest of the cast are outstanding.Greed, murder wrapped in a delicately layered detective story, exceptionally directed, acted and shot. It's easy to see why Chinatown won an Oscar and BAFTA Film Award's.


                
Classic, old fashioned tale of murder and deceit is cleverly woven by formidable director Roman Ploanski. This, one of his most renowned and successful works, tells the story of private dick Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson), who is embroiled in a scandal involving the LA water board after being used to frame its chief engineer.Well known writer Robert Towne has penned an involving plot which twists and turns and becomes ever more complex as the film goes on. A credit to him also are his three dimensional, well written characters that audiences will really appreciate. Nicholson (looking very young and fresh faced) is most convincing as the street wise p.i. who is determined to uncover the major players in a conspiracy that seems to reach farther and deeper than anyone ever suspected. Alongside him is a solid Faye Dunaway as the wife who slowly shifts from hopeless victim to definite suspect. The support these two leads get form John Huston (a most enjoyable turn), Perry Lopez and Burt Young is also most commendable.Wrapping up this entertaining fare are some striking sets and dapper costumes that bring 30's LA effectively and affectively to life, while Jerry Goldsmith's score is a memorable one. Really though, top accolades must go to director Polanski (who also made a cameo appearance) and screenwriter Towne (academy award winner for this) for fashioning such an intriguing yarn. Due note goes to a strong cast.Saturday, July 13, 1996 - Video
This is an example of a good film made better by the musical score of Jerry Goldsmith. He was nominated but didn't win the Oscar for it. The main theme is seductively beautiful and lingers. It induces a mood that words of course can't describe. The score will likely endure as a great. Listen to the interpretation in Terence Blanchard's recent CD entitled "Jazz in Film" with very fine piano intro by the late Kenny Kirkland.


                
I enjoyed watching this movie, though I won't rave about it like most people do. I think it was beautifully shot, casted, and scripted, but the story was a bit of a slow burner. That is fine with me generally, but I didn't think the plot was earth shattering or completely mind- bending.I think I was looking for something different than what this film gave me, but I think given the time period it was created and the time period it was set that it was extremely well done. I like that the ending wasn't so happy, and that there was a darker side to it, but I think I am desensitized by those things these days. Had I seen this movie in 1974 I probably would've given it an 8, and I can look at it for what it's worth.
The opening credits; scrolling down the screen so uniformed, and to such classic 'slooth' music that one could believe the film was actually made in the time that the music was popularized by the murder mystery genre, the nineteen thirties. Trumpets playing slowly as the main character, Jake 'J.J.' Gittes (Jack Nicholson), is revealed to us. As an ex-police officer, Jake now deals purely in private investigation, a real 'slooth' for hire, and he is incredibly good at what he does. The movie is based around the murder of a Los Angeles Water and Power Works Chief Engineer, and how water is the root of life and social power to the City of Los Angeles. Although the movie is technically a murder mystery, there is a real underlining theme of how people with power will do anything to keep that power, and when the line should be drawn between morals and greed.Faye Dunaway plays Evelyn Mulwray, the wife of the murdered engineer. As the film progresses we are thrown back and forth between trusting that the mogul's wife is innocent or believing that she is behind the whole murder. We are not alone in the query of believing the blonde bombshell, Gittes as well is deceived by her, but only until he gets the bottom of the case. Jack Nicholson plays the role of the tough cop very well. He's stern, witty, and sharp, the characteristics that truly define a P.I. in this genre. Although he is mislead at times, there wasn't a second that I thought he wouldn't figure the whole thing out.Roman Polanski, the director of this film, brilliantly molded the murder mystery with ideals about the corrupt nature of capitalism. The co-founder of the L.A. Water and Power Works Department, and murderer in the film, is portrayed in a way that we come understand the situation he is in and the lengths at which he will go to make sure he comes out on top. At times I did relate to him in a sense that he didn't want to lose what he had worked so hard to build, but his actions to keep his empire afloat become so extreme that I was disgusted with the entire thought of the capitalistic goal: to make the almighty dollar.We come to find out that the murderous tycoon and his whole family is just as out of whack as his ethics. Evelyn Mulwray, his daughter, had a sick, morbid relationship with her corrupt father, which resulted in the conception of a daughter. The plot from there on in shifts from trying to put your finger on a murderer, to the trials of trying to escape a twisted life. All in all, the movie comes together quite well, and as much as you are kept on the edge of your seat with the suspense of the mystery, you are left with the powerful feeling that maybe capitalism isn't the way to go.
It took a long time between the golden age of this genre and Chinatown. Surprisingly, a european has to show America how to resurrect it. All in this movie is just evil. Nicholson is evil great, Dunaway evil mysterious and Huston and Polanski himself are just only evil, but...(he,he,he). Every detail fits in its place, the Academy Award for Towne's screenplay is quite o.k., but it doesn't hit me out of my chair. Perhaps it takes just a few minutes too long to chill me, perhaps it's only Faye Dunaway. I don't know. But that's the problem. Sometimes you see a movie, something is wrong, and you don't know what. The final kick as it exists in "Farewell, my lovely" with Bob Mitchum is missing. Nevertheless, Chinatown is seven points worth to me. A good attempt (for the first try after such a long time) and much, much better as it's sequel.


                
Robert Townsend is an overpaid, overrated, writer. Jack Nicholson was good and so was John Houston. Fay Dunaway was OK (she was terrific when she got slapped). The story is twisted so much so the viewer could write his own story as it happens in the movie. The ending was altered by Polanski who is another overrated director (see Barry Levinson's direction of "Bugsy") The ending was the anticlimax and the worst ending of any movie. In the '70s, directors like Coppola and Scorsese had not made their mark and Polanksi was the one of the new kid on the block who had connections (like Evans and Nicholson),and was known as a radical director for movie like "Rosemarys Baby". He was embraced instantly by his cronies. These days directors like Polanski are dime a dozen and he won't make a dent in Hollywood. Its obvious that he likes stories that were weird, or socio-pathic and most of his films had shock value. With advent of TV sitcoms this value is lost to the audience. The movie is worth watching once, not ten times! like Robert Evens claims he watched it (see special features on DVD). Few scenes and few lines of dialog stand out but overall it is another good film not a great film like we are led to believe.
Let's just say that I have heard so much about this film, so I bought the DVD and finally got to see it. The plot revolves around a private detective who is approached by a woman to investigate her husband, because she thinks that he is cheating. As the movie goes on, the plot gets very intricate and involves murder, lies, money and so on.I thought that the acting was great. I am a huge Jack Nicholson fan and he is good as PI Jake Gittes. I felt that this movie was slow and boring at times. I guess the reason it is so well received is for it's time period, the story is pretty advanced and it is well written. I just don't think this movie even compares to films like the Godfather. Overall, this is a good movie, I think that I was just expecting more. I was not glued to the screen like I am with great films. That is why I feel its overrated.


                
So this film is not recommended? Not so fast! When noir is mixed with other genres, it is the noir that music be in the forefront, for my entertainment value. If not we have a murder mystery detective film with a dash of old school homage. The story here is both predictable as it is suspenseful and without the big screen presence of jack Nicholson may have not been anything more of a Roman Polanski diversion. The Los Angeles story is a great one to build around, but the "you don't know who you're messing around with" angle has been further exonerated from ingratiating gangster or back story horror plots decades ago and was left with a lack of follow through here. John Huston' villain carried as much weight as Marlon Brandro did in his later years. Big name, hot hair. Faye Dunaway is lost in this role after owning her strong role in Bonnie and Clyde and Network. Possibly my expectations outlived the replay.


                
I'm not sure if it was the story that didn't draw me in or the content, but I wasn't as thrilled with it as I thought I was going to be. It had really lovely photography and stunning color, but a lot of what went on didn't hold my attention.The concern for water was a realistic and very appropriate topic that still applies today, so its messages regarding that was promising and well documented. However I found the story hard to follow, even in the two hours it took to explain it. A quick trip to wikipedia didn't help, and it didn't help me keep my interest because of this. Even so, it was interesting to notice how it was filmed, especially when it made the scenes more dynamic with its obvious widescreen bars above and below the screen.It also didn't feel too much like the time period it took place in, too, especially when everything was in color. I felt this would have worked a lot better as a black and white film, and maybe with a little color put into certain scenes depending on the content.


                
One of the penultimate film-noir films and one of the best Jack Nicholson movies as well. Chinatown is a slowly unraveling mystery story at its best, each scene slowly building the suspense, offering hints to the final solution, yet that final twist is there to left us gaping in horror and awe.The movie's greatest strengths are its iron tight script and its cast. The story takes place in the early 20th century LA, during a time of great drought. J.J. "Jake" Gittes (Nicholson), a private detective of some skill, is hired to spy on one of the players in the so called Water Wars. Not everything goes as planned and Gites finds himself pulled deeper into the mystery, mostly against his will, as it often happens. Along the way he encounters murder, corruption, old feuds, high class women, rich tycoons and misleading answers. It's considered one of the classic film-noir movies for a reason, yet it updates the formula somewhat in good neo-noir fashion by deviating from the old character stereotypes - a welcome change.Jack Nicholson is also on a roll in this movie. He has been born to play characters such as these and Gites might very well be one of his best. He's everything. Arrogant, sly, quite the ladies man, intelligent, witty, too large for the world and all around bad ass. The rest of the cast are up to the task, with special mention going to old Hollywood legend John Huston, playing one of the water tycoons.Chinatown is a must see for all ones of detective and mystery stories. It's an all around well-acted, -produced, -directed and -executed film. One of the classics.


                
This is such a classic, and all around great film. But, I honestly think the plot was a tiny bit dry. Yes, it's a mystery with lots of twists and turns and surprises. But after a while it begins to feel a bit like a scandal within a scandal within another scandal (scandal-ception?) There was no real tension, and it seemed like they were just adding plot details to draw it out. There was also a little bit too much dialogue for my tastes. That being said, I also appreciated that it wasn't paced like a typical "murder mystery," and the way in which it unfolded was slightly more lifelike. What was redeeming for me was the ending (which a lot of people hate apparently). The characters have been on this wild goose chase, only to have it not play out in their favor. Which I think has to be a VERY conscious decision to do, because it's not what's expected and therefore under scrutiny. I think it fits here though, especially since the previous parts of the film didn't give you the feeling something bad was going to happen—it seemed like Jake would prevail. A lot of the time, films with an "unhappy" ending have a pessimistic tone throughout so it's almost as if you expect it. I really love the camera and lighting work. Specifically that slightly yellowed tone (but never too yellow) with orange-y reds that appears in a bunch of films from this era. It looks as though they need to add a bit of cyan, but I'm pretty sure it was intentional. It's also rather difficult to duplicate—I've tried. It references film noir a little, but clearly has a twist to it that's more current to 1974. I believe it's called neo noir. And one more thing: the soundtrack was amazing, but it was used rather poorly, and in a way that called attention to itself. This could be intentional, but it felt unintentional.
CHINATOWN is a 1940s-era film noir updated to the 1970s, with added sex and violence to appease audiences. The ever-excellent Jack Nicholson adopts the role of J. J. Gittes, a man who finds himself investigating a conspiracy surrounding Los Angeles's water supply, no less.In the hands of auteur Roman Polanski, CHINATOWN is a great movie. Although it's slow moving for the most part, it's also ultra stylish and the director keeps your attention throughout. There are also nice performances from the whole cast, not least Faye Dunaway's alluring femme fatale and John Huston as the elderly patriarch.Despite its laidback appeal, CHINATOWN contains some shocking material, most of which seems quite tame these days but which must have packed a punch when it first came out; I'm thinking the final twist in particular. Nevertheless, bolstered by strong performances and good direction, this is a minor classic of its genre.


                
This is an exceptional, yet flawed film.Biggest pro: Exceptional acting by pretty much all involved. Biggest con: Overly long, could have benefited from tighter editing.This is probably the film that put Jack Nicholson over as a broad-based popular actor. Prior to this, most of his screen appearances were either minor or lay somewhere in the cult film genre that appealed to a narrow audience. With this film, however, serious moviegoers across the spectrum could enjoy what I would have to call a nearly flawless performance. I've never cared much for Faye Dunaway, but liked her here. Frankly, I think this must have been a difficult role for her -- a character who has something very sinister to hide and who constantly crosses the line in terms of truth and honesty. Nicely done.John Huston -- nearly always a gem -- is no less so here. If anything, we could have used a little more of him throughout the film, although I suppose that would have pointed to him as the "bad guy" long before director Polanski wanted to make that obvious. Perry Lopez was excellent as a police detective. And it was nice to see John Hillerman.As indicated, at about 2 hours and 10 minutes, the film could have been more tightly edited. At points it seemed to drag a bit. And although this viewpoint is debatable, Polanski decided to keep the viewer in the dark about what was really happening in the story line for longer than I would have liked. I'm more an upfront guy -- give me the basics of the plot early on, and then I can enjoy the journey more. Polanski decided to let the story emerge just as it emerged in Nicholson's character's mind...but that often left us wondering what was going on, as well. The one thing in my mind that I question is -- what was so good about this case that would make Nicholson risk his life? At some point wouldn't a smart PI have just walked away from it all or brought the police in?A real plus should go into the "sets". Very realistic for the era depicted.Highly recommended, despite a few flaws, although it may not be a film you want to go back and watch over and over again. It falls in that same genre as the more modern "The Usual Suspects".
Blame it on the characters that Nicholson played in the Shining and One Flew over the Cuckoo's nest or the fact that I had seen Shutter Island some time back, I had made up my mind that the whole movie was a setup designed to keep Gittes from going crazy. Many characters felt out of their minds and peculiar. The reference to the curse of Chinatown made me think that the whole thing had happened once before. When I realized at the end that it wasn't the case, I started thinking of the movie as a whole. I felt the movie was very neatly put together with bits and pieces of the puzzle being shared with the viewer as the plot thickens and goes deep. I did feel that the movie invoked the Deus Ex Machina some time towards the end when the plot had become too full of irrelevant details. The character of Mrs.Mullway is intriguing and lends the story an unpredictable touch that it needs every now and then. Jack Nicholson has put in a sterling performance that holds the movie together and keeps the viewer captivated. It would have been bloody brilliant though had the whole thing been a setup. Sigh.
First off, this review uses parallelism between Chinatown and Blade Runner and includes spoilers for both films. As such, please stop reading if you do not want knowledge of important plot elements of either of these films. Chinatown is a film that sneaks up on you and punches you in the face at the end. But it does it in such a way that -- for a moment -- you're not even sure what happened. Nicholson, Dunaway, and Huston play their parts brilliantly. It's truly painful to watch Evelyn fall from such a stoic person to a nervous wreck. All the while, she keeps you guessing. In fact most of the characters of this film keep you guessing in an Agatha Christie sort of way. Who's good, who's bad, who's crazy? It keeps shifting on subtle levels. The cinematography is excellent. Nice smooth camera shots and composition. Restrained use of camera motion. Nice editing and a suitable score. The pacing is also really good. Fast enough to keep a person's interest, but slow enough to show the lush locations and buildings. The only case in which I'd subtract marks is for the Chinatown location itself. Once Chinatown is shown, it's presented fairly flat and lacking in visual detail. After watching this film, I couldn't help but think of Blade Runner. Now I see the connections between the two films. Blade Runner owes quite a bit to Chinatown. In particular, Rick Deckard's interaction with Rachel. I can also see why Jeter's truly awful and inconsistent novelized sequel to Blade Runner (The Edge of Human) made sexual abuse references in regards to Rachel. However, dealing with the sudden shock of discovering that you're not human serves the purpose effectively enough. Adding on a borrowed element from another film on top of that is totally unnecessary. The tone of Chinatown and the visual style of the era that it is set in forms the basis of Blade Runner's world. 1940s future-noir is the look, and the tone is equally serious. This 'tone' is something that a great deal of modern films seem to lack. Both films hold true to their tone and mood consistently while presenting a story that could be applied to various eras. Before beginning to think that one film is copying another, consider that most art forms derive elements from earlier works. There's no question that Chinatown owes quite a bit to 1946's The Big Sleep. And I'm sure it continues on back beyond that point in film and novels. The key is how it's done:In particular, if a writer or director has a new idea and is inspired by an existing film, then it's best if the new project be a unique world with new characters. In other words, not a sequel. In this case, Chinatown to Blade Runner. In cases such as this, scenes and characters can be similar. Even lines of dialogue can take on somewhat similar structure. However, if a sequel is to be shot then the rules change. The viewer is much more wary of sequels and prequels. Unfortunately, there has been a rash of sequels lately that recycle lines wholesale. To re-use general plot points is one thing (and to be done subtly -- if at all), but recycling lines is often the kiss of death for a sequel. Examples:Strong Sequels:Aliens: This film uses a plot structure that is very similar to that of Alien. However, it works because the two films are of different genres and the characters are unique enough between films. Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan: In this case, there was an imperative to take the film in a different direction from the first. Hence this film is very different from Star Trek: The Motion Picture. It represents a completely different story, totally different motivations, mood, and plot. The two films share little in common, except for the general universe in which they exist and the main cast of core characters. Ideally, this is how a sequel should be done. Note that it does remain consistent to the previously-established Star Trek universe. Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back: Again, the film is unique from its predecessor. Furthermore, it falls into a slightly different sub-genre of film. The tone of Empire is much different than that of A New Hope and remains consistent throughout. Consistency is absolutely key to making any film a success. Hopefully modern directors can re-discover this concept. The screenplays are totally unique between the two films and there are no recycled lines of dialogue. I won't name sequels that are considered to be poorly done. I'm sure readers of IMDb reviews are well aware of many examples of sub-standard sequel and prequel films. Take a look at them closely and look for recycled lines, 'homage' scenes that are nearly carbon copies, blatantly re-used plot lines, weak and highly derivative stories, inconsistent treatment of firmly-established characters, and a lack of substance. All of this returns us to Chinatown. Here is a film that is packed with emotional substance. It's subtle yet strong. Chinatown owes its visual style and tone to the film noir era while presenting totally new material. The characters are multi-layered and difficult to strictly classify. It never tries too hard and there seem to be no absolutes in the film. And lastly -- and most importantly -- it ends exactly where it should. Perhaps the ending should be the starting point of any writer's work. It's what makes or breaks films with even the greatest level of potential.
Jake Gittes is a former cop turned private detective. When he is contracted by a Mrs Mulwray to find out if her husband is having an affair, he takes to trailing Water Company Executive Hollis Mulwray. Mulwray appears to only have water and a dry riverbed on his mind but eventually they catch him with a young woman, although almost immediately the news gets leaked to the papers and Mulwray goes missing, only to turn up dead. At this point the real Mrs Mulwray comes to Gittes threatening to sue him for his involvement and Jake realises that he had been set up to set up the Mulwrays. He continues his investigation into the murder only to find a conspiracy involving thousands of gallons of water being wasted during a drought and the mysterious presence of Mrs Mulwray's father, Noah Cross.As a fan of film noir and tough detective movies, I am too often put off by modern entries into the genre that try to replace atmosphere and intelligence by just having nudity and swearing; the genre managed atmosphere without these in the forties and fifties but yet modern films seem to rely on them. With Chinatown however, everything works well as a homage to the best years of the genre and, as such, is very well set in the period and is of suitable presentation even if the material and tone is darker and harder than would have been allowed years ago. This is not to say it is just a copy and paste from better films because it isn't and indeed stands out as one of the best detective noirs I have seen in ages. The plot is always going to be the most important thing and it gets it spot on throughout, doing the proper thing of starting with a simple story and continually building it more and more complex as it goes. Unlike some other "classics" of the genre, Chinatown manages to do this without ever losing the audience and I found the plot to be both rewardingly complex but yet still very easy to follow.Needless to say, things are very dark and the script is convincingly dark and miserable, leading to an ending that is as depressing as I've seen – not so much in what actually happens but also in the wider implications for the characters that the credits prevent us from seeing. Director Polanski does a great job of putting this story in a lush setting that produces a real strong sense of period but also manages to always be showing us the darkness coming through subtly throughout the movie. Of course it helps that he also has a great cast to work with. Jack Nicholson is iconic in this role and, if I had to pick one film to act as an introduction to Nicholson then it would be this one. He is tough yet damaged, upright but seedy and he brings out his complex character well. Dunaway has less screen time but is just as impressive with a similarly dark role. Huston adds class and manages to ooze menace while also coming across as a harmless old man. The support cast are all fine but really the film belongs to these three, with Nicholson being the stand out role.


                
