Really. His performance in Rush came as a huge surprise. This is his best performance by quite some margin, a role which he plays with a great deal of maturity and respect. He plays Hunt with just the right level of arrogance, cockiness, confidence and audacity to convince you that he was real life 70's playboy James Hunt, a man destined to live fast and die young.Bruhl is superb as Niki too. It's a role that he deserves much recognition for, particularly his accent and mannerisms. Lauda was one of the first of a new generation of professional driver, driving the old playboy characters out of the sport and Bruhl nails this icy determination to succeed magnificently. A particular nod goes to Christian McKay's portrayal as the slightly eccentric, petrol head extraordinaire, ever so aristocratic but hopelessly financially incompetent Lord Hesketh. The camera work is spectacular, none less so than with some very creative angles of the beautifully filmed on track action. The brief in-helmet camera shots are inspired, giving you a glimpse of the drivers world. CGI work will be spotted by the keen eyed, but you have to consider that without it that there are certain scenes involving priceless period machinery (the sound of a Cosworth DFV firing up and filling the cinema was worth the ticket price alone) that would be just impossible to film as accurately as they were depicted here with real machinery. As a result, they are able to use the CGI sparingly and to good effect.The main facts of the 1976 season are on the whole handled very accurately. Certainly, some liberties are taken with poetic licence, but this is still a scripted film and not a documentary. The factually heavy writing of the script along with beautifully filmed and liberal use of period machinery being recorded at pace on real asphalt will be enough to keep the fans of the sport well represented.It's a gripping telling of the 1976 Formula 1 season, which whilst not sharing the same shear spectacle of Howard's other 'too unbelievable to be true' film Apollo 13, Rush tells a story which would be just too unbelievable in terms of human bravery and personal destiny for any fictional story to be given credence. It's a tale which will be enough to hold the unfamiliar or casual viewer's attention with a steel firm grip to see how the different personalities handle the pressures of life both on and off the track and how rising to the top takes it's tole on these two polar opposite real life gladiators of the race track.With the lead actors clearly committed to giving their best performances yet and a tastefully handled script, Ron Howard delivers a visually impressive account of events that may well become one of his most respected directorial efforts yet.10/10
This is an amazing film. I can't recommend it highly enough for F1 fans like me, sports fans, or anyone interested in a story of rivalry i.e. something different to the unoriginal junk movies which get churned out each year.All the crew involved should pat themselves on the back. They've done a fabulous job making this film critique, explore and honour two memorable F1 drivers.James Hunt's fun, party lifestyle along with his brash and raw driving talent. This is contrasted against Niki Lauda's methodical thinking, technical brilliance and professional lifestyle. These two characters are total opposites but as their lives are explored it also acknowledges the value of an enemy, i.e. something to beat. I believe this is a commentary on human nature in that the best of us shines when we have something to beat or overcome.Do yourself a favour and see it now.


                
What a breath of fresh air... A brilliant film in every respect. I was lucky enough to this movie at a special preview and I cant tell you how great a film this is... At first you think its about racing cars, but its not it really does give you an insight into the human condition...The rivalry between Hunt and Lauder is just played brilliantly... The race sequences are superb, really taking you back to the 70s... The heyday of this awesome sport. It shows the end of an era where the gentlemen drivers begin to give way to professional sportsmen and the end (in my opinion) of the excitement of the sport. It shows what a pale reflection today's F1 is of this once great sport, and what great characters we have lost...A real must see movie


                
Mr. Ron Howard is a great story teller, this movie is about human nature, love and tears.It is difficult to make a good movie about car racing, especially to make one for the time period from 1970 to 1976. I don't know how they did it to bring those old F1 cars back to life. You will feel like you are really there watching the racing, it's really unbelievable.It is truly touching to see each character played their perfect role for this movie, Chris Hemsworth did a great performance, he is such a talented and devoted actor. Daniel Brühl also did a great job on portraying the eccentric and unsociable legendary F1 driver Niki Lauda.A great movie is like having a great meal, a good starter, a good soup/salad, a good main course and a good dessert, well balanced. Rush is that good meal, it's a fun ride!I have to say I really enjoyed watching this movie. Thank you Mr. Ron Howard for making this masterpiece.


                
Having seen the trailers and TV set-up (BBC as a Grand Prix insert) I was thinking OK so I've probably seen the best of this and it's going to be 'clunky' in parts or too far up it's own a$$.But hey we can all be wrong, Ron Howard has added depth to a story I knew well, the presentation has a feel for the era the colour's are sometimes harsh and edgy.The set pieces are well researched, the owners of some of the classic F1 hardware must have had an enjoyable time (not quite so sure about the Insurance Underwriters).Where the story hits the spot for me is the acting of the main protagonists, they have life and depth. Hemsworths presentation of James Hunt is uncanny it's like a documentary he's almost as good as Daniel Day-Lewis in Lincoln.If your not a F1 fan or from the 70's it may not be more than a blokes film, but give it a go it is going to end up being a important as Apollo 13 in the life of Mr Howard and quite frankly is by far the best car racing movie ever


                
DIRECTION Ron Howard is amazing. His camera work here is absolutely incredible. I wouldn't at all be surprised if the cinematography and the sound editing are nominated for Oscars. The engines roaring alongside Hans Zimmer's score really gets you into the mood. The backdrop is gritty with lots of dark and gray colors giving it a tough 1970's aesthetic. Howard places is camera so specifically and we get so many different angles that are gripping. Camera work inside the cars giving you the intense look of driving an F1 car as well as camera's on the grass looking up as they fly by. Howard's use of slow motion is also perfect and helps build the intensity of the rivalry he is exploring here. The racing is intense and the dangers are shown in some dramatic ways as the suspense keeps building up. The biggest problem is that Formula 1 isn't the biggest of sports here in the U.S. If people can get past that and go see this, they won't regret it.Grade: ASCRIPT The story follows two F1 drivers in the mid 1970's that don't always get a long but have a mutual respect for one another. It centers around British driver, James Hunt and the Austrian Niki Lauda. Peter Morgan's script is brilliant and Howard brings it to life in some really great ways. In essence, both characters are the protagonist and the antagonist of the story. The film explores Hunt and his immature ways but at the same time makes him very likable. Then the story switches to Lauda and his quest to live his own life outside the big family business, yet again making him likable. However, at the same time each take their own turn in being the "bad guy" and showing you qualities that make this person flawed and unlikable in some ways. But then the movie brings it back around showing you why these characters are good characters to root for and the mutual respect they have for one another. It's the competition that drives them in this story. What makes it so great though, is that the audience really gets to choose who they want to root for. They build up and tear down each character so flawlessly. The use of narration at the beginning and at the end was a perfect choice as well. The ending becomes a bit sentimental and hits the buttons that you'd expect from Howard and company.Grade: APERFORMANCES Daniel Brühl and Chris Hemsworth are amazing. This is perhaps Hemsworth's best as he portray's James Hunt in some incredible ways. He's the dangerous driver that has Tony Stark mentalities in terms of partying, women and being extremely likable. Yet Hemsworth shows some depth and some emotion here as well which this character calls for in some ways. Brühl, who you may know from Inglorious Basterds, almost steals the show. He's the Austrian car genius who becomes famous for knowing how to make the cars lighter and faster, thus making him part of the Ferrari team. One can argue he's the bigger lead here as he narrates a good chunk of the story and brings in some great perspectives. Brühl's performance is spot on though and brings life to this character even when Lauda is more deadpanned. Olivia Wilde is good here although her character is a small role. This is about Brühl and Hemsworth and they carry the movie extremely well.Grade: A+SCORE Freakin Hans Zimmer. The dude is on fire lately. A lot of people like to criticize Zimmer for having score's that are similar or nothing new but they work. His score for Man of Steel added a lot to that film and his score for The Lone Ranger was about the only good part of that movie. And his score for Rush was really great, again. It added a lot of intensity to the racing moments and has become something he's perfected. The score here is more laid back and in the backdrop though many moments but when the action ramped up, so did his score as well as your emotion.Grade: A-FINAL THOUGHTS Rush was an unexpected pleasant surprise. Given the sports stature of F1 in the U.S., I didn't have much expectations but Ron Howard usually delivers and he does once again. The cinematography is gorgeous and makes it visually very exciting. The performances are stand outs which makes the story feel so alive in many places.Overall Grade: A


                
I like the film Rush as it's about two Formula 1 drivers and they are called Niki Lauda and James Hunt who were both fighting for the World Championship in 1976.The best part of the film that I like is when Niki Lauda has a fiery crash at the Nürburgring in Germany as it was raining at the time of his crash and he had to be taken to hospital for his injuries to his face as it was upsetting to watch when he was get surgery done to his face.I think that this film is better than the Senna film because it's more realistic and upsetting.
When my wife and I first saw the US trailer for "Rush," my wife asked me, "Do you want to see it?" "Well, it IS a 'racing movie," I replied. I have mixed emotions about NOT watching the international trailer, before watching "Rush," because I would certainly have held much higher expectations. First and foremost, "Rush" is NOT about Chris Hemsworth's pecs; nor, for that matter, is it that much about about Chris Hemworth's character, James Hunt. "Rush" is about two extraordinary men's visions of life and their approaches to racing; and, it is viewed from James Hunt's most famous challenger, Nicki Lauder. Lauder is a technocrat; a man who, at least, appears to "know the price of everything and the value of nothing." Hunt is free spirit; one of simultaneously knows the value of everything and nothing. Hunt and Lauder are presented in much the same manner as the two main characters of "Lonesome Dove". Like, "Lonesome Dove," "Rush" is majestic in its presentation of these two lives. "Rush" is poetic in its presentation, absolute precision,from its score, to its cinematography, to its performances to the most both memorable and appropriate score I have heard since "The Good, The Bad & The Ugly".If you have not seen "Rush," watch the international trailer, available on YouTube. This trailer is the perfect encapsulation of the movie. If you still are not interested, don't bother. However, I hope you are as impressed as I with my favorite film of 2013.


                
i just saw this movie a few days ago at a special advanced screening. as and avid F1 fan myself i loved it. this review might contain Spoiloers depending on how much you want to know about the movie. i don't give many movies a 10/10 but this one got it. overall a superb movie, this is Hollywood's first attempt at telling and showing F1 on the big screen and they nailed it. yes there were a few things they could have done better but not everything is perfect. When you hear those V12 engines start up in the opening scene, you get that Rush of testosterone in the pit of your stomach because of the sheer ferociousness of the sound in the theater. from that point on you are hooked. even if your not an F1 fan that scene will make you want more. every girl i talked to about the movie said they were seeing it for Hemsworth, and after the movie they were in awe about the awesomeness of Formula 1 and what it takes to succeed in the sport. from then on the movie moves at a good pace. as an F1 fan i wish there were a few more race scenes, but it is a Hollywood movie not a documentary so they have to appeal to everyone. the plot and the way the present it was great. i wish they went a little more in depth on Lauda and Hunts backgrounds and also went more in depth on the supporting characters like andretti and regazzoni. but since they didn't do that it lead to a better look at the intense rivalry between lauda and hunt. the small amount of comedy that was in it was very funny, it was somewhat unexpected. the Cinematography is amazing. so many different shots throughout the car and driver as an audience you feel like your right there with them, and as an F1 fan you get all the shots you expect and more. you also get a very good sense of the 1970s era, it feels like a movie made in the 70s with modern quality. some parts look gritty like they used 35mm film.overall i think this is one of, if not the best movie I've ever seen. i saw it 4 days ago and i cant stop thinking and replaying scenes from the movie in my head. i cannot wait for it to come out on blu ray. obviously go see it if your an F1 fan, but even if you aren't i guarantee you will like it. take your girlfriend or sister or mom to go see it and they will enjoy it no matter what. and you definitely wont be bored, it kept me on the edge of my seat the entire movie. not one person left the theater once it started.
Niki Lauder is among the most well known personalities in the history of Formula One. Even today millions of Germans watch his TV presentation at every race. We know his manner and speech extremely well and any actor portraying him faces an uphill if not impossible task. But Daniel Bruhl delivers a performance so wonderfully convincing in his faithful and profound portrayal that he should clearly be among the Oscar nominees for Best Actor. The story of Lauda's famous struggle with Hunt in 1976 has become the stuff of legends. And perhaps this production has used some artistic license to enhance them. But the film isn't really about the thrilling story of those events. That's just the vehicle for a much deeper drama examining the ever relevant dialectic between hedonism and pragmatism. It's about the self beneath the skin rather than the glamor of the surface: a concept normally quite alien to the Oscar awarding Hollywood elite. So poor Daniel Bruhl must await another vehicle to display his superb talents. And one day he might be remembered internationally in his career as Niki was himself.


                
When I was a child, I used to walk out of movies all the time with chills and a sense of awe and wonder, thinking that was the best movie I had ever seen. However, that's because I WAS a child and at the time, any movie was automatically on that list.It has been a LONG time since I had that feeling. Usually, I now walk out of the theater saying "Yeah, that was a great movie, but it's not one of the best I have ever seen.""RUSH" was different. When I walked out of that movie, I had those chills and that sense of awe and wonder again. Not only did that movie have me at the edge of my seat at every turn like a good racing movie should, but I can safely say that that movie had the best cinematography that I have ever seen in any film. More often than not, I was sitting there thinking "Holy s**t, how did they get a shot like that??" To this day, when I think about that movie, I still ask myself that question. I would not be surprised in the least if this movie wins the Academy Award for Best Cinematography.


                
Formula One racing isn't a sport that I watch regularly but I certainly respect it more than its competing leagues. The tracks are complex, the opportunities to pass are limited and the pit stops must be carefully timed. But this movie isn't current F1 racing, this movie largely takes place in the late 1960s till the mid 1970s where it was far more dangerous and that much more invigorating because of it. We get a classic storyline of two rivals with two very different styles, they had to respect each other due to the sheer magnificence of their driving.There are so many things that I want to praise this movie for. I guess I'll start with how thrilling the world of 1970s Formula One is. The cinematography, the sound effects and the camera angles make this as close to a racing experience as you can imagine. I literally felt like I was in one of the cars racing and I haven't had a theatre experience like that in a while. It was like being on a roller coaster, I got caught up in the "Rush" so to speak. The racing sequences are exciting, and the movie does a great job reminding you of how dangerous the sport is. One of the taglines for the film is "more powerful than the fear of death is the will to win" I couldn't agree more. People are decapitated, ripped apart, cars burst into flames, this is not a sport for the weak hearted. The movie is involving, white-knuckle tense and I couldn't turn away for even a moment.Perhaps the biggest credit to Rush is how balanced and even the story is between the two main characters. Neither man is a hero, they both are arrogant jerks who are only interested in their own success. Lauda is cold, calculating, pompous but he has the wit and the skill to back up his big talk. Hunt on the other hand is like the handsome jock you knew in school. He is just as cocky, determined and unlikeable as Lauda but has the drive to win and the silver tongue to gain acceptance from the racing community. The movie does a great job showing you the virtues and faults of both men and amazingly enough you want both to come out on top. A good comparison on how well layered and how well balanced the characters are would be Warrior, another favourite of mine. It's a feat in storytelling and they pull it off perfectly here.The acting in the movie is superb to say the least. Both leading actors give excellent nuanced performances that would be worthy of Oscar consideration. Chris Hemsworth seems like a logical choice for the charismatic and determined Hunt. Detractors from this movie claim that it's another typical Hemsworth performance, but I was really surprised with how effective he was at portraying the gauntlet of emotions that Hunt goes through. He has a ton of natural screen presence, but this movie shows he's got real leading man skills (outside of Thor) If I was forced to pick between them though, I would credit Daniel Bruhl with the best performance. I've only seen him in Inglorious Basterds but in this movie he does a flawless accent and has so many levels to his acting job as Lauda. You believe he is Lauda and he's just so wonderfully unlikeable, I would give him the Best Supporting Actor Oscar. Lauda is a complex man with a strict code and due to Bruhlh's performance he's captivating.I've talked about the dual leads enough but another pleasant surprise about this movie is that it features some strong female characters. Olivia Wilde is only in the movie for a short period of time but she's good. Olivia is more known for her amazing good looks but she's a better actress than she's given credit for and has done some good work (House, Deadfall etc.). She's talented and she makes the most of her screen time. I also really enjoyed the performance of Alexandra Maria Lara as Marlene who is the woman who eventually marries Niki. She's feisty and she's a good match for Niki. She's strong, beautiful and she plays a critical role in shaping where Niki heads in the course of the movie. With a cast that lacks proven Oscar contenders, the acting is Oscar calibre and is one more firing piston in the proverbial engine that is this movie.Much like any classic, the movie runs the gauntlet of emotions so well. This movie was sold to audiences through the trailers as an action/sports movie but it's more of a drama with some solid action scenes in it. I've gone on about how much it involves the audience in its plot but what I haven't mentioned is how tense and thrilling the end is. Its lean back in your seat and hold your breath type nerve wracking. The movie has its comedic moments as well, largely thanks to Hemsworth's charm and timing. The movie touches all the bases, making you want to cheer your favourite racer when they cross the finish line first and then drop your jaw in awe when they risk it all, almost killing themselves in the process.Rush had all the action you could want but turned out to be a superbly crafted drama. It's a beautiful movie with some Oscar calibre acting and wonderfully stylish moments. It's my favourite movie of 2013 and it's one of the bigger pleasant surprises I've ever seen in a theatre. I'm giving Rush a 9.5/10 rounding up to a 10/10.


                
I don't particularly gravitate towards sports movies, primarily because I'm just not into sports but also because a lot of them are cliché-ridden underdog stories that have been done to death. Not so with RUSH. In what is the best film that Ron Howard has done in years, Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl give excellent performances as James Hunt and Niki Lauda: Formula One drivers whose rivalry gave each other purpose and motivation to succeed. As personalities, they couldn't have been more different. James Hunt was brash, more of a ladies' man and reveled in the fame that being a race car driver afforded. Niki Lauda was more cold, calculating and concerned with the technical aspects of racing, and he could also be quite blunt. What I liked about this movie, aside from the racing aspect, was the examination of these two polar opposite personalities and the way in which they pushed each other forward. There is plenty of screen time allotted to establishing their characters, and once they meet, sparks fly. I thought both Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl did an excellent job in portraying these two men, and made it seem very believable. Of course, this is a racing movie, so the other question would be how that aspect stacks up. No lie, this movie had some of the best, and most thrilling racing sequences I've seen. Ever. Apparently, they had actual drivers (and the actors) drive Formula One cars at high speeds and attached cameras to the outside to capture the feel of what it would be like to be in one of those cars. It was really exhilarating stuff, and it's a pity that I wasn't able to catch this in theaters when it first came out. I also should mention the incredible score by Hans Zimmer, who is quickly becoming one of my favorite film composers. He created an epic feel, not unlike what he did with Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight trilogy. Still, it was distinct from that iconic score and added a lot to the overall feel of the film. There was also a good selection of 1970's classic rock. Overall, there's not a thing I can think of that's even a little wrong with this film. Every aspect of it perfectly displays the skills of the talent involved, and the central story elevates it above your typical sports drama. Even if sports movies aren't your thing, you'd be remiss for not giving this one a try.


                
'Rush' starts with how Nickie introduces his rivalry with James, and the backdrop of it, while a race is going to start. James, a lover boy with girls queuing after him and Nickie, a technical expert on cars, both besides being the unmatchable drivers that they are.The interactions between the two racers are handled well and exemplary, especially after what they go through. And the humor attached to the dialogs at different stages is engaging.Different strokes for different folks, even though they share a passion.The movie, interestingly,  does go, one, two steps deep into the dangers and technicalities of racing at high speeds, which can take lives at the instance of a minute miscalculation on part of the driver or the team. Its good on movie's part to show the glimpses of the real persons at the end of the movie.All in all, 'Rush' makes for a two hours of fascinating watch.


                
I made my IMDb account just to rate this movie.I was so moved by the raw emotions and clash of 2 philosophies shown in this movie.We have on one side a student of the game and on the other a natural talent who doesn't fear death.Such a wonderful and simple story told in a very concise manner with jealousy,professional one upmanship,and self destruction shown in both the protagonists.I found Nikki's story to be more touching and a lot of people will relate to Nikki Or James and this is what makes this movie so engaging that there is no right or wrong and yet it pulls u in rooting for one guy over the other.A must watch and one of the best movies of this decade.


                
So watching this as a neutral I was simply blown away by how good a genre film this is better than Senna to say. Beautifully shot and in good old 2D is I can't say its 100% true to real life events but boy its sure seems like it to me. Unusually its shot from both points of view that been Hunt and Lauda as each are given equal screen time. The Two lead actors are well cast and convincing even the makeup for Lauda's facial injuries are near perfect, it just goes to show that when Ron Howard when he's on top of his game what he can give to the screen.Very little archive footage is used and this is at the end of the film which follows up life after the 1976 championships. The costumes, hair styles and mannerism's of the time from what I remember of the 70's are spot on. 10/10


                
The movie was simple amazing. Great story not just about F1 sport, but also about rivals, strong fight for win, love, friendship, passion,desire for speed.. It gives some worthy life lessons that you can learn from this movie. Its not just a documentary about two rush rivals, but also two different people, different personalities and their attitude to life. Outstanding! Great cinematography, actors- play, effects, picture.. One of the best movies of latest and perhaps the best of 2013!!! Really worth to see! 2 hours went like 10 minutes. Reminds me of the movie Drive.


                
Although movie was bit long I didn't feel any boring moment. Languages and all somehow provoked me. It was just so real.This might be little deep but nowadays formulas are so different and this was fantastic experience of human heart.From beginning to the end I was amazed, they don't even get so good shots in real formula-races, that was also one big HUGE feature. No stupid CGI and feeling was strong all along.I don't watch these kind of movies usually they are so boring but this woke me up, like what if you lived your life like every day was the last one huh? To be honest, this was most entertaining film I have seen in years, forget the category if you cant stay awake for few hours because there is no explosions or so then go back to the grad school... Even if you didn't like formulas, driving, watching driving this has something so deep in it that it flows in you. Even if you are bored at the beginning and so "this movie is full of crap" etc. try to watch 'till the end.Totally enjoyable and inspiring! This is how formulas should go even nowadays but they sadly doesn't.10/10 with super experience.


                
I knew I would like this film because I was an avid fan of Formula 1. After all I spun on a Lotus Formula 3 at Druids hairpin, Brand Hatch where I was at a racing school. The film shows all the cars going through Druids. The surprise was my wife, who I thought would get bored and was enthusiastic about the film. The scene I most enjoyed was probably inspired by "The Social Network" when a girl realizes she just slept with Sean Parker, and in this case it happens when some fans meet Niki Lauda. By concentrating on the relationship between two drivers and with a great screenplay by Peter Morgan, Ron Howard gives the best film ever about motor racing . Not a year would pass without some deaths among the drivers, and the different points of view about it from Hunt and Lauda are fascinating stuff. There is not one boring moment here, also the women, Olivia Wilde (Suzy Hunt) and Alexandra Maria Lara (Marlene Lauda) are perfect for their roles. Chris Hemsworth is excellent as James Hunt, but the real star is Daniel Brühl as Niki Lauda. I give 10 over 10


                
You not only watch this film, but listen to it. Ron Howard knows what's up with F1. I can see a sound editor's great effort on recording/editing the noise of machines back in these days.... flat 12 and DFV. When the film is based on a real story, its all about how to wrap it up with back stories that were not told on TV. The complex feeling of being a racer, inferiority and superiority, outside of their machines was nailed down perfectly. I also knew that actors were so carefully chosen. When I finish watching this film, I thought "who else but Hemsworth and Bruhl could act Hunt and Lauda?" While some films that based on a real story chooses to use the actor who is in totally different impression to the original person, this film makes you feel like you are watching real Hunt and Lauda racing each other again.Spectacular story (of course), awesome CGI (especially the "heavy rain") and again, the noise of engines....If you are F1 fan, watch it. If not, watch it.


                
I do not very often find a film to be worth a 10/10; there's always something that would keep a fantastic candidate at a 9. But with Rush, it was difficult to find that something. It was just terrifically made. And I'm not being a biased gearhead either. Granted, I did not know too much about these two drivers until the movie came out. And maybe there were other highlights from the 1976 seasons that were not included, but that was not the point of the movie. First and foremost, a big shout out to the make-up crew and whoever else deals with the appearance of the actors because what they have done is marvelous. I looked into the way the real Hunt, Lauda, and others looked and there was not much of a difference. I have not seen a documentary type film be so accurate in that respect maybe ever. And the actors. Man, they really knew their characters well. Job very well done. What Ron Howard has done here is expose what really goes on in a driver's mind on and off the track and how he interacts with his competitors. For the duration of the film, the viewer is immersed in the world of Formula 1 and all the drama associated with it. It is impossible to not have your heart beat at an elevated rate and impossible to not develop a connection with the people and the time because everything in the film was very 1970s (at least, what I know of the 1970s), including the clothing and all the technology. All in all, Rush is probably the best motorsport movie I have ever watched and definitely one of the best overall. I was truly touched by the story of James Hunt and Niki Lauda and learned a lot in the process about the history of Formula 1. It is extremely genuine and not one to be missed at all! Watched and written 02/20/2014.


                
Rush is a fantastic movie. The cinematography was amazing, the performance with Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl as James Hunt and Niki Lauda respectively was phenomenal, the race scenes were really exciting and all in all it was a great experience.The film did have bad language, but in drama films, the bad language does work to its advantage. Unlike crude comedy, where bad mouthed characters are annoying and exaggerate in their performance, bad language in drama films does entertain me, because it adds more to the drama of the movie.As a massive Formula 1 fan, I was really blown away by how great this film is.If you are a fan of Formula 1, sports, and Ron Howard, go on and see this movie. A must see.


                
Rush ranks among the best movies about auto racing ever made, featuring two great performances from the leads, who capture not only the physical look of the racing legends they're playing, but the vastly different character traits that made their rivalry, well, made for the movies.The Upside: Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl are highly watchable; well-staged races; Howard's most visually engaging piece in years; Hans Zimmer's quietly thumping score; not a total boys show; the movie is as passionate as its two leadsThe Downside: The narration is often redundant; Suzy Miller is expendable as a character; more Christian McKay would've been nice.On The Side: Rush is a British indie Paul Greengrass was originally hired to make.
I finished seeing this movie with no words on how to talk about it, its simply superb, I had already known all of the history and what happened between Hunt and Lauda, but it was told so perfectly by Ron Howard that it made me run trough the room shouting, of course its not a movie for everyone, its a movie for few people, people that know the automotive culture and people that know what rivalry can make you do, and of course, besides all the history there is the amazing photography and acting, that alone make this movie one of the best things I have ever seen, this is whitout any doubt a must see if you are a real fan of the whole automotive culture, only because, for me, it is the greatest racing movie ever made


                
A Wonderful film. I wasn't waiting nothing unusual, but it had done me very an expected surprise. Later, I have known it the real story. I was astonished. The film about genuine sportsmen who are doing own job like sheer professionals. A lot of dialogs on change languages and one of film-star is spoken with a German's accent. It's absolutely amazing. Film is watching on an one breathe, never look aside. An action is doing for all time. I persistently recommend it for all people who are loving sport- films. You will be pleased. Maybe, it an one of the best film about it. I will watch it again and not once. Actor who is played Niki Lauda is awesome.


                
