I just watched this movie last night and i didn't like it at all. Yes,there are some scenes with classic formula one cars from the 70's but that's all. I don't see Chris Hemsworth as James Hunt, i even don't see him as a good actor. The same with Olivia Wilde, who appears this days in every single movie they make. The only good performance was by Daniel Bruhl. There was no feeling to the story, i didn't see the world from the 70's, there was no f1 feeling, no petrol head passion, just a pale excuse of a movie. Also as far as i know the movie is not following the exact historical events from the life of this drivers, i mean in 1970 Formula 3 season. They didn't even take part in the 1970 Formula 3 Championship. Sorry but that's the way i see this work


                
...again, this movie is an unbearable succession of clichés! Rarely have I seen such an artificial mindless plot. This peace of work is by all means unworthy of representing the lives of these famous names in F1. And the costly technical arrangements do not compensate for this unforgivable lack. What a waste of resources...! I am wondering why these talented actors and filmmakers got involved with this script in the first place. And I am also wondering why Nikki Lauda, the protagonist of the story, gave his blessing to the use of his name and his certainly impressive life story. A mystery to me. However, the bad monetary performance of the movie speaks for itself.


                
I was highly recommended to watch this. Unfortunately I found Rush to be rather unintriguing which is sad as especially the Niki Lauda story is rather touching. I remember it well from childhood, being interested in cars and racing at the time.Rush lacks depth. The acting is shallow and underdeveloped.The seventies setting is also rather unconvincing.Perhaps it is that I don't dig the direction of today, and unfamiliar with the current stars.Rush feels to me more as a soap opera or something.Quite surprising that it is rated 8,2 as an average here at IMDb.


                
When this movie hit theatres in 2013 Chris Hemsworth was the talk of the town and every casting agent in Hollywood was dying to cast Hemsworth into every role possible whether he fitted the character or not. Hemsworth was carrying 50lbs of muscle in his upcoming role for Troy (a few months later) it was if they dragged a blonde bodybuilder onto the set to play Hunt. The movie itself wasn't awful but it reminded me of a formula one adaptation of the fast and furious. Insert cheesy quote here, followed by a gear change here and finally a cut shot to the engine. Got it? Brilliant! If you're a fan of formula one or realistic portrayals of historical characters give this movie a skip. If your a mindless idiot who likes the fast and furious, grab some cheetos and prepare to be entertained.


                
