It's been a while since Ron Howard's first theatrically released motion picture as a director. That was the Roger Corman produced/low-budget cult flick GRAND THEFT AUTO. And now he's returned to speeding cars but a lot more seriously, and it's a true story.RUSH centers on the rivalry between two racers who could not be more different, yet both share a heavy dose of navel-gazing narcissism...Chris Hemsworth plays James Hunt with the kind of polarizing, unapologetic devil-may-care attitude that makes it nearly impossible to root for the man. With so much confidence and so many girlfriends, why does he need our support? Other than vomiting before each race, he's more of a... well... superhero than human being. And then there's the not so perfect looking fella who's more professionally in-tuned to the racing life. Enter Daniel Brühl's Nicki Lauda, with a chip on his shoulder the size of Hunt's nighttime libido.Ron Howard has made a grungy biopic with a realistic, no-nonsense aura but something is missing. While we learn from the start that Lauda is the best in the world, and Hunt is right behind with more hunger to surpass the man he describes several times as a "rat," we never learn enough about either, deep down, to make their stint on the rip-roaring Indy 500, composed of a year-long globe-spanning circuit shown in speedy montage sequences, really matter.
The scenes with Nikki Lauda in are absolutely excellent, just about everyone else seemed either entirely unbelievable or so one-dimensional that you didn't care who they were playing anyway. Even the driving scenes seemed unbelievable to me particularly the long shots down every start/finish straight - for some reason they all looked completely unreal and that is on my tiny telly, goodness knows what they looked like on the big screen. I had little idea what was going on. Someone crashes "who is that?" asks my Mrs, "I've no idea" I say. Oh, and one other thing that drove me to distraction was the totally invasive and somewhat condescending 'commentary' on every race - ugh! This is (another) of those films I am heartily glad I didn't part with any money to see. I don't know who would have done a better James Hunt but there must have been someone??? 10/10 for Nikki, 0/10 for everything else (Except the six-wheeler Tyrell - I loved seeing that!) Previous posters say "See the film 'Grand Prix' instead," I agree, anyone want the DVD, only played once?


                
