As Asif Kapadia's gripping and extremely moving 2010 documentary Senna  proved, cinema audiences have a thirst for the larger-than-life  characters that inhabit the Formula One track. The sport itself is  frightfully dull (although I'm sure plenty will disagree with that),  but the sportsmen willing to lay down their life for a kick and a  trophy are infinitely more fascinating, especially in the days of lax  safety rules. The sport nowadays is little more than advertising on  wheels, but when the likes of James Hunt and Niki Lauda battled it out  on the track, epic rivalries were created, and no matter how talented  these men were at driving these "coffins on wheels", every race could  spell out death.  Rush portrays the clash of two opposing personalities. The long-haired,  dashing Englishman James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) was all about the  adrenaline, embracing the post-race parties and lying with the many  women that would throw themselves at him. He was reckless, willing to  risk his life and others in order to win, but, as described in the  film, there was no better driver in the world in terms of raw talent.  His rival, Austrian Niki Lauda (Daniel Bruhl), was focused, clinical,  and even helped design the cars he would drive. He was the early-night  type, 'rat-faced' and cold. In every sense, he's the perfect villain.  But where Rush succeeds the most is challenging our early conceptions  of these two characters. There's little fun to be had with Lauda, but  played by Bruhl, he evolves into the underdog of the movie, perhaps the  only one that actually gives a damn about his own life and the life of  his opponents. This, naturally, leads to tragedy and a particularly  wince-inducing scene in which Lauda requires having his lungs vacuumed,  but it's at this point that we realise just what these two drivers mean  to each other. As Lauda watches Hunt claw back some points in the 1976  Formula One season, it becomes clear that these two need each other to  survive. Their hatred of one another only serves to fuel the flames,  and leads to Lauda's defiant early return to the driver's seat, scarred  and bandaged.  Fast cars, beautiful women and exotic locations hardly sounds like a  recognisable workload for Ron Howard, one of the most play-it-easy  directors out there. His past films have been unjustifiably successful,  critically and commercially, never stamping a recognisable directorial  trait onto his work. Yet here, although the bright sheen of the 70's  initially takes some getting used to, he has managed to create a world  that is very much alive, using snappy editing, a pumping soundtrack and  some growing sound design to re-create this world for petrol-heads. But  he doesn't neglect his characters, and evokes the great work done on  Frost/Nixon (2008), which was also a study of two giant, clashing  personalities coming together on the world stage.  Rush is an exhilarating experience, able to distinguish each race from  the next and literally putting us in the driver's seat with the use of  digital cameras. Although it occasionally drifts into formulaic  territory with the introduction of the 'wives' (played by Oivia Wilde  and Alexandra Maria Lara, respectively), Howard cleverly uses this as  an insight into Hunt and Lauda's personalities. Hemsworth is very good  in his first 'proper' post-Thor role, but it is Bruhl that you take  away from the film. How he gets you to initially loath him, only to be  cheering him on at the climax is the work of a great actor, and it's a  crime that he has been snubbed by the Academy this year. Hopefully this  will inspire a host of decent sports movies, as Rush proves that you  can mix character study and even existential musings with the thrill of  sport.


                
Those who have seen the trailer will know that Rush is the 'Formula 1 film'. The presence of Ron Howard's and Chris Hemsworth's names above the title may put some bums on seats but the fact of it being a film about motor racing will undoubtedly ostracize some potential viewers.So stop right there. Rush is not a movie about motor racing for speed fans any more than Titanic was about sailing for merchant seamen. Rush is a superbly shot, directed, edited and performed film that transcends the sport of motor racing, just as the principal protagonists themselves did almost forty years ago.The rivalry between F1 drivers James Hunt (Hemsworth) and Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl) is common knowledge. Just a couple of minutes trawling through Google's gifts will tell you how many championships each driver won, how they met, how they sparred, how they lived and (nearly) died<U+0085> Rush isn't a film that tells you their story. Rush is the film that takes you into their world and shows you how that story unfolded in all its fast, crazy, riotous, dazzling, cynical, brash excess. By the end you may still not want to be an F1 driver or even watch a grand prix, but you sure as hell will wish you could have been there for at least some of the 70s.Howard has provided us with a mixed bag of films over the years with schmaltzy, flicks (A Beautiful Mind), thoughtful biopics (Frost/Nixon), compelling dramas (Apollo 13) and utter twaddle (Angels and Demons). So which category would Rush fall into? The tension Howard creates is ridiculous. Pistons pump, colours blur, the scream of engines deafen us. The editing is so tight it feels as though something will snap. The anticipation prickles the skin and, though we already know what and when, it is almost too much for us to watch it unfold. Technically, Rush verges on exquisite. The digital creation blends flawlessly with the live action and the skids, tumbles, crashes and explosions are horrifying.But it isn't just with the speed and madness around the track where Howard guides perfectly. The hospital scenes when Lauda is treated are almost grotesque. We find ourselves shying away from the visuals, involuntarily grimacing at Lauda's agony even when he demands more pain in order to drive him towards recovery and revenge.Rush boasts one of the finest film scores of the year so far with Hans Zimmer proving why he is among the busiest composers in Hollywood. It's not that the score that makes the film, but it enhances it beautifully, adding emotional colour to the startling visuals to magnify the tension.The joint leads are on impeccable form. Hemsworth portrays Hunt as the playboy we wish we could be (or bed) and his charisma doesn't ooze, it gushes. He is arrogant, cocksure, charming and handsome. He makes it obvious why men wanted Hunt's life and so many women welcomed him into theirs. It is a confident, full performance from Hemsworth that marks him out yet again as an actor with a certain chameleon-like quality and undeniable star power. Immediately we like Hunt but as 123 minutes rush by, he evolves into a flawed man we admire but ultimately decide we don't really want to be and, in some ways, pity. It's a fine performance that engages us on every level.When Brühl's (The Edukators, Inglorious Basterds) Lauda strides onto the screen, it is with purpose, his Austrian directness and confidence taken as conceit and arrogance. He does not suffer fools (or almost anyone else) whether they are subordinates, rivals or the men paying for his drive. Supremely confident to the exclusion of social niceties, the Lauda we observe puts our backs up immediately but, just as the Hunt on screen evolves, so, too, does Lauda and by the film's end our allegiance has wavered. It is a sensitive performance from Brühl and his understanding of the man he portrays and clear admiration for him infects us thoroughly.Some of the dialogue is lumpy, there are numerous liberties taken with the truth (though not to the extent that U571 completely rewrote history!) and much is glossed over. Howard has perhaps tried too hard to appeal to a mass audience by focusing on the principal women in the drivers' lives, notably Hunt's wife, Suzy (Olivia Wilde) and Brühl's, Marlene (Alexandra Maria Lara). In Marlene's case, she is relatively impactful on her husband's life, suffering through his accident with him. In Suzy's case, however, though she was influential on a period of Hunt's career, it is difficult to see her as anything other than a bystander in his life and yet Howard sees fit to return to her though she is far from his thoughts.These are minor quibbles that make Rush a very good film instead of a 'great'. Nevertheless, my companion for the film who has no interest in motor racing and less knowledge gave a simple summary: "Excellent." Me? I'm a fair weather F1 fan. If there is a realistic hope of Button, Hamilton and Di Resta winning or there's been enough hype, I'm there. Otherwise it's Formula what? But, as I wrote, Rush transcends the sport. I was gripped throughout, I gritted my teeth, I gasped, clenched my buttocks and willed the drivers to the finish, on the track, in the hospital and in life.For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the Facebook page.
This is a Ron Howard film of a predominantly true telling of the 1976 year of Formula One racing. Featured are the world champion from 1975, Austrian Niki Lauda, and his rival Brit James Hunt, seeking the world championship. Lauda and Hunt were quite opposites, the Austrian the focused, precise, calculating racer. It was a profession he was very good at. The Brit a flamboyant risk-taker, a womanizer who enjoyed a good drunk after a victory, and who nervously vomited before a big race. The actors chosen are excellent, with costuming and makeup resembling the real racers quite closely. The Aussie Chris Hemsworth puts on his best British accent as James Hunt, and Daniel Brühl (full name ' Daniel César Martín Brühl González Domingo ') is authentic as Niki Lauda.This is much more than a telling of the racing season. In the hands of director Ron Howard we are treated to selective slow motion and stop action, and even POV shots of the racing engine's intake and exhaust valves at work from inside the combustion chamber. In slow motion, of course! Surely some archival footage was used, but they recreated certain racing situations very realistically. Overall the cinematography (shot digitally) and the sound track are superb. A very enjoyable movie, of two fierce competitors who gained deep respect for each other, in spite of their attempts to bury each other on the track.Their spouses were capably played by Olivia Wilde as Suzy Miller Hunt and Alexandra Maria Lara as Marlene Lauda. Of note, Hunt died at a relatively young age of 45, but Lauda is still going strong in his 60s, as an aviation entrepreneur.SPOILERS: During the 1976 season, in one race Lauda crashed and unable to get out of his car quickly enough was burned very badly. He was in the hospital for several weeks, at first they were not sure he would survive because of combustion junk in his lungs. But he actually returned to racing less than two months after the accident, and in the final race of the season, in the rain in Japan, Lauda pulled out after a few laps, deeming the conditions too dangerous. Hunt kept racing, needing to finish 3rd or better to win the points title for the year. He did, barely, and won by one point over Lauda, and shortly after seemingly lost interest in being world champion again.
I never thought I would ever watch a Ron Howard movie again much less write a good review of one.Howard hasn't made a movie since "Parenthood" that has not bored me to tears and almost angered me with its pedestrian refusal to take any risks. He's turned into a lesser version of Steven Spielberg -- his films are just as maudlin and emotionally manipulative, but they lack Spielberg's technical panache.However, the great reviews of "Rush" and the awards attention that swirled briefly around Daniel Bruhl got my butt in the seat for it, and I was surprised by actually liking it. It's a lean, mean telling of the intense rivalry between race car drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda. You don't need to care much about race car driving (I certainly don't) to enjoy the story, particularly that of Lauda, who overcame a devastating accident to return to the track. Bruhl is as good as everyone said he was at the time, and Chris Hemsworth, as Hunt, is serviceable if nothing special. This is still a Ron Howard film, so don't expect it to push any boundaries, but it's much more technically daring than anything else he's made, the cinematography and editing putting the audience in the driver's seat more than once.Grade: A-


                
Now, before I start reviewing, let me just state that I'm a huge F1 fan. I followed this sport since I was 11, and more specifically I followed Kimi Raikkonen since the start of his F1 career. I thought this movie was a great representation of not only the rivalry but of the sport itself. Sure, they dramatised the rivalry between Nikki Lauda and James Hunt. In reality they weren't on each other's throat as they were in the movie. In fact, at one point they were even house mates. But I love the whole message of the movie overall; What Drives You. It is exactly what these drivers are. They look death straight in the eye every time they are on track, and that pushes them to drive to their best. I love this quote by James Hunt in the movie:"Don't go to men who are willing to kill themselves driving in circles looking for normality"The danger, the risks, and ultimately driving is an F1 driver's definition of normality. When you have a passion for something, no matter what happens you just can't stop. F1 drivers has pants full of passion. A lot of drivers had accidents in their careers whether it was a big one or a small one. Some almost led them to their death. On top of my head, I remembered when Kubica flipped over, that was a scary crash. He managed to walk out of it with just bruises and scratches and continued racing. How bout when Massa was hit by a fallen suspension spring and dove head first into the barriers, he injured his head and had a platinum plate installed in his skull. But that didn't stop him from racing when he was well enough. Ralf Schumacher injured his spine. Same story when Lauda crashed. He had third degree burns and still opted to drive even when he wasn't fully recovered. These people don't see any way out of it. Either you go big and win or you don't do the sport at all which is probably equivalent to death for them which is what this movie is about. At the start it might be about rivalry but at the end its what you risk for passion and how much it means to you.By dramatising the rivalry, the movie has come up with characters with completely different personalities. You have Hunt, the brash, aggressive and handsome driver, who is a loose cannon and feeds on the thrill of driving and also on the attention. Kinda reminds me of a couple of drivers in F1 *cough* Sebastian Vettel *cough*. Then you have the straight and narrow Lauda, who is more interested in the mechanics and precision of the sport. He works very close with the mechanics and with the car to optimise his chances of winning. Something that all the drivers has learnt from, you have to know your car and be one with it. He is confident and not afraid to speak his mind, which can make him look like an asshole at times. The movie is not very technical in the sense that it doesn't go very deep into the sport or even about the cars. It mainly focuses on the drivers aspect of it and in a way brings a human touch to the sport. Which is good as the audience does not need to be a fan of the sport to get it. It's not all about the machine and the cars. Its also about the drivers and how much skill they have to acquire to drive at 300 mph. And that's why I think fans love the sport, we respect how much these drivers have to put in and also how much it goes into building a car like that. Its a perfect marriage of man and machine. There was even a slight reflection of the politics that goes on in the F1 world especially when Ferrari was angry at Lauda for not continuing when Lauda thought it was too dangerous.The cinematography is great in this movie. It really gives a vintage feel to it but not overdoing it to make it look artistic. The colours and lighting was executed subtly but perfectly to really enhance the feel of the movie. I was actually very impressed by it. Good job on both the actors but really kudos to Daniel Bruhl for embodying Nikki Lauda. It was as though the part was made for him. I would say overall it was a great film, not only for F1 fans. If anybody has wondered why people love F1, I suggest watching this film.
The true story of the rivalry between F1 drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda and the 1976 Formula One season is one of those stories where true life is more extraordinary then fiction. Fortunately two men with great experience at adapting true life stories, Ron Howard and Peter Morgan, have taken this project on, giving us a movie that is about a clash of ideals and personalities as well as about the drive of motor sports.James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) and Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl) are racing drivers with different approaches and philosophies whose rivalry starts in Formula Three racing. Hunt is a good looking playboy who enjoys drinking, partying and sex and has charisma to boot. Lauda is a serious minded, extremely determined, technically astute and is able to get the most out of a car, but is a cold, distant man who drives people away. Soon the men's rivalry see them battling it out in Formula One leading to the 1976 season where back-stabbing, danger and disaster affects the sport.As a sports movie Rush is a very well made and entertaining film that focuses on its characters ideals and differences. Hemsworth and Brühl are in top form as they play these very different men. Lauda is a self- determined man who is willing to risk everything to get into F1, but easily rubs people the wrong way, whilst Hunt had a greater support network, media friendly but is a loose cannon. Both end up becoming each other's hubris as they take bigger risks in a sport that already dangerous.As well as the focus of their profession, Rush looks at the personal lifestyles of the two drivers, particularly Hunt's as he womanizes as Lauda settles down with a woman. Hunt is a thrill seeker who uses pure talent whilst Lauda is aware of the risks of his profession, but does not want to add to them.To anyone who knows about Niki Lauda is he suffers a tragedy and the easy route would have been to make Rocky style picture about someone overcoming adversity. Fortunately, Howard and Morgan made something more interesting by showing both men to be faulted, that Lauda is not a man who is easy to like, making personal digs against and being a very sore loser.At a running of two hours, three minutes, Rush moves along at a very brisk pace. The first 40 to 45 minutes focuses on a six year period as the rivalry builds up. Many story elements are dealt with quickly. A great example of this is when Hunt meets model Suzy Miller (Olivia Wilde, who does an impressive English accent) in the team garages and the next scene is them getting married. Rush is a movie that tackles many story elements with broad brushstrokes. It does seem like a longer cut may exist.Even though the film is called Rush, Howard and Morgan build up to the racing segments. We get a F3 race near the beginning and then we have a long wait the F1 races. Howard and Morgan focus on three main races in the 1976 season, Nürburgring, Germany, Monza, Italy and Fuji, Japan. Howard shows his technical acumen with the racing sequences, as we get up close to the action on screen with camera being place many on the parts of the cars, in the driving seat and even in the engine and in the air gun during a tyre change. There are intense, exciting sequences as Howard uses stylistic flashes and slo-mo as we see how dangerous races were in the 70s. Morgan also uses a similar montage trick he used in The Damned United to quickly build a picture of the '76 season with Howard using title cards to the sequence a bit of flash.The story about James Hunt or Niki Lauda could have made for a compelling movie on their own terms, but Howard and Morgan give us two films in one. Rush is a very well-made, engaging and compelling sports flick that is character driven and is about the build-up as well as the racing.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com


                
Most sports movies involve an underdog trying to defeat an established champion. We've seen a million variations of Rocky Balboa taking on Apollo Creed. But what if someone made a film about Rocky fighting another Rocky? That's what director Ron Howard has done with his excellent new racing movie, "Rush." The most compelling aspect of this tale of two long shots is that it's not the invention of a screenwriter. It actually happened. The drama centers on the rivalry between two drivers, James Hunt and Niki Lauda, and the movie follows each man's unlikely rise to the top ranks of the Formula One circuit. The heart of the action takes place during the dramatic 1976-racing season during which the British Hunt and the Austrian Lauda vied for the world championship. They both overcame enormous adversity and risked their lives for the chance to win it all. Danger is a major theme hovering over the story, as the potential for death lurks around every turn of track. In this era of racing, an average of two drivers were killed each year.Howard seems to be at his best when he's telling true stories ("Apollo 13," "A Beautiful Mind"). The Academy Award winner here re-teams with his "Frost/Nixon" collaborator Peter Morgan, a screenwriter who also specializes in films based on real events ("The Queen, " "The Deal"). Howard and Morgan resist the urge to embellish the story for dramatic effect, unlike some other filmmakers (I'm talking to you, Ben Affleck). The great script is paired with stunning visuals. Howard immerses us in the racing scenes. Cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle's cameras put us on the course, on the cars, behind the wheel and even inside the engines. The track sequences demand to be seen -- and just as importantly, heard – in the theater.But the drivers themselves are the reason we want to go along for the ride. The two competitors could not be more different. Hunt, the charismatic, womanizing playboy, is played by Chris Hemsworth (Thor), while Daniel Bruhl plays Lauda, the quirky mechanical savant who has a way with machines, but not with people. Both actors create engaging portraits of the respective drivers, but Bruhl's performance is the one that will no doubt generate awards buzz.Audiences, however will root for both men. Neither is the villain. The intense competition pushes each man to excel beyond what they would have otherwise achieved. They make each other better. It's Sosa vs. McGwire, only with spark plugs instead of steroids. The only shame is that one of the men had to lose.


                
I would say, this is the best came out from Ron Howard's direction. I have no words to express the beauty of this film. The rivalry between Niki Lauda and James Hunt is picturized to perfection in this flick. The F1 car race shots were top-notch and were shot with great authenticity. Above all, I loved Alexandra Maria Lara's character who has very few scenes in the movie, but that was well enough to mark a lasting impression in my heart. This movie shows how one's perspectives drives them to success or failure in their life. This is one of the few movies where one cannot simply take sides because there is no hero or villain in this movie; Just experience it on your own.


                
Rush (2013) Director: Ron HowardThis movie narrates the true accounts of the sporting rivalry between Niki Lauda and James Hunt, F1 racing champions in the mid 1970's.Director Ron Howard returns to his brilliant version as a story-teller after crowd-pleasers like the two Robert Langdon movies and the middling movie 'The Dilemma'. His last real good movie was Frost/Nixon about 5 years prior to this one.This movie narrates the stories of two F1 legends who are not very popular to the post 1980's ilk. I actually read about Niki Lauda a few years ago in a story of guts and perseverance – Niki suffered severe burns when his car crashed in a F1 race in Germany with part of his face burnt off and his lungs damaged with internal burns. However 6 weeks after that incident, he returns to the race track in Italy and comes in 4th place. Just an amazing story. Didn't realize then that I was going to see it in a movie.Howard does a good job setting up the back story of characters – Hemsworth (Thor) as Hunt and Bruhl as Lauda – about their appetite for racing, cars and success. Their initial disdain for each other sets each on the path for achieving racing glory. While Hunt partied, Lauda engineered. The movie explores the dynamics and business of racing, the life of racers, the engineering marvel and the frenzy of the sport.Zimmer's music is outstanding, and the camera work & sound editing is simply brilliant. The race sequences are a stand-out and keep you on the edge of your seat. If you don't know your F1 history then it's even more nerve wracking.In my opinion, the movie focused on Hunt – how he was wronged and how he wronged. But my attention and respect was saved for Niki Lauda who was able to manage his fame and stature in real life. He is truly a living icon.Both Hemsworth and Bruhl give memorable performances and they live their characters on screen plus a fine return to form for our good old Richie Cunningham. :)This is one of the best movies released in 2013. Watch it if you haven't.


                
'Rush' is a biographical sports drama, capturing the drama off and on the race track between rival race car drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda during the 1976 Formula One motor-racing season.'Rush' builds up well, and after a decent first half, it delivers with an immensely satisfying and exciting second half, complete with powerful acting, excellent music score, intense race sequences, and firm direction.A dramatic and highly watchable movie not to be missed, Hans Zimmer is as reliable as ever when staging moving music, and during the final races his score is profoundly important to getting your nerves on edge for the showdown between the two Formula One racers. Emotionally wrenching and heart-poundingly gripping in the closing stages, 'Rush' is Ron Howard's latest winner in the movie industry.


                
I came to know about this film from one of my friends.I should be thankful to him for referring me with this wonderful film. Initially I was in the impression of the movie going to be like any other sports film ending up with an inspiration ending.But this film was different.It's a beautiful and gripping story telling..Rage and competition shown in a positive manner.Indeed among incredible sports movie.A must watch simply because of the two dissenting sportsman who takes their game in totally different manner but with common aim of winning.Excellent performances , visually delight cinematography and gripping screenplay assisted director to frame a delightful film.Go and get the DVD of this film.A sure shot entertainer.


                
Racy fast screenplay like an F1 car. Couldn't believe that I've watched a 2 hour long movie. One of the strongest contenders for movie awards. The two main characters were represented superbly by Hemsworth and Bruhl (esp. I cherished their voices and slang). Academy is too bad of not nominating Bruhl for his role in the movie for he was superb.Professional egotism, rivalry and F1 races are nothing short of reality in this. Period tones, fashions and sfx are mind-blowing. The only problem in the whole movie could be with sport violence and few sex/ nude scenes. This movie did teach me two things and they are: good rivals could become good friends and good rivalry in profession help us to improve our career.


                
I had never heard of the actual rivalry of Niki Lauda and James Hunt prior to having watched this movie. However, I now feel compelled to start watching Formula 1 racing or at least do some Wikipedia research. The cinematography and filming of the racing scenes was done in a very vibrant manner. The pistons firing, gears turning, and constantly changing camera angles made the scenes very captivating. Chris Hemsworth did a solid job as Hunt, but I think that Bruhl stole the show in his role as Lauda. The mannerisms and speaking style with the overbite made him the more enthralling character over Chris's Hunt. Olivia Wilde plays a minor role with a very convincing British accent in her limited screen time. This is an excellent movie for both racing fans, and non-racing fans alike.


                
With Schumi lying in a coma, this movie is really painful to watch, knowing just how dangerous a life he lived on the tracks for two decades, only to be bought down by another sport which doesn't even remotely compare to the Grand Prix tracks' fatality<U+0085>.the wretchedly twisted ironic face of life, that is<U+0085>I was skeptic about this movie at first, it being a car racing movie with Hemsworth in the lead role and the only face on the poster<U+0085>but in the first ten minutes of viewing it, my skepticism just blew away like marbles off a race car tire<U+0085>Although Hemsworth's performance was surprisingly great, the shining diamond of this movie is, without questions, the lesser known actor, Daniel Brühl.Both actors perfectly grooved into their characters as history's greatest Formula 1 rivals, James Hunt and Nicki Launda, right down to the accent and mannerisms. The cinematography was exceptional, and the score kept the emotions pumped at the right moments, thanks to Hans Zimmer. Exaggerations were present but to a bare minimum and never really interfered with the movie's theme. Brühl's performance somehow reminded me of Christian Bale. The character development was great, the intimacies between the characters were natural and beautiful.Well directed, Well performed, a breathtakingly amazing film!


                
Based on the true story of the Formula 1 racing rivals brash English playboy James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) and his tough methodical uncompromising opponent Austrian driver Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl) during the 1970s.Director Ron Howard has great skills to put together a top notch movie. The racing action is exciting. The 70s style looks good. I love all the cars. Everybody is great in this. I do have two minor problems. I hate most narrations and this is no exception. It is good for exposition but mostly takes the audience out of the movie. However a narration from the real Niki Lauda at the end would be great.The other problem is more basic. The movie follows both drivers equally. Although it's filled with details from both men, it's not as easy to fully commit to either men. A more traditional structure would follow one protagonist and it would be a more compelling story. My personal preference would be to follow Hunt up to the Nürburgring Nordschleife race. Then they could go back to Niki Lauda's story from the beginning showing the other side of the story all the way to the end. That way it would minimize the back and forth and maximize the rooting interest. Nevertheless this is a very solid thrilling movie. It's compelling and well worth the praise that it gets.


                
Based on the rivalry between James Hunt and Niki Lauda, Rush is a magnificent movie that will grip the audience even if they have no interest in racing.Nicki Lauda, played by Daniel Bruhl, gave up the chance to manage his family's business back in Austria in order to become a racer. In a Formula Three race in 1970, he meets the flamboyant Brit James Hunt, who is played by Chris Hemsworth. The two develop a rivalry and eventually cross paths in the Formula One. The movie takes place during the 1976 Formula One season, where Lauda and Hunt try to not only win the World Championship, but prove who the better racer is. Along the way, we see that both men are polar opposites of each other. Lauda is a more calculating, vigilant racer who only races because it's the thing he does best. Racing is almost like solving an equation for him. For Hunt however, racing is his passion. He wants to "stare death in the face, and to cheat it".One thing I loved about Rush was that it didn't have a good guy for us to cheer, and a bad guy for us to boo. Both of these men have flaws but in the end, they're human and it really felt like it in the movie. You'll find yourself cheering for Hunt at times and for Lauda at other times.Before the movie was released I saw pictures of the cast and their real life counterparts. I thought that the casting was perfect. They looked almost identical. But I didn't know that the acting would be so good. This movie wouldn't have been nearly as good if the acting was sub-par. We needed to believe that we were seeing James Hunt and Niki Lauda, and that's what we got. If the movie wasn't released in such a stacked year, I think both of them would've got an Oscar nomination.But you need more than good actors and a good premise to make a good movie, you also need a good director who is capable of bringing everything together, and this movie has just that. On his day, Ron Howard is one of the best directors working right now, and he shows why with Rush. The movie looks beautiful. The racing scenes where masterfully captured and along with the great work of Hans Zimmer, you felt like you were right in the middle of the action.All in all, Rush is an outstanding movie. Anyone who appreciates wonderful cinematography and acting, or even just wants to see a good sports movie, should check this one out.


                
This is an extraordinary movie that really moves you. While I know most of the hype from the movie stems from Chris Hemworth's appearance, there is far more to the film!There was a strong sense of personality given off my the characters, both of which Chris Hemsworth & Daniel Brühl portrayed exceptionally. And while this may not be the biggest movie the former has starred in, this is undoubtedly one of his best. The characters played the perfect roles in this film.Aside from the characters, the movie lives up to the name of best picture. There's great editing, soundtrack & direction and the movie really delivers that certain "Rush" as it progresses.Amazing film! Would definitely recommend you watch!


                
Originally I planned on not watching "Rush" at the theater, simply because I lost interest into Formula 1 considerably since the Schumacher years. However, finally curiosity got the better of me and I decided to give it a go. Which proved a pretty great choice as Ron Howard's latest movie makes for a very entertaining two hours. I was vaguely aware of the year season 1976, the developments and outcome of the driver championship and Lauda's spectacular crash of course as you get pretty much reminded here every second weekend when you see him being the co-host of current Formula One coverage. Putting Daniel Brühl into perspective to what I see there, I think he nailed Lauda's character and his very own Viennese charm. Of course it's different to compare with Lauda now being roughly 35 years older than in the movie and I was way pretty much born the year Lauda ended his career, but I think he made a good job in portraying him. Aside from all comparisons to what Lauda was really like, he definitely created an interesting character that had your eyes glued to the screen during every scene he was in. It's not surprising Brühl is in talks for his first Oscar nomination and it's nice to see him back so strongly, after I was a bit disappointed by his work in recent years, especially in "Inglourious Basterds" where his performance wouldn't make the top5 of the film despite having a pretty interesting character.While Brühl kinda sways between lead and supporting territory, the movie's clear lead is Chris Hemsworth as Lauda's equally talented competitor James Hunt. In fact, he is around 5 years younger than Brühl, but his character is slightly older. I believe Hemsworth made a couple smart career choices recently and, after thoroughly enjoying the first Thor movie, I'm pretty curious about the second, which comes out soon. His character here is a bon-vivant who loves drinks, ladies and the sweet life, the polar opposite to Lauda's stubborn lone wolf. And these exact opposites are the basis of the film, the reason why it works so well as an intriguing character study of two extremes clashing. Their personalities also reflect directly on the women with them. While Olivia Wilde as Hunt's wife disappears almost as quickly as she entered the picture, Alexandra Maria Lara as Lauda's wife stays there till the end and we see a good portrayal from her as somebody who's attracted to the danger (their first meeting in the civilian's car), but at the same time constantly worried about her husband's well-being and powerless as she can do nothing but hope for the best.All in all, I recommend this film a lot. Really, you don't have to know anything about Formula One or racing in general in order to enjoy it for being a great character study. I haven't seen a full race either in maybe a bit less than ten years and it still made a compelling watch. The motorsports circus is really just the stage for the two protagonists and except very near the end there's not that much racing action included anyway. And when there is, it always comes with an impact on the relationship between the two. But even if it's just the stage, all the scenes at the race tracks were executed very convincingly and I never thought that it's all just make-believe. They also managed to convey the aura of the Formula One from the 1970s that has sadly lost a lot of its charm by now. Howard knew that he had to make a film that appeals to the masses and Formula 1, compared to NASCAR, Indy 500 etc., has never been a sport that created too much interest, why you don't really find American drivers participating that often either. He managed very nicely and it's a great example of a rivalry that pushed each of the rivals to the limit, often in a good way, and occasionally beyond. What I also liked about it is that it definitely ends on a positive note, possibly with the best scene of the movie with Hunt and Lauda meeting at the hangar which sums up their relationship perfectly. Subtle criticism for the other's lifestyle, occasional mindgames, but also respect. It's always nice to go out in style as we usually tend to remember the ending more than everything that was before and, if badly executed, it can hurt the film's overall perception a lot. Not so here. Very well done as almost the whole rest of the movie. With this character clash, screenwriter Peter Morgan succeeds at least as much as with the one in Frost/Nixon.
Punchline of movie- Everyone's driven by something. Its a a biographical movie based on professional rivalry of two Formula 1 drivers in 1970's;Austrian driver Nikki Lauda(Daniel Brühl) and British driver James Hunt(Played by Chris Hemsworth).Kudos to director Ron Howard and writer Peter Morgan,direction is crisp and enthralling. Acting is just top notch by lead characters.From human psyche to emotions to passion everything is just in right amount ,never exaggerated. To create a story of real life events and famous people require a talent,never even heard about this two formula biggies ever but characterizations and story is so compelling that for me now Nikki Lauda and James Hunt are more dominating better Michael Schumacher and Fernando Alanso the F1 drivers who i have seen driving and know about.Power of movie is that it seems literally like a biopic as happens with food everything is refined and balanced to create a perfect taste.Racing sequences of 70's are portrayed authentically.Acting almost flawless: Both drivers in reality were pole opposite;Nikki lauda as more serious and unsociable taken to a awesome performance by Daniel Bruhl and reckless James Hunt played By Chris Hemsworth to a new degree of For me one of the best movie of the year till now,many will not agree with me,but its based on real people and as per that frame ,Director had created masterpiece. A fun ride,adrenaline rushing flick,even you are not on driving seat but sweat could be spilled just by sitting in theater seat.No brakes for this movie, acceleration is induced in audiences.


                
Rush This is a film review and there not any plot spoilers.I went to see this film and had no idea what to expect. I knew Ron Howard could direct a great film, and I knew Chris Hemsworth is perfect for the role of the god of thunder, but beyond that I had done little to prepare for this film besides watch the TV spots; I did not even watch a full trailer. I was amazed and taken aback by how much I enjoyed this film, it is a film that grabs you quickly and keeps you tied to it the entire run time. To keep things spoiler free I will be very brief about the story, this film is just as much, if not more, about being a man as it is formula 1 racing. It follows two drivers as they try to figure out how to be successful men in the world, through wins, losses, women, marriage, drugs, anger, and gaining and losing control. This is what makes this film so engrossing, the film takes us deep into the lives of two drivers and focuses and explores so much more than just their racing. However, the racing in this film is some of the best I have seen depicted on camera. The cars are loud, very loud, and at times you think you can feel the heat off the engine, or the body bend under the pressure. The camera effortlessly switches from all angles during the race and it does it well to try and give you the full experience as if you were at the race. The real bright spot of this film is the acting. All give astounding performances. Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl present these men with full, nuanced, careful, and honest performances. It would have been very easy to let the style and tone of the film drift off the track with inflated and overacted performances but both men fire on all cylinders and hold tight lines the entire film. Olivia Wilde is smart and memorable with her screen time, and Christian McKay fills a very important role in the film and does so splendidly. There is something very tangible about Rush, it is based on a true story, but it goes deeper than that. This film is an adrenaline rush in and of itself, but it is also very humanizing. This film is definitely not for the fast and furious crowd, but that's another reason that it is so great, it has fast cars and yet a story that is emotional and worth exploring. Add up a great script, good directing, and stellar acting and you get a film that drives just as fast and true as the cars you see on the screen. If you like my review check out chrisancarrow.wordpress.com


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Director Ron Howard and writer Peter Morgan are back in their wheelhouse with a film based on real people. Their previous collaboration was Frost/Nixon, and they also had separate "true stories": Howard with Apollo 13, A Beautiful Mind and Cinderella Man, and Morgan with The Queen and Last King of Scotland. Here they tackle personality opposites and fierce Formula One competitors James Hunt and Niki Lauda.The two lead actors are perfectly cast. Chris Hemsworth (Thor) slips seamlessly into the swashbuckling, rebellious playboy that was Great Britain's James Hunt. Daniel Bruhl (Inglourious Basterds, Goodbye Lenin!) becomes the focused, determined, meticulous Spanish-German Niki Lauda. You might think of Hunt as an X-Games type who thrives on publicity and fun, while Lauda is more scientist or engineer driven by the quest for perfection. Both were World Champions and their rivalry brought out the best in each.Do not think for a second that you need be a Formula One expert or even know the backstory of Hunt and Lauda to enjoy this movie. It is extremely entertaining and exciting. Morgan's script might hover a bit more on the oh-so-photogenic Hunt/Hemsworth character, but it also does a nice job of preventing the not-so-likable Lauda from being a bad guy. In fact, it demonstrates that champions are not all alike.The look of the film is exemplary. Beautifully photographed by DP Anthony Dod Mantle (Oscar winner for Slumdog Millionaire), the colors and grainy texture make this look like it was filmed in the 1970's, not just based then. While the racing scenes are stunning, it is actually an intimate look at this world and the men of this era. Without dwelling on it, we get a realistic feel for the fiery crash that caused Lauda's horrific injuries and his extraordinary fight to recovery while in the hospital.We also get a peek at the very different marriages of these two men. Hunt's short lived bond with model Suzy Miller (played by Olivia Wilde)ended when her affair with Richard Burton caused the final split between Burton and Liz Taylor. Lauda's relationship with his wife (Alexandria Maria Lara) occurred without the whirlwind, but in a very real and organic manner. Both are an additional touch of realism to a quite real story.There have been no shortage of racing movies over the years. Some good: Le Mans (Steve McQueen) and Grand Prix (James Garner). Some not so good: Days of Thunder (Tom Cruise) and Driven (Sylvester Stallone). Ron Howard's latest clearly finishes near the top at the finish line.


                
I had zeroed in on Rush as one of the movies that I was going to watch on the big screen (the Ron Howard & F1 union factor), here in Dubai and was waiting for it eagerly. And boy it was the worth the wait. Rush is not your run-of-the-mill movie in the sporting drama bandwagon which caters only to F1 enthusiasts.F1 fan or not, the way Howard has showcased the legendary rivalry between F1 greats, Niki Lauda and James Hunt makes for compelling and intense viewing. The banter and the doses of humour interspersed throughout the flick form the crux of the "foe-mance" between Hunt and Lauda (played exquisitely by Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl respectively) & are the high points of film. Howard is spot on with his depiction of the events surrounding this fabled rivalry. His portrayal of the 2 legends, with contrasting personalities who are poles apart and yet are driven by equal love for the sport and ambition makes the flick, an interesting and exhilarating ride. The movie is crisply edited and moves along at just the right pace for a biopic.Apart from all this, in my opinion, ultimately what clinches it for Rush and catapults it into the "bench mark" shelf of movies; making it one of the great sporting drama movies of all time, are the parts just before the climax and the climax itself. The miraculous & awe-inspiring recovery of Lauda(after the life threatening crash in Nuremberg) culminating into the final race of the dramatic 1976 season in rain soaked Japan(with the stunning Mount Fuji in the backdrop) has been shot and executed "jaw-droppingly" well. It's a spectacle to say the least. Expect cinematographer, Anthony Dod Mantle to win a few accolades for his staggering work, as Howard's team on the whole excels in executing & pulling off breath-taking F1 set-pieces to perfection.In Rush, we have a film which Ron Howard & his team have managed to steer just about correctly at every corner/chicane of movie making. The flick has almost everything, right from the movie score to the acting, working for it, like a well drilled F1 car. In the end what it all boils down to; the essence of Rush, the movie, lies in its two protagonists. It's thrilling, funny and unpredictable just like Hunt and meticulously filmed, is blunt but with touch of emotional and inspirational edge to it just like Lauda.Formula 1 buff or not Rush to the nearest movie theatre to catch this un-missable adrenaline edge of the seat ride.


                
Okay, hands up, I am a long time F1 fan, and for me this was always going to be the film of the summer the moment I knew it was coming out. Personally it exceeded my expectations in every way, and the whole film is superbly made.Unless you have been living under a rock, you will know the outcome/major plot points going into the cinema, and even so, the film does a wonderful job conveying the drama and tension of F1 of that era. Ron Howard has crafted a great story of epic rivalry which transcends the sport in ways that few films have ever done before. For me it evoked the best racing moments, and it is one of the few times I will go and watch a film twice at the cinema.The two main actors are very good in their roles, and Chris Hemsworth steals the show as James Hunt. He owns the part, and it was a real pleasure seeing him bring Hunt to the big screen. The rest of the cast were also great, and the understated role Lauda's wife played in the film added layers that added to the drama.In the end this is a film that I will take great delight in rewatching, and I recommend it whole heartedly.


                
With little knowledge of what the movie was all about i bought the DVD of the movie and saw it. It proved to be such a pleasant surprise. The basic premise of the movie is healthy, competitive and life altering rivalry between Nikki Lauda and James Hunt. Famous F1 drivers of mid 70s who went on to become world champions.Nikki Lauda is world champion and is competing with James Hunt for the title for the year 1976. Ron Director of the movie has given such brilliant portrait of both the drivers. Nikki is shown as technically correct, focus and highly skilled driver. James Hunt is flamboyant driver, who is more courageous and has nothing to lose. The Championship is a critical junction when Nikki meets with an accident and gives opportunity to James Hunt to cash on and he does. James Hunt wins the World Championship for the year 1976. One of the capturing moments in the movie is when Nikki Lauda makes a come back after getting seriously injured and wins the fourth position in race. Daniel Bruhl gave fantastic performance. little do i know why he was not nominated for Oscars. Nikki was true star though he lost the Championship but still remained the winner. Amazing heart capturing movie. Loved the way it was directed.It is sometimes great to have rivals who can make you excel in life. Story of Nikki and Hunt. Must Watch...
This movie is fantastic. It turned out better than I thought it would and not as cheesy. I find stories about two different opposing forces that has the equal tenacity and drive colliding with each other to be awesome. In this case, one is the wild card, a charger that relies on his senses. And the other is the more disciplined one, the brain that relies on his calculations and instincts. Although the bad blood aspect of this film might not be real. There is just way more tension if you don't do research on the outcome, before watching this movie. Also this is a bit of a cheap shot, but Chris Hemsworth basically plays Thor with no powers in this. Daniel Brühl was just awesome as Nikki Lauda. Overall this is one of the top rivalry films I have seen.8.2/10
