Predictable Kirate Kid remake at the drum set. Besides some cool drum-lines and jazz performances here and there the storyline is infantile. Can't Hollywood think of an original storyline. I could have predicted the ending in the first 10 minutes.At various points it just descends into comical farce, but not in a good way.It also sends the damaging message to everyone that abuse between teacher and student ends up being beneficial, so in the end the film defends and supports that abuse.How this film can ever be considered to be in the top 100 movies ever made is beyond me.


                
I didn't "enjoy" this movie though I don't fault the fine acting. Movies successfully pitch an alternate reality when internal consistencies makes the unbelievable believable. In the movie The Matrix, as in many Sci-Fi flicks, the director establishes environmental rules and all the characters operate within that framework. My objections to Whiplash focus on its extreme examples of behavior which are so extreme as to make them conspicuously inconsistent with the movie's time and place. Those extremes strain the credulity of nearly every key player. I couldn't take the movie seriously despite its fervent desire to make a case about over-the-top efforts / sacrifices and what some people think it takes to win. There was little / no back story to convince me any of the characters would either act like that, be allowed to act like that, or be the recipient of those same actions. It's caricature upon caricature. The movie's conclusion provided some semblance of redemptive believable cohesion but by then it really was too late and I found the whole setup very contrived.


                
I never realized Mr Clean has an alter ego or maybe it's an evil twin found in Fletcher. And poor Little drummer boy Andrew - what a glutton for punishment or was it just his need for approval? Either way the black shirted Nazi drill Sargent Fletcher got his jollies dehumanizing pitiful little Andrew in class with some of the most low-brow inflamed language of hate.The plot is simple. Little drummer boy Andrew wants to be a famous drummer in jazz (a music style nobody really listens to in the 21st Century) so off to a fancy music school he goes. The Nazi black shirted drill Sargent Fletcher pegs Andrew quickly as 'easy pick-ins' for his bubbling wrathful personality. This is most of the movie - Andrew covered in blood, sweat, and tears while Fletcher barks at him like a angry rottweiler. Finally Andrew has enough and has Nazi drill Sargent Fletcher ejected from the school. Little drummer boy gives up drumming.Then little drummer boy Andrew hooks up with angry Nazi drill Sargent to play at Carnegie Hall. (At this point I was just laughing) The barking Fletcher uses this moment to humiliate Andrew again only this time in front of an audience! Little drummer boy wins Fletcher's affection by playing his drums so ferociously he's once again (for about the tenth time) covered in blood, sweat & tears. Fletcher smiles! The end.This is a hopelessly boring movie - I felt sorry for Teller as he through himself into this no dimensional role of Andrew. As for Simmons - please stop with the cranial closeup shots - yuk!


                
if you have seen black swan then you are going to watch it again but this time the main actor is male and instead of bale this time it is jazz or should say only drums !!! The acting is on the top that is for sure, but the plot is sometimes very unrealistic so it is difficult to believe what is going on !!! After time the music becomes annoying (I mean really annoying) The movie is a musical yes but that does not mean it has to have music all the time sometimes it is too long and drums are not to instrument that you want to listen all the time !!! Anyways for me it was another black swan movie which was a pointless boring movie, this movie was way better that black swan but still not a good movie !!! I gave it 2 out of 10 just because of the acting nothing else !!!


                
The only thing I can find to recommend this is the acting of both principles and possibly the drumming skills of Teller. Firstly, the idea that drumming can be made into the fine art Fletcher is pretending it can is ludicrous. While the director is to be commended on avoiding the usual Hollywood happy ending, the way it does culminate just leaves the viewer feeling entirely nonplussed.Even some of Andrew's reactions to Fletcher's behaviour are not realistic. It is similarly hard to credit that such an individual could be allowed keep his job in today's ultra-litigious world.A complete waste of time. Avoid.


                
This movie is, as every one of the actual musicians here has noted, completely devoid of the reality, and, more importantly, of the JOY, of being a musician. The teacher's ludicrous verbal abuse, which fluctuates between politically incorrect and downright cruel, is so unrealistic and anachronistic in a portrayal of 21st-century educational life that I found it unwatchable. Simmons' character slaps a student repeatedly across the face, with no one gasping or saying a word about it, which had me rolling my eyes, it was like they were saying 1950s movie dialogue about how "dames" are dumb and can't drive, or something. I was offended, but I also kind of felt sorry for all involved, it was so... dumb.Beyond insulting my sensibilities as a human, it also insulted me as a musician, an artist. No credible teacher of art or music would think such negative extremes produce genius or even fine musicians. Discipline is crucial to becoming great, but so is flow, listening, and the creativity the truly exceptional experience when "in the zone" playing music with other people. This film gives zero sense of why anyone would actually want to become "Charlie Parker", I mean, does that mean famous? Parker was an innovator, a physicist of sound, not just some automaton who could play a million notes as fast as possible. It's like this movie was made by people who absolutely don't get why Coltrane makes you feel like you're inside the moon and why a Duke Ellington tune can float you away on the river of your own blood flowing in your veins. Miles Davis was famous for being able to encourage his bands to elevate their playing, I heard Herbie Hancock say that one time when he was blocked on a part Davis just listened and calmly said, "put a B in the bass". And everything flowed. No screaming, throwing, åsshølery, but something more masterful: a finely-tuned artist committed to creating greatness, communicating via his mastery of the mysterious, infinite language of music and a deep respect for the people helping him create it.A wasted opportunity to speak to the madness of wanting to be great, to achieve, and also a waste of the dynamic and always fun to watch J.K. Simmons, Watch him in his series Counterpart instead, in a part that displays all his swagger but also the sweetness and humour he mixes in so well.


                
The crux of Whiplash's story is obsession; whether that be obsession with the form of something (Fletcher), or your own legacy (Neiman), or acceptance (Nicole) or status (everyone in Neiman's family), and this film explores the dark depth's of this obsessive nature, and creates realistic characters in doing so. However, that doesn't make Whiplash a "great movie".It is a case where realism undermines escapism, as well as emotional attachment. In 106 minutes of film time I felt no empathy for any of the characters, in the real the world these are the type of people I would avoid and "b*tch" about to other friends; "Did you hear how Neiman got into his band? What a Richard?! And isn't it ran by that See you next Tuesday of a conductor as well? And here comes Nicole, oh god she is just such a downer... NICOLE! HEY!" I had to force myself through this film to what I felt was an unsatisfying conclusion, unfortunately since the film builds so much to this conclusion I will have to spoil it in the next paragraph.Neiman spends the entire film trying to impress Fletcher; Fletcher constantly undermines Neiman and downright abuses him. Neiman, like some kicked puppy, runs back to Fletcher for another bit of abuse. Some of his band mates call Neiman a "f**cking retard" and I spent most of the film vehemently agreeing with them by the way Neiman acts. When Fletcher finally breaks Neiman at the end of the film after he switches out his music sheet and embarrasses him in front of the New York public, instead of giving up he realises he should be playing music for himself not for the approval of others. This ending was projected through-out the film, and when the ending finally came it felt like a patronising school teacher's hand on your shoulder speaking around to the class "you shouldn't need the approval of others". *sigh* How many films feel like they need to tell me this moral/words of wisdom? I could list a 100 sports movies, Jesus even Happy Gilmore manages to have this idea in its film.Then we move to artistic intent; "You weren't meant to like the characters?" I have watched whole TV shows about characters I don't like; "The Sopranos", "Breaking Bad", but they have to some redeemable qualities. Tony was funny, Walt was pathetic and an everyman. Neiman is a spoilt little rich kid and Fletcher is an elitist know it all hipster, they have no self-awareness and no sense of humour, they are always serious and always stuck in their character.Of course there are a few things I liked about this film. JK Simmons and Miles Teller were so on point with their acting that I could have went out watched the two people I know like them, and I wouldn't have notice the difference. Damien Chazelle also seems to have a great deal of affection for the genre of Jazz, and sprinkles the film with some great choices for music.I did however have a lot of problems with the cinematography. People raved about how alive the film felt, but to me it felt stale. Constant close ups of music performances felt like beatniks describing jazz musicians, rather than fluid pictures, also lighting felt so similar to the college environment in "The Social Network", that I just couldn't see what all the fuss was about.
I'm one of the few who found this movie captivating, but terribly WRONG in terms of concept, approach and, let's say, philosophy...and, by the way, I am a drummer myself. In Whiplash, it's all about success, about ambition, about manic ambition, and very little about feel and art. I hate the fact that music is stripped down to the almighty American cliché of "working hard in order to succeed", the "no pain no gain thing", in a excessive and inappropriate hardcore manner, I would say. My friends, music is art and art is about feel! When I see Whiplash, I tend to see no difference between succeeding as a lawyer, as an economist or whatever, and succeeding as a musician, namely a drummer. I fear that young drummers who see Whiplash will understand that if your hands are not full of blood after you exercise, then you're not doing it right... The terrible drive to succeed creates a young drummer who is not an artist, but a maniac and near-monster. He rarely speaks with other musicians, he rarely improvises, he rarely "lets loose" of his feel, he just has to play "faster, faster, faster" and identically like in famous jazz numbers like "Caravan". When his pathway to success is cut down by his violent conflict with his teacher, a conflict that turns physical, he even denies his passion for drumming and takes his Buddy Rich poster down...something I would describe as a "sacrilege", as a treason to art and a slavery to success. He doesn't find peace and pleasure in just drumming on his own, in developing his own "thing", whether it be slower or clumsier than Buddy Rich's...he exercises to bleed, to be faster, to correspond to other people's criteria and value systems, so TO SUCCEED, which is a thing that has to do with the outside world, with some artificial things, with ego, with stardom. The boy has little feel, he is so small as an artist and so big as a fighter, and he has a very weak artistic conscience: he has to be pushed by his teacher in order to get better, he has to be motivated in a hardcore way...The teacher himself dismisses the self-motivating artistic ego, because his philosophy is to force the boy to do better, even if the ways are brutal. And we are talking about JAZZ, a musical genre where people find grace, elegance, generosity, improvisation and pure love of music (in terms of sound). There is no grace in Whiplash, just manic drive for becoming a better "drumming robot", and a successful drummer, of course...The boy becomes "motivation beast" when, at the end of the movie, he finds out that a guy from Lincoln Center will be in the crowd, giving him exposure for a possible job in Wynton Marsalis' Big Band Orchestra. He unleashes a terrific drum solo but destroys the band's performance, so he can be noticed...it's all about him and his drive to succeed...music is always in the background. This approach would be better suited for, I don't know, more visceral genres of music such as punk or heavy metal but, in my humble opinion, is not suitable to jazz. In fact, I see it as a disgrace to the values of jazz music. On the other hand, I am not a jazz musician but just a music enthusiast and free-time drummer, and I fear that the reality may actually be close to what can be seen in Whiplash...and that would be very sad for music. I myself value more personal, artistically- driven and feel-based music, a display of the artist's sensibility and ability to improvise...ahead of the showoff in terms of pure technical skill, and the endless chase for more beats and actions per minute. Steve Gadd is a great example (in drumming) for what I'm saying here. Whereas in guitar, I think that Whiplash would create another Steve Vai, whereas David Gilmour, Eric Clapton or Mark Knopfler would have probably quit teacher Flether's "military service".
