I have mixed feelings about this show, i can admit that right away. I'm a huge fan of HBO and their quality TV-series. "Six Feet Under" is my all-time favorite and i have had so many (too many?) hours of enjoyment out of shows like "The Sopranos", "Deadwood" and "The Wire". But in one way or another Carnivàle just didn't "do it" for me in the same way.When i started watching this i just wanted to like it. The setting was awesome. The whole 1930's depression and dust bowl-thing works so perfectly. I've hardly seen a show to utilize it's environments better than this one. And not only that, the whole look of the series is fantastic. From the dirt on the cars, the people, the equipment, to the clothing and downright nasty hillbilly-feeling you get from most places the carnival visits. So in that department (cinematography, photo and technical quality) this is a winner.My real problem comes with the story. It revolves around a battle between good and evil that's never really clearly defined. Of course, things are not helped by the fact that the series ends pretty abrupt after two seasons (which is something you should be aware of before watching any of it). But still, explanations are pretty fuzzy and i'm not sure i got the whole point before the show was over. Personally i would have preferred something a bit more straight-forward i guess.Another strong point, besides the environments is the acting. HBO almost always excel in the fact that they manage to cast their shows flawlessly. What we have here is a mix between well-known faces like Nick Stahl and Clandy Brown, with less known quality actors. I'm always surprised at how good HBO usually are at finding gems among actors i've never even heard about. So in general, the acting is excellent throughout. Also that is of course helped by the fact that the characters are in general well-written and developed.To try and sum this up, i liked this series but it had some problems. I loved the scenery and setting, i loved the actors and the characters. I had problems with the story however. A more straight-forward story with less incomprehensible mystery and more explanations would have helped me a lot. Sure, mystery is the deal here but that doesn't mean we don't need explanations. Some of this can be accounted for by the fact that the show was canceled. But i hardly think it's reasonable that we should have to wait more than two season before really understanding more of what's going on. Nevertheless, i recommend this series, especially since other people seem to have less of a problem with the story than i do. And it is definitely worth watching for it's qualities. 7/10.


                
Last night, I finished watching seasons one and two of the HBO miniseries "Carnivale." From the cover and everything I'd read about the show, I was really excited to see it. I love stories from the Depression Era. I loved "The Grapes of Wrath" and "Places in the Heart," and one of my favorite books is Woody Guthrie's "Bound for Glory." I just like the time I guess."Carnivale" is a psychologically disturbing show. I had the feeling during the first season that they were striving for a simple yet effective formula and it really worked well. The problem is it's all so vague. Nothing is clear and every storyline becomes hard to follow. I had to use the 'previously on' feature on the DVD's a lot so I could remember everything that was happening. It's hard to imagine keeping up with the show when it was airing once a week.Season two really picks up. The imagery becomes a lot more graphic and the story lines are a lot more insane. At times it's like you're watching the on-screen version of Nick Cave's book "And the Ass Saw the Angel." It's that gross at parts. To be honest, I wouldn't be surprised if the show's creators were fans of that book, they have a lot in common. In the last two or three episodes, we get an onslaught of solutions and revelations, it's like they rushed it.Pros: Awesome acting and great characters, especially Samson, Jonesy, and Ben Hawkins. I was also really impressed with John Carroll Lynch's portrayal of the evil and terrifying prophet/thug, Varlon Strague. Great humor, I found myself laughing quite a bit.Cons: Too vague throughout the whole show. Lots goes unresolved. It leaves way too much up for interpretation. Too disturbing for leisurely viewing at times. It's something that you wouldn't expect from such a show and sometimes you will have to look away. This show is not for kids!7 out of 10, kids.


                
First of all, it can be said that the finishing is awesome. The growing of character induction, sense of humor, critical dramatization and average concept all are very (truth to say) convenient. But of course it should be better that 'carnivale' would be a movie.Overall, the total series was very boring for making plot slowly. In a word, it was a slow motion of a movie of two hours. Horror effects were very silly. It was more like a genre of spiritual drama not a horror one without last episode. But darkness of every episode was good. Although I could not like the environment of the series. It'd be better if the condition was more like van helsing, X- Files.I wanna say that this series actually needed a speed that could be recovered by movie carnivale in a congested period. At least I don't wanna watch this series again.


                
On the eve of the release of season 2 on DVD I've just finished watching season 1 of this HBO series of carny folk and their travelling freak show. Ending on perhaps the biggest cliff-hanger of any series ever this first season leaves more questions unanswered than answered and I fear that as the creator had a 10 year plan in mind and it has already been cancelled I fear not everything will become clear in season 2. That aside it is an enjoyable watch that deals with life on the road, devils, angels, psychics, reincarnation, Siamese twins, midgets and all sorts of other weird and wonderful nonsense. As with other HBO series like The Sopranos, Deadwood and Six Feet Under the writing, acting and direction are top class, here though I think it's the complicated nature of the story that may put people off. The two main characters Ben Hawkins and brother Justin seem to posses powers, one evil the other good and yet I'm still unsure as to their connection to each other and to a certain extent the plot. Then there is the never seen mysterious 'management' of the Carnivale and also the mystery of Henry Scutter and who he is and what he did. But if you like a good series and don't mind weirdness and loose ends then I think you can really enjoy Carnivale for its style and mix of strange characters. Deadwood was cancelled after 3 seasons but due to public pressure has had a little reprieve and the makers have decide to make 2 TV movies to wrap it all up and keep the fans happy. Maybe this is what Carnivale needs also but I will wait until I've seen series 2 to make that call. But if 2 is anywhere near as good as 1 then I can't wait. Bring on the weirdness and answer some of the puzzles posed, especially that mammoth cliff-hanger.


                
