WTF is wrong with HBO. They are a network that is seemingly unapologetic for having shows that are smart and creative. So why would they ditch a show like Carnivale, which is for certain one of the most ambitious shows I've ever seen, and no doubt one of the most ambitious ever made. I did not have HBO when the show was actually on, but I borrowed the DVD's from a friend and got totally sucked in. I've only seen first season, but can't wait for 2nd season to be released. As I've heard the first is a prologue more or less for the rest which sadly doesn't exists. I'm a HUGE fan of Sopranos and Deadwood, its really too bad Carnivale isn't on anymore. I cant imagine how much time I'd spend watching TV if Sopranos, Deadwood, and Carnivale were back to back to back. I respect HBO a lot, but "Big Love" seriously, that show totally blows. I live in a college town and know a TON of people that love HBO, but not one likes "Big Love". We've all tried to get into it, but it just sucks. I know not everyone was a huge Carnivale fan, but that show at least had something, and deserved to be played out. I hear it was supposed to be five seasons, you'd think HBO could let it go for integrity reasons alone. I'll end my ramble here, but HBO, along with Nip Tuck on FX regained my faith in television. Its just sad when you see such a creative and ambitious show like Carnivale kick the bucket. It just saddens me when well written, and well directed shows end, while BS on network TV pulls in dumb vapid people with contrived and painfully dull concepts, and become hot S**t on face book and my space. Where have all the smart people gone? Nobody can appreciate good writing anymore. Thats all I've got. Your responses would be most appreciated


                
First off let me start by saying, the only reason I gave Carnivale only eight stars is just for the fact that it will not be finished. HBO, that is your fault. This show was a breath of fresh air in a world that is dominated by cheap reality shows or shock TV! This show had character. It had to because that is what the show was driven by. The watcher really ran the gambit with these characters. They all had flaws, none were perfect and they all had a job to do, they just didn't know it. The acting was brilliant! Certainly the performance of Clancy Brown as the menacing Brother Justin was one of the best I have seen. This is truly a story that needs to be finished. There were way to many questions left unanswered. How in the h%^$ does a network promise you a show about the final showdown between good and evil and then not have a winner!


                
This is a series for people who like something different, very different. If you loved the original Outer Limits, Twilight Zone, Star Trek, Sliders, and all the paranormal/mysticism series which followed, this is for you. I loved the mystical plot, the depression setting, the decaying and derelict small towns which are definitely not nostalgic small town America, and the top notch production values. Michael J. Anderson was superb as the all-seeing carnival manager, as eerie as the MC in Cabaret, as familiar as a race track bookie with a Damon Runyonesque diction. Clancy Jones, with his resonant actor's voice, was magnificent as the preacher who may or may not be evil. The drawback for me was that so many of the scenes were just too dark that I could not see what was supposed to be happening. Chiaroscuro is OK up to a point, but one does need to see what is going on. I also wished that the characters would launder their clothes occasionally. My other big beef was with that miserable Neanderthal Ben who spent the whole of season one wearing dirty underwear that just got dirtier each week. The tortured youth characterization went out with James Dean. If your idea of good TV is endless sitcoms, forensic crime and detective shows and hospital dramas with patients dying while wisecracking doctors and nurses sort out their love lives then you will either hate this series or be awed by a complete change. Freaks meets Twin Peaks.


                
I watched the two seasons of this show in one of those weekend marathon viewing sessions. There are a lot of interesting characters that play very small parts, but each one manages to be interesting. The MVP of this show is Clancy Brown, who is outstanding. I was already a fan of his and this show really let him show his teeth. The pacing of the story was off. Too much time was spent in the two seasons wading around and then when the crap hit the fan, it was a little too rushed. They could have give the dry parts a little more oomph and smoothed it out. They certainly had the acting talent to make this a 5- year series. But you take the two seasons for what they're worth, and it's a solid 8. Don't quit when it drags early in the first season.


                
Placing the dark mystery of Twin Peaks in the world of Todd Brownings 'Freaks' is Carnivále - a lesser known series from the HBO canon, mainly due to its inherent strangeness and defiance of conventional category. It was cancelled after two seasons but if you're a fan of the David Lynch conception of good vs evil or Gilliam's spectacular grotesquery then this show will be no less compelling than other excellent fare such as Sopranos or Deadwood. It was a brave move by HBO to realise such a genuinely strange series which, sadly, never translated into the wider popularity or consistently high viewing figures during its broadcast run. Noteworthy at the very least because there's been nothing quite like it before or since on TV or Cinema. Its originality deserves to be applauded and begs to be seen.


                
