HBO's Carnivale was and is an amazing television series. Beautifully presented, well written, well cast and undeniably unique. Carnivale allows us to escape to a not so distant time and an existing place, yet it's the circumstance that brings it all to life in wonderfully supernatural fashion.Predominantly following the stories of two men - One of great faith and honour and one with little faith or belief in anything, the carnival is the catalyst in the inevitable meeting of these two souls and it is the series that maps this journey. Yet it is not until deep into the series that we come to realise the importance of these men and the consequences of their abilities and eventual meeting.Stellar performances from Clancy Brown(Justin), Nick Stahl(Ben), Clea Duvall(Sofie) and co. bring to life unusual yet brilliant characters in the forms of priests, healers, psychics, snake charmers etc. Who all play significant roles in what is almost a chess battle of good and evil, yet as the viewer we are left to determine who the kings and queens are and strangely - who is good and who is evil?As far as comparisons go, the moment Michael J.Anderson(Samson) appears on screen he is instantly recognisable from his role as 'The man from another place' in Lynch and Frost's 'Twin Peaks'. Although each show shares paranormal elements the stories are very far apart with Peaks taking a much more comedic approach. Each show has an enchanting, memorable quality but sadly the most similar aspect between the two - They were both cancelled prematurely!So that brings us to faith. Faith that the powers that be will one day offer us some resolve in what was arguably one of the most fascinating TV series in recent years. Faith in the millions of other like myself who loved the show, to go out and purchase the box sets, sign the petitions and make it known that Dan Knaufs Carnivale is a great story that deserves to be told - in full!If you haven't seen this show then I implore you to do so. The story itself is compelling, the characters are original and it's a very bright and colourful show to watch. By sticking with Carnivale you are rewarded with twists, turns and revelations and by the 'current' finale you are left begging and pleading for more. If we never see beyond season 2 then so be it, But I hope this show, in due time, get's the recognition and praise it truly deserves. Thankyou to the creators. I still have faith in a return!Joey


                
Carnivàle is one of the most intriguing series (or movies, for that matter) I've been lucky enough to see, ever. The lack of votes/comments here does not give it the credit it deserves, at all.The show starts a bit slow (first episode), yet the story, and more important, the characters, go through a tremendous and spectacular development and grow with each episode. Some brilliant acting performances are carried out, and I must say the series typecasting has been particularly convincing as well. P. Bauschau (as prof. Lodz) and later J. Savage (Scudder), but especially especially C. Brown (brother Justin) and A. Madigan (Iris) truly do an outstanding job of making their characters shine.The series evolves around the fascinating character development, yet also delivers a well built storyline. Several episodes (though not all) got me to the edge of my seat, whereas the makers have an excellent understanding of how to set up a culmination. The acting and certainly the music strengthen those scenes like they should in all shows.Carnivàle is based upon the approaching clash between everlasting Good and Evil, yet twists both sides into many shades of ethical grays in between. Throughout the tale, the network of parties involved and their roles become more complicated, which keeps the story interesting enough for multiple seasons. Although the end of season one was a little bit disappointing in my eyes, the promise of more (and better) to come made that more than alright for me.A warning must be made here, nevertheless. For although an inevitable clash of the opposing sides actually takes place at the end of season two, the story does not end there, and numerous revelations have just been made, which you will be desperately wanting to see come to fruition by then. But the case is, Carnivàle never made it into a third season. The reason for this I do not know, though it might have to do something with the inability of the mass to receive the value of this masterpiece and therefore the lack of incoming cash. So at the end of season 2, you will have a lot of unanswered questions. Let that not (I repeat, NOT) discourage you from seeing the series; I say it just so you will be prepared...Yet not all is lost, I've just read some rumors about the production of a satisfying ending after all... just don't know about the truth of that, yet. I suggest you read the message board for that.All in all, if you're into intriguing, character driven, fantasy based stories, you're up for a treat. If you don't have the patience or devotion to see the profundity of this show, you better skip it. It'll be your loss.


                
The opening credits deserve great praise. Is it some kind of tribute to Brakhage I wouldn't know but it's a beautiful collage of tarot cards, world events intertwined with some mystical and exotic music, and it is beautiful, intriguing, troubling, hypnotizing...CIRCUS. The show is like a fresco, like a string of visuals that command your attention, with the religious underpinnings, the good old good vs evil fight, but it's built like a road movie. There are so many dimensions to the series, and tons of character development. The circus universe is in itself so exotic for most of us, plus the 1930's era. Some episodes showcase how much of a freak show circuses must have been in the older days, before we got the oh so boring "theme parks" of today. It was all about guts and creativity, art, exploitation, trade, it was all about human beings, about "waking up" people who had no life and who would attend, to refresh their hellish working lives - today it's TV and the internet... it's very pale today compared to what it must have been back then. It was about thieves and illusion. Circuses were a mind bender.RELIGION. Of course the storyline delves deeply into religion, fanaticism, poverty, and all justifications, explanations, for it. The social foundations of religion in the USA, the attraction of the poor masses, the rhetoric of empowerment of the poor, the born again, the politics that surround it, industrialization, banking, racism. And mysticism. HBO had lots of guts in bringing this to TV. But it is fascinating to see how mysticism and religion intertwine, it's also beautiful and scary.CHARACTERS. Well, as you can imagine, a circus brings it's load of exotic characters, people trying to make ends meet through craft, exploitation and all the economics of group travel, all the checks and balances, cooperation, competition. The acting is very good. These actors are so real. Nothing ever feels over the top or fake. We get intimate with so many of their dreams, desires, or weaknesses, and it's often very touching. Just watch it and see how this is a real ecosystem of persona, and they evolve through time, space, geography and emotion... VISUALS. This shines so much throughout. First it's beautifully filmed. There are so many shots of desert and wilderness, so much dust and sun, so many oasis trapped within mountains, and so much dirt, horror and depiction of filth, all of it often being awe inspiring. And it's not "complex" photography with multiple camera angles and such crap. It's just clean and inspired, to the point, the colors are fascinating, it's beautiful. Who are those people who did this I have no clue, but you don't often see that in Hollywood. I've seen it in "No country for old men", Coen bros, I've seen it in Kurosawa's "Dreams", I can't explain, it's like saturated but "dry", warm, but it's never like "candy" i.e Marvel... it shines but it doesn't melt like a cheap sundae. You have to see this. It's a bit like a painting with a camera. And so so many shots are at night, with circus lighting and such, and here again you need great talent to make this work and you have it here. Tons of texture to darkness, exteriors and interiors with candle lights, wood, lamps and such. Magical. You see true material, and wood and sand is not lit like metal and plastic garbage. It's organic, it's alive. Night shots are never confuse and you always keep track of what's happening. I wish I could say more. So many shades or fiery orange, with greens and blues will sum it up in my mind. And what about the costumes, the makeup, styling. It's all top notch high class dirty, with beautiful hats, jeans, costumes, old cars.. SEX. Well, this is a very mature series. Sex is always at the forefront (with the Stumpy, Rita Sue, Dora May, Libby act - ah, Rita Sue, of course one could talk about her so pretty face, her beautiful voice, amazingly out of this world breasts... but a word about her calves... I have never seen such a beautiful knee and calves of my entire life, and no women in any magazine ever came close to the woman she is, not even by a long shot - she is one of a kind. And her "daughters" are beautiful too in their own ways, and their beauty comes only second to the quality of their acting) or hidden, forbidden and troubling (especially Justin and his sister Iris, Sofie's origin's, Ben's encounter with the old man and the "retard", etc.). It goes very very far but it's never "out of taste", gratuitous... here again hard to explain. It can be scary of heart breaking but sex is always "clean" i.e. it's not there to attract crowds.PLEA TO HBO OR ANYONE WHO CAN PRODUCE A FOLLOW-UP. This is a masterpiece. Please make a follow-up. For everyone in this world who like true cinema and art (for the minds who need more than cheesy "talent" shows and morbid fascination for victims and corpses, more than fast food you know, real tasty fine cuisine for the senses), fun original story telling, creative dialogue, real acting, beautiful photography. Surely someone in the USA has too much money and can afford the produce this for fun, for his own entertainment and our common enjoyment. It's been almost 7 years now since the show ended, and it was slated for 4 more years. If it gets made I will buy it but that's not the point. The point is that it's unique. A unique masterpiece. In my case it's the only way I can say "I like American television". And you know what, you can take all the Marvel movies and put them all together and it doesn't have the style of a single episode of "Carnivàle".
If you want to criticize Carnivale, you can say it meanders, tends to assign too much importance to sex and romantic love, and seems... kinda Christian.Honestly, though, why would you want to do that? Let me begin with boldness: Carnivale is nothing if not courageous. Considering it was all mapped out ahead of time, I spent a lot of time wondering, worrying, and having no clue what was going to happen. You can tell right from the get-go that this show does not aspire to be just-another anything: where most shows might introduce the main character and have him or her do something likable to start you off, Carnivale opens to a bewildering message regarding good, evil, prophets, princes -- and pretty much lets you know it aspires to be the most significant show you've ever seen. As a die-hard atheist, I haven't found anything offensive yet. Really, I'm just impressed.Carnivale introduces you to a whole bunch of well-drawn characters and dares you to take sides. People I liked turned out to have faults (sometimes ugly ones) and people who rubbed me the wrong way at first ended up being the guys I was rooting for at the end. It's hard to dismiss anybody because, considering this show is about "two houses, one of light and one of darkness," there's quite a bit of moral ambiguity.The best reason to watch this show, though, is not the pacing, the plot, or even the characters -- really, it's the moods. When Carnivale wanted me to be scared, my hands shook. When Carnivale wanted me to be happy, I nearly wept. When Carnivale wanted me to be appalled, or disbelieving, or in mourning, or breathless... it happened. Much of this, I feel compelled to note, is due to the show's single greatest strength: its soundtrack. Carnivale without its soundtrack is still fascinating, but the complex, often hair-raising and sometimes heart-stopping themes elevate the material like no other music I can remember in any series or film.Watch this show. Watch it, read about it, praise it, and even criticize it. Let's hope when you do that you aren't speaking ill of the dead.


                
Loved this show. I am so grateful our satellite carrier has it in their on demand feature under HBO series. I watched the entire two seasons in one weekend--I couldn't stop myself. It left me wishing for new episodes. I would have like to have seen a 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th seasons. I'm not quite sure why they ended the series. In my opinion it ended way too soon. The characters became like old friends and they will be missed. Who do we right to in order to protest the end of this show? I just don't understand how HBO could have canceled this peek into the lives of carny's. It also gave us a look at what life was like during the depression something I'm sure a number of viewers can relate to since 2009. It kept me guessing right up until the very end. It also showed that no matter what walk of life you come from, people are people. They have flaws and short comings no matter what line of work they're in.
The wonderful thing about this serial is the location, cinematography.The actors are brilliant, while i am watching this i felt that i am living with them. Ben and Samson characters did nice acting.. No wonder it won Emmy for cinematography, costumes, and hairstylingIt is too shame that HBO has to stop this, the same thing they did with Deadwood. Hoping they will change their mind. &heard there are more stories and characters to be introduced in later season. If they cannot run the full season, don't start it. but i like HBO serials.. they are totally different from others."come-on children's"


                
Carnivàle is a very ambitious series that, despite failing to live up to its own promises, is still well above average.Several people have described Carnivàle as "Grapes of Wrath meets Twin Peaks". The dustbowl, a travelling carnival, characters with strange powers and stranger histories, a young man with a special gift and disturbing dreams, a priest who may or may not have been singled out by God. All these elements are brought together in an epic story with the help of excellent technical and artistic skills.Everything, from the scripts to the post production, is sharp and polished beyond belief. The first series is almost perfect. The framing of every shot, the delivery of every line, the timing of every musical note. Every single episode is a lesson in storytelling and film-making.Unfortunately, things start to go wrong in the second series. Despite the excellent cinematography, art direction, acting and music, and despite a few brilliantly directed and edited episodes (closer to the start of the season), the story becomes weaker and the plots grow increasingly bigger holes. Towards the end, direction and editing take a dive as well. The show was cancelled after that, and, judging from the drop in quality from the first to the second season, it may have been for the best. Despite these problems, and despite the fact that the story is incomplete, you still owe it to yourself to watch Carnivàle; whether you're a fan of the genre or not, you'll almost certainly recognise it as one of the best series of the last decade.


                
I think it's time to create a 3rd season. I finished seeing this show today and it ends literally in the half of the main story! This show really made me watch the episodes one after another, it's addictive! Ben killed Justin but now his daughter Sofie got powers. We need to know how it ends. I really hope the director remembers to create the next season. And Lodz said to Lila that he was going to appear in flesh. Iris is alive, since the wheel of the carnivale we never saw her again. What happened to Jonesy? Is he really dead?! OMG! I need the rest of it! This is a drug to me and it stopped in the climax! To finish I can for sure say that everyone wants the same has I do. If the director can see this PLEASEEEEEEE make another season!
I give the show a 9 only because of the filming and how it is almost accurate the way they got the 20's right. This is yet another story where if you missed some parts you would be terribly confused as to what is going on.My personal opinion as to why the show got canceled was because of the lawsuit that was filed June 9, 2005 by Los Angeles writer Jeff Bergquist. This lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on February 17, 2006 thus leading me to believe that if they followed through with another season writer Jeff Bergquist would have pursued with the lawsuit. I believe this is why it was dismissed and for no other reason the show was canceled The reason behind the suit was copyright infringement as writer Jeff Bergquist claimed the idea was stolen from his book. Had it not been the case they would have showed the new season that had already stared with its filming. With the amount of discontent viewers writing in daily had this not been true the would have showed at least the 3rd season.If a mediocre TV show Jericho could come back from the dead surely if there was ever a case to bring back a show it would have been the one. This show is and always will be a much better show than Jericho.


                
I think it's one of the greatest show I've seen... now see, I'm a huge fan of the O.C but Carnivale beats it. Why? Because it has everything in it, fantasy, drama, romance, violence. Some humor in it, of course which is a good thing. It's amazing, there are many unpredictable scenes. These people who acted in this show has done an amazing job, they acted out their roles amazingly.Honestly, if people tells you this show sucks. Go see it for yourself, these people may have not seen more than one episodes and get lost in the plot easily... too bad for them. Watch it. It's a little scary sometimes... in fact, it's the first series that gave me nightmares in one night. It's a good piece of work, one of the best.


                
