I saw this film with my entire family and everybody loved it. My ten year old daughter laughed the most in the first half. The story itself is very intriguing, it successfully provokes your thoughts and captures your imagination with interesting questions. In terms of comedy the first half is better than 3 idiots and munnabhai franchisee. The second half is thought provoking and social message. No action, no special effects - just good acting and direction and awesome message. It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Aamir acted brilliantly. Anushka was decent. Hirani's direction was very good. Prepare to be moved. Hats off to the director, actors and producers for tackling serious issues which is plaguing our country. Not getting scared by fringe elements and going ahead with this subject needs courage. Nowadays everybody wants to play safe and just earn money. There's two kinds of people in this world when you boil it all down. You got your talkers and you got your doers. Most people are just talkers, all they do is talk. But when it is all said and done, it's the doers that change this world. And when they do that, they change us, and that's why we never forget them. So which one are you? Do you just talk about it, or do you stand up and do something about it? Because believe you me, all the rest of it is just coffee house and bullshit. Bollywood can tackle social issues. Bollywood can really educate people. But 80% of bollywood is just talkers and hypocrites and gold diggers. Films like A Wednesday, Shahid, tare zameen par, dhobi ghat, 3 idiots, munnabhai part 1 and 2, paan Singh tomar, haider, sangharsh really belongs to doers.


                
Watched PK! It's by far the best film I have ever seen in my life. Aamir has given performance of his life.Best film of Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan's career. This film is once in a lifetime experience. This film is made with a lot of hard work which can be seen clearly.Aamir is a legend. Anushka has done wonderful work too. Sushant is brilliant in a small role..Also great act by Saurabh Shukla. each and everyone has done their work brilliantly..this film is father of 3idiots.This is a must watch film. message is very strong. this film makes u cry , laugh and force u to think. this is a brilliant film. once in a lifetime experience. I am going with full 10/10 with this film.
While entering the theater, I was excited and so were many people in my vicinity. Being a Rajkumar Hirani flick, one can hardly expect disappointing but you never really know. After 3 idiots in 2009, it took Hirani a hiatus of five years to come up with PK. But does this deliver enough to live up to its promise? Well, I feel proud to say this, Hirani has not let us down. Aamir Khan this time in PK has left no stone unturned and has put in his best for his role. From his physique to his language, the actor is simply brilliant. Indulging himself in a role of an innocent outsider(the role which suits Aamir perfectly), he speaks more with his expressions than any of the actors do with their words. With Aamir on the frontier, it is hardly fair game for the remnant of the crew to show their finesse. Quite to the contrary, Anushka plays an adequately important role in doing her best to ameliorate the humour. Sanjay Dutt who appears in parts is also fabulous. Now, the screenplay. Magnificent. Every dialogue and the successive is written, furnished and polished with extreme care and prowess. Music by Ankit Tiwari does not differ from the director's previous movies, they are quite decent and go hand in hand with the plot. I went to the theater excited and came out learning something. PK is a movie which entertains you every minute with its creativity in successfully creating an atmosphere of humour and exuberance. PK is out to provoke but not to shock. The film asks questions via its idiot savant protagonist, but does not attempt to deliver facile, absolute answers. And that makes it all the more effective. PK is an adventure which will make you laugh heartily, make you feel heart rended and make you learn to let go, simultaneously promulgating a message. PK is something i would describe, as an emotional roller-coaster. PK is an experience of a life time.If you have people with orthodox thinking in your proximity or people who are led to blind beliefs of religious drama or are puritanical, PK is just the movie for them. For others, this goes without saying, a must watch.My rating - "An emotional masterpiece" Traditional rating - 9.5/10.
Till yesterday, the benchmark for the best Hindi movie was 3 Idiots. But after watching PK, I would say that the benchmark should be changed. The same team that brought 3 Idiots has brought another magnificent movie. Everyone in the movie acted exceptionally well. The manner in which the social issues are depicted is very good. If we see the comedy aspects alone, 3 idiots is better. But if we see the social issues taken, PK is far better than the other movie. This is Aamir's best performance till date. Ranbir Kapoor comes in a comical guest role. Anushka Sharma, Sushant Singh Rajput and Saurabh Shukla are the other main characters.Overall rating- 9.5/10


                
I don't know whether most of the people actually knew the plot, but surprisingly I did, somehow some brilliant guy about an year ago already guessed or leaked the plot of the movie and I SERIOUSLY THINK it must be some spot boy jerk. But anyways, despite knowing the plot I still went to see the movie, that too First day first show. The moment I saw the plot becoming real within the first 10 minutes, I was skeptical whether I will like this movie. But to my surprise Aamir Khan blew me away with his incomparable acting skills and cuteness of the character. He will make you feel as if you are looking at a child who has been introduced in the world for the first time but has a consciousnesses. The main subject of the movie or so to say the "Strong Message", has been adapted by many movies before but PK stands far out from any of them. This movie will make you laugh but also make you cry. My year definitely ended with such a present from Rajkumar Hirani.


                
PK is the biggest achievement of Aamir Khan's carrier and Raju Hiranis too. Aamir acting and expressions deserve an Oscar. The film has everything. Emotion, Drama, Comedy, Message which literally means perfection. PK was the toughest character for not just Aamir Khan but, for anyone in the Bollywood industry. Not only Aamir, but Anushka Sharma and Sanjay Dutt did a very good job of their character which I think no one could have done. Sushant Rajput also did a fine job of his character.Like everything in this film is perfect. I insist you to go and enjoy the film because it's like a word of mouth movie. PK is like a father of 3 idiots.


                
Very unfamiliar with Bollywood and its protagonists, but I took a chance on this film, and I have to say-it contains an extremely powerful message. This film possesses a lot of HEART. I laughed, I cried, and everything in between. I loved it so much I recommended it to friends right away. I even told them I would buy their tickets. This film is a multi-topic piece that, we, as humans (no matter where we are from) should seek answers to. The main characters in the film are very expressive and communicate its content effectively. I believe in this movie and its essence. Awesome-hands down the best film I have seen. Well done on this film, well done. Ten stars.


                
You'll laugh your hearts out, you'll cry, you'll leave the theater inspired, and with a sense of joy, that only a Rajkumar Hirani film can give to you. Aamir was the heart and soul of the movie. You can't take your eyes off of him. Anushka Sharma was brilliant too. She has evolved as an actor over the years, and it clearly reflects in her role. Sanjay Dutt and Sushant chipped in with some brilliant cameos. This movie is definitely the best of 2014. In Rajkumar Hirani, we trust.P.S. There's a pleasant surprise right at the end. Enough said, go book your date with PK.Sai Ram


                
Hey man its 02:00PM in Pakistan and first show starts at 01:45PM, then how come you have watched this movie while living in Pakistan. You are just a Aamir Khan hater and nothing else. In your hate you have judged this movie without even watching it.I am not saying this movie is brilliant because I haven't watched it. I would definitely watch it today and if I didn't like it then I would write another review. But rating a movie or writing a review without even watching the movie is against ethical standards and IMDb policy as well. I would suggest people to not take any reviews seriously until after few more hours.
Had a bulk of Expectations from PK while I was walking into the Cinema hall. This film created buzz ever since the 1st Poster was released. All the promos were intriguing & made me watch the film. And as usual Rajkumar Hirani & Aamir Khan didn't disappoint me. Rather i got more than what i expected. Started off with a Simple Love story between Anushka & Sushant Singh Rajput which could look a li'l dull at times. But it picked up nicely ever since Aamir Khan got into the frame. There are Laughter riots throughout the 1st half. The song 'Bhagwan..' was Picturised amazingly. The song sang by Sonu Nigam left me with moist eyes. But the main focus of the film was to put light on our way of thinking about the Godmen. 'PK' takes this message a few steps higher than what we saw in Paresh Rawal starrer 'Oh My God'. It also brightened the focus on people's point-of-view towards different Religions. The 1st half was full of pace and some memorable scenes. 2nd half started off a little slowly with a couple of stretched scenes (that had no need of). But it again picked up pace and headed towards the Climax with lots more drama, laughter and excitement. For me, it's one of the Best executed films i have seen recently. One of the Best fims of 2014 for sure (along with the likes of 'Haider' & 'Queen') if not the Best. It's also a very timely released film as the devastating terror attack took place in Pakistan a few days back. Talking about the acting, Aamir Khan has just Killed it once again. I can't recall when is the last time I came across such a brilliant performance in bollywood. His Acting, his expressions, his style - everything was just beautiful. Arguably his Best Ever Performance. Anushka Sharma, playing a TV Journalist has also done a commendable job. Sourabh Shukla looked extra- ordinary in his Bald look. he was awesome as usual. Sunshat & Boman were good in their respective small roles. PK is a Trademark Rajkumar Hirani Film written all over it with Laughter, Emotions, Drama & an important Message. I would Love if the whole Bollywood starts making films like Raju Hirani without caring about Box Office Records as Baba Ranchoddas says, "Chase Excellence, success will follow you" ;) & lastly, if you are a Bollywood lover, then you'll have a huge Surprise at the End of the Film. :)
I think the movie PK is the best movie of the year. this is the right way to say GOOD BYE to this year.When Raju Sir and Aamir khan make a movie together its make a new record. PK is also create a New record.about the film I don't say anything, because you go And see the movie. I can say only one thing that it change your mind about god. just see the movie you know why I gave 10 points. best movie. Fantastic movie. i am only say one thing that all of you like this movie.Because it doesn't take too much mind to understand and everyone can see this movie without feeling bored. Anushka Sharma also done a great job in this movie.Another Great work Of Raju Hirani and Aamir Khan.
Watched PK...speechless!!A sparkling example of qualitative cinema! It's rare to see a film that bounces between humor & sentiment so seamlessly .aamir khan has done many challenging roles in his career but #Pk is beyond imagination!!!Aamir khan acting is just beyond imagination his career best performance !!!! <U+202A>#<U+200E>PK<U+202C> he'll make u laugh, cry, amuse, provoke.. all at the same time!!You experience the whole gamut of emotions, and end up saluting the makers. First time as a <U+202A>#<U+200E>critic<U+202C> I feel some films are better experienced as a <U+202A>#<U+200E>discussion<U+202C> rather than as a critical analysis and #PK is among them. Writer director <U+202A>#<U+200E>RajuHirani<U+202C> like every time presents a new thought. His strength as filmmaker is his honesty, his intention n his simplicity. <U+202A>#<U+200E>AamirKhan<U+202C> has done many challenging roles in his career but #Pk is beyond imagination. His performance has to be experienced!The efforts taken by Raju Hirani to raise fundamental questions bout human belief system requires loads of courage n extensive research #PK. The uniqueness of Raju Hirani lies in making a pertinent point on the social fabric of the country n yes ensure relentless entertainment. Hirani touches our heart and mind at the same time. Yet again. Raju Hirani, you short little genius !!. Anushka Sharma springs a refreshing surprise.She shines brilliantly as an actress. Sushant Singh Rajput is extremely endearing in a cameo while Sanjay Dutt is all heart...The fat barber will emerge as a Rock star soon. If you're looking for a rare experience of emotion packed message n quality entertainment then #PK won't disappoint you.Enjoy Its truly your best performance till date!!! This movie couldn't have been better timed seeing the 'change' our country is going through. Entire movie hall went gaga over it. <U+202A>#<U+200E>PKaaya<U+202C> What a fantastic movie.. you're really done a superb work.. what a performance. Wonderful. #AamirKhan great, <U+202A>#<U+200E>AnushkaSharma<U+202C> adorable. Still singing "Love is a Waste of Time."


                
One night I went out--sad and depressed. When I get this way, often I just want to take my mind off of home life, and a film might just be the cure. At this point I had never heard of Aamir Khan nor was I up to date on who's who in the zoo in Bollywood, (even though I had seen Slumdog Millionaire--what a film) nor had I had any intention of seeing a foreign film-- let alone a foreign film called PK. I asked myself, "what is this?" So, I read the description of the film, and a description never gives away much of the film, but I said I have to see this one, I don't understand what its about nor is it in my language, but I have to see it--perfect, this is the film I want to see--lets take a chance tonight. I really didn't want to go see mainstream film (that would be the first thing in theaters that's playing)--how boring. So, I decided to go see this film. I believe that night I was the only non-Indian present inside the theater. Let me tell you, I was meant to be there that night. It was a divine appointment. It was as if GOD Himself said to me, "I love you--it's going to be alright". The more I watched, the more I laughed and cried. It was all in subtitles, but this film was a BIG BLESSING for my life that night, and continues to be. This film became very personal for me. Everything that was discussed, everything that was addressed, I just felt in my heart to be true. BIG important questions asked in this film. I was out of my comfort zone, and I was loving every second of it. To the crew that thought, wrote, and made this film--I applaud you. Thank you for being a part of my life that night, and thank you for allowing me to be a part of yours. This is a very elemental, yet extremely profound film. BRAVO.


                
Finally I saw PK after waiting for it so long. I have seen Amir Khan's almost all movies. I like his choice of movies... So PK is directed by Raj Kumar Hirani who have given India all in all entertaining and thought provoking movies. PK is no different... We can watch his movies 100 times without getting bored at least its true for me.. So Amir Khan as PK is the most influential character in this movie.Amir's performance is one that will be remembered for long time for this year along with Shahid's performance in Haider .PK comes from an alien planet and lost his communicating device which can help him get back to home.So he is stuck in our planet,somewhere near northern India. What follows next is his journey and his understanding the way people live here and the way people think here.... PK songs are cute...Some comedy scenes were hilarious.The movie touched my soul n made me cry in a couple of scenes... At the end when finally PK returns he lies to Anusha about the tapes he has recorded, something which pk has learned staying in our home.This just shows what kind of world we live in..PK also takes back some good memories to his home.The movie throws light on the beauty of simplicity, childishness n love.. This movie definitely borrows some concepts from "Oh My God" but it has so much more to it...It teaches a lesson in love too n the fact that there is only one GOD. It also somewhat binds the 2 neighboring countries(India n Pakistan)together. Anushka also did a good job... So to conclude... PK is one movie that u should never miss(best of this year)...Go watch PK now...Its a brilliant cinematic experience and one movie that simply touches ur heart....Aamir you rock n real king of bollywood!!! 10/10
Even though it is not as funny as 3 Idiots, it raised a really important issue. History shows us that people were killed by talking about religion but Rajkumar Hiriani raised the same issue in real mature manner. PK showed the world that religion is not a property of people, instead it belongs to everyone. PK also taught me that best human being would be the one who serves humanity and not the one who is religious. Although the main story is somewhat similar to OMG, (Oh My God), it approaches the subject differently. Romance between Amir and Anushka did not add anything to the story. The development of the story was little slow but it never got boring. The songs were intelligently made, especially love is a waste of time was the best. I really appreciate the way Mr. Hiriani approached the subject. This movie shows that how to forget all the differences between us and live like human beings on this planet that we call home. Comparing this movie with 3 idiots would not be fair as they both are totally different movies, with different audience. I really enjoyed watching this movie. Definitely worth watching.


                
Watched PK! It's by far the best film I have ever seen in my life. Aamir has given performance of his life.Best film of Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan's career. This film is once in a lifetime experience. This film is made with a lot of hard work which can be seen clearly.Aamir is a legend. Anushka has done wonderful work too. Sushant is brilliant in a small role..Also great act by Saurabh Shukla. each and everyone has done their work brilliantly..this film is father of 3idiots.This is a must watch film. message is very strong. this film makes u cry , laugh and force u to think. this is a brilliant film. once in a lifetime experience. I am going with full 10/10 for this film.


                
I watched first day first show of the film PK. I am was obviously very excited. I had huge expectations from Aamir-Hirani combo and this film exceed my expectations. Concept PK is out of the box and it's a very different film. This film makes u laugh so much , makes u cry and gives u very strong message. I loved each and everything about PK. Every actor has done their work superbly. Aamir Khan steals the show without a doubt. This is another classic of his career. This film will always be remembered. It's a must watch film. Aamir didn't blink in the whole film and u don't even realize that..That's the beauty of this man's acting. deserves a national award. this film will be India's official entry to Oscars.


                
How powerful personality he has, he made me to write about his movie. Yes, he is Aamir Khan. I never write any review or any comments about movies. This is the first time I am doing it after watching PK.I always try to watch Aamir's movie asap. This time 1st day 1st show and I am felling lucky. I am not a great write only few words. It's a must watch movie. I like everything about the movie. The comic scenes of the movie are the best I have ever seen. Sometimes I felt I can't take it anymore. It also gives you to think about humanity. The message is perfect for today's world.And thank you Aamir Khan for the beautiful gift to the world.
wow just awesome movie Amir u r great and also Rajkumar Hirani great direction..this movie change your thought u will learn many things from this movie and Amir what a come back after D3 hats off to u :)and also in this movie Anuska Sharma act well she is pretty good :)and also Sushant Boman Irani Sanjay Datta act really well the team of Amir Rajkumar and Vidhu Binod Chopra are great thanks for this movie it's just awesome i hope u all go to hall and watch it and learn somethings from this also u will enjoy the movie i never miss the 1st day show of Amir movie he is really great and acting is fantastic he is no doubt one of the best actor in Bollywood industry our expectation day by day increasing from u hope next movie will be again different and also good thanks for this movie its really great :)
Great Movie ever.Great acting,great direction,well scripted,great story,great message.wow yes it's a great film ever.So heart touching and it's a must watch film for any human.Everyone must go and watch the film because it makes you cry ,makes you laugh,makes you forced to think about the fact.All Other Aspects have done so brilliantly in this movie.And Yes The background score is so touching.All the viewers will go under great experience watching PK The Film.Actually Hindi Films have going to rock this time and for this this film is responsible.This was an unique idea to make the film.And kudos they have made it greatly and all the things are just greatly perfect.Fingers crossed.Must watch!!!
Nice Movie.Movie communicates a nice message of Unity in society, that is filled with superstitious traditions, deceptive & discriminated with orthodox beliefs that divide all human being in the name of religion.Focus on Religious equality, which means treating all religions the same, whether Christians, Sikhs, Hindus, Buddhists Muslims, Jews etc as well as all denominations within each of them.The inevitable consequence of orthodox beliefs & discrimination in the name of religion leads to misconception about people...All religions are divinely inspired, but they are imperfect because they are products of the human mind and taught by human beings based on their moral ethics.We should think towards eliminating all the atrocities that happen in the name of religion and caste in this society & make everyone realize that we are one and the same and bring a sense of brotherhood. No God ever instructed to worship only him/her in any religious scribe. No God has ever written about themselves, it Humans who create story & write about god. The holy books of all these religions were not written by their respective gods. How did the early man come up with the idea of God? It has evolved over time...that seemed to focus more on the philosophical aspects of god. Life is Motion towards Knowledge & God is Complete Positive energy which one gets following the Past Knowledge, symbolization of our inner strength, morality, character & motivation for more creativity to follow...Fear & uncertainty of life is a basic instinct. It is present in every animal's mind. To overcome this fear we seek positive thoughts & reference, which is Knowledge (God). This positive reference ("God") is present in every culture, Evolution, and time period.Today, we don't know what dark matter and dark energy are, we don't know why there is a matter- antimatter imbalance, and we don't know how the combination of matter, dark matter, and dark energy keeps the universe from collapsing on itself or the objects inside to fly off in different directions, and this vitality of the universe is attributed to the Brahman or Tat (simply means "that"). The Vedas go to a great length trying to explain this, but leave many portions as questions, for the future learners to investigate. However, it does say that the end result is beyond the comprehension of the human mind...the most important thing is that it explicitly encourages only and only scientific inquiry to gain knowledge. It is the human interest and fascination with paradoxes that fuel both science and magical thinking, how can things be as we know they are one day, and the next day with new technology, be something else? The pursuit of God is the pursuit of meaning, the pursuit of Knowledge is the pursuit of truth.Example: The concept of God is introduced to children's mind so that they think that there is someone to control and punish them. Every parent tries to increase their child's confidence in writing exams by telling that God may help them in it if they study well. The concept of God may help one to become a better man and lead a peaceful life. This is the Psychological concept of God and plays a significant role in most people's life.


                
It's by far the best film I have ever seen in my life.Aamir has given performance of his life. Best film of Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan's career.This film is once in a lifetime experience. This film is made with a lot of hard work which can be seen clearly. Aamir is a legend. Best of luck P.Kmessage is very strong. this film makes u cry , laugh and force u to think. this is a brilliant film. once in a lifetime experience. I am going with full 10/10 with this film.p.k will be create a recoed


                
Expectations were high after "3 idiots" from Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan...And they delivered..If you were thinking, how could the pair of Hirani and Joshi possibly better their effort after the superb script of "3 idiots", you will get your answer after watching "pk".Through unique story, brilliant acting and superb screenplay, the movie leaves us with much to ponder, especially the issue of stereotypes which we implant in our minds towards certain matters and not give them a second thought. I look forward to see how Hirani can possibly come up with a better one after this...


                
<U+202A>#<U+200E>MyReview<U+202C> <U+202A>#<U+200E>NoSpoilers<U+202C> Amidst all the trash that comes from <U+202A>Bollywood<U+202C>, Rajkumar Hirani can never go wrong with his ability of story telling. Well written, great performances, rib-tickling Bhojpuri-styled dialogues and an excellent screenplay (especially the first half) is what defines <U+202A>#<U+200E>PK<U+202C> for me. Although there were some traces of Paresh Rawal's OMG - Oh My God! mixed with slight unrealism plus some ordinary VFX, it does not matter -- Aamir Khan nails this brilliant satire. Don't miss this ride! If it takes 5 years (after <U+202A><U+200E>3Idiots<U+202C>) for Rajkumar Hirani to create such a simple yet effective picture, then I'll wait for 2019 to watch his next.PS. A small surprise in the end. An indication of a sequel? Probably. I hope.


                
Finally watched a movie on its first day of release..." PK " an awesome movie with the best story line,best direction, best acting by all the actors. Movie never goes off its track.. Keeps the interest of the audience till the end.. The whole movie makes your stomach's ache out of laughing but not with silly,lame adult jokes "With an EXCELLENT SENSE OF HUMOUR" . After the interval the movie brings some emotional moments and some serious problems of the society but still along with its ongoing comedy... Best Bollywood movie made after 3 Idiots Movie coincidently both starring Aamir Khan and both directed by Raj Kumar Hirani... Truly deserves a 5 star... Must watch, and best part is that it is enjoyable with both family and friends!!! loved it!! <3


                
