An intriguing tale, the story begins with PK (aamir) who happens to be an alien that comes to earth to study the human beings and lifestyle. But after reaching, he loses his tracker device through which he has to communicate to his spaceship. Not knowing the language, the people, PK has a tough time but he eventually finds a good friend in the form of Bhairav Singh (sanjay dutt). Few incidents occur and PK finds himself in Delhi in his search for tracker device. He is helped by Jagat Janani (anushka) in his search. What happens after that forms the rest.The director has come up with a unusual storyline and while the presentation was rich, the narrative was quite absorbing. The dialogues were well written. The script was above average and the screenplay made it lot better. The background score was melodious and three songs were worth watching. Cinematography was the main strength to this film. Editing was crisp. Costumes were well designed to suit the backdrop while the art department was majestic. Aamir Khan has given a stellar performance and he stole the show, easily one of his career bests. Anushka Sharma was competent and did her best. Sanjay Dutt was superb. Saurabh Shukla and Boman Irani were not used to their fullest. Sushant Singh was effective. Others did their bit as required and added value.The basic crux of the plot is quite interesting and it was a take on few beliefs of our society that have existed since centuries. While it has been blended with some satire, some humor and some emotion, there was some slack in energy. The first half goes about with elements of comedy, some interesting moments and the interval bang was interesting. The second half slows down a bit and takes the fizz away but it has its own share of bright moments, but predictability seeps in . Overall, this film seems to have an Oh My God, hangover as its story is quite similar. This is probably one of RKH weakest films, but thats saying a lot because the film is still great. Expectations where high and the films 1st half meet those expectations the film seemed humorous and pathbreaking, but the 2nd half syndrome does sep in. But still this film is a must watch for the films overall, message against how religious and some society norms are ridiculous, and for aamir's performance.3.5/5* or 7/10
Just watched The most awaited film of the year with my friends and its been a great day for me.About the movie, the more story goes deeper and deeper, i found a plot similar like "oh my god".Now the difference is sir Paresh Rawal doing all the things because he know all this god business,and Sir amir Khan as "pk" here doing similar things without knowing what he is doing.Same plot,but placed in a different way.Each and every one in this movie looked amazing.and no doubt Amir Khan proved or lets rip that word "Proved" for him because he don't have to prove anything again,we know he is the best and done a great job,and Anushka- Well done.Good Movie but you know those people who didn't see the omg yet,they are going to find this movie extraordinary,but for me i didn't find it in that way because it's just 2 years ago when i saw the same kinda movie.


                
Watched P.K. movie first day first show .... can't beat Aamir Khan when it comes to offbeat roles ... he was excellent ... the movie overall was good with first half being exceptional and second half not so good. The first half had its fair share of laugh-out-loud moments. The songs are well placed and only continue the story, not hamper it. The dialogues are witty and funny, thereby getting whistles in the theatre. The second half could have been edited better. The love track between Aamir and Anushka was a 'waste of time' :) The battery recharge dance portion was discharging ... The one on one of Aamir with the religious guru was also not so interesting.Overall a decent watch and should be watched for what it is ... a good film. But it could have been so much greater ...
That's right.. Don't go see this movie..-If you feel that religion and entertainment should not be mixed and that you do not want to get the religious (or anti-religious) message from liberal/secular actors who are out to shake your faith.-If your view of religion (specifically Hinduism) is so skin-deep that it could be hurt by anyone asking innocent questions.-if you think that your particular guru, swami, baba or spiritual leader can't stand up to questioning.-If your view of the message is always colored by who the messenger is. Would you have a different opinion if the movie was from Abhishek Bacchan or Hrithik Roshan or some other generic Hindu sounding actors (instead of Aamir Khan)?-If you strongly believe that the movie was funded by some Muslim organization or country that is out to malign Hinduism.-If you are afraid that by seeing the movie, your deeply held beliefs could be altered. I personally am under no illusion that people's minds will be changed by merely watching a movie (that too<U+0085> on the topic of deep rooted faith)!-If you feel that for all the time spent in the movie, on Hindu rituals and fake gurus, an equal amount of time should be spent on similar aspects of Christianity and Islam (money grubbing televangelists, molesting catholic priests, Taliban and Boko Haram should be given equal time?)-If you are offended by male actors showing off their well-toned bodies (almost) in the buff. Remember, they never show Aamir Khan totally naked. There is always a branch or a Boom box that is strategically placed. So, maybe it's the allusion to male nudity that is the problem for some folks. Meanwhile, there are several such portrayals of women which are usually met with whistles of approval. There are routine and gratuitous displays of blood and gore and disemboweled bodies in movies as well as TV news, magazines and newspapers. This seems quite acceptable. No one is worried about the negative impact of these on impressionable young ones.If you fall into any of the above categories, please DO NOT go see this movie! It will ruin your day for sure!!The movie is not attacking Hinduism. It is not even attacking all gurus, babas or spiritual teachers. It is highlighting some specific kind of babas and religious practices. Why not assume that your particular baba is the "good kind"? One who is merely preaching love for all, universal brotherhood, peace, tolerance etc. Not that kind who is always trying to relieve you of your material burdens (e.g., cash or jewelry). In fact, I understand that some of the sayings and ideas used in the movie are from popular religious teachers.This whole "alien from another star/planet" stopping by, is a very clever vehicle for the director/writer to ask some "innocent" questions about religion, faith etc., which, if asked in any other context would get you thrown out (maybe even get you beat up, just to underscore that we are "peaceful and non-violent" people). Religion generally requires that you suspend critical thinking and curiosity. The PK character does exactly the opposite in the movie.I thought that the overall treatment of the topic was fairly even handed by the writer and the director. They did not go off and question the existence of a creator. They just questioned some intermediaries (agents) between the creator and the created.If the worst thing that can happen from watching this movie is that we start questioning instead of blindly following, not just in matters of faith, but in all aspects of our life, then we will be a much more enlightened and tolerant society.Sure, that whole affair with Sarfaraz in the beginning and the melodrama at the end with the conference call with Pakistani consulate staff seemed too sappy and formulaic! But, hey.. this is still a Bollywood movie and you just have to take certain aspects of it on blind faith (in the director's abilities to satisfy box-office appeal). Couple of the song and dance sequences looked good on the big screen but none of them so catchy that I would remember after a day.All in all, it was a thoroughly enjoyable and funny movie. A perfect dessert after a sumptuous New Year's lunch! Compared to Aamir's earlier movies, I would rank this slightly below "Taare Zamin Par" and "3 Idiots."As we walked out, we heard the conversation of couple of older white ladies who were in the theater with us<U+0085> "Wow! What a wonderful movie", "What a great way to start the New Year!", "I wonder why it only got 87% on the Rotten Tomatoes website?" One of them even asked me as we exited the theater, "How did you hear about this movie?", before we could ask them that same question!!If you have not seen the movie and if you are currently blasting the movie (and/or vandalizing movie theaters in India) for its negative portrayal of your particular religion (based on inciting views from others), then please DO NOT go see this movie, as it could sap the energy out of your righteous indignation!!
Aamir Khan as PK makes you giggle and blubber but more importantly asks you haunting questions about love, living and way of life. It shakes your belief with unfamiliar perspective. PK is naïve yet smart, simple but has a way to solve complications and a character that you love to love. He came, conquered, learned to love and lie and returns with a naked heartthrob of bollywood. (Watch out for a pleasant surprise in last 30 seconds). It is arguably one of the best performance by Aamir Khan but there is no debate that Anushka Sharma is an ACE in every scene from Bruges to Rajasthan.PK comes from a planet which has neither language nor clothes and a weird dance movement to release the stress. PK's Planet people transit information through human connection (like USB) and hence it surprises PK that humans on earth can communicate with God wirelessly. First half shows PK's curiosity in understanding way of life, making friends, learning Bhojpuri, surviving with smartness, lots of running from angry mob, bunch of naïve questions, funny incidents and an ice cream moment of tears. Second half takes the turn of "Oh My God" and questions religions as mediums to reach God. Beauty of PK is the blending of three separate stories of an alien, love triangle and religion and Raju Hirani's execution as Director is top notch.Read complete review @ http://www.ratemovieshere.com/reviews/11445/pk-2014-review
Fail to understand why this movie has got such amazing ratings and rave reviews. The movie is a one time watch. Compared to the other movies coming out in Bollywood, yes this is better but definitely not the best of 2014 nor is it Hirani's best baby. P.K. has a message which has more and less been delivered in the past by OMG: Oh my God! and the latter did it more effectively hands down. Drawing comparisons with OMG is obvious as both share a common subject. While the execution was way better in OMG, the star power is clearly helping P.K. rake in more moolah. The cheap marketing tactics of Vidhu Vinod Chopra and Aamir Khan ( increasing the charges from every theater screening it just a day before the release) have only helped in making it one of the top 10 grossers ever in the history of Bollywood.Coming back to the review, pluses first, 1. Star cast 2. Performances 3. Subject 4. HumourThe movie has its moments, specially as far as the humour quotient is concerned. A few scenes are genuinely very funny while others at least make you smile. The emotional scenes are decent but fail to leave an impression (not the kind you would discuss once you are out of the theater). The message is good nevertheless and makes you feel that more such cinema is required. Coming to the cons, direction is average and like mentioned earlier is flawed by the snail pace at which the movie rolls. Many scenes seem stretched. What did the editor do? The songs were never needed in this movie and the fact that none is good only adds to your woes.The sluggish pace of the movie hits a new high towards the climax which is dumb and hilarious.Performances wise, of course Aamir Khan is great as usual. I personally loved Sanjay Dutt in a brief but important role. It was good to see him on screen and putting in an honest effort. Anushka Sharma, except for her lip-job-gone-horribly-wrong upper lip, does very well and looks pretty. Saurabh Shukla is impressive as the god man. Boman Irani and Balraaj Sahni are frankly wasted and don't get anything significant.Overall it makes for a decent one time watch first for the subject and then for the performances put in by the actors. While I am still bedazzled by the over the top positive review, I only hope the audience is not just enjoying the humour and walking back home. It would make much more sense if they learn a thing or two and apply it to their lives. Yes, then this movie would deserve at least a 9 if not a perfect 10. Go watch it with less expectations, you might just like it more.


                
A Khan is my beloved actor. Like a tyhoon, he is sweeping Hong kong a few years ago with his sincerity, modesty and humbleness, being a super star. Most of his films are enchanting, with new genre every time, deeply researched plot, and theme to improve his society. He is nicknamed India Andy Lau Tak Wah. But to me, he goes much further than Andy Lau.This present movie, however, is unnecessarily long. In spite of this, the plot is innvovated and funny, a bit like The man who comes from star, a kdrama. But this is not a love story.Overall speaking, a meaningful plot yet to be shortened. Still a work worth seeing.


                
The discussion of religion and the God stick is still very profound.


                
After the disaster Hollywood movie rip off dhoom 3,aamir is back as the perfectionist. Wonderful acting and script. This film will surely do well in the flimfare awards. Its an Family entertainer with parental guidance and will do good even for the critics. Its a simple and sweet story of a man who has stranger's childlike curiosity and world-view challenges people's long-held notions, making friends of some and foes of others. This movie certainly deserves a 8 or 7 rating out of 10. The movie bit of boring i in the middle but that too gets compensated by by fresh scenes of humor. If like movies such as Barfi, you surely wont regret after watching this film


                
As expected PK is not really a science fiction movie. It is rather a mixture of simple Comedy,religious satire and a musical. Although the story is based a round an alien, who is trying to make his way back home, religious satire is the main contribution made by this movie. However with out his remote Control, which is essential for him to call his spaceship to pick him up, PK cannot leave earth. As his remote control was stolen straight after his arrival, he is desperate to get it back. Once he realizes that his chance are practically non existent to find his remote control, he choose to learn from the humans to seek help from god. But which one is the right one Hindu, Christian, Muslim or Sikhs god ? I found the idea to address human greed and religious hypocrisy very refreshing, however with the exception of Aamir Khan the acting was mostly abysmal throughout the movie.


                
i cannot understand why raju hirani makes such type of movies they are so useless that one cannot refrain from the fact that i need disperine after watching this moie of him... i expected a better plot a better story but as always a useless movie with a useless content was presented before me... if had a single piece of idea about the story- line i would never ever have watched this movie... so useless that i am still thinking why aamir khan made this film.... what point he was trying to prove infront of Indian audience .... aamir should realize that Indian audience want entertainment only not any lectures about anything in their life


                
"Pk" was one of the most anticipated movies of the year, may be for Aamir Khan, Raj Kumar Hirani, or the promising promos of the film. The film tries to see the world through the eyes of an alien who has no idea of what the life in the earth is like. Through this character the film tries to make a satire to different religions and the stubbornness of the religions and the god men (managers of the god as described in the movie). In the aspect, the subject doesn't come strongly than Paresh Rawal's "OMG: Oh My God" in which the debate on the existence of god and religions was stronger and interesting. Anyway, the questions put in the first half and the representation of different religions are pretty witty and hold the audiences to the edge of their seats.However, the film doesn't stick to a single issue and delves much into the melodrama which makes it a light entertaining movie than a strong social issue based movie. On a whole. the film appears an amalgam of many popular movies like "3 Idiots,"Lage Raho Munna Bhai" or "OMG." However, the alien as a protagonist and the way he deals and asks the simple questions on basic truths of life make this film entertaining and novel. Overall, Aamir Khan steals the show. Anushka Sharma, Saurabh Sukla, Parikshit Sahni also deliver good performances. Direction of Raj Kumar Hirani is similar to "3 Idiots": entertaining and hilarious but with not very memorable characters like in "3 Idiots," except "Pk" himself.Rating: 2.5 stars out of 4
Movie formula: Indo-Pak aman + train blast + religious extremism - bollywood masala = AAMIR WANTS MODI TO WATCH THIS MOVIE Aamir says "It's time to unmask your hypocritical BS and appreciate the goodness of all religions".I want to see India free of all these religious extremists let be Hindu or Islam. It is also a wrong notion that well educated citizens are aware of this fact but academic education, in my view, is just a state of one's mind. Aamir wants to give a tight slap to religious extremists in India(like Really Simple Syndication). He enjoys the freedom of not being a citizen of any country and uses it to his advantage to avoid controversies. I still hate Bollywood shooting songs abroad, please grow up, please. I wished the movie started with the saucer landing scene, the intro could have been constricted to abt 10 mins max. Please evolve Bollywood.UFO CGI: pls hire good CG specialists, come out of Krissh syndrome UFO landing in India: good Alien speaking Bhojpuri: good Movie script: could have been lot better Movie message: strong Anushka and her dad's role: was really not needed Boman Irani: could have got better n stronger role Sanjay Dutt: What? Why? where? how? Aamir/Alien: nothing alien other than green eyes and pointy ears (oh he anyway has pointy ears)
RajKumar Hirani has done it again. He, along with Mr. Perfectionist Amir Khan, made a movie which is funny and emotional at the same time. The movie is based on a certain similar concept as "Oh My God !" but still is very different. As we have seen the magic before in 3 idiots we expected this to happen again. According to me, 3 idiots was the magnum opus of hirani, so, reaching to that point was a rather difficult task, but P.K. still engages us effectively. There are times when we just laugh constantly and funny punches keep coming one after the other. No worries in the acting department as Amir has handled everything perfectly. Anushka looks cute, as always and has done her part well. Sanjay Dutt is quite a surprise. His presence on the film marked sure laughter. Songs are okay, but their placement in the movie is what that matters, which is good. P.K. is a must watch because movies like this are rare in Indian cinema which handles such a sensitive topic(in India) so effectively adding a pinch of humor as well.


                
The first half of the movie is a delight. Satires and comedy scenes are near perfect. The second half was really disappointing to the point that you stop trusting the protagonists because at certain moments, the logic is forced upon you and the conversations are suddenly dragged out of context so that they could lead you to the logic that director wants to convey.It seemed as if the second half was directed by some other director who puts in typical bollywood style drama, logic, and emotions that is hard to connect with. This was Aamir Khan's best ever performance and all the other actors did a great job too.People who are religious or superstitious or who don't think much are going to enjoy the movie because the questions raised by PK in the movie would seem witty and eye-opener to them, but it would be boring for those who observe, think and those who are atheists.


                
After a while I have come across such a good Hindi movie that imbibes humor, sarcasm and best of situational comedy.. The cast play it straight and professionally but not always to the film's benefitStoryline : Oh My God (Hindi movie) + K-Pax (English movie) + Alien + clichéd Bollywood love storyPros - 1.Aamir's acting 2.Direction 3.Background score 4. Dialogues Cons - 1.Script,Editing 2.Songs 3.Lengthy movie , should have been at max 2 hours 4.Second half seems to be dragged too much 5.Anushka's acting 6.Sanjay Dutt and Sushant Singh are wastedP.S: Don't expect another Taare Zammen Par or 3 idiots
2014's most awaited film has finally arrived and Bollywood's most admired trio Hirani-Vidhu-Aamir does not disappoint the audience. The promo's have been intriguing as producers have not revealed much about the movie but has claimed that the plot would be its USP. Loosely inspired by OMG! PK takes a dig at the religious dogma and superstitions prevalent in today's time. Its a satire which exposes religion based commercialization and differentiates God from the god-men. Also, Hirani take a similar protagonist like 3 idiots, who is an outsider, who challenges the tradition and tries to simplify the system. PK has a wonderful humor which highlights religious myths by way of simple but well thought of amusing acts. The second half of the movie is bit stretched where the plot creates a face-off between PK and a god-men. Perhaps, Hirani could have craftily used some political/ economic satire to the present plot to end the repetition. All said, PK stands out because of one person, Aamir Khan, who takes his stature to a new high with this performance by playing the part with extreme precision. Hirani is successful in achieving a melodramatic ending much like his previous works! PK is definitely not-to-be missed movie of this year.
To me it seems Mr. Hirani has 4 subjects that he absolutely loves to talk about. 1) Education System. 2) Mr. Gandhi and his principles. 3) Religion. 4) Being different (aka Purple Cow).Take any movie of his, these issues come up in various ratios. Every character has to be very different, aka Purple Cow. While 3 Idiots and Munnabhai MBBS focused on the educational system, there were subtle hints of religion being questioned in each and every movie. He took that subtle part and bifurcated in that direction. End result? PK.In order to look at the way we do things, a character had to be like a child, or completely unaware of what goes on in India. Someone from another country? Nah! That person might have a religion associated with him/her. Conflict of interest. Chuck it. Then who could it be?People from outer space are unknown. We have no idea who they are and they have no clue of who we are. Idea! The protagonist could be from outer space! He knows nothing, it's perfect. And anything he does or anything he questions has no conflict of interest. Sounds good? Yes it does. And so the movie shooting begins. AK is PK. RK is no idea who. But AK is PK. It is obvious from the first scene that astronauts on their planet take their fitness regime very seriously, as already stated above. And they have no issues flaunting their physiques and in fact roam around like you would at Anjuna Beach in Goa. There's also a very unhealthy drink sold in the United States by that name. Yes, Naked. :DThink about PK. He lands in Bhojpur, India. Thankfully he did not land in Russia during December in that condition. He looks around to see people wearing different clothes and thinks it's their skin. The concept of clothes is new to him. And so his journey begins. His first introduction is with a thief. The thief steals the only thing PK is wearing. His remote. The remote that establishes communication with his spaceship. His whole logic of landing on Earth was to do "research". But right now, all PK is focusing on is "search". Search for his remote. When he searches for it again, they call it research. Poor guy couldn't focus on what he came for, instead gets trapped in a completely tangent loop. He is introduced to the diverse culture in India, only to realize that the diversity is not an issue, the non-acceptance of others way of practicing faith is an issue. Faith is not questioned, religion is.The moments are captivating, and the song "Bhagwaan" will choke you. If it doesn't I recommend a psychiatrist to take care of your deep rooted psychological and emotional issues to make sure you haven't landed from any outer space and you are, in fact, human. Aamir's expressions are amazing. He did NOT BLINK once during the entire movie. If he did and I missed it, I'd be happy to know when. The "Sarat Manjoor Hai" will remind you of Lagaan.RK's cameo at the end could suggest a sequel being thought of. Perhaps the alien might want to check out a few different countries, and gets introduced the word F1 visa. Perhaps, he comes to the US and is NOT surprised when they call him a Non Resident Alien. "Are you an Alien sir? Yes, but how do you know." Perhaps he is now introduced to the consulting system and the Immigration system here. Perhaps that's a story every desi could correlate with. Perhaps we are also looking for the right time for our remotes so we can go home. I went all tangent, but idea to acha hai.Simplicity is Mr. Hirani's weapon of choice. He can explain the most complicated things with very simple lines. No lamba lamba philosophical lectures. Yes, philosophy can be explained in a fun way. And it's done nicely here.Is this an awesome film? It depends on your choice and your philosophies. Personally, I loved 3 Idiots better, maybe because of the whole Engineering and college type jokes. The way our country is at the moment, there are huge set of issues to deal with. If not religion, people would divide themselves with something else. Say, a football team? A University they graduated from? Alumni? Sections? CrossFit? P90X? LOL. Honestly, it is human nature to belong to a sect, a tribe, a group. It gives us security to be belonged. We can't take away that fact. That's OK as long they don't look down upon other groups and they maintain unity amongst each other. The issue talked about in the movie goes beyond the segregation. It's about divide. Practice what you want, how you want, but do not divide. What we can do however, is respect every other group and know that no matter what, it all means the same thing. Peace, Progress, Unity.The story does evoke various emotions and there will be comparisons with "Oh My God" that came out earlier. Slight resemblance due to the nature of the subject, but the treatment is different. Due to the nature of the shaking car and the band baaja baraat dialogue scenes, I recommend you watch this movie without your kids. I wish India had a rating system for age groups and theaters actually enforced it. Now that would be a nice subject Mr. Hirani. Something out of your comfort zone too.Thanks for reading, see you in the future.
A man on a mission to find God, PK symbolizes innocence. The way the character talks to people and behaves,in general, is quite absurd but has a childlike charm. Great actors and a truly amazing director made a beautiful movie under a lot of pressure from patrons having made one of the best movies in Bollywood. When the movie started and the spaceship landed, my friend dreaded that it would be an ordinary movie, despite being an Aamir Khan fan. But within minutes his worries were gone. The way this movie gives an outside perspective on our ordinary lives is phenomenal. For example, we give and take money every day without bothering for its significance, but PK misunderstands that it is the photograph of the 'old man's on the paper that is worth value. His innocence is portrayed well by the fact that he tries to buy carrots in return for a bunch of posters of Gandhi. The movie makes you laugh and then after a short while makes you notice the truth that is portrayed. A few gags and pranks make it funnier than what it would be with only the situational comedy. The plot point of him falling in love could have been added to satisfy the Indian viewers checklist of things necessary in a movie, but nevertheless was shown well by the fact that he 'loves her enough to let her go' to the one she loves. There was a lot of anxiousness in a lot of people's minds because of Aamir Khan calling this his most challenging role and mentioning that this movie alone would outweigh his entire career's worth of movies most of which are very iconic and revolutionary. I was ready to be unsatisfied because I had huge expectations but it still went way beyond. It is bound to be a classic movie we will talk about for decades.
An alien who looks just like a human lands in Rajasthan desert from another planet wearing a locket like signal transmitter around his neck. But just when he lands on earth, his signal transmitter which sends signals to his spaceship i.e which helps him go home gets stolen. The lost alien begins searching for his transmitter in a planet which is very alien to him. Meanwhile in Belgium a girl named Jaggu gets cheated by her love and decides to return her home country India. As the story progresses she meets the alien PK and eventually helps him go home. The alien played by Aamir khan is an absolute delight to watch. The way he lives his life searching for his transmitter thing, the kind of things he do to get it back and the kind of situations he gets stuck in are really so much fun. The first half of the film is realistic, funny and emotional. What follows is a second half which lacks the kind of realism in first half and takes a dramatic turn. PK who is very focused to get his thing back and go home, falls for Jaggu which kind of deviates the purpose of the whole first half of the film. The scene where Bhairo dies is quite dramatic and happens just like that in the film. Eventually PK gets his signal transmitter back but that happens in an even more dramatic way. The film in a way is a satire on how people believe in God and Godmen blindly, but that's just an aspect and the film stays faithful to it's actual story. Boman Irani and Sanjay Dutt looks wasted and Ranbir's cameo at the end is surprising. On the whole it's a good film with lots of fun.
Pk an alien that comes from another planet observes the lifestyle of people on earth. What he observed is all are human beings but their lifestyle , cloths ,method of worshiping God all are different due to different religions. The main thing he wants to tell is that why humans are confused God made all of them same but human are divided themselves as Hindu Muslim & different religions. all should help each other and all religions should live as brothers. In this movie many facts are highlighted in which people are making religious places as business & earn money by making people fool. God never take money from anyone but some clever people store all their money in their pocket at religious places. This is reality which is shown in this movie.
After PK was released, many right wing organizations and some others wanted the movie to be banned. That curiously took me to the movie in Jan this year and after comfortably sitting through it, the only questioned which popped in my mind was..What was all the fuss about?Anyways, personally I was disappointed with the film when compared to all of Hirandani's earlier works. Hirandani takes on a serious subject of religion and tries to turn it upside down through the eyes of PK an alien. It seems very inspired of the Hindi film 'Oh My God' which I felt was brilliant. PK does have its moments especially in the 1st half and beginning of the 2nd half, but towards the end, the movie drags and the comedy disappears. Unlike all his earlier works, the climax her is a disappointment because comedy dries up and the message is lost in translation. Also, an unnecessary Indo Pak angle is pushed into which doesn't hold. Suddenly from PK's story, it becomes the story of two other characters. PK is not a bad film. Its actually a good film and like OMG asks some important questions about are belief in God and religion.Aamir Khan is superb as PK and again proves that he is one of India's finest actor. It was a huge relief to see him laugh and make us laugh considering the fact that his previous outing Dhoom 3 where he was always moaning.Anushka is OK and holds herself against Aamir. The rest of the cast doing a commendable job starting from Rajput to Shukla and Irani.As I said earlier, its a decent watch though I feel that 3 Idiots was the best.


                
PK is fully entertained, some things are actually reality, but i want to tell one thing - "No Religion is Bad, The people, who takes advantage of religions and do bad deeds & pretends to be Holy, only they are wrong"The fun is omnipresent but highlighted when he meets sprightly TV journalist (Anushka Sharma) who wants to capture his eccentricities into a story. The only thing that sounded phony in the movie was how they made a certain Sarfraz from Pakistan look superMoreover, due to Some Adult Scenes, it can't be possible to watch it with family... Overall it contains too much fun...


                
Watching Amir Khan's portrayal as an Alien is both joyous and baffling at the same time. Are all aliens from his planet so naive and perfect? Moreover, don't they believe in God? His acting in this film reminded me of little babies who are astonished of life around them, then how come life is so advanced on his planet? However, the film is worthy of watching. It carries a good social message and I too don't support blind belief on Godman. Only one theme I didn't like in this film which is the melodramatic portrayal of love story between a Pakistani and an Indian.Watch this film for Amir khan, Anushka Sharma and the underlying theme that this film carries which is superstitions in Hinduism and also in every major religion.


                
OK so I had hopes watching this one. Finally got a chance to watch this. I will be honest, its a brave move to try and fit all these different things inside a 3 hours span. Different things being the varied set of emotions that make you feel happy, sad, sentimental, all in just one movie. Raju Hirani did this with 3 Idiots and he did it flawlessly. That movie was a perfect blend of all emotions and worked incredibly well in terms of entertainment and the message being passed.Unfortunately, PK is a good attempt that falls flat trying that. You have a complicated story arch of Aamir's character and how he realizes things that he does and the social message he wants to pass. With all this you now have Anushka's story arch which starts off good but suddenly is given a full stop, only to conveniently resume when the movie requires it later. I strongly think that movies like 3 Idiots and 'especially' Oh My God far surpass PK because they were successful in delivering the message they aim for. The topic picked by PK, the commercialization of religions and how one should follow true religion is way way more clear and effective in OMG. The good thing I loved about this movie though is the way Aamir's character learns the different religious rituals performed all over India by different religious sects. The way his character is written is pretty unique just the way his character was in 3 Idiots. The twist by the end is good as well but I sincerely think either Anushka's love story should have been completely dropped or should have been given more screen time.In the end, the movie tries to be a jack of all trades but fails a wee bit. Not as mesmerizing as OMG but its a worth watching movie for sure. And since the way Aamir explains how religions are being followed wrongly is more down to earth and in simpler language, I think it will be understood well by the rural parts of India as well, which is where this problem lies anyways. Congratulations on being the highest grossing Bollywood movie ever.


                
