2 things: Aamir Khan, Rajkumar Hirani. Actually, one needs nothing more than this to go and watch the movie. Two of the finest people in their craft when join hands, you can expect nothing short of a BLOCKBUSTER, in every sense of the word. Saw this movie first day, first show and might I add the occupancy of the theater was about 60% for a 10:00 am show. That speaks for itself about the enthusiasm that people had about the movie. The year 2014 has surely ended with a SMASH HIT. I was disappointed with Aamir after Dhoom 3 and I guess I am not alone but this movie makes up for everything, every darn thing. It is not Aamir's best performance but would surely count as one of his best. What makes it so bloody brilliant is the story which takes some pretty serious subject matters and portrays them to the audience in a way that the audience can only laugh, and when in the serious scenes, they do not laugh, what they do is reflect over what happened and THINK and the obvious BRILLIANT direction by Rajkumar Hirani. This movie makes you THINK. PK caters to both the types of audiences, one who just want uninhibited CRAZINESS and just want to ENJOY their time while they watch a movie, and the other, who want the movie to make sense and make you think, they want to learn something from it. THIS MOVIE CATERS TO BOTH!! Sushant Singh Rajput was used adequately in the movie, some might feel his role was small but I don't think so. Sanjay Dutt does justice to his role too. Boman Irani had a small role, smaller than that of Sanjay Dutt's. Anushka Sharma was pretty okay. Nothing great or spectacular. Oh and, watch out for that SURPRISE at the end of the movie!! PLEASE GO AND WATCH, YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!


                
First half of the movie focuses on comedic aspect. I think the last time I heard such hearty laughs were at 3 idiots screening. Amir Khan's acting is brilliant as always. Whoever wrote this story had given it much thought on the basic idea as it was thought provoking and tries to shatter the root of evil in our religious society. But the upper layers of the story were like any other Indian movie, with same emotional drama in awkward places, a love story, an evil guy who gets ridiculed, etc. Thus the movie couldn't get too deep. It couldn't deliver to its full potential, but at any moment in the story I didn't feel bored. Songs are right on spot and creates a good mood. The movie also makes you realize how colorful, beautiful yet complex Indian society is. If you liked the movie Oh my god! then I am sure you would like this too. Worth a watch anyway.


                
'PK' is latest offering from blockbuster duo of Aamir Khan and Rahkumar Hirani. They deliver first 200 cr film '3 Idiots' and this time expectations are for 300 cr. Let's see whether they manage to achieve that. Film has rather interetsing plot. Alien PK (Aamir Khan) lands in Rajasthan and he lost his connection with spaceship and so he tries to survive on earth on his own. But his mannerism and thirst for knowledge of this new planet result in questioning of basic premises of religions. Though this sounds similar to 'Oh My God!' but that was more entertaining and here the treatment is more serious. In middle of this journey he meets good friend Bhairao Singh (Sanjay Dutt), Jaggu (Anushka Sharma). Jaggu is a student from Belgium but her role is half baked though that looks deliberate. In the end how PK manages touch upon some relevant issues and leaves a mark form the climax of the film. Performance wise Aamir Khan is simply outstanding and his methodical acting in every frame is commendable. He never goes out of character and his emotional impact is superb in climax. Anushka Sharma again gets 'Jab Tak Hai Jaan' kind of character which is catalyst but not a typical actress role. She manages to make a mark despite half baked role and presence of Aamir. Sushant Singh Rajput looks like a star and even in brief role he is too good. Boman Irani and Saurabh Shukla get very little to do and Sanjay Dutt is decent.Film has some real boring songs and all songs work as welcome break in the film. Editing is uneven and cinematography is decent. Background score is good. Story and screenplay are so tight that they manage to hold the film together throughout despite flaws. Dialogues are strictly average and at times Bhojpuri dialect looks out of the place. Art department and costume department are below par. Director Rajkumar Hirani again makes an entertaining social film where he raises few important points in right manner but this time impact is no where clsoe to his best work 'Lage Raho Munnabhai'. Film tries hard but then that should not be visible. Because it is releasing after 'Oh My God', the novelty goes away to some extent. Film will release today and will get 4000 screens which will be apt for such film. Film will do roaring business in multiplexes for sure but will single screen audience embrace this content remains the question. Still a big hit is on the card for sure but how big is the million dollar question!Go for this one for right medley of entertainment and message!Pluses: Aamir Khan excels once again with his methodical approach, Aushka Sharma looks fresh, Sushant Singh Rajput is scene stealer, Sanjay Dutt is average, Saurabh Shukla and Boman Irani remain underutilized, excellent screenplay Minuses: below par dialogues, boring music, uneven editing especially in 2nd halfVerdict: Watch it for perfect script and stellar performances
The alien PK (Aamir Khan) arrives on a desert in India and leaves his spacecraft naked with a necklace with a remote control to contact the ship. However he is stolen by a drifter that flees in a train. Meanwhile in Burges, Belgium, the Indian student of television production Jagat "Jaggu" Janani (Anushka Sharma) meets the Pakistani student Sarfraz Yousuf (Sushant Singh Rajput) and they immediately fall in love with each other. When Jaggu tells her family about Sarfraz, her father consults his guru Tapasvi Maharaj (Saurabh Shukla) that tells that Sarfraz will leave her. Jaggu and Sarfraz decide to get married but while waiting for him in the temple, a boy delivers a letter to her telling that he will not marry her due to their different religions. Jaggu returns to India and works in a television network. When Jaggu meets the naive PK, he tells his journey to her and his search for God to retrieve his remote control but she does not believe in his words. But soon she realizes that he is an alien and is telling the truth. When PK discovers that Tapasvi has his remote control and claims that it belonged to God, PK tells that he is dialing the wrong number to God and giving wrong advices to his followers. Jaggu decides to use PK in a show to expose the guru and retrieve his remote control. But PK falls in unrequited love with her. What will happen to PK and Jaggu? "PK" is another great Indian film, with a funny and touching story of innocence, friendship and love. PK asks innocent questions that disarm his opponents and make them think. Further, is a powerful criticism to charlatans and false religious leaders that manipulate their followers to take their money. Sushant Singh Rajput is hilarious in the role of the naive PK and Anushka Sharma has a great chemistry with him. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): Not Available
Modest, Enlightening, Emotional, Hilarious and out and out entertaining, it's a plot with some serious elements that truly has a soft presentation, if any movies makes you feel something, put your brain to think on some matter or make way to evoke new ideas rather than just entertain then such movie truly create an impact.''PK'' is one such kind of movie that has all mixed elements that is neatly bought together, the modest portrayal of the character ''pk'' and the supportive role of the ''Jaggu'' and the Bhairao Singh, almost every character that appears in the movie has very intense place in the plot that makes us to feel good, it reveals the view through the modest eyes that is in the process of adjusting in the purely new system of civilization, those modest viewpoint and the child like mind truly reminds us about our lost modesty and the logical way of thinking.To speak about technical aspects, it's all about the performance, when its Aamir in the show then there must be something special and yes ''PK'' has those speciality coming out with brilliant acting by the Mr. Perfectionist, and also Anushka, who had neatly presented her role up to the mark, Sunjay Dutt's cameo and the performance of Sushant along with Saurabh Shukla and Boman Irani are appreciable, all those comic characters succeeds in creating the feel good impact to the viewer, though it bit resembles Umesh Shukla's OMG it has its own way to deal with the concept, the humour is another +point of the movie, Raju Hirani's work both as the director and the editor is fine and neat, in some instant point though it seems like losing the hold on the story soon it get into the track, music are great and synch properly with the flow, overall again the 3 idiots team creates the magic along with its heart touching and enlightening concept.


                
PK. A name very unique and comes with a new concept but already been seen like this in Hollywood. Heard so much about the movie i went to see it on January 1st. A high expectation and eagerness to see Aamir in a new avatar. Coming to the movie So Aamir has done very well to his role, he will make you laugh and make you cry, a very childish and innocent guy who is trapped in the Earth and cannot go home. Where as Anushka has also done pretty well with small hair. Some comedy scenes and laughing moments in the movie, it will also make you very emotional sometime. Sanjay Dutt's role was cut short and Booman Irani role was also not used very much. After seeing the movie it seemed to me a combo of Oh My God. The plot started with a Alien lost his device to making a statement at the end that Muslims don't cheat people. The Social message is exceptionally well shown in the movie. Aamir has been shown eating lots of Paan in the movie but it has nothing to do with him as it shown in the movie trailer. Expected this movie to be a Materpeice but i got a bit disappointed. Found so many Errors and mistakes in the movie. I am not criticizing the movie, You will find yourself find it when you watch it. Thou it was worth watching PK.


                
The expectations were not high ever like it has been for PK....That's the problem with PK.... Raju Hirani's Track Record is brilliant ,,, and thankfully will remain the same after PK at least until his next movie .. The Munnabhai Series was great .. Being comical with though provoking concept is something which is liked universally. With 3 idiot Hirani and Aamir Khan had made a masterpiece , a movie made with perfection without a single flaw. So whats beyond perfection ! Nothing . And that's where PK stands , behind perfection and behind 3 idiot. As i have always said that the hardest movies to review for me are of Aamir Khan's as he is my favorite and i expect a lot from him always. I will try to keep my emotions out of it. So the movie starts with a spaceship flying around the sky of earth and left Aamir(yes he is an Alien) somewhere in Rajasthan to do analysis on earth and there people and somehow the remote which is used to call back his accompanied aliens is lost by him. That's all about first 15 min of the movie. Cut to Belgium we have Anushka Sharma fallen in love with a Pakistani boy(Susant Singh Rajput) and somehow separated before they can get married and Anushka came back home. This Belgium sequence was the most uninteresting part of the movies although in between that the Char Kadam song was really fresh and sweet to watch. Rest of the movie shows how in the way of finding the lost remote PK(Named unintentionally by the human beings) with the help of TV reporter Jaggu (Anushka) learn about the earth , people here , their believes and get confused out of it. The first half deals mostly with introduction of PK , establishing Anushka's character and PK telling the back story what actually happened to him when he was left by his fellows (which also includes how PK learned Bhojpuri - watch out for that sequence).Up to interval the flow was nice , no melodrama , full comic elements(although the level of comedy was not high as it was in Munnabhai and 3 idiot). Its the 2nd half where film drags a little bit and pull it down from perfection. The problem is that the way Hirani has tackled with the concept of God vs Godmen was not unique. It was too similar to OMG starring Paresh Raawal and was more hard hitting in OMG as compared to PK. And also the climax was of the track concentrating on the love relationship of Anushka and Sushant instead of the religious belief and the questions movie has asked earlier. Don't think i have to say anything about Aamir's performance. He has mastered his acting capabilities with each and every film . To play an alien is not an easy work but he has killed it. Anushka looked too cute , a girl to whom anyone can easily fall in love with , what exactly happened with PK too. SaUraV Shukla could have done a better job as a Godmen. Boman , Sushnat and Sanjay dutt are in the movie as extended cameos . Music suits the movie as situation bases although i have liked it more if Dil Darbadar song has been in the movie in full length. The song Bhagwan by Sonu Nigam has been picturized with great emotions.PK is a nice movie to end the year with , only if Hirani didn't have made 3 idiot before PK , it would have looked much better. Can't say this one was the best of this year , for me QUEEN got that position , still its one of the best this year have given us. 8.1 / 10 . by ANuP APu KuMaR.
Starrer - Aamir Khan, Anushka Sharma, Sushanth Singh Rajput, Saurabh Shukla, Sanjay Dutt, Boman Irani Director - Rajkumar Hirani -------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ after 5 years of long wait at last the blockbuster duo of "3 Idiots" are back Rajkumar Hirani & Aamir khan...so as expectedly the expectations was sky high... Though Rajkumar Hirani failed to deliver the 3 idiots magic (if anyone is saying its same classic as 3 idiots then he is truly lying) but yet Rajkumar Hirani delivered a great commercial,entertainer,sci Fi, comedy, romance movie with a special message like every other Hirani movie <U+202A>#<U+200E>Story<U+202C> :- not going to reveal the story full.. but Aamir khan is an alien here & he came to research over Earth but somehow he couldn't contact to his planet & finding the way to contact his planet so that he can get back to home.. in this process he met with Anushka Sharma & somehow fall in love with her... if you want to know what happens with Aamir khan & how he went back to his planet, Pls go n watch this movie<U+202A>#<U+200E>Direction<U+202C> :- Great... not a single loophole in his direction in the 1st half but at some point 2nd half was looking slow but he managed to overcome it somehow<U+202A>#<U+200E>Acting<U+202C> :- Aamir khan was so great as Alien...His expressions was hilarious & awesome & on the emotional scenes too he did a great job as always... Anushka Sharma didn't look beautiful but acted good... Sushanth Singh Rajput was there for only 5-10 Mins but those 5-10 Mins u will get amazed with him, I wish Rajkumar Hirani used him more Sanjay Dutt's role was kind of a guest appearance... Saurabh Shukla was the villain of this movie but he failed to deliver that what Mithun delivered in OMG...<U+202A>#<U+200E>Music<U+202C> :- Great, Awesome... That song "Bhagwan Kahan Hai re Tu" by Sonu would make u emotional... "Tharki Chokro" is a dance no.. "chaar Kadam" is the best among all the songs & used at the right placeAt last, please don't expect another "3 idiots" ...its great but not Raju's best... go without any expectation, you will be amazed
PK is an exceptional movie. It has a story with a believable fairy tale premise that goes forward and becomes a philosophical one on God and the oneness of all religions with no sign of being preachy. It has humour, romance, affection, heart- warming moments, goose bump inducing scenes and a logic that you cannot fault. It has an idea going viral and the common man becoming an activist. In short a Rajkumar Hirani classic. And like the Munnabhai movies and 3 Idiots these go right into your DVD collection to be watched multiple times. He can put a point across gently and humorously and that is a rare gift indeed.PK is an alien from another planet whose remote device which can take him back home gets stolen the moment he arrives on Earth His efforts to find it take him on a journey where he makes friends, learns about God and the hypocrisy of religion and also fall in love with a TV reporter Jaggu who helps him in his quest.The start cast excels. Amir as PK sports a Bhojpuri accent and random clothes. He has ears and eyes that pop out and yet he manages to show emotion on that exaggerated face. Anoushka is bubbly yet vulnerable though her mouth look like a goldfish. But she is in step with Amir and that's what matters. Saurabh Shukla's Godman is superbly underplayed. Sushant Singh is cute; Boman is Boman and Parikshit Sahni as Jaggu's dad is sweet. Sanjay Dutt as the Rajasthani man who first befriends PK stands out. I would have loved to see more of him in the movie.I would have just wished for a bit more information on the planet that the alien comes from. We know they don't wear clothes there and mind read but apart from that we don't know much. Do they have families? are they as emotional? What do they eat? Some more information would have fleshed out the alien more but that is a minor quibble.The songs are melodious, the dances sweet and simple, the humour spot on and the message of the movie seeps into you gently yet so strongly that the audience was wildly clapping at all the right spots.A review for a good movie always runs the danger of being too gushy and mushy in it's praise. I'll cut the hyperbole. Just know it's a wonderful movie and that you have to see it. Must take kids.
Finally PK is in cinemas and as expected, it's a fabulous movie at the end of year 2014. Rajkumar Hirani, after 5 years down the line with 3 idiots, comes with a religious satire from which our country and country people are suffering.Nice script, good direction and all well-fitted characters in the film. This winter, PK will surely do the best as eye-opener towards the religion in country and their manager's true stories, which is always hidden from blind devotees. Go and watch for sure this weekend.For more detailed review of the movie: www.getmovieinfo.com/movie-review-pk-aamir-khan-anushka-sharma/


                
First things first, PK is a 'very good' movie, eminently watchable for the following reasons:<U+0095> Very simple message delivered in a  way that a 10 year - 70 year old would understand<U+0095> Has a very universal appeal, excellently blended in a light hearted satire, so craftily that Raju Hirani can be crowned the master of this genre<U+0095> Is so much more meaningful than Devgan kicking cars in air, and Salman mouthing Pandeyji lines and Yo Yo singing vodka<U+0095> Is still an acceptable relief for an eagerly awaited movie, much more than a Doom 3 or a Happy New YearBut is that good enough to be "great cinema". I vehemently deny, for these fundamental problems with PK:1. Performance by lead actors: Much has been talked about this being Aamir's best, method acting, vocabulary learning and all. I thought the performance was good, but hardly anything to compare with much more accomplished and lesser popular actors. I am not even talking Nasir, Balraj Sahni, Dilip Kumar, Nawazuddin. You want 'real' looking performances, go watch any 20 mins of GOW. If you don't know what is GOW, then<U+0085>.google it :). As for method acting and diction, just google what Ben Kingsley did for Gandhi, or what Daniel Day Lewis does for every movie he acts, or how Pankaj Kapoor a sworn teetotaler did a top drunkards role in Matru, and what Aamir did will look like final year exam of junior acting school.. that's it. Unfortunately the only other serious actor in the movie Saurabh Shukla is such a caricature, he must have done this only for his paycheck..1. Lopsided debate on religion: By choosing to base the debate with Tapasvi, a  one color character, the director / story writers kind of made it a high school debate competition level discussion. There was no thought process on why so much of this 'religious buffoonery' exists, what extent is 'truly required' in today's times. The risk from such  debate is, it gets whistles in shows but cannot trigger any intellectual discussion - I doubt it intended to. It was as if the whole system has 1000 wrongs and not even 1 right, and an alien who is completely oblivious to our world's compulsions, complexities, stresses can point answers to it.  1. Tries to pack too much: Good looking people check, media indulgences check, popular jokes check, cross border love check, love story-uniting etc check, terrorist bomb blast check. Great cinema sticks to it's theme and doesn't need love story threads, converged in a stomach- achingly funny climax. Phone call, live, around the globe, discussing personal problems, which has hardly anything to do with the serious theme, sobbing viewers on the Veer-Zara uniting.. Why<U+0085>Raju, you delivered a masterstroke by making Gandhi current for a whole generation, that was genius. Take a bow for that. But alien showing way of life, was addressed by the Roshans in a series for mentally challenged viewers. Bettering that is not good enough for your calibre. Single theme movie for the 10-70 age bracket, try watching 'Miracle on 34th Street', the best message and movie about Christmas - made in 1947, I bet you will be shocked how relevant it will look to you today.1.  Very Straight Characters: All characters are one color, like a school play. Bad, good. No complexities in characters. Kind of similar to those college stage skits, which end up with some nice theme and a few sobbing front rows.  Fundamental flaw there - PK himself confesses he comes from a land where everybody is simple and can read each other's minds. So no lies, no cheating, no deceit, no sin, no bad, no charity, no evil, no nothing.. dear friend, human beings live on this 'gray' not 'black and white' planet where all these realities exist and in abundance. Religion has nothing to do with their existence. How do you know if these complex humans don't need 'any' amount of ritualism/rules. This alien learnt lying and cheating in his short stint, these humans have 5000 years of recorded history to learn non-sense from.Yes the masses won't understand a Garam Hawa, or Satyakam (a masterpiece that deserves much more praise than it got), but do we have to be dished out this simple straight good-bad people talk in the name of 'best movie' of the year.. No please<U+0085>1. Too much of 'Go Watch It': This bothered me so much, that I woke up early on a day when I have a sick off, and keying this :). There were quite a few movies in 2014 that could beat PK black and blue in 'cinematic' value fist fight. Dedh Ishqiya's performances will beat the entire cast of PK - did you know Arshad Warsi  was born and brought up in Mumbai and Maharashtra. See his Bhopali commentary before you go gaga over the bhojpuri skills of the lead here. Or watch Irrfan's work for Paansingh Tomar - if you want to be wowed with method acting. Haider - delivered a poignant message, with complex characters, and a few of haunting, haunting scenes, that will shake you up (Please do not watch  pirated print of this gem, theater or HQ prints on large screen only). Tongue in cheek message about jingoism - Total Siyappa did an OK job, and so did Filmistaan. Am yet to watch Citylight, Kya Dilli Kya Lahore, and Bhopal, but am sure the box-office collections of all of them put together will not make the first week of 'go watch it' PK.Please watch PK - passable, good, family movie. But 8.8 on IMDb and 86% on Rotten Tomatoes.. Mediocrity rules I guess, when it comes to popular cinema.


                
PK : Simple But Content. Meaningfully Funny "Belief is the ignition switch that gets you off the launching pad." - Demos WaitleyPK is a simple story of an alien, which falls on the earth, sorry, on our India. May be, the simplest alien story ever told. An extra-terrestrial being visits our Earth, but loses the transporter remote of his space ship. Its journey to find the remote forms the crux of the movie, which throws light on the present spiritual scenario of our country, in a compelling and sarcastic manner. Belief is the force which drives humans to take certain decisions. A hope or belief in anything could make wonders. But the same belief in something 'wrong', welcomes disasters. The fruit of our life depends on what we decide to believe and what we don't. PK successfully questions this 'belief factor', which is being made a medium of business by spiritual leaders and Babas. It raises serious questions regarding the differentiation of religions among humans and the need for that differentiation. It also highlights some points regarding certain rituals and the way human belief is being exploited in the name of God. Discussing the 'most-discussed topic' i.e, about the existence of God is a complex matter. But Rajkumar Hirani's compelling narrative style explains this complex topic in a much simpler and funny way.. Scripting was perfect, but it reminded 'Oh My God' at certain instants, may be a mere chance of coincidence. Making was simple with comic and feel good moments. But it is an Aamir Khan show in all aspects. His own mannerisms make the character of Mr.PK, close to heart and memorable. This is what we call breaking free of stereo roles. His expressions were novel and antics were funny. Anushka Sharma too did a neat job, supported by Boman Irani, extended cameo roles of Sushanth Singh Rajput and Sanjay Dutt. Saurabh Shukla also rendered appreciable performance as Babaji The movie excelled in its technical side too. Cinematography was perfect, offered a good feel to the movie. Certain frames by CK Muraleedharan were new and gave a fresh feel. Music gave the film another feel, theme was good but songs could have been better. Editing by Hirani was crisp without any lag in between. Movie had a rich feel, Visual Effects were also of top class. Overall, Hirani's PK is a thought provoking film, presented in an entertaining way.My Rating: 4/5 Don't miss this alien Wait for a special guest appearance in post-climax. Yours Truly<U+0085>.Sooraj


                
PK is by far one of the best Bollywood films I have watched in a very long time. It was a refreshing and welcoming change to usual Bollywood cinema, and a path I think more filmmakers should consider venturing on. I did not expect Indian cinema to focus on concepts of religion and faith to this degree, but I have nothing but positive opinions of the manner in which this film was made. This film is funny, heart warming and eye opening. PK's naivety and innocence is a strong attempt in restoring faith in humanity more than ever. It questions the man made boundaries of religion and faith and leaves the viewers wondering about humanity, religion and other aspects touched upon in the film. Although the film is filled with humorous moment, the deeper significance is as bold as ever. I loved this film for Aamir's acting and the concepts it experimented with. Actually, all the major roles were quite well performed. With the humor and distinct Bolly-ness of the film, it caters to the audience that looks for a good laugh and at the same time the film also caters to those looking for substance and meaning. I would definitely consider it to be a bold move in Indian cinema, one that sets the bar very high. My top 5 films of the year for sure!


                
P.K. has come in the right time as it was the need of the hour for the people of both India and Pakistan. To promote the environment for inter-faith tolerance, it's about time that we start questioning the preachers, who in the name of religion exploit the masses. Amir's acting was stupendous, Anushka was brilliant as well. Mr. Hirani, thanks for critiquing the nationalist narrative which is often manipulated on religion. In the end, i can't cease to wonder, why on earth Bollywood produces all the crap movies when this is a fantastic example of a movie doing exceptionally well on it's content. Maybe no more stories?


                
P.K. , a fantastical comedy-drama by Rajkumar Hirani, mocks and highlights various societal beliefs. Rajkumar Hirani follows the tried and tested formula of his, light hearted comedy coupled with a strong social message. While its no '3 Idiots,' P.K. doesn't fail to impress. Amir Khan is brilliant as always in his portrayal of an alien astronaut (P.K.), who has landed on Earth for a research expedition. PLOT ( *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* ) :As soon as he lands, the 'remote' which must be used to summon his spaceship is stolen. With no way to communicate with his people, he is left wandering around and searching for the mystical looking device. Being an alien, he's unable to understand the faiths and beliefs of us human beings. He starts asking questions which leave the onlookers baffled. During his quest for the remote he encounters Jaggu (Anushka Sharma), a journalist. She is fascinated by his story. Intrigued by his questions,she sensationalises them on the television. He takes on Sadhu Tapasvi ji,who incidentally happens to be Jaggu's family guru and had ruined her relationship with Sarfaraz(Sushant Singh Rajput) by a malicious prediction. *END OF SPOILER*Sanjay Dutt and Sushant Singh Rajput are great in their extended cameos in the movie. Acting performances by the side actors and supporting cast was better than satisfactory. Boman Irani and Saurabh Shukla, both veterans, seem underused in this rather longish movie.Being a movie inclined towards the mockery of blind followers of various faiths and dogmatic individuals practicing bigotry, the movie is a brave attempt in this highly radical society of ours. The movie is comedic and funny, and will keep you entertained throughout. There are a few loose ends in the script, which are barely noticeable to be fair.Due to similar themes, the movie may be compared to Oh My God (OMG). However, the plot is different, and the movie manages to keep things fresh and crisp. The setting may be unrealistic in nature, but the moral is very relevant and simple. The movie and its protagonist,though alien, preach peace, love, and 'humanity'.
Unless I'm mistaken, I don't believe the name 'PK' was ever mentioned throughout the movie. By contrast, 'Tipsy' came up more than a dozen times but is not mentioned as Aamir Khan's nickname in the credits list. It became pretty obvious to me that the character of PK/Tipsy was modeled after 'Mork from Ork', whether intentional or not. At one point, I thought Tipsy would use a chair to stand on his head the way Robin Williams did when he auditioned for 'Mork and Mindy'. I liked the concept the movie had to offer. PK/Tipsy's beat down of phony religious practitioners was both irreverent and to the point, and one wonders how hucksters can fool so many people all of the time. There were some clever takes on the way PK came to understand life on Earth, as in his concept of money and dancing cars; the six hour language transfer by holding hands was a tenuous idea but Khan made it work. The thing that distracted me a lot about Khan's performance was that wild bug-eyed appearance he had. It made him look like maybe he was crazy, though for someone challenging the authority of the Tapasvi Maharaj (Saurabh Shukla), maybe that was precisely the point.Actress Anushka Sharma was quite refreshing as Jagat 'Jannu' Janani. Her eventual reconciliation with Sarfraz Yousuf (Sushant Singh Rajput) was well played out, though I did have a problem with the idea that they never tried to contact each other after the misunderstanding at the church. As is often the case with Hindi films, rather lengthy segments are given over to song and dance sequences, with the 'Lusty Lad' and 'Love is a Waste of Time' numbers being particularly vibrant and colorful. What gets me is the number of costume changes the principal characters undergo during the very same segment, something you never see in non-Indian productions. So that remains indigenous to Hindi films. All in all, an entertaining movie that unlike many coming out of India, doesn't seem quite as long as it's two and a half hour run time. You can probably chalk that up to the quirky story telling and likeable principal characters. For Aamir Khan, a bit of an offbeat role from other films I've seen him in, which only goes to demonstrate his versatility as an actor.
I am not a huge fan of Indian films but this one was a lot of fun. An alien lands on earth and loses his communication device. He doesnt know what to do and when he asks folks for help they tell him to pray to god. So he spends the entire movie looking for god. He joins every religion and follows all their customs to talk to god but he still couldn't get his communicator back. As he was about to give up he meets a reporter who realizes he is telling the truth so she tries to help him. He has a real weird view on life on earth so she uses that to push a story about the alien who was challenging the religious leaders because he felt that their connection to god was hijacked by a prankster. So he tries to help the priests by exposing the pranksters illogical suggestions. Its pretty funny and pokes fun of a lot of religious practices that really are hilarious to watch though at the same time, its sad to think that anyone believes in them in the 21st century. There are a few music pieces in this and they were also fun and not very distracting from the comedy.All that said, I gave it an 8 because it is not flawless. A lot of the arguments made are actually pretty well known so there was nothing new except the funny mimes and the aliens behavior. The real issue is the plot hole that materialized towards the end. It could have been handled in a much smarter way but still, this is a comedy so it really shouldnt be taken so seriously hence my high grade.If you dont usually watch foreign subtitled movies, this is a great one to start with... you are missing a lot of great stuff if you dont.


                
After 3 Idiots,Aamir Khan and Rajkumar Hirani reunite with PK which has been in the making for more then a year. The film was written before Oh My God so there are similarities The film actually explores more, it is like a satire on godmen and also about various customs. The film is superbly handled, Aamir's entry is well handled, his interactions with the people are really hilarious, while the film makes you laugh it also makes you think,something Rajkumar Hirani has excelled before too. Though the Godmen track was used before in OMG and Singham Returns yet the manner in which Raju handles it is superb. The second half does get a bit serious but yet the film is well handled, some things may seem far fetched yet there are well handled and you ignore the blemish, Aamir-Anushka's love track could be avoided though yet its well handledDirection is awesome Music is superb,Chaar Kadam is a superb track, while Bhagwan Kaha hai tu is a superb song and well placed, Love is a waste of time however could be avoided yet it's a decent trackAamir Khan is outstanding as always,he gets into the character perfectly and is awesome Anushka Sharma is superb, she again proves her talent Sushant Singh Rajput is superb in a brief role, Sanjay Dutt though looking overweight excels in his small role, as always he gives his best in Raju films. Parikshit Sahni is good,Saurabh Shukla is excellent as always as the carricatured God men, Boman Irani is good though underutilised Ranbhir Kapoor makes a cameo in the end.
Many people whom I talk to have drawn parallels to OMG: Oh My God! (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2283748/) but I feel Rajkumar Hirani has gone one step further. Stopping short of making the movie against religion, the director has used wonderfully crafted 'happy-go-lucky' character against the ever-increasing Godmen and Godwomen in India. Of late, in the Indian social scenarios many news have been mushrooming about the miscreants who pretend as 'mediators' to the omnipotent. Aamir Khan has, predictably, has carried the film. The Bhojpuri accent has given a slightly light-hearted twist but doesn't distract from the crux. Some side-plots, however, seemed pointless: notably, Sanjay Dutt and the 'informer'. I'd say, this is a must watch title.


                
PK is a film that has up till now, been long anticipated by the Indian and Indo-phile public. The creative marriage of director Rajkumar Hirani and seasoned actor Aamir Khan has already given birth to the prodigious '3 Idiots,' and audiences are curious to whether their newest child is equally as gifted. With artisans as quality-oriented about their work as this pair is, one expects to see something beyond the average. Upon seeing the movie, the audience can expect that it is certainly no average movie; it proves to be a thoroughly enjoyable and provocative experience, that invites - rather than commands - you to discover a deeper meaning for yourself in its resolution.The story is about a strange man on a strange quest that seems totally sane to him, yet that cannot but seem delirious to nearly everyone else (hence his name 'Peekay' or 'drunkard'). His frantic manner and child-like ignorance results in humorous and baffling episodes which give him deeper insight into the working of the world, and he generally polarizes: people either warm up to him, or chase him away (the latter provides much of the comic relief in the movie). Yet he remarkably manages to transform almost every person he meets; he himself, however, has an untainted aloofness that invites any curious soul to investigate him further. A few take the bait, and find themselves learning as much about their own selves as they do about their quirky new friend. Soon PK's journey, which started out a very personal one, becomes quite impersonal and then interpersonal as he invites not only his new friends, but also society itself into the provocative workings of his mind and ultimately, his heart - and challenges them to go into their own.Aamir Khan is, unsurprisingly, at his top form here. While the other actors give great performances, it is clearly Khan's that really gives the film it's life force. His genius is his ability to deliver a performance so nuanced, and with so much carefully crafted flavor and subtetly, yet that never loses it's organic and natural feeling. The character of PK is outwardly stiff and rigid as reflective of his strange origin, and yet when he needs to be can be so captivatingly expressive that you can feel every nuance of his feeling, and you can almost think the unpredictable thoughts as he cranks them out in his mind. Part of PK's appeal is that you expect him to be offbeat, which on the surface he very much is, yet he amazes you with a sane humanity that bursts forth as spontaneous insight from his bewildering mind. If you can keep up with him, he takes you along for the ride: his charisma is electric, unstoppable in a way that doesn't hint that he'll run you over, but that invites you to run along with him (if you don't mind others staring at you).Jaggu, played zestfully by Anushka Sharma, does just that. She is a wonderfully composite girl: as fresh-faced as the girl-next-door, yet as independent as a woman who yearns to play life by her own rules. She is drawn to PK because like him, she is lost. The complexity of her romantic life with a humble lover (endearingly acted by Sushant Singh Rajput) proves to become a pivotal part of her and PK's personal and collective understanding. Jaggu's real-world charm and practicality provides a wonderful counterbalance to PK's otherworldly insight; the two are often played off each other, and a delightfully intimate friendship is born.The other characters round out a respectable cast. Sanjay Dutt as the well-dressed Bhairon Singh is another colorful character who does well to offer his own unique perspective on PK. Saurabh Shukhla as the morally ambiguous guru is quite convincing; Boman Irani, as Jaggu's reluctant boss proves instrumental in helping PK on his journey. A sweet character is Sushant Singh Rajput's Sarfaraz, Jaggu's humble lover whose story with her could well be its own movie - it is a shame that he doesn't get as much screen time as he could have.The beauty of this film is that, like most great movies, it works on many levels. When it's funny and lighthearted, it keeps you laughing for long stretches of time; when it's emotional or serious, it really gets you to pause. A lot of times, the humor itself is woven into making serious points, in a way that bespeaks the great talent of this director and his writers. The film tackles subject matter that could easily offend (religion) with an innocence that commands insight. The PK writers have woven a charmingly unique story that respects, not dumbs-down, the intelligence of the Indian (or any) viewer.Overall, PK the movie is a lot like PK the character: Strangely alarming, yet innocently inviting, and thoroughly enjoyable. The few shallow plot elements are smoothed by a very cleverly written script. Visually, PK is a marvel. Clearly, Hirani and his cinematographers spared no expense when composing the visual tone; there is not a drab sari, dhoti, turban, or uniform to be found. Like he did in '3 Idiots,' Hirani has proved that he has a real knack for taking everyday elements of life and creating a story so intriguing that any viewer can appreciate it at their own level, and perhaps a higher one if they accept the invitation. This is not your average masala flick; this is a thought-provoking reflection on society, wrapped in a charming story of a man trying to find his way. When and if PK finds his way home, you can be sure that the audience will have worked out mentally and emotionally if they are ready at that point to join him. The beauty is that Hirani and Khan never force you to choose, but allow your own acceptance to unfold at its own pace, as all great films do.


                
one of the most anticipated movies of 2014 has finally arrived and luckily this time Aamir is back to his best after the disappointing Dhoom 3. every time RajKumar Hirani and Aamir come together the expectation level increases manifolds.This time also they don't disappoint. the movie almost treads the same path as Oh My God but unfortunately falls a little short.. whereas OMG was to the point, this one deviates sometimes from the plot to account for the other characters which gives a little childish element to the movie. acting by all the actors is brilliant and Aamir as Pk, the alien, is easily the show stealer and effortlessly gives one of his best performance (the Bhojpuri dialect is too good). however one feels that Sushant Singh Rajput could have been used a little more. Ranbir Kapoor in the end scene was a pleasant surprise. the tracks and background music may not seem that soothing but fit perfectly in the movie and carry forward the narration. overall, the movie makes for a decent watch especially our very own Bhojpuri PK ..


                
Mr Pk is a new born baby in Earth(especially India). That child asks millions of questions and fortunately the child tells(or find) answers itself. This movie deals with how we and our society ruin in the name of God. This movie doesn't say god doesn't exist. It just say you have to find the right one. Woww What an acting ! AmirKhan and AnushkaSharma really rocks. Of course, some holes are in the plot. But that's not matter. Director get success in conveying his message.I don't know why some people protest again this film.This movie is mainly for you guys. Grow up. PK is one of the Perls of Indian cinema. Must watch by every Indians.


                
PK is one of the better movies in the recent times. Could have been better without some songs. Though its similar to Oh My God, Raju Hirani adds his own flavor and style.Plot: It all starts of with Aamir being an alien and is on a research mission with his spaceship landing at Rajasthan. His remote gets stolen and he is not at all acquainted with human beings and their behavior. Slowly he learns Bhojpuri and asks everyone about his remote. They advice him to ask GOD and thus starts the journey of PK and his search for GOD and then all other things unfold which would be better watching on-screen then simply reading a review. Artiste's Performance: Aamir's performance is top-notch. Anushka Sharma looks a bit artificial but plays her part convincingly. Saurabh Shukla is very good as the Tapasvi Maharaj. Sushant Singh Rajput is superb. Boman Irani & Sanjay Dutt are awesome in their respective roles.Director: Raju Hirani again proves why he is the best director in India. Though its not his best it is still a great film. The aura he creates, the way he portrays each and every character is outstanding. Kudos to Rajkumar Hirani for making such a simple and sensible film.Conclusion: Its totally rib tickling in the first half, emotional in the second half but that's OK. I guess there will be a sequel to this with both Ranbir Kapoor and Aamir Khan. I think those who want this film to be banned simply cannot understand witty humor. Overall a must watch.! In 2012 it was OMG, In 2014 its PK. India needs movies like these now and then..
It is an Aamir Khan movie and that itself says it is going to be way apart from your wildest of imaginations. Just felt like watching this cinema the afternoon, booked tickets online, got struck in traffic arrived 30 minutes Late.I thought I missed but hey the movie is worth watching right from the start till the end. You can't complain about anything but I think Booman Irani got lesser of a role. Sanjay Dutt did his job well short but definitely made his presence felt in the movie. Its Aamir KHAN all the way, he didn't look like Aamir Khan and had eyes wide OPEN ALL THE time and his pointy ears. He kept running all the time like a Lunatic although he was not. He portrayed innocent stupidity that was not actually stupid but people prefer to call these as not up to his senses and sensibilities. He played a character quite convincing, miserable and deserted, alone and striving, struggling all alone. Totally confused guy does everything wrong wrong wrong wrong. Master of Confusion movie. Must watch it.
When you have two finest talents in a movie, you get nothing but the best in 2 hours 53 mins.PK tells the story of a stranger's journey in search of GOD.One director I really admire after Rajkumar Santoshi is Rajkumar Hirani. Combining a social message with laughter and entertainment is his weapon and he makes sure that you will love his cinema. It takes guts to bring out fact of sad state of society we live in. PK was a full-fledged entertainment mocking at the fraudulent religious believers and hypocrites who fool people in the name of God. Hats off to the director for the daring attempt. PK throws surprise with every scene and is sure to be lauded for its daring story. Screenplay looses the steam in the later half and probably romantic track between Anushka Sharma and Sushant Singh Rajput could have been avoided. Music is good along with crispy dialogues. Cinematography is wonderful. Aamir Khan is the soul of the film. He carries the role of PK as if it has been tailor-made for him. Anushka Sharma is brilliant and Sanjay Dutt does decent job in special appearance. Overall . PK is a daring attempt which should be lauded and appreciated for its wonderful message. Excellent 4/5


                
