This is a comedy about a guy who is naked in the middle of nowhere in a desert along some railroad tracks with nothing but a boom-box who is struggling, like so many of us do, with the failed promises of religion. All he wants ... is his remote back. I am a huge Aamir Khan fan and I loved 3 Idiots. In fact, I have the love song Zoobie Doobie as my ring tone. So - as soon as they announced this movie - I knew I wanted to see it. The marketing campaign only peaked my interest more. Why is Aamir naked in the middle of the desert with a boom-box? This is the question even my son was asking. Why? Who is his character. Then - they put out the posters - and - who the heck is this PK character.Well - let me just say - I had no idea that this was going to be the plot. Wow. Let's start with the disclaimer - we don't intend to offend anyone's religion. I'm thinking - OK - I wonder what that's all about. Well, that disclaimer has to go down in history as one of the biggest understatements in all of film history.Then the opening sequence. And, I'm thinking - wow - this is REALLY a) mind blowing and b) humanistic. Being a Humanist, I loved it - but it seemed a bit extreme for an Indian movie given that India is such a religious country. Having such a science based opening with the philosophy that goes with it - was a bit shocking. I loved it, but it was totally unexpected because it was so expansive.The foundation of this film is the struggle of someone to come to terms with the failed promises of religion. And it's REALLY funny. I saw it in a nearly sold out theater in America and people were applauding some of the most pointed critiques of religious practice - not because they were anti-religious - but because it was pro-human. There are some really funny moments in this movie, like Aamir trying to bring wine into a mosque had the entire audience laughing. Again, not because it was making fun of Muslims, but because of how clueless the character PK is. It's also heartbreaking - stunningly so. And as I've been digesting this movie over the past day or so - I realize that the artistic choices to break our hearts in the way this movie does - was incredibly well done. It's so sudden and unexpected that it's perfect for the story line and the social point they are making. Even the ending is really astonishing. Aamir is just staring at a shoe in his hand, and yet, what is happening around him is creating so much tension. And you know how it's going to end, but that doesn't make you any less tense hoping that it will end how you want it to. They built the tension up and released it perfectly and Aamir's performance, as understated as it was - because he was just looking at a shoe, was amazing. I was shocked by this film, but in a really good way. If you are a Humanist, you really need to see this film. If you are religious, but frustrated with the con men speaking on behalf of your faith - see this film. You won't be disappointed. As someone said as I passed by - it's about time someone said what we have all been thinking.
Mixture of comedy and some lifetime lessons together constitute PK. A journey in which you will learn the life lessons and face the reality of our society in a different way.Amir's acting, Anushkha's cuteness and Shushant's innocence will win your heart. Thanks for making this film Mr. Hirani. At least somebody is there don't make movies just for money. Every dialogue, every scene was so perfect that you will a smile on your face all the time. Loved the simplicity of the movie. Beautiful locations, amazing songs and the funny dialogues adds spice to the movie.A must watch movie for all.


                
Director Mr. Raj Kumar Hirani have different sensibilities, which he proved again. His style of depiction of a serious subject on a light note with humor toppings are again delicious. I love, respect and support this subject so there would be changes of being little positively biased. This is a very good extension of one of my favorite flick "Oh My God". That one was of single plot but PK is multi plotted. Story is just to support and explore the basic idea of film but it's interesting. Screenplay by Director himself and Abhijit Joshi is fresh, logical and different even being very close to "Oh My God". Dialogues by director and writer duo are perfect and logical. In a scene, where Amir Khan is emotionally broken then blast in the background enhances the intensity and carry forward the story ahead very smoothly. The use of old song in a very light note or serious note is also interesting especially "Pardesi Pardesi Jana Nahi" in beginning and "Aasman Mein Hai Khuda Aur Zameein par Hum" in between the film, is good tribute and use of songs. Now this type of film must have been made to rebel the business of fear. We should change our lifestyle by not being God fearing but becoming God loving. Hope such type of films will make changes even a little. Love is a side track but it's very good and emotional with a message too. I personally feel that after a long gap this movie has repeat value. Performance wise Hats off to Amir Khan. He is absolute perfect and first time I witnessed him, doing fantastic in emotional scenes too. He needs extra praising for always choosing something different subject with a message too. Anushka Sharma is fantastic. Her look is different and expressions are very real. Sanjay Dutt is endearing. Shaurav Shukla and Parikshat Sahni are very good. Sushant Singh Rajput is fine. Boman Irani is impressive. Music is melodious, lyrics are perfect. Both gel with the mood and subject of the film very well.
A film like PK can never be made again in Hindi Film Industry because of it's vast variety of content and emotions which directly grips the audience along with the characters. With PK being made, the scale of good cinema has risen further. Raju Hirani has proved that a movie with a strong content can be made with fun and comedy as well. All the characters have their own importance and every incident feels real as one can easily connect with the moments happening in the film. Direction and scripting is so good that you can not point out what mistakes are there. It might not be a perfect film but it is a much better film.


                
Rajkumar Hirani proved his mettle with the Munnabhai series & the astounding 3 Idiots, and with 'P.K', his latest outing, the supremely talented filmmaker proves that he's indeed a Genius! A film that is funny, at times hilarious, but lastly, is a film about finding truth within ourselves. Its a powerful film, that left me astonished!'P.K' Synopsis: An alien stuck on earth, gets help from a budding TV-anchor, and later learns about Religion & a fear named God.'P.K' raises questions upon God, God-Men & Religion. I'm an atheist & I could connect with the protagonist's fight against the "almighty" to a great extent. The film has moral as well as a terrific message, that will leave this godly world we live in, rather stunned. Hirani's story offers moments of pure hilarity, subtle romance, tuneful songs & hard-hitting drama.Hirani's Screenplay is excellent. P.K's journey on earth, will leave you in splits. His voice against the God-Men, are clap-worthy, while his Romance with his human girlfriend, is cute. What's truly funny, is that, P.K, an alien, looks far more sorted & normal in comparison to the human characters. And that's Hirani's genius! He delivers a story about our fears & flaws & he executes it, remarkably well.Hirani's Direction is simple, yet effective. Cinematography & Editing are perfect. Music by Various Artists is tuneful. Visual Effects are decent. Make-Up is nicely done. Performance-Wise: Aamir's portrayal of 'P.K', is simply astounding! He delivers a moving, heartfelt performance, that touches the core of your heart. He carries the film on his board shoulders & steals the show. His finest performance to date! Anushka Sharma is lovely. Also, Her on-screen chemistry with Aamir, is adorable. Sanjay Dutt is lovable in a cameo. Sushant Singh Rajput, also, shines in a brief role. Saurabh Shukla is incredible as the God-Man. His scenes with Aamir, are captivating. Boman Irani is first-rate, as always. Parikshet Sahani is wonderful. Ranbir Kapoor makes an amazing appearance. On the whole, 'P.K' has its heart, mind & soul, at the right place! Grab A Ticket Now!
PK is Something more than the pure Entertainment.I still wanted to clap after the movie was over because it was that good.I went into watch PK with high expectation...and i got more than i bargained for.This film is simply the best by Rajkumar Hirani YET.All of his other movies are too worth watching a billion times.All of Rajkumar Hirani typical Mix is present in this movie: Entertainment - check Sentiments - check Social Message- check Epiphany - checkI was not much religious to begin with so I sure Enjoyed the movie.Everyone should watch this movie and should have "Epiphany"The kinda funny thing(Ironically too) is the protest against this movieAnyway I think everyone should watch this movie.........


                
There's something that you usually experience after watching an Aamir Khan Film - You always have a smile on your face after you have experienced it. The second minute into the movie, and you know that something's out of the box in the movie. After around 10 minutes, you start realizing why Aamir Khan is such a versatile and gifted artist. As soon as he comes on the screen, you get attached to his role. He single handedly carries the entire first half of the movie on his shoulders. Such amazing is his screen presence that you would hardly notice any other character in the movie's first half. Having said that, all the other actors in the movie have played their role amazingly, especially Saurabh Shukla. The innocence and cuteness of both Aamir Khan and Anushka Sharma will make you feel very good. The film has some naturally funny scenes that have been implemented amazingly. At one moment there is an emotional scene, and the very next moment there's comedy. Though its not an out and out comedy, but its got enough humor to keep your laughing bones tickling, especially one long comical sequence when PK visits different holy places. The second half is also quite good, maybe I thought the last 15 minutes or so were a bit extended although it was there for conveying a different message. And thats the reason why I went with 9. Overall, Aamir Khan is a treat to watch and it might perhaps be his best ever performance. Anushka, Sushant, Sanjay Dutt, Boman Irani and Saurabh Shukla have played their roles equally well (Saurabh Shukla deserves a special mention). Having said that you cant take away the credit from one of the country's finest director - Rajkumar Hirani. The direction is superlative and each shot has been executed amazingly. He has proved why he is the king of humor. The scenes switch from extremely emotional to comical with such an ease. Both Raju and Abhijat Joshi have spent considerable time in imagining each and every scene. They have written an almost perfect script. Thumbs up to both of them. Raju, you are a true master.The music is situational and carries on with the film. You'll surely appreciate the music after watching the movie. The song 'Love is a Waste of Time' has been continuously humming in my mind since I've come out of the theater.So Guys, go to the theaters nearby and experience the movie. The movie has some strong messages, and some smaller messages as well. Its been a long time a masterpiece had arrived in bollywood.


                
Life's Lessons in one Movie... I have never seen a more meaningful and thought-provoking film. This is a powerful yet charming movie. Right from the start, I knew this was going to be a classic film, and my opinion was not changed throughout the course of the movie one bit. It delivers such a strong message of how human should live . .PK is about an innocent man (Aamir khan) who is an alien and who represents how the world should be: he's loyal, humble, honest, he would never cheat or lie. He does everything with good heart. PK combine many different emotions - in one moment you are laughing, because of the great humor, and on the next moment you're sad and you're barely crying. Rajkumar Hirani did it again he proved that Indian cinema have still that sense of good cinema . .its really "once in a lifetime experience" ..., and on the other hand is the great performance of Aamir Khan....The movie has it all too comedy,humanity and it challenges societal norms as well - teach us how to be human! Really charming movie!I greatly recommend this movie. Don't feel boring,just be patient. I think movies are not only seen by eyes, but also by heart. Use your heart to feel what the characters feel . . . .
I was damn exited to watch this movie. Entry on P.k was great. In whole movie Aamir khan shows his class of acting. Story of the movie has lesson and it made u think what we are and how? In climax P.K told there are two types of God , one who made us and one who made by us (Godmen). And prove many things that made me Clap hard for him. The story of the movie is was damn awesome and made me cry. Love triangle, Topic of religion make it more interesting. Anushka as a Jagat Janani played his role perfectly. Sushant have less to do but he Played his role Nicely. Hero of the movie is Mr. Raju Hirani. He is truly magical. Screenplay was good. Songs suits the situation . Chemistry b/w P.k and jaggu is brilliant.
this is what we have been waiting for ... and it comes out of the box of none other than Mr.Perfectionist there are similarities between OH MY GOD and PK;that is only the theme... viewers would, at some point of time think."hey dis is what we saw in Oh My God ,and would start drawing similarities"... but PK is on a whole new different level altogether... movie is an absolute classic,one of the finest to have come out of our industry... kudos to the director... and for Mr.Perfectionist - you just have to watch him act on screen and you know you have your moneys worth... expressions,comic timing,emotions,cuteness... everything... brilliant... loved and enjoyed every bit of the movie.... an alien teaches us humanity .... love, respect, live and most importantly " STAY HUMAN"......
P.K is a comedy of ideas about a stranger who asks questions no one has asked before. They are innocent and child like questions, but they bring catastrophic answers. The film is packed with sharp dialogues such as "Don't save God, the creator of all human beings, creator of all the galaxies. He is capable of saving himself." P. K.'s childlike curiosity transforms into a spiritual odyssey for him and millions of others. The film is an ambitious and uniquely original exploration of complex philosophies. It is also a simple and humane tale of love, laughter and letting-go. Finally, it is a moving saga about a friendship between strangers from worlds apart. Also it is a Hindi Film where people are actually talking about the quality of the film rather then the box-office numbers. In my opinion Go for it. It's the Worth the time.


                
Rajkumar Hirani, Aamir Khan, Sanjay Dutt:-These names are enough to bring about the Golden Memories of the Munnabhai Series and 3 Idiots. Now when they combine through a coarse of 5 years for a movie, expectations are bound to be sky high.There was a lot of curiosity as to what will the movie be about and will it be as phenomenal and sensational as the previous ones by Hirani Sir. Well, everything is answered in this 2hr 33min flick which impresses one and all.I won't reveal the story here but just provide some shadows to what the movie is about and how the things transpire. PK (Aamir) lands in a desert of Rajasthan and is being robbed of his prized possession which leads to a journey of search which in all senses is no less than epic.Aamir's journey is a visual delight to all. He meets Bhairon Singh (Sanjay Dutt) who is a Rajasthani and guides his young and unknown friend in times of need. Through his advice, PK heads to Delhi which is where the story moves ahead.In Delhi, he meets Jaggu aka Jagat Janani (Anushka Sharma) who is a budding reporter. The trust factor led to PK revealing his story to Jaggu and it is just superb to watch as a viewer. Jaggu's father (Parikshit Sahni) is upset with her as she had fallen for a Pakistani guy Sarfaraz Yousuf (Sushant Singh Rajput).What PK portrays is a true and real scene of the mentality of the people on Earth, the fact that how blindly we follow God and the people who work as the ones who can lead to God. The manner in which religion related issues have been shown would bring about joy on our faces but it is indeed the hardcore reality of this World on the whole.Viewing this movie from the point of view of PK made me feel so unwanted in this World. The system and working is tough for all to understand. Yet, blindly, myself included, we follow this system. Who started this? What is the use of this? Did GOD demand this? DO we need to take hardcore measures to get things done and impress God? These are some of the questions raised by this one and the manner of presenting it seems so realistic and true.The way the question is raised on the so called gate keepers of God is the thing to watch in this movie. Given the quality of people associated with this one, we can expect it to be good in every aspect and it mostly is.PK has one of the best 1st half Bollywood has ever seen or witnessed, it is just splendid in the way it has been presented. The aura changes in the 2nd half but it doesn't shed away from the content and focuses on giving it a quality finish.Well, even though I have praised it, this movie is certainly the weakest of the ones made by Raju Hirani but still, it is one of the best of 2014 which proves that he is a Champion when it comes to film making. This movie lacks in terms of the intensity and depth generated by Munnabhai MBBS, 3 Idiots and Lage Raho Munnabhai. But the Direction is spot on by Hirani Sir again. We can see his flavor all through the movie. His expertise of portraying the most simplest of scenes with utmost perfection is depicted again in this movie.The script is very well written by Raju Hirani Sir and Abhijit Joshi. Yes there are a few minor flaws but it can easily be overlooked. Editing is also done by Raju Sir and it has been very well done. Cinematography is C.K. Muralidharan is top notch, one to admire and respect.The best thing about PK are its mind blowing Dialogues. I haven't seen such wonderful and catchy dialogues for a longtime now.Coming to the music, I had heard the whole album long ago and felt that the songs would be situational. It turned out to be true and just as I had said to some of my friends, "Bhagwan Hai Kahan Re Tu" sung by Sonu Nigam did bring tears in my eyes. It is such a song which brings out all the emotions, hits the right zones and the video adds to the intensity. Dil Darbadar by Ankit Tiwari is also melodious whereas Chaar Kadam by Shaan and Shreya Ghoshal provide a serene simplicity. Tharki Chokro fits perfectly as does Nanga Punga Dost. All in all, the music is simple and Shantanu Moitra needs to be credited for it.Mr. Perfectionist himself Aamir Khan can be proud of what he has done in PK, it can be placed in one of his finest works till date. He carries the movie on his own with ease and grace. Anushka Sharma does a phenomenal job and I was literally surprised watching it, she acts brilliantly all through the movie. I guess working with the best brings out the best in you fits perfectly for Anushka. I was so happy to see Sanjay Dutt back, missed him so much. No wonder he is my favorite and I loved every glimpse of his act. Sushant as Sarfaraz has done a very good job and those scenes in Belgium have been shown beautifully. Boman Irani and Parikshit Sahni do justice to what they have to deliver. Saurabh Shukla had an important role of Tapasvi Maharaj and he did well to keep up with the tempo.All in all, PK is indeed a wonderful movie which needs to be watched by all. It asks the right questions and the manner of portraying it is what wins the battle. I will rate it 4.25/5.
What I Love about PK: We are all in search of god, but no one does it the way PK does. He would make you laugh but also melt your heart and finally steal it away. Aamir Khan is the best thing about PK (I think Bollywood too!!). With the innocence and curiosity of a little child enters PK into this big bad world ('Gola' as he refers to it in the movie). In his search for God, to get his stuff back from him, PK takes us through the journey of emotions, blind beliefs, superstitions and truth. PK delivers a terrific performance and his Bhojpuri accent is like cherry on cake. He holds on to it beautifully during the entire movie and never for even a moment gets out of his character. With the kind of perfectionist Aamir is, you will not come home watching an Aamir Khan movie, rather you would be back home after meeting PK.Rajkumar Hirani is another shining star of the movie. He is one of the rare Bollywood directors, who actually can create magic on- screen. And in this movie he actually proves it. I love the execution of the Climax. The way the truth is revealed to the characters inside the film, similarly it is revealed to us. It makes you think, how a mind is conditioned to see only what it knows or believes and conveniently avoids justified logic and the other side of the truth. It's comes across like Pure Magic! So little that we get to see Sanjay Dutt these days, that the little guest appearance that he did as 'Bharon singh' also exhilarated me. He sure was well placed in the story and a delight to watch. What I thought was Average: With a rating of 4.5, there is hardly anything to write in this section. However, the music although sweet to your ears is not very memorable one. With 'chaar kadam' being the only song that I would play in repeat mode in my car, the rest of them are good enough, just when you are watching them in the movie. However a special mention to 'bhagwan hai kaha'. Sonu nigam strikes gold again. This song in the movie made me cry the most! Anushka was good but not great. I think she has a lot of scope of improvisation. Also something peculiarly unusual with her lips does not get unnoticed in the movie as well! What I did not like: We all fondly remember 'Virus' from 3 idiots and 'Dr Asthana' from Munnabhai MBBS. Sadly when I came home after watching the film, I could not even recall name of Boman Irani's character. Mr Irani is a great actor and he can even make regular roles memorable ones. He wasn't offered much to deliver in this one. Maybe he was just like a lucky Mascot to Hirani's movies. That is the only thing I did not like in PK. Take home message: If you are a Bollywood fan or a Hollywood fan or a movie fan in general, don't dare to miss PK. One of Aamir Khan's finest performance and undoubtedly the best movie of 2014. Also it might just change the perception of the way one seeks God!


                
After a long i have seen a great bollywood movie,rarely it happens that i am this impressed by a movie. A perfect blend of comedy drama and emotions ,great acting by the entire cast.The presentation of a story like this is not something a lot of directors can do. Aamir was at his best , Anushka had a pretty big role and did justice to it, Sanjay Dutt nailed it,loved him. Sushant singh was okay ( i don't know why but never really liked him).The only reason I'm giving it a nine is because of those extra 10-15 min (could have been edited) 1hr into the movie , 2nd half was perfect. I love movies having background scores and well it had them and they were good though it seemed they were taken from somewhere.No overdoing with songs(there were 3 i believe),great job by Sonu nigam.... Definitely a must watch #Feeling complete :P


                
When you have Amir Khan and Raju Hirani and Abhijat Joshi on one movie, expectations made are such that sky is the limit, but then, that's the problem with the system, if any less famous team did the same venture, the movie doesn't gets the exposure. After all, they are the expectations of bollywood that it may survive the quality cinema, and movies like this decreases the difference between movies for the class and movies for the mass. Quality entertainment, yes you have it.Well enough of chit chat, The movie: As it is expected, Amir steals the show, at the end, you are supposed to have sympathy with PK what I really felt, there was not much but supportive role from Anushka what she gave, the script somehow tries not to involve into any trouble somewhere feels not to involve too much, but it relieves the intellectual that they see what they expected to see. Although movie has several spots where it loses the pace, but for the requirement, it is required to get the best recipe. If you ask me "Could it get any better ? " My answer is an unfortunate yes, but then, the better will be quite negligible..It's basically a satire on Indian subcontinental society and yes it is a work of master that will mark with the time pass by....


                
Aamir - Raju duo are back with another satire which they executed and painted very brilliantly on the silver screen canvas. Umesh Shukla's debut OMG was the plot spoiler for PK script and some part of script has essence of OMG. Aamir has delivered another 3 idiots and RDB type cinema with his perfection. Costume designer has worked well with Colorful dresses for Aamir. Shantanu Moitra, Ajay-Atul and Ankit Tiwari 's music was not well as we can expect another music performance like 3 Idiots. Sanjay dutt and Boman Irani were less utilized than their ability. Anushka did a fantastic job.Sushant Rajput glittered in his small role.I am sure about PK will be first 300 Crore Rs movie in Indian Domestic market itself.
I have got no doubt that this movie may not be the best Bollywood movie but it delivers a very true and important message which is very much relevant to the culture of India and her secularism(I am feeling proud). We are the most developed species of the world and we made religion to protect ourselves from wrongdoings and to lead every human being into the righteous path of life. But now a days we are concentrating more to protect religion. Surely if God created this whole universe then He has got enough power to protect himself. We don't need to quarrel or don't need to bomb people in the name of God. Instead if we help each other to solve problems and sufferings, we surely can create a better world for us and for coming generations. There is no sign in a newborn baby which can surely indicate he/she is a Hindu,Muslim or Christian. First we are all human beings then we shall think about religion. Rajkumar Hirani is one of the best directors and he delivered the message in a very unique artistic way that every Indian will love to watch this. Songs are good,Amir Khan was equally good in the character of PK, Anushka looked sexy and bubbly. I just liked her smile and energy. All over the movie was more than satisfactory. A must watch.


                
PK is a bold movie which takes on the issue of Indian Society's dual standards on various things including the Religion and the connected god man. Yes!! We already have 'OH My God' and I must say that one or two scenes of the movie are so similar to OMG that I had a sense of Deja-vu. But majorly PK's script deals with it from totally different perspective and the message comes out even more clearly in a very simple statement – 'Watch out for wrong numbers!!'PK also brushed through the issue of Indian stigma on Sex. But I would encourage the readers to NOT leave their Kids at home because of this. Take them along. It's much much less vulgar than the Item numbers coming on your television set.Overall the movie has lot many laughing sequences, dancing car as one<U+0085> hilarious!! Second half is quite serious and at a point it gets too heavy that few of us may start losing interest. Well thanks to the underlying message and the Acting (spl. Aamir Khan), you are continuously kept attached.Finally, I would say it's a 'Good Movie' definitely a must watch with Family – 4 out of 5.


                
this is what we have been waiting for so long ... and it comes out of the box of none other than Mr.Perfectionist AAMIR KHAN..... yes,there are similarities between OH MY GOD and PK....;that is only the theme of it... viewers would, at some or the other point of time think."hey dis is what we saw in Oh My God ,and would start drawing similarities"... but PK is on a whole new different level altogether... movie is an absolute classic,one of the finest to have come out of our industry... kudos to the director RAju HIRANI...he is one of the finest director of our country...he starts from the beginning... a new born baby, who starts to learn about religion by a persons dress and name, to becoming a man attaining peace by knowing what religion exactly is....... HIRANI is the master of his craft,and so, is the other man- Mr.Perfectionist -(AAMIR KhAn)yes he is an absolute legend you just have to watch him act on screen and you know you have your moneys worth... expressions,comic timing,emotions,cuteness... everything... he makes you cry,makes you laugh wid such ease that you forget he is acting....brilliant... loved and enjoyed every bit of the movie.... an alien teaches us humanity .... love, respect, live and most importantly " STAY HUMAN"......
My 1st review on IMDb that too for a Bollywood .over speaks a lot about the movie itself. Am a die-hard Hollywood fan and prefer them over Bollywood ANY DAY! Yet the trailers and the look eluded me to have a go on watching it and as it was A Raj Kumar Hirani and Vidhu Vinod Chopra endeavor and that too with Aamir khan - I was pretty much excited and and had a bit of Expectations from it. Throughout the movie you shall laugh - cry and at times clap out of the genius that is depicted. Might Remind you of OMG a bit but is exceptionally well written, filmed and Enacted. AAMIR may have his Magnum Opus. Other characters too made their mark. A must watch for anyone who is taking wild guesses at individuals and stereotypes. A new message and mantra is also included #wrongnumber : might turn out to bring about a change. Don't miss this one.


                
PK is a story of pure love for me. When I first started the movie I was very confused because I was wondering how can a story with an alien turn into to something meaningful and excited. But turns out that PK fascinated me. It's one of my favourite movies of all time. It showed me how weird is it like to be a human. It showed me how we put borders to ourself and live like robots. It showed me how to sacrifice and what true love is. This movie is magical. Everyone should watch it. Don't leave it at the half! You'll get it in second half if don't understand at first.


                
I wasn't sure what to expect of the movie when I initially saw the trailer. But after I watched it I was completely stunned. Every scene, every detail and every dialogue was perfect. Everything in the movie fit together perfectly, making it a masterpiece. Aamir Khan's acting was undoubtedly the best of his career and Anushka Sharma definitely proved to be a brilliant and natural actress. The story was so cleverly put together that it made me wonder how long it might have taken to come up with the whole storyline. Still it was effortlessly put together, making every viewer stunned. Interestingly I also found big connections between the philosophical elements of the movie and the philosophy of the Übermensch by Friedrich Nietzche. P.K, played by Aamir Khan, had almost all the aspect and characteristics of Nietzsche's Übermensch: the curiosity, the childlike character, the (clean) view of the world, no morals, no man- made religion etc. This and all the other elements like the the funny scenes, the cute love scenes, the sad letting go scenes, the pure love of P.K, better said everything, made this one of the best, if not the best, Bollywood movie I have ever seen. Hats of to the whole crew of the movie!!


                
PK. Returning after celebrating the colossal success of 3 Idiots, Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan take you to the another journey of introspection amid all the cinematic fun. Raju picks the sensitive issue of faith and religion. As usual, his hero is an outsider, actually he is alien to earth this time. Using his quick wit and with the help of master act of Aamir Khan, he creates a series of funny and though provoking scenes asking you if your faith is in God who created humans or God who was created by humans. There is terrific first half, a post interval portion with the 'been there done that" feeling and a heart wrenching climax which sums up the things on a high note.Anushka Shrama, Sushant Singh Rajput, Boman Irani and Saurabh Shukla provide good support but movie belongs to Aamir Khan who never misses a beat while playing this difficult alien act. This is not the best of Raju's lot but it is much better than so many other offerings of Bollywood.I am going with mind blowing 9 out of 10 for PK. This one is brave, funny, thought provoking and pure Rajkumar Hirani brand fun so have faith and watch PK.


                
First of all congrats to p.k team for giving such a beautiful and thoughtful honest movie. Just as a human being without any tag lines pertaining to a religion or a race, I feel lucky to share some of the thoughts that have been shown in the film and also I came to find the answers for some questions that I have been struggling with. . .Aamir's acting was definitely a benchmark of this movie and of course like a twin baby of the exceptional flawless story. Aamir has given one of his careers best performance. Director was so good in handling such a good storyline and at the same time the humor with a best message. Emotions and screenplay have been taken very well care of so that the every human can give it a thought of leading a simple meaningful life rather than complicating it by fooling around themselves getting into the hands of non purposeful people and statutes of no meaning at all. "BEING GOOD AND DOING GOOD IS GOD,AND NOT PUNISHING AND LETTING OURSELVES TO DO NOTHING EXCEPT EXPECTING THE GOD TO DO EVERYTHING". this is such a nice movie helping to be thoughtful and purposeful. Thanks again for such a nice movie. P.K.
PK is all about God and god-men.Story revolves around PK asking simple questions related to people about God and Godman which other people never questioned.There are similarities between PK and "oh my god" movie. both movies are based on same subject and presented in a comedy drama.Worth watching, full entertainer movie. Amir Khan has given another stellar performance. Anushka Sharma supported the role well. For others roles were short but well done by Sushant Singh Rajput , Boman Irani , Sanjay Dutt Great Direction by Rajkumar Hirani, Vidhu Vinod Chopra.


                
