The Grapes of Wrath sounds clearly like a propaganda film for the liberals of the 30s and 40s (Thankfully, John Ford became more of a conservative in his late days). It often tends to be ridiculous, as, for example, with the character of John Carradine and the camps of the government managed by kind people versus the bad guys of the private companies. It is definitely an overrated movie going back to the cinema's first steps. The movie has been filmed pretty much entirely in the Fox studios : the sound of the steps of Henry Fonda in the supposed wilderness sounds like being inside a studio. Avoid it and be proud not be part of the Politically correct bunch in this noble art of the movies!


                
This was the worst film I have ever seen that was taken from a book. It completely screwed up the story and didn't even finish with the book. John Steinbeck is an excellent writer and should have sued for making such an awful movie after his book. What were the movie makers of the time thinking when they thought they could turn this into a film. Considering that the story was a little too racy for films at that time especially the ending. Having to read this for an english class I bet people just watched the movie and were too lazy to read the book. Hollywood can never portray a story from a book. Considering the bad acting, directing and portrayal nobody will read the book after seeing this movie! Always read the book before seeing the film, it's much more worth it!!!!!


                
This is a movie based on a book that is so boring that it has made thousands of people fall asleep while reading it. Many people believe that this book is discussed by many people continuing to this day. Well they are wrong this book is full of stereotypes that make me sick. John Steinbeck had no idea what he was writing about. The director of this movie picked a horrible source material for making a movie about. I do not know what Henry Fonda was thinking playing Tom Joad the most lifeless fictional character. I recommend this movie to only people suffering from insomnia for this movie is full of blandness that will put anybody to sleep.


                
