While the movie was still controversial for its time, it was too censored to fully convey Steinbeck's message. The movie reorganized the scenes so that instead of the Joads going from Hoovervilles to the government camp (Weed Patch) to the boxcars they went from Hoovervilles to the Ranch to the government camp (Wheat Patch). They changed the order in the movie and took the hard-hitting tragedy of the book and made it into the feel-good-movie-of-the-year. This censorship happened with many scenes in the movie. The Joads, in the book, ended by fleeing from flooding boxcars to the sanctuary of a damp barn while in the movie they leave a clean, nice government camp to go get 20 days worth of work while driving off into the sunset. The movie also completely leaves out the ending of the book where Rose of Sharon gives birth to a stillborn baby and then has to flee with some of the family to a barn to get out of the "wet". When they reach the barn she nurses an old man dying of malnutrition. This is a very powerful ending that was completely written out. Another major criticism I have for this movie is the lack of emotion and connection. When grandma and grandpa die in the movie, the audience feels nothing; there was no emotional connection between the audience and the characters. I also feel that by leaving out the land and by not connecting the land with the people we lose a crucial part of the story. Not once in the movie do we see a peach.The censorship of the movie destroyed Steinbeck's message. The book has a strong message of community, working together and building relationships to get through hard times. Steinbeck's way of saying this was "I" turning into "we" and if the "we" didn't form than everyone would fail. The movies message was that the Joads "are the people" and the people live on and that they were winning because they were still surviving. I do understand that if the movie wasn't censored it would never have been produced but I feel that if you cannot do a novel like The Grapes of Wrath justice then don't try.
The Grapes of Wrath really had a great message to get across to America. This movie is full of political and social meaning. Its a very emotion packed film taking place during the depression in the 1930's. THis movie is till very much relevant to this day in its economic message to a struggling country. This film touches your heart and you truly feel for the poor farmers. This movie had great cultural significance but is not aesthetically pleasing. The acting and dialog are shaky and do not keep you interested. I would find myself straying off because some of the rants seemed irrelevant. The whole film has a gloomy feel to it.
Literally one of the most horrible movies I've seen. Boring, long, and just a waste. I watched a trailer before actually seeing the film, and as soon as I saw John Steinbeck, I knew I was going to hate it. The only good parts were of the grandfather, and then he died. The only real weakness, and it IS a weakness, is the terrible editing. Very important scenes have been edited out and important details are left wanting. Because of this, the film jerks along at times with inexplicable moments. If you know the book well, these failings are easier to deal with, but for someone who may be unfamiliar with Steinbeck's work, it can be confusing.
What a masterpiece--beautiful film, beautiful acting, incredible characters, strong setting, interesting story...And ridiculous. A pure piece of political bully-pulpit pounding shame.When you whittle away the bare bones from the withered flesh of a story, you find a simple message: BIG GOVERNMENT GOOD, STATES & LOCALS BAD. The way they portrayed it was crazy obvious. What I don't understand is why people sympathize with a double murderer, though motivated to such actions. It is a slanted logic that dictated men's lives as worthless where local justice is involved....in America. Never seen a message so ridiculous in film, the opposite being the truth--abuse and lack of justice within centralized government (just read the news).The question in the beginning of "who is to blame" for taking the farms points to the evil bankers, the evil overlords all up the ladder of capitalism, as if the owners had no rights to their own land, and their own financial mismanagement wasn't the fault of the grassroots- decision-maker. But, never mind that: details get in the way of a good leftist message. By the end it portrays a world that will never change and the people who try will just wither and blow away for the sake of cigar smoking, besuited fellows in brand new cars with extensive peach orchards and businesses.When I moved to California in the early 90s I met a lot of the old transplants who moved to CA in that time of need. They did pretty well for themselves. Ultimately, a displacement creates need and need is sated by people creating work and making things, people finding their place in the world. Maturity to understand how the world changes and corrects itself is what the story lacks completely. But, it wasn't a film made to reinforce the nature of the world, just to stir up some wrath.


                
I hesitate to write a bad review of The Grapes of Wrath because I know that to many people who view it apolitically, it is simply a very well made drama. To such people my criticism may seem merely like muckraking. If, however, you are observing the misinformation that the premise of this film is built upon, then I believe it legitimately fails. I understand the poetic license that artists take to make a good story, and I am willing to grant that license. However, I feel that, when tallied, this film's erroneous statements go far beyond the pale of poetry and cross into the realm of propaganda and silliness. It's the difference between "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" vs. Charlie Daniels "In America". The former inspires me, the latter is a joke.Another aspect of the movie that bothered me was its disconcerting take on morals. It begins, fittingly, with someone being mocked for obeying a rule. Henry Fonda, a murderer just out on parole, berates a truck driver for obeying a rule that prohibits him from giving rides. What if Fonda had hijacked him, would the truck driver be a prude or an idiot? In the next scene, God gets the ax. Fonda comes across a disillusioned vagabond, the family's ex-parson. He brags that his sermons were emotional hype and confesses that he liked to sleep with the women that got caught up in "the spirit" at his meetings. Now, he says, he has lost hope. He does not state this as a fault, so much as it is confusing to him why "the spirit" has left him. Strangely, this later state of the preacher is looked upon by Fonda as being clairvoyant. Everything that happens in The Grapes of Wrath happens within the context of morality being a relative thing, certainly one devoid of divine appointment. Everything from lying to murder is excusable if done by the right people or for the right reasons. A few examples: Upon seeing Fonda out of prison, most of his family is hoping he broke out. His parole comes as a disappointment.The murder he was sentenced to seems irrelevant.The sharecroppers are willing to kill the owners of the land to stop them from evicting them (they don't because it "won't do no good" not because it would be morally reprehensible).(slight spoiler) Fonda murders another man for murdering his friend, and Fonda's mother not only excuses the murder without knowing what her son's motive was, but offers to cover it up by hiding her son.I, personally, have a hard time rooting for such protagonists. I also found Fonda's character to be too abusive and insolent many times.Overall, I find the authors socialist overtones cliché and cockeyed:Its opinion of authority is comical. All cops are evil thugs, all employed towns people are absentee cowards, all successful businessmen are thoughtless criminals, and essentially everybody in the film that has employment are only out for themselves and their first impulse is always to be rude and uncaring.The film's opinion of how people treated each other in the '30's is askew. No doubt, some people where cold and heartless, that is a given at any time, but where are the good people? There is not a single group or individual (with any means, that is) helping any of these people, esp. children? Where are the soup kitchens, churches, etc..? The premise of the script is built upon this nonsense. Quick research into the Great Depression will reveal a contrary reality. People where mostly very kind and helpful to each other. It's how we survived as a country. Many other countries turned to anarchy.Its opinion of progress is very cockeyed. The tractors are pictured as giant evil job gobblers. In reality, modernization made it so poor people could get better paying jobs and live a much higher quality of life.Its opinion of what role religion plays in American life is cockeyed.Its opinion of land ownership is cockeyed. If I rent land, and the owner wants to take it back, that is part of my contractural agreement. Oddly, it appears the farm owners were actually doing them a favor by getting rid of them. If they were not successful, their grandparents should have thrown in the towel decades before. But I am expected to sympathize with this.Its opinion of how the government helps people is not only cockeyed, it's backwards. If anyone is guilty of screwing people and taking away their rights, it's government. Reality is so much different that this issue becomes a farce. In one scene, the only thing missing from the government run workers camp were angles playing harps. You may argue that Roosevelt's WPA helped people, but many scholars argue that it actually prolonged the depression.The entire premise of the "Okie migration" is not factual as presented here, Google the topic to find out. For example; the migration of the Midwest was transpiring since the teens. The bulk of it occurred in the 40's, not the thirties, as employment became abundant in California due to WWII. There are a plethora of other non-truths in this script. So much so that the movie was protested by many people in California. Steinbeck grossly misrepresents the facts.I could go on much longer, but I am limited to 1000 words. All of this is not to say The Grapes of Wrath does not have good and valid points about how we should help people and think of them before profits. I just think they are lost in an ocean of deception and lies. As a movie making effort: 9.5 out of 10. As a whole: 3 out of 10.


                
At two hours length this film is an epic journey of boredom for the viewer. In its favour, we do get to see a couple of the really annoying characters die. Hooray! The film scores some points for that.Henry Fonda and John Carradine are the only good things about this film. Carradine seems to be in all the good scenes of which there are only a few. The story concerns a migrating family looking for work and the biases and injustices that they encounter. I don't like reading books – I find it boring - but I would recommend reading this book over the watching the film. Nothing happens! The whole first hour could be completely edited out. A bit of promise pops up in the 2nd half of the story before it reverts to being preachy and sentimental. Yawn.


                
