I hesitated before writing this, because I really didn't much like this movie, and I assumed at first that it was because I find its politics so appalling.But the more I think about it, the more I realize that even cinematically, I found it compelling only on a purely visual level (Ford's movies are always at least visually compelling).I think Ford spent so much effort trying to make his characters into symbols that he failed to make them people. At no point did I care whether the Joads made it to California; the deaths of the old folks made no impression on me. The villainy of the local cops and those who ran the work camps was much mitigated by its obvious artifice. The only emotion any of these people inspired in me was a deep desire to punch that self-righteous jerk Tom Joad right in the mouth--which I don't think was what Ford was going for. I have to admit that I did like John Carradine, but I always like John Carradine.And when the Joads drove into that federal government work camp, and it was like arriving in heaven with an obvious FDR lookalike (sans wheelchair, of course) as God, I completely lost it. That was about the unintentionally funniest thing I've ever seen in a classic film.Am I just too cynical?


                
This hyped classic has a number of problems seldom acknowledged by reviewers and serious film historians. Only the first 45 minutes or so take place in Oklahoma. Well over half the plot is set either on the road or in California. This is a curious plot structure for a film about "okies".Very few of the Oklahoma scenes were actually filmed in Oklahoma. Indeed, the Joad farmstead and surrounding landscape look nothing at all like Oklahoma; these scenes were all filmed in California. In point of fact, John Steinbeck was born and raised in California. His novel is based on second-hand information, distorted even more by a Hollywood cinema machine interested only in money.Viewers have come to assume, implicitly, that Steinbeck's book is factual. It is not. The story is fiction. The Joad clan is fictional. Their journey to California is fictional. The specific worker camps are fictional. The only elements of the film that are based on truth are the era setting and the struggles that most people from the Great Plains endured during the 1930s. That part is real.There was genuine hardship and suffering. But it's a mistake to assume that everyone who migrated to California during that period were as destitute as the Joads. I personally have ancestors who lived in Oklahoma in that era; some moved; some stayed in Oklahoma, but none were indigent. The Joad's decrepit car is a symbol of the film's visual misrepresentation, in addition to the fake Oklahoma landscape.The exaggerated impoverishment of script characters results from a Hollywood establishment eager to send a political message about social class inequity, a way to manipulate viewer perceptions. But the downside to that manipulation is that it has had a profoundly negative effect on Oklahoma and other Great Plains states in the subsequent sixty years. The resulting cultural bias against these dust bowl states has caused damage that far surpasses the damage done by nature and the economy. Such is the power of Hollywood and the gullibility of viewers to trust filmmakers.That said, the film's B&W cinematography is quite good. The story is rendered mournfully bleak, largely as a result of Gregg Toland's use of wide-angle lenses and dim lighting. The song "Red River Valley" is ideal for the locale and era. I also like the absence of actors' makeup, which adds a subtle touch of realism. Casting is acceptable and so is acting, except for the two most elderly of the Joads (Grandpa and Grandma), who overact dreadfully. Their portrayal of old people is insulting.I consider "The Grapes Of Wrath" a Hollywood sacred cow, critically untouchable. But Steinbeck and Hollywood combined to do far more damage to the dust bowl states than the hardships that actually occurred. The cultural residue this film has left has been most unfortunate.


                
As someone who has read John Steinbeck's novel this film is somewhat of a letdown. The book was so beautifully written that I expected the film to be equally as beautiful however, I was wrong. Although it did not compare to the book it was still a well made film. I find it difficult to match actors with the characters in the book however, Henry Fonda as Tom Joad, the hot head. Fonda did a great job of portraying his character as the common man and his performance allowed me to understand the way many individuals were feeling during that period of history. While the movie did leave out many important scenes that were included in the book the scenes included showed the struggles of the Americans that experienced the Dust Bowl. The scene where the Joad family is kicked off their land was quite emotional and a good depiction of the past. The setting of the film was very accurate to the book and the way the scenes were The shot of the family traveling to California were very well done. Using what seems to be a process shot of the landscape giving the impression that the vehicle is in motion. The shots of the landscape itself were breathtaking. While the film did portray every part of the film, it was still a moving piece of cinema.
If you don't know much about the great depression like i don't, the movie will be a little bit confusing. basically it's about a trucker who picks up an ex convict on the road and then they all hang out with a priest, and have adventures trying to live off the land. It's okay, but it gets pretty boring, up until the convict ends up killing a police officer, which at that point it all goes down hill. don't watch because it will bore you. I personally also think that there was too much tragedy in it. Also i would recommend that you study up on the dust bowl and the great depression. I had to write a review for this so i got it off Hull. as an 8th grader, i wouldn't recommend watching this if you younger than 18. thanks for reading my review. If you are into this kind of sad/cheesy drama then this is a must watch.
I did not enjoy this movie. Like I said, it was hard for me to watch. Stuff happened in it but it just seemed so boring. And I don't know if the version I watched was remastered or not but the shadows and picture kept shaking. I recognized the main character's "I'll be there" speech from some place, and a lot of it reminded me of Little Miss Sunshine except much darker and stuff. The ending was OK but unsatisfying. I was hoping for more to make watching it worth it but I was disappointed. I wasn't that interested in the whole context of them movie anyway so I didn't like it to begin with. I know it was more appropriate for that time period but I'm in a different one so I find it hard to like it.
