This classic adaptation of "The Grapes of Wrath" features a fine cast as well as a skillful production headed by director John Ford. Henry Fonda and Jane Darwell are well-remembered for their roles, which are among the defining roles in their careers. The only limitations that it has come from the original novel, with its heartfelt but sometimes contrived story.Besides Fonda and Darwell, the supporting cast features plenty of good supporting players, including Charley Grapewin and John Carradine. All of them make their characters come alive believably. They also fit together well and complement one another's performances, which accentuates the themes involved in the struggles of the Joad family.For all that the Steinbeck novel is so revered, and for all that his story is an often compelling depiction of its characters, with whom many in the era could identify, it would have been better if it had not been so heavy-handed. Even given that the times were bad, more balance in the characters outside of the family, and in the Joads' experiences, would have made it an even better story. Certainly, this is barely even noticeable when compared with the stories in many present-day movies and novels, which often dispense with any attempts at plausibility.And that does not stop this adaptation from being a worthwhile and often moving film. Ford clearly appreciated the potential in the material, and he and the cast work together to make each character count, and to give meaning to each scene.


                
The Grapes of wrath is a film based on the novel written by John Steinbeck. The film follows a family westward as an exodus of lower class families are forced out of work and their homes due to the firm hand of "the man."While several cinematography elements used within the film, such as the use of black as white as well as some camera tricks, elevated the 'run down' feeling of the Joad family it is my feeling that although the film was an homage to the novel it did not capture the intended thesis of Steinbeck.Throughout the plight of the Joad family the movie focuses simply on the obstacles and hard times that only the Joads had to encounter. I feel the lack of the strong sense of a community in the film really detracted from the moral of the book. The book has a strong lesson of the "I" becomes "we", whereas the film lacks the sort of artistic ability to really capture that phenomenon. The film puts forth a plot of the Joads against the world and the most important and striking part of the book was realization that a community of perfect strangers had come together, bonding over their nothingness and had become a greater 'fambly' of their own; a unit to reckon with. It is because the Director's cut of the film failed to bring to screen Steinbeck's message of the human nature: of a people coming together when they have no means of living and yet there they are - still fighting the silent fight. While the film has an impressive cast of actors and several other noteworthy aspects of the film which are quite beautiful when speaking the film in parallel with novel, the film has fallen short. This could justly be because of the times period and other circumstances but in short while this film pays homage to this timeless literary work the film is due for a remake with the world being in a place where one is not fearful to expose the truth. To truly honor Steinbeck's work this must be done.
Painting a gritty yet authentic portrait of family life ravaged by economic hardships, The Grapes of Wrath covers the strenuous ordeal faced by one family as it struggles to keep itself together when everything around them is falling apart. Steered by John Ford's assured direction & powered by a couple of stellar performances, it remains one of the most memorable works of its era.Set during the Great Depression, the story of The Grapes of Wrath follows Tom Joad who's out of prison on parole, only to find out that his family has been forced off their own land. Managing to reunite with them eventually, Tom & the Joad family set off to California in search of better work, opportunities & a hopeful future but face one misfortune after another, each testing their strength.Directed by John Ford, the film doesn't even try to sugarcoat any of its events and brings back the gruesome memory of living through the Great Depression for its viewers. There's constant friction between hope & hopelessness in the script but it is deftly written & wonderfully balances the arcs of its characters. Ford's direction also makes sure that the narrative is always on point & not tread around the edges.The production design team & location setting work in tandem to recreate the era that devastated thousands of lives while further assistance comes from its smart camera-work & patient editing to help the movie achieve its desired look n feel. But what holds it together is the outstanding inputs from Henry Fonda & Jane Darwell, especially the latter who delivers a powerful performance that only gets better as story progresses.On an overall scale, The Grapes of Wrath is tragic, heartbreaking & harrowing but, despite its bleak appearance, it isn't entirely devoid of hope & optimism. We witness the Joad family disintegrating under the burdens of crashed economy yet the end result is a reflection of the strength that lies in unity and how a strongly-bonded family can steer through any situation. Expertly directed, deftly written, brilliantly performed & culminating with one of cinema's most inspiring monologues, The Grapes of Wrath comes thoroughly recommended.


                
The Grapes of Wrath directed by John Ford from a screenplay by Nunnally Johnson was the film adaptation of the very well known and renowned book of the same name by John Steinbeck. The film like the book is set during the era of the Great Depression in the 1930s and follows the Joad family from Oklahoma as they deal with poverty on their way to the 'promised land' of California after being thrown out of their own land and property.The themes of the film revolve around the concept of the loss of home. After the Joads get uprooted from their home like many other farmer families, they head out for California in their truck. This truck becomes their mobile home. They become wanderers in search of a real home. It is unreal how the issue of migrants that enrich Steinbeck's novel and Ford's film is still extremely relevant to this very day. We see the local officials mistreat, mislead and exploit them and all the poor migrants like the Joads go along with it with the hope that there might be a light at the end of the tunnel. The Darwinian concept of the 'survival of the fittest' also comes very much into the equation. Once the Joads leave their land, some members of the family lose their grit, hope and conviction like Grandpa, Grandma and Pa, while on the other hand, the misery and sorry plight of the circumstances emboldens Ma and makes her the source of strength for everyone including Tom. Tom Joad is a very interesting character. He starts out as the angry loner. He then comes into contact and becomes a part of the family unit. But the misery and struggles force him in an ironic sense to re-embrace the identity of the outlaw loner to bring about a change. The purity and sweetness of the mother-son relationship between Tom and Ma is given a lot of attention by Ford and Johnson, even more so than Steinbeck did in the novel.Ford's direction in the film is understated and not very flashy. There are moments of great artistic imagery, eg: the 3 shadows trampled by the tractor marks, Gregg Toland's brilliant cinematography under Ford's direction involving shadows specially in the scene where Tom and Casy meet Muley, the brilliant shot where the Joad family leaves on their truck bidding adieu to their home and Ford decides to hold the shot a few seconds longer after they have left to show the wind, dust and garbage blowing towards the house,etc. Ford's direction in the scenes in the Transient Camps is absolutely brilliant. He uses the moving camera from the perspective of the Joads to introduce them and the viewers to all the other migrants. The other aspects of those scenes involving the hungry kids are very touching.But the film I thought is flawed. First of all, clearly due to all the restrictions that films of that era were plagued by, there are a lot of crucial aspects of the original novel that get watered down a bit. I am certainly not someone who gets annoyed when the film is very different to the original source material because I have the maturity to understand that cinema and literature are two completely different fields. But I do think if the political aspect of the novel was explored more boldly in the film, it would have worked to its benefit. Another aspect of the film that put me off a bit is some of the hokey nature of the written lines. Nunnally Johnson's writing at times gets too cheesy and overt. The overt nature of some of the lines spoken by the characters might work on the page of a book, but on screen, it does stick out in an ugly way. The acting by the ensemble cast is also a bit too theatrical at times which made it difficult for me to maintain a constant emotional attachment with the characters. Although the quality of acting is not consistent from everyone, but Henry Fonda as Tom Joad, Jane Darwell as Ma Joad and John Qualen as Muley are the ones who stand out. Fonda accurately conveys the repressed anger and frustration that makes up Tom's character with moments of touching emotions. Darwell is as likable as ever as Ma. She exudes a caring and loving quality that is impossible to avoid. She also plays the character with some strength as Ma does in a way become the backbone of the family after they leave their home. Although John Qualen has a peculiar appearance, but the power of his performance forced me to really empathise with Muley's pains and struggles.'The Grapes of Wrath' is not flawless. In my view it has its fair share of issues much of which was down to rigid restrictions that were imposed upon the films of that era. But even with its flaws, it still is a very solid John Ford film which made me feel for the characters. Just like the novel, it forces the viewer to put themselves in the shoes of the central characters and live the struggle with them.


                
A powerful film based on a powerful book. It effortlessly engages with what home means for different people. At times heart-breaking and at others extremely poignant. Grandpa Joad adamantly refusing to leave the farm where he has worked and lived all of his life was painful and tear-jerking to watch.If I were to criticise this film for anything, it would be that at times it is a little boring and slowly-paced. It didn't hold my interest throughout. However, this didn't majorly detract from a good film that portrayed one of America's most difficult times in history.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/Oq0qbY


                
OrangesThis historical drama tells the story about poor Midwest family forced off their land during the Great Depression. Homeless people then traveled to California in hope to get back on their feet as fruit pickers. But the reality of California was far from the promised land they hoped it would be. The movie has touching story, dark and heavy atmosphere, great cast and directing, and it must have left the strong impression because, a few years after watching, I remember it as if I watched it a few days ago. Although I'm aware of its objective qualities, for some reason I did not enjoy it. I suppose it's just a matter of taste, but I can not give a higher rating to something I did not like.7/10


                
The Grapes of Wrath (1940) was a very well-made look at the experience of an Oklahoma farmer during the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. It is hard not to feel sympathy for the families who are losing their homes and farms. It was an intensely emotional scene when Muley and his family have to watch their homes be plowed to the ground. There were some scenes that it was easy to tell that there was a painted backdrop ( for example when Tom is arriving back home for the first time, he is walking through a field and there's an obvious backdrop.)The fact that the director was able to create a convincing look at the dustbowl so soon after it occurred definitely speaks for his talent.


                
I have been watching many old black and white movies for my history of cinema class and have enjoyed them all. So i did also enjoy "The Grapes of Wrath" but i was much less intrigued. I liked the story and the plot and do think all other aspects of the film were good. It was a bit dull at times and seemed to drag on in places. i did completely feel for the Joad family throughout the movie and was always rooting for them to find some sort of employment. I understand that the film is meant to show the struggles of families in the midwest during the depression and it certainly did a good job getting that point across.I perked up at the very end when Tom told his mother that he was going to try and do something about the land and attempt to gather protester's, which would have given the movie a bit more action or just a specific direction. But that is probably because I am so accustomed to modern day movies jam packed with non stop action.


                
This film surely deserved being nominated in the Academy Awards. Steinbeck's message was butchered and the story of the Okies disgraced. These two viewpoints are both fairly accurate in their own respect. Indeed this is very entertaining and captivates its audience, but it also twists the story Steinbeck conveys in his book. Before considering whether or not to view this movie, you first need to know if it is the right match for yourself.Entertainment: If you are searching for the perfect movie to sit back on a Friday night, maybe reminisce in the past, eat some popcorn, enjoy a classic movie, then you should continue reading under heading. This film did deserve being nominated for best film in the Academy Awards. Excellent cinematography and great actors like Henry Fonda and John Carradine set this movie apart and make the audience really feel for the Joads. After losing their family farm, the Joads set out as migrant workers on their way to California. They overcome adversity as the try to get settled and find work, despite the attitudes of the land owners. This is a story of overcoming odds and no matter what happens, staying together as a community, as the people.Compare and Contrast: If you're looking to see how this movie compares to this book and are hoping that it will accurately depict Steinbeck's novel, then turn around. I'm not saying this is a bad movie, it does tell the story of the Joads and shows the problem they are facing, but the way in which the Joads combat this diversity is different between the two works. The beauty of the inner chapters isn't expressed to its full potential in the movie. It's not expected that this can be done, but the effects of the inner chapters is part of what made the novel what it was. In the book, the inner chapters tied the Joads to the entire community and helped set up some context. The movie tells some of the stories of those in the inner chapters, but doesn't give the sense of community that the book has. Along with the lack of sense of community the relationship of the family is not the same between the two entities. In the book the two kinds of families, the Joads and John Davis', are compared. The difference between the two are having the family break up, but have community replace it, or have a family that stays together, but their connection to the community is destroyed. The movie seems to take the stance of Joe Davis' family because the focus is put on the family and the aspects of the family falling apart like Noah's Departure and the Joads connection to their community is downsized. The Joads never meet the Wilsons and the boxcar seen is completely taken out. Also the family farm isn't really shown in detail and there isn't a sense of connection to the agriculture because not a single peach or piece of cotton is shown. This brings me to my next point.Students: If you need to read this book over the summer before going back to school, watch this movie. It seems like a spark note of the book as it summarizes the travels of the family and their hardships. However, if you need to discuss the themes of this book, you might not get a very good grade. The problems of the Joads remain intact, but the solutions of their problems are different. Emphasis is put on the people instead of sacrifice to move forward.This is truly a good movie, but if you are hoping it will reflect the book, you might not enjoy it as much. Personally having read the book myself, I did enjoy this movie and respected it for what it did achieve for its time; however you can't view this thinking that it will be like watching Steinbeck tell his story.


                
The Grapes of Wrath is really an excellent movie – fantastic actors and casting, and cinematography, especially for the time it was made. Seeing it after just finishing Steinbeck's book, though, I was a little disappointed. Even though it's a great movie, it's not so great of an adaptation.Throughout the film, I never really felt Steinbeck's message really coming across, except in certain points when direct dialogue was used from the book. Steinbeck showed the story of many people in his novel, and how important it was for them to come together as a community, while the movie focuses simply on the Joads. There is hardly any interaction between the Joads and the other Okies at all. In the end, Ma talks about surviving, and how that was all they had to do to make everything better. Steinbeck never wanted the Joads or any other Okie to just survive, he wanted them to come together as a whole and make sure they got their rights. The movie shows that just surviving makes everything better. Ending with the government camp (craftily renamed "wheat patch" rather than "weedpatch") gives the sense that there are decent people, and the Joads will have no problem finding decent people and a place to live. Ending with the boxcar and the flood and Rose of Sharon's scene (which is understandably not in the movie) shows that the hard times were hard from over, but if they stay as a community, they can try to make things better.All of this being said, the movie has some really good references back to the book. Most of the actors managed to completely get their characters down. My main problem was with Al, and how much he was downplayed in the film. (And I felt a little hurt when they completely forgot about Noah). Ma and Tom and Casey, however, really did manage to find their characters. The scene between Ma and Tom right before Tom left was the scene that felt the most true to me. I was upset, though, that the only characters allowed to be seen and developed through the movie were the Joads, and every connection they had with other families, like the Williams and the Wainwrights, did not exist. The connections between the families was what brought out the book's message, and made it about more than just the Joads. It made it about everyone.I understand the context this movie was made in, with the Depression barely over, the memories and events of Steinbeck's novel still fresh in everyone's minds. A complete replica of The Grapes of Wrath would have a been a bit too harsh for everyone then, and honestly impossible with the technology of the time. I think I would just ask in a remake for them to try to get it a little better.It really is a fantastic film, especially for the time period, and on its own it's great. In terms of displaying Steinbeck's message, though, it does miss the mark.
"The Grapes of Wrath" is a wonderful adaptation of John Steinbeck's 1939 Pulitzer-prize winning novel. I have a very high level of respect for John Ford and the scrutiny that came down upon him after directing this film, one of the most left-leaning, liberal films in Hollywood at the time.The visual quality of this film is beautiful and the cinematography so clearly expresses the deep sadness and uncertainty of a family that has been forced out of their home and off of their land. There are too many beautiful visual moments in the film to explain in detail, but there seemed to be a pattern of filming that stuck out in my mind, and that is when only the reflection of conversational scenes are filmed, either in the reflection of a windshield or in a review mirror. This camera technique presented the very translucent and uncertain emotions that this wandering family must have been feeling. As I said this is only one of many successful visual scenes that make this film the emotional and beautiful success that it is.
The movie was okay. It was sad but yet made me laugh. I watched it in my 9th grade American History class. The dialog was great, the characters seemed real. You could really feel their struggles, pains. The happiness and how close the family was also struck awe in me. But it has come to my attention that a semi truck was in the background of the New Mexico diner...this movie was set in the 1930's but the first semi truck did not come to be until the late 1940's early 1950's....Please correct me if I am wrong. I am sorry if this spoils it but I just wanted you to know so if you watch it, you can point it out or see it.


                
From Oscar winning director John Ford (My Darling Clementine, The Quiet Man, Mister Roberts, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance), based on the book by John Steinbeck, this was a film from the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die that I was really going to try and focus on. Basically Tom Joad (Oscar nominated Henry Fonda) has returned home after serving four years in prison for killing a man, and he is joined on his journey by faithless former preacher Casy (John Carradine), and together they find the farm deserted. Tom finds his family who tell him that they were evicted, and the extended family of eight have to pack their things and set on the road to California, and there they hope to find work. The Grandpa (Charley Grapewin) dies from a stroke along the way on Route 66, and they have no choice but to bury his body on a roadside, and after being warned about the lack of jobs at their destination, Grandma (Zeffie Tilbury) dies also before they reach the border. They soon find a travelling camp populated by children, and a man and the sheriff do come offering the family members work, but with no indication of what the salary is, this man with the sheriff is trouble apparently. The sheriff killed the man, and Tom knocked out the sheriff before getting away, and the rest of the family keep travelling until the find a farm that needs workers, but it is suspicious for being surrounded by barbed wire and armed guards. They earn very little money when they accept a job picking pears, and Tom walking around comes across Casy again who is planning a strike with fellow labourers, but then thugs kill Casy and gash Tom. The family move on again and find a US government camp which has much better living conditions, such as toilets and showers, but they are wary of thugs coming and need the sheriff to take control. Tom must go away because the sheriff is looking for him, and he leaves his mother, Ma Joad (Oscar winning Jane Darwell), thinking that she won't see him again, but she is hopeful about the future heading for work in the north. Also starring Dorris Bowdon as Rose-of-Sharon 'Rosasharn' Rivers, Russell Simpson as Pa Joad, O.Z. Whitehead as Al and John Qualen as Muley. Fonda is alright as the one who almost leads the family, and Darwell is indeed intriguing as the mother of the family who is tries to keep spirits up. I will be honest, I didn't really pay enough attention to or understand the plot, and I didn't really understand the leading character's heroism, I'd probably only see it the once, but there are some good moments, costumes and landscapes to just about keep you watching, a reasonably worthwhile classic period drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Film Editing, Best Sound and Best Writing, Screenplay. Tom Joad was number 12 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 21 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 7 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Very good!
OK so this was kind of a long movie. It was sad. Some of the things I noticed in this movie were, how they kind of flashed backwards which is something I haven't seen in one of our movies. I liked the shot with the 3 shadows of the men standing there after they were told to get off there land. I thought that was a nice and different camera move. Some other things I saw during this movie is when they lit the candle in the house to see if anyone was there there was still a back light. where was that coming from? another thing was the sound. When the wind storm was rolling in it was extremely loud and if you looked around not everything was moving from these terrible winds. another thing was I liked the fact that they used a montage effect of all the signs when they were traveling from Oklahoma to California. The last thing i notice is when the family reached the Colorado river and they all got out to look at the beautiful sight, there voiced sounded as if there were on a set and not in an open area. over all I did like the movie but it was sad Megan


                
As subjective as it may seem, I cannot avoid making the comment this film was a bit boring. Painful to watch. There's a strain that the narrative builds over the watcher, the pressures of an incredibly tough and depressing series of life events, where a viewer may be left thinking: "well I don't have an issue with dramas or tough films, but why focus on such difficult and common life events ?" It's one of these things about historical movies - a particular event having occurred doesn't necessarily make for a great film plot or story to tell. The incredibly rough Great Depression years were awful and all, sure, but to make 2 hours plus of film based on the Steinbeck novel... this is like an American Emile Zola, an American Germinal. That monotonous old naturalism/realism narrative of exploring the misery of the working class... why, out of everything else there is to write about or make a film about... You'd ask yourself why an author would focus all his energy on something so bleak and real, there's such a lack of fantasy, the story telling is just totally flat and linear. What, we're barely given 30 seconds of poetry at the end from Fonda and then a speech from the mother in that last scene, but 2hrs10 for that ?...Good film. Tough to watch. 6.5/10.


                
John Steinbeck's 500+ page novel 'The Grapes of Wrath' is a masterpiece. This film of the book is good but does not reach the books level of greatness.The film just scrapes the surface of the book. It doesn't show the pain, suffering and hardship that the Joads and families like them have to go through. It's not gritty enough and lacks bite. It doesn't show them toiling and sweating in the fields. You never get intimate with the family and the feelings that you develop for them in the book simply do not appear in the film.Also, what happens to Noah in the film? He simply vanishes. In the book we know what happens to him. Certain scenes also sound as if they were shot in a tin studio - I hoped they sacked that sound op!!! Worth watching but could be a much better.
Nunnally Johnson's adaptation of John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath added a visual imagery and a more upbeat ending to the more grim and downbeat novel.When Bruce Springsteen released the album The Ghost of Tom Joad the inspiration was the cinematic view of the movie and not the book.Henry Fonda is Tom Joad released from prison and discovers that his family have lost their farm along with all the others. The farmers have been hit by the dust bowl and the Joad family pack their old jalopy and head from Oklahoma for California for a better life thinking their is plentiful work as crop pickers. In an arduous journey they see the America of the Depression era 1930s, whole families displaced and getting exploited by landowners exploiting cheap labour and the police protecting them and violently breaking up any dissent by the labourers.The subject matter is certainly forbidding for the time and raw. The references to socialism were toned down by director John Ford but he certainly tackled the exploitation of migrant workers. This is a story of a family trying to stay together against the odds.Henry Fonda gives a sterling performance as Tom Joad a man who realises that he is destined to fight for social justice after his experiences on the road. He is supported by Jane Darwell as Ma Joad, the glue which keeps the family together in the dark days and John Carradine the fallen preacher Jim Casy, a man who lost his faith but as he headed out along Route 66 with the Joads he discovered socialism.


                
"The Grapes of Wrath" is a movie which represents the old times in United States where there were not so many jobs and many people did not have neither a job nor something to eat and even some of them starve to death. This is what this movie shows us from the prospect of a family which travels to California for a better future, suffering some misfortunes and difficulties in their way.I liked this movie because of the plot and because it shows the reality of that age. The direction which made by John Ford was really good and the cast did their best in this. In addition to this it had to be mentioned that the interpretation of Henry Fonda who played as Tom Joad was simply great for one more time and I also liked the interpretation of John Qualen who played as Muley.Finally I have to say that "The Grapes of Wrath" is a great movie which worth the time for you to watch because from this movie we can understand what difficulties got through some Americans for a job and for a better future not only for their selves but also for their children.


                
The first time I watched this film I was in middle school and were watching it to learn about the dust bowl and the migration of farmers. I thought it was boring and dry however upon watching it later in life I came to appreciate the portrayal of a poor family struggling to survive after having lost everything. The story more than anything, is about family and perseverance. The film was visually pleasing, the natural light was good, the camera angles were good, the editing was good, and the score was well made. The acting was phenomenal and very touching. I realize now that it took me growing up and experiencing life to truly understand the meaning of this film.
This film is tragic...the families in the story had so many hardships. It seemed impossible at time for the families survival. In all the, plot/ story content was great. Seeing what the main characters went through was some what hard to watch for me. I felt bad and guilty for watching it with popcorn in my hands. Besides the plot, the camera work was incredible. There was one scene in particular where the camera stayed in a fixed location, it was great because there was these houses that lined right up next to each other. The houses close to us was out of focus/ blurred but the building farther away were in focused. I just thought it look like it could've been a nice photograph. Along with the fact that a lot of the scenes in this film was taken in the dark. The tonal range in these scenes almost ghostly. It felt as if nothing was left, and there wasn't. These people lost there home but as well as their humanity. Though at the end it was nice to see that they didn't give up hope. The only thing that bothered me was the length of the film...it took too long to get to the point for me, but other than that it was pretty good.
So much for a story about fruit, The Grapes of Wrath is way much more than that! This film may start off quiet and dull, but it leads to a much more action-packed plot! Although different from the original book, the film still does include the major points and the overall themes of the story. The Grapes of Wrath is a story about a poverty stricken family, the Joads, who migrate from their home in Oklahoma to California in search of work and a better life. The main antagonist is poverty which is enhanced in the black and white color settings of the movie. Because it is in only black or white, it is clearly felt and shown the desperation and lack of hope the Joads have. On the entire journey towards California, the family endures every possible trial they could have faced. They lose family members to death and abandonment, suffer from "persecution", poverty and hunger, and have a constant breakdown from their run-down truck. However, their determination, along with Ma Joad's eventual leadership, demonstrates one of the major lessons that strength can be found in numbers and with each other. Henry Fonda, who plays Tom Joad, the protagonist-a man recently released from prison, portrays Tom the way that Tom is supposed to be received. He acts as a caring, yet strong-willed and sometimes reckless youth- which is then shown in Fonda's vibrant facial expressions and motions. All of the actors portray their roles with an enthusiasm that is then proved in the accurate representation of the characters. Although many times, there is a small form of hope throughout the book, viewers never expect that The Grapes of Wrath will have a happy ending. The film did not include the intercalary chapters from the book but enough foreshadowing is presented allowing us to know that it is a moral story with no satisfying end. Overall, this film is mind captivating forcing readers to think about life in many aspects, and reconsider decisions made. It teaches important values and how to have faith in times of hardships.


                
This movie is a powerful film. It focuses on a families journey to California in search of work during the great depression era. The movie gives an inside look at the horrible living conditions these people had to deal with. Henry Fonda gives a truly powerful performance as the ex Prisoner Tom Joad who reunites with his family to accompany them on their journey to California. This is a classic movie that won 2 awards in the 1940 Academy awards. Any film buff should watch this. It is definitely one of the best movies of all time without a doubt. Even if the plot doesn't interest you, it is still worth seeing for henry Fondas powerful. performance.


                
I found this movie to be quite dry in many parts and also very repetitive. The acting on the other hand was superb and it made me want to keep watching the movie instead of changing to something else. I have viewed two other John Ford films with this being my least favorite with "The Man who Shot Liberty Valence" taking the cake. The acting by Tommy was outstanding and really was intriguing the entire film. To me the character that stood out the most was the mama. She portrayed the lady of the house very well with all the cooking and the cleaning and caring for the family. It was only right that she got rewarded at the end. This film was an alright film but I don't think I would watch it again for fun. In my opinion not one of Ford's best films.


                
I have to note that the characterization in this film is very good. It is as if you can really hear and see the pain each character is experiencing. For example when Tom first meets Casy the viewer can easily identify that he has drawn drastically far from his former beliefs and life as a preacher. Henry Fonda (Tom) does a phenomenal job of portraying the sort of rough around the edges but good hearted type. Most of his significant plot developing actions consist of him perhaps doing the "wrong thing" but for the right reason for instance when he hits the sheriff. Because the film is centered around depression era Midwest farmers it may be difficult to connect with on a personal level. That said, one thing any whole hearted person can relate to in this film is the love and dedication we have for our families, how important it is, and how it truly reveals itself in times of hardship. To me that was the overwhelming social significance of the film. In the end when Tom is forced to skip town because of the sheriff he tells his mother he plans to fight for injustice. Although it is definitely sad I feel as if Tom gains fulfillment from using his edge and aggression to combat unfairness. Weather it was Casy's attacker or the Sheriff it was clear Tom did what he did for the right reasons and felt good about it despite the consequences. Symbolically as we see Tom off to seek his fulfillment it appears his family may be fortunate enough to seek theirs too as they hear of work north of the camp. Overall touching film and I enjoyed it. On a side note I think their truck may have been the inspiration for The Hollywood Hillbillies.
John Ford examines the plight of families at the (cusp) of the great depression. The story is centered around the family of protagonist Tom Jobe. Tom is reunited with his family after serving a four year prison sentence for killing a guy in a dance hall. Ford has such a fluid style of film making. The viewer becomes a part of the family as they pack into their old truck and head west to California. I find that Ford uses a lot of visual metaphors to convey his ideas. For instance, when a families house is demolished, ford pans down to the shadows of the family cast over the tracks of the tractor. Symbolizing the destruction of their whole life. With each day the situation seems to get worse as the sun goes down, but each day brings a new hope as the sun comes over the horizon. The film makers fully understood the effects of lighting, that's part of what makes Fords films so great.
