This is an extremely sentimental and worthwhile film that fans of Hollywood's Golden Age should see at least once. While I don't think it's director John Ford's best film (I preferred HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, THE QUIET MAN and FORT APACHE), it is superb and well-crafted. Some of the acting (in particular Jane Darwell as "Ma") was terrific and very realistic, while occasionally it was a bit over the top (John Carradine as "the Preacher"). And the story itself was excellent and well-constructed--making an emotional and heart-felt appeal for justice and a more Socialist nation in response to the poverty of the Great Depression. You can't help but be sucked into the pitiful yet somehow hopeful lives of the Joad family. While some of the facts were definitely exaggerated in order to make this point (making it a one-dimensional fight between good and evil), the overall message of upheaval and loss was important and potent.I am a history teacher and so naturally I gravitate to films like THE GRAPES OF WRATH. It is an amazingly powerful film that is extremely touching and lovingly made--though historically, some of the film is pretty much fiction. While most web sites I checked praised the book, one presents a thoughtful and documented analysis of the actual Okie experience and compares it to the book and movie--coming up with many ways in which THE GRAPES OF WRATH isn't a totally accurate portrait of the times. Some examples cited were the general success the "Okies" had when they arrived in California, that the exodus to California from most of America PRE-DATED the Dust Bowl years and the Dust Bowl itself had very little actual impact on Oklahoma (though it DID affect Kansas and some other states considerably). This isn't to say that the film is completely fiction or it was a bad book or that Steinbeck was a Communist, but that Steinbeck wasn't always careful in his research and seemed to stretch facts to make his social and political statement. See for yourself--it makes interesting reading at: http://www.newcriterion.com/archive/20/jun02/steinbeck.htm


                
Wow...this movie is just WOW !! I've been wanting to see it for such a long time but I never got the chance. Now, I finally did and it even goes beyond my highest expectations... I was prepared to see some class-A drama but everything what this family goes through is even worse than I thought. This famous movie milestone goes about the Joad family. They have to leave everything they own in Oklahoma behind. Them and several other poor families are attracted by California because there is supposed to be work and a place to live. The long trip is filled with misery and when they finally get in California, it seems that they've been deceived once more. There's almost no food and 8 hungry mouths to fill. It's impossible not to get touched by the Joad family. All the characters are so sad but at the same time so brave. They don't give up and keep fighting...you just have to encourage them while watching this film. The Grapes of Wrath really makes you feel happy you live in this era and in this part of the world. You know stories like this really happened in the old days and they still do in some parts of the world. This kind of film is excellent to make you realize you have nothing to complain about.The dramatic highlights in this motion picture are countless : The flashbacks about how families are driven away from their homes, the grandfather's "funeral" , the mother and son conversation near the end... All these scenes and several other ones are indicators of great drama and brilliant cinema. The Grapes of Wrath received several prices and nominations and it deserved every single one of them. Every element in  it is flawless. Henry Fonda's portrayal of Tom Joad is one of the most intriguing characters ever shown of the screen. He's absolutely brilliant.
The highest possible recommendation isn't yet high enough to describe The Grapes of Wrath...If you ever have the chance: SEE IT !


                
Great drought has brought endless dust storms into the state of Oklahoma. Many families have been driven from their homes by banks looking to reap profit despite the miserable conditions. As such the Joad family packs itself onto an aging truck and sets out towards California in hopes of finding a Golden Land. Based on a novel by the same by John Steinbeck, although I've been led to understand that the book is a lot more depressing and politically minded than this film. And if that's the case, what a depressing book it must be. Because the film isn't exactly a ray of sunshine either.And yet it is a triumph, in a sense. Henry Fonda and Jane Darwell play the leads as Tom Joad and his mother, and in them crystallize the themes of the film. All good things will end, nothing lasts forever and when hard times come, it's up to us to pick ourselves up and journey through them. Individual humans may falter, may fall, may perish, but humans as people have always survived. The film has some truly great monologues and speeches about this, and as an overall film it's all about that willingness to rise up, to bear the load, to survive. The Joads travel from one tragedy to another, and it is truly heartbreaking, but yet they endure. And that's what matters.The film also questions the basic necessities of life. When it matters, what do we need? We all need to eat, we all need to sleep. And if those basic needs are fulfilled, what then? It's natural for us to look after ourselves, including our families, perhaps our closest friends, but it takes something extra to care for anyone else. And yet, that extra caring has a meaning. Is that meaning needed, warranted or even essential? That's the question.The Grapes of Wrath shines as a rare gem. A film brilliantly acted, brilliantly told, with brilliant themes. If you aren't moved by this film, one has to wonder.


                
This powerful film starring Henry Fonda and directed by John Ford chronicles the Joads, a family from Oklahoma, driven from their home by greedy bankers and corporations after their livelihood was ruined by the dust storms of the mid 30s. These storms displaced around 500,000 people, many of whom went to California looking for work. This caused a serious overage of pickers and workers in that state and many of the displaced ended up and starving and suffering in squalor in miserable camps. Steinbeck chronicled this misery (his own version of Les Miserables) in Grapes of Wrath, which was adapted the following year for the screen. Henry Fonda took the role of Tom Joad, which turned his career into gold. All of the adults in the cast performed marvelously, from the crazy grandpa dreaming of squishing around in grapes, to Casey the former preacher who just wasn't sure anymore to Ma, (who won an Oscar along with John Ford for the film). The overwhelming message pounds home the misery of these people, the poor treatment they receive at the hands of the government, police and big business and how unions and worker rights are the solution to these ills. This movie is like bran muffins. Not just regular bran muffins, but bran muffins where part of the oil/butter has been replaced with apple sauce to make them more healthy than they already are. At first you are a little bothered and afraid that the taste will be diminished by the alteration, but it's not, they taste just as good, and the muffin provides lots of fiber for your health and little fat to make it guilt-free. The moistness is even enhanced to make the interior extremely moist and inviting. The little crumbs that you would normally discard are captured and gobbled up, making a very satisfying, healthy breakfast. 8/10http://blog.myspace.com/locoformovies


                
The Grapes of Wrath, starring Henry Fonda, is a raw depiction of the Joad family's displacement from their home and journey to find work and start a new life in California. It has been a long time since I've seen a movie that moved me the way The Grapes of Wrath did. The director, John Ford, along with cinematographer Gregg Toland used the timing of natural light to capture the raw images and create an almost documentary-like look. The actors wore no makeup to maintain the authenticity of their characters, and many scenes were shot on location in the areas the family travels through in the story. In this current era of big-budget films with stunning special effects and high-definition visuals and audio, it is refreshing to be riveted by exceptional screenplay and execution by the actors. From the beginning of the film, when Tom Joad is introduced as a man re-entering society after a stint in prison, you are transported to a time when the environment in America was rapidly changing. The great depression was in full swing, and class lines were being clearly defined, with rural Americans dropping to the bottom of the food chain. The Joad family, who for generations lived and prospered off of their land, were being forced to leave by big business and mechanized faming, leaving them with very few options for prosperity. Following a lead for employment in California, the entire family packs what they can fit into their truck and sets off on the long and dangerous journey. There is a particularly poignant scene when Mama Joad (Jane Darwell) is going through her belongings, deciding what was valuable enough to take, and what needed to be left behind, where you can feel the apprehension and sadness through the screen. That scene solidified how Jane Darwell won the best supporting actress Oscar for her role. The Joads were simple people, who worked hard and knew nothing about the world that they were being forced into. At many points along their journey, they are mistreated and judged for being rural Americans. In a scene where the family stopped at a gas station, when they pulled away, one of the attendants looked to the other attendant and said "they ain't people." That line encompassed the general attitude towards families like the Joads during that time period. Not only does The Grapes of Wrath provide viewers with an illustration of life during the depression, but the movie gives the timeless lesson that hope along with the bond of family will persevere in the end.
The Grapes of Wrath is a 1940 film starring Henry Fonda and directed by John Ford. It is based on a novel written by John Steinbeck. The story follows the plight of the Joad family during the 1930's in Oklahoma. The family is impacted by the return of their eldest son, Tom (played by Fonda), as he returns from a stint in prison at the same time they are being evicted from their land as a result of the "Dust Bowl" drought and the Great Depression. The film explores the conditions and displacement that many midwestern tenant farmers endured during this period.The overarching theme of this film is dignity. Tenant farmers during this period were evicted from their land due to a long running drought and the advent of mass agriculture. The drought caused the farmers to lose income and not be able to pay the landowners. Simultaneously, the ability of machines like industrial tractors and combines decreased the value of the tenant farmer's labor. This swirl of devaluation was exacerbated by the Great Depression. The film shows how this extended to entire families being so devalued that they essentially became refugees in their own country.For example, there is a scene where the patriarch, Pa (played by Russell Simpson) enters a diner at a gas station and asks to purchase a loaf of bread for 10¢. The waitress curtly replies that this is not a grocery store and they don't sell bread by the loaf. She then adds that, even if they did, they only have 15¢ loaves. Pa movingly asks if he can buy 10¢ of a 15¢ loaf. His sincerity and dignity in that scene are apparent. He is clearly a man not asking for charity but compassion.The film's portrayal of a family struggling to maintain dignity is what makes it so timeless. Although the specific incidents may not resonate for every viewer, it is possible for anyone to empathize with a family fighting to stay together and lead meaningful lives in a chaotic environment. Also, the notion of technological advances displacing communities and tearing apart families has been seen in this country many times since the release of this film (use of robotics in manufacturing, globalization, etc). The Grapes of Wrath gives the viewer a glimpse of life in the Midwest during the 1930's. However, its timeless theme of maintaining dignity during periods of upheaval and its questioning of how society should treat workers displaced by technology make the film relevant today. The Grapes of Wrath is a film that should be seen by anyone seeking to think about these matters from a historical perspective.
One of the best films of 20th Century Fox and one of the best films of the 40's. Fantastic, one of the few movies that almost everyone likes. Fantastic story, very good. Highly recomended


                
The film is somewhat choppy as a story, the book isnt. The book has a much different ending. The supporting actors in the film are excellent and are seen again and again in Fords westerns. The main characters are fiery Tom Joad and his rock of the family mother "Ma". They dominate the film.The black and white scenery is typical Ford. the situations are too - good or bad. The dialogue is straight forward and the sound quality shows its age.I dont think the condemning of the capitalist system is as strong as in the book. The book has more nuance. The govt camp run by the people and govt by extension is the better way togo. Most of the existing society outside of this camp is fascist, police controlled, American Legion Nazi, exploitive and very greedy. Its a decent movie made to showcase the Depression Era effects on " white Anglo Saxon "American" land owners." No people of black, or brown hue are in the movie. Evidently their problems did not exist. Its a classic , kind of dated ,yet relevant for today. California, the golden land, is a metaphor for the United States. Evidently the streets are not paved with gold and the reality falls short of the rhetoric in the US....People are exploited, greed rules, the game is rigged against average people. Socialism at that time, was a viable alternative. Capitalism had failed.


                
Pretty good film, but awfully slow-moving at times. Honestly simple as a bowl of grapes, but even that can become wretchedly mundane.Tom Joad (Hank Fonda) is ultimately a general pain in the butt. He just can't avoid mischief earning him the right to be arrested and thrown in the clink just to get him out of everybody's hair -- and I wished that would have happened. As it was, he continued to screw up despite the constant pleas of his Mom to stay out of trouble.John Carradine (my all-time favorite actor) delivers a fine performance as an ex-preacher. The film is basically well directed by John Ford, but once the Joads arrive at the 'sanitary unit' camp, the movie is, for all intents and purposes, by that time, over. There just aren't any surprises left. Fonda's final "I'll be there" speech is over-rated.Worth tuning in for Ford's direction and Carradine's acting.
This is just a terrific film that will touch anyone who has suffered injustice in their life. Amazing how Hollywood has continued to not get the awards correct as Henry Fonda really was the best actor winner for his magnificent performance but the award was given to his best friend jimmy Stewart for Philly Story. Jimmy of course should have won for MR Smith goes to washington the year before! Now John ford made some huge and glorious pics, but he was a despicable human as testified by the great maureen Ohara in her auto biography. Fate deals a cruel hand and Ford deserved what he git in later years for the acts he displayed in his little weasely life. But he could put together a picture as demonstrated by this great film


                
Great Movie. "The Grapes Of Wrath" was known to be an outstanding novel. John Ford brings us his adaptation of it. This movie was so well done. One technical aspect was how great the photography looked, by cinematographer Gregg Toland, one of the best in the industry at that time period. John Ford gave this movie excellent direction, he conveyed good character development and the movie had movement and progression, both in the storyline, the core meaning and the character relationships. It's a sad movie made in 1940, but taking place in the 30's during the dust bowl, families are forced to migrate west to California in hopes of finding work. With thousands of families migrating, few can be accommodated. For the family of Tom Joad luck was rare. The emotions, mood and feeling that come from the very roundness and progressiveness is what makes this movie so desirable. Also the shot composition and lighting really helped me feel the mood of the story. "The Grapes of Wrath" is a very realistic and sad story of man vs. law and man vs. society. It shows us how the best thing to do is to stick together with your loved ones and you'll get by. This was such and inspiring influential movie.


                
The Grapes of Wrath is an exceptional film, both in substance and as an artistic accomplishment. Since I did not read the book, my review is written without any prejudice. In the film we follow an extended family of small peasants, the Joads, who are expelled from their tenant farm. At first the story may seem a typical part of American history, which is of course true. For instance the illustrious folk singer Woody Guthrie had his roots in the Oklahoma dust bowl, and the eventual migration to California. I was truly fascinated by his biographic DVD "This machine kills fascists". But in fact the expulsion of small peasants is a universal theme. Already in the fifteenth century it started with the English enclosure movement. In the nineteenth century it was a recurring phenomenon in all parts of Europe. For instance, in 1903 the Flemish author Cyriel Buysse wrote a play about it ("Het gezin van Paemel"), and created one of the predecessors of Steinbeck's novel. Later a Flemish film version has been produced, which is highly recommendable. And then in the Bolshewist countries there was the forced transformation into collective farming. Although the Czechoslovak and Polish regimes shrunk from this move, which gives food for reflection. The making public of the American version through a book and subsequently a film was a courageous endeavor, since social critique is rarely welcomed (it could probably only be done because of the friendly New Deal atmosphere). Paricularly striking is the scene, where a farmer tries to prevent the demolition of his farm by threatening with a rifle. He asks the usher: "Against who should I defend myself?" The land owner? No, it is only an enterprise. The director of the enterprise? No, he just does what he is told to do. The bank? No, it simply reacts to the demand of the market. Of course the usher puts up a sham, because each and every one of these institutions is to blame (evidently in the first place the director, who has made a willful decision to break up the long-lasting business relation). The homeless farmers migrate en bloc to California (!), hoping to make a living as pickers. They live in tent camps, and are murdered by villagers, the thugs of land owners, and even the local police (especially the deputies are accomplices of the wealthy land owners). The main character is the peasants son Tom Joad (impressively portrayed by Henry Fonda). He has just served six years in prison for man slaughter, and is freed on parole. Here we see a glimpse of the family pride. When Tom returns home to Oklahoma, his family assumes: "Did you escape?" Especially grandfather is delighted: "I told you so! They can't lock up a Joad!" He and many others hold that they have a right to the Oklahoma land, because many of them died there: "It is our dust". All peasant communities share this same common isolation, caused by an apparent independence and self-provision (my grandparents were also farmers). This tends to make them inflexible. Grandpa and Grandma die during the ride to California. This does not come as a surprise, and therefore the Stalin-like director of the land owning company does not go free here. Characteristic of the small and collective peasant world is the mother of the family, who complains that she sees her family falling apart. Again Tom kills a man, this time not in self-defense. Frankly, I don't understand this aspect of the narrative. On the one side, Tom is no more a criminal than the policeman, who for no reason fires with his gun in a crowded camp of migrants and seriously wounds an innocent woman. On the other hand, it impedes the feelings of empathy and identification of the viewer/reader, and images the Joads as culpable wrong-doers. As a matter of fact, it can be argued that the Joad family (just like the Paemels) have neglected the change of time,and the agricultural revolution. This is a central point. Too often the changing policy of the society elite is far-reaching to such an extent, that the common people get no fair chance to adapt. And this can truly be called a crime. In conclusion: The Grapes of Wrath is recommended (which it doesn't need). If you like social films, see Het gezin van Paemel. Or consider reading my other reviews.
Plenty of people write reviews for film reviewers. So if you're a film reviewer, just check out what Roger Ebert wrote and you're set.What about us regular guys? I like intellectual dramas, but not if they're melodramatic, and a film about an event they name after "Depression" I was sure was going to be too weepy. This is why I still haven't seen Schindler's List. I just haven't had a free week where I can afford to cry all the time.Also, a lot of "classics" are pretty boring, not from an film school perspective, but from a regular guy perspective. So I'm glad to say that The Grapes of Wrath is a winner. It starts with a lot of whining about land, which as I've moved several times in my life I didn't quite get, but when it ratchets up into labor camps and competitive gangs fighting for jobs, holey smokes.It's true that the film is preachy. But it's also a true story, and good one. The point of the film isn't so much the plot as the settings that the family is thrust into. And it's wonderfully moving. Similar to Across the Universe, you get a glimpse into all aspects of life in that period.I recommend it as a classic that's not too erudite or aging. I'll give The Grapes of Wrath an 8 out of 10, sort of a bonus 7 out of 10 for being a true story.


                
Had heard a lot about John Ford (4 time Oscar Winner) - The revolutionary director of westerns and movies with a social message who inspired a generation of film-makers. This was his first movie I watched and hell it would surely not be his last one. The Grapes of Wrath is a story of a joint family living in America (State of Oklahoma) at the times of the 'Great Depression'. Homeless and out of work, they had to move to the extreme west (State of California) to have a chance of earning livelihood and survival. They move from Okhlahoma to California in a vehicle that is old enough to be kept in the museum. Their journey to California itself is a highlight of the movie. They venture through different towns and states, get the sometimes good and sometimes bad reception of local people of every state, Hell,loose two members of their family in the journey (The Journey in Little Miss Sunshine is inspired from this movie). Living peacefully all these years in their Oklahoma Farm, suddenly they are faced with the materialistic facet of human nature. Some days they go without eating, somedays without sleep, Looking here and there for a job, they are ready to do absolutely anything. In all this trauma and pain, the only thing that remains constant is the human emotion of love and belonging. As a family, they are emotionally richer than the most richest man around. The clear message given in this movie above all is the importance of a family and the attachment to it is the only constant thing in life.Performances are absolutely top notch. Henry Fonda gives a great all-round performance which can be considered one of his best ever. From the family, the one that impresses the most is the family Matriarch played by Jane Darwell who is responsible actually for binding the family. Actresses in the black and white era normally over-dramatized or in short over-acted especially in movies as these. But her's is a very natural performance. Overall, this movie may not appeal to people who don't have the basic human emotions of love, belonging, grief etc. I am not of that kind and thus I thoroughly liked the movie.Rating : 8/10
IMDb Top 250: 156I can't think of too many films that show the hardships of the Depression off the top of my head, but surely The Grapes of Wrath (what an intriguing title) weighs equally to the entirety of all others. Based on a novel I haven't read, 'Grapes' follows the Joad family leaving to find work in California with their recently returned son and finding misery. This is a heavy film, a depression in a Depression.I was excited by the prospect of seeing a John Ford film, because I associate him with two major things: beautiful cinematography and 'full' films, filled with themes and symbolism. I got the first one: dark, black and white photography, with breathtaking long shots and silhouettes, and faces appearing in darkness. The second was still there, but not as plentifully as his later films. However this is an adaptation, and thus Ford's leeway was quite constricted, plot and theme wise.A film this bleak, with such a feeling of desperation (the wind sounds are chilling) needs desperate performances, and 'Grapes' delivers. Fantastic acting. Henry Fonda is just- wow. I recently saw The Philadelphia Story, and I can say Fonda's performance is far more deserving than Stewart's Oscar winning role. Tom Joad is hot-tempered yet caring: walking the fine line between cool and volatile. Fonda perfects the role and elevates the entire film with his honest performance. He is backed up by solid support, like Ma Joad and Casy. The Joad family is large, and we don't get to really meet most of them. I'm sure the book fleshes the characters out more, but I can only remember the names of Tom, Ma, Pa, and Roseasharon (?) Joad. Like All Quiet on the Western Front, 'Grapes' teaches a solid history lesson. We see the 'Okies' plight in the Dustbowl, their trip across the country with everything in one truck, and their subsequent hardships faced in California by people who don't want them stealing jobs they need too. This story is told with good flow and a strong pace- no scene feels rushed, and no scene feels overdone.Mood is another of The Grapes of Wrath's strength. There's a very post- apocalyptic feeling about it- the scramble to ensure their families survival against everyone else. We see a form of society breakdown, where people can only fend for themselves. The major conflict is hard to describe, as everything goes wrong for the Joads. Nature, other people (but no singular antagonist) and it would even seem God wants the Joads to fail. So when the dance scene comes, it's one of the biggest sighs of relief I've experienced watching films.The Grapes of Wrath is a really bleak film with a really strong lead. It's a remarkably important film, in league with Gone With the Wind, and should be seen for that reason alone- something numbers cannot tell you. It's a story about the injustices done by the rich fat cats at the expense of the poor, and more personally a story of human resilience: that we can overcome lots, but not everything. It's certainly humbling- things can get better but they can also get worse. 8.3/10


                
It's amazing how hopeless and bleak a film from the golden age of Hollywood can be. Films from this era always seem to be overzealous and excessively joyous. They have that electrifying Hollywood feel to them. Not The Grapes of Wrath however. This is a film that gives the world a reality check and tells a story dealing with the darker and more troubling side of life. It tells the story of an impoverished family moving from the Oklahoma Dust Bowl to California in hopes of finding work. However, the difficult trip takes its toll on them and when they arrive to find significantly less work than they hoped for things become even more difficult. It is the harrowing story of struggle and survival, as well as overcoming adversity with love and family, two themes that drive this film. It's an epic production to watch unfold, and it will leave you feeling so lost, so empty, and yet so amazed.It might not seem like it, but this really was what pushing the enveloped in 1940's Hollywood. To tell a story this challenging and this difficult to absorb was something rarely seen in this glimmering time period of cinema. Yet, it really gave way to revealing the impact that dark cinema can have on an audience. The bleakness of the film is what makes it absolutely gripping and endlessly compelling. It is such a harrowing story and one that constantly makes us want to know what is coming next. It strikes all the right emotional chords and plays out to be a magnificent experience. Add in incredible performances, a compelling script, and John Ford's direction and darkly moving cinematography and you've got yourself a true work of genius.By today's standards The Grapes of Wrath doesn't seem all that depressing or difficult to watch, but if you look at in context you realize the impact of the film. This is why I give this film so much praise for being a true pioneer film in the ever changing world of cinema. The Grapes of Wrath isn't fantastic enough to compel me to call in one of my personal favorites, but I have undying respect for it's quality and the important mark it left on Hollywood.


                
An enormously powerful and moving narrative of the hardships and perseverance of one poor farming family during the great depression, this film beautifully blends expert cinematography and moving dialogue. The Joad's struggle is hauntingly foreshadowed at the beginning in the Joad's abandoned house, where a mood of tragedy is established. Throughout the film, use of deep contrast and shadow is appropriately used to emphasize moments of despair and sullenness, the preacher often comes in and out of shadow and plays a key role in Tom Joad's development. I found the mother to be exceptionally engaging, owning most of the emotional power and meaning in the dialogue. While the film is mainly a constant bludgeoning of sadness, and it feels as though the Joad's will never be at peace, there are moments of relief. The grandpa serves a dose of comic relief, and the government run housing camp is the only place happiness seems to exist. Over the course of the film you begin to feel connected to the Joads, and start thinking like them. As the Joad's enter the displaced farmers' camp, you feel a sense of apprehension along with Tom, and you find yourself waiting for the next injustice to present itself. You then grow attached to this haven, and feel accomplished when the police scheme against it is thwarted. The beautiful photography, top tier dialogue, and moving story all blend to produce an engaging style typical of great movies; a category in which this film rightly fits.
Any John Steinbeck title-turned-film tends to scare away contemporary viewers with thoughts of two-plus hours of depressing country drama, but we often forget how radical Steinbeck was for his time, particularly with his Depression-era Dust Bowl novel "The Grapes of Wrath." With an adaptation by one of Hollywood's first great directors (and greatest frontier/Western director) in John Ford, this film is anything but a classic adapted for the screen just for the sake of it.Starring Henry Fonda as Tom Joad, "The Grapes of Wrath" centers on Joad, recently paroled after killing a man in self-defense, and his large family (including parents, grandparents, uncle, sister, brother, etc.) traveling out to California after being forced out of their Oklahoma home in search of work. This one flame of a new life out west, however, slowly begins to flicker away as they find out more and more that they're one of thousands competing for the same few hundred low-wage contractor jobs.The realization creeps up on the characters and even ourselves. A whopping 70 years later, if you come to the film without putting your history cap on, you'll almost be convinced the Joads have a shot. Screenwriter Nunnally Johnson hinges much of the film's movement on moments of realization, creating a growing shadow. Ford gives each scene a chance to sink in with his lingering closing shots that slowly fade to black. These are ancient foreshadow techniques, but Ford reminds us why they're timeless.The building tension keeps "Wrath" from festering too long in thoughts about good and evil and what actions make a man one or the other, which was sort of radical thinking for the Depression era. The former preacher Casy (John Carradine) who lives like a hobo and claims he no longer has the spirit because he cannot determine automatically what is right or wrong anymore was more progressive than we realize. Occasionally the script will go back on itself or insert somewhat needless moments of pause for Ma Joad (Oscar winner Jane Darwell) to sermonize about Steinbeck's themes, but audiences probably needed to be hit over the head with this stuff in 1940; it is a different philosophy, that's for sure.Tom Joad's famous speech to Ma as he leaves his family to go off and fight the cause ("wherever there's a fight, so hungry people can eat, I'll be there ... ") is one of the earliest American "one person can make a difference fighting for what he/she believes in" speeches on camera. Since 1940 we've had so many more examples of real life people who have stood up for a cause and fought injustice. "The Grapes of Wrath" might seem unoriginal in that thought, but in American history, it's hardly the case. And most certainly, that message will never become irrelevant in spite of hope that it one day might be.~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com


                
You know, some movies are just made as pure drama's. They are purely made to bring emotions to the screen and their heavy handed. You just know that from start till finish there will be nothing to enjoy about the movie and it is going to be as serious as it can get. "The Grapes of Wrath" is such a drama, so if you don't like heavy, serious drama's, this just ain't the movie for you to watch.Because the movie is so incredibly heavy handed and self righteous, this perhaps isn't the masterpiece everybody telling you it is but there is no denying that the movie is really well made and also features some great acting performances. But because it's such an extreme drama it often feels forced as well and causes the movie to be a long watch, even though it really isn't a that long movie. It's just a movie with a real slow pace and yes I would definitely call it boring in parts, even though lots of (dramatic) things are happening within this movie. It really isn't the most exciting movie to watch and therefore also not really a very effective one. Even though I could appreciate the movie for what it was, it just didn't ever grabbed me with its emotions, story or characters, no matter how very well it all got done.But no, I obviously didn't hated this movie, on the contrary really. Seriously, how can you hate such a well crafted movie like this? Even though this movie got released in the early '40's it still has a real typical '30's look and feeling over it. The '30's really used to be the era of some of the best and most effective drama movies.It's a movie that obviously got well directed, by John Ford, who loved to make real 'American' movies. His movies always have something proud and patriotic about it but without the flag waving and such. To the main crowd he is perhaps best known for the work he did within the western genre, with movies such as "Stagecoach" and "Rio Grande" under his belt.It's also a beautiful looking movie with its cinematography and sets and costumes, which really suits the time period the movie got set in.It has a really great story and amazingly enough things like this really happened back then in America. I didn't knew anything about this piece of history, so I definitely learned something new from it. It's a pretty amazing story and you would have a hard time believing it if you didn't know that things like this really happened in the past. The first halve of the movie is basically a road trip with lots of drama to it obviously, while the rest of the movie also tends to be very dramatic, when the family constantly tries to settle down where ever there is work (and more trouble).Henry Fonda really plays a great role and he himself also considered it to be the role out of his career. He also received an Oscar nomination for his role. The movie also has an amazing supporting cast, with for instance fine acting performances from Jane Darwell and John Carradine. Darwell even won an Oscar for her part in this movie. It was one of the 2 Oscar's this movie received. The other was for director John Ford. Both deserved their win I would say. The movie got nominated in 5 more categories, including Henry Fonda's nomination.Perhaps not the masterpiece I was expecting, it was too overdone and heavy handed for that but nevertheless one great movie, that I surely appreciated watching.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I first saw this movie in 1950 at the age of nine and it never meant much to me except make me sad. Later around twenty I saw it again but this time it filled me anger and rage. My life and outlook changed because of books and movies like this. The exploitation of the poor and working classes, man's inhumanity to man. History repeats itself, this time not in California but in China. We buy the cheap goods but forget the slave labor conditions that the peasants of these third world countries work under. Sorry I digress. The production of this movie was marvelous the acting earthy and with depth of emotion. It is tragic but it is real and people have an aversion to this reality because it interferes with the comfort zone. Then comes apathy and that equals complicity.


                
If you're not familiar with the Production Code Administration during the time of this film, The Grapes of Wrath may lose a lot of its hidden meanings. John Ford and cinematographer Gregg Toland wanted this film to have a documentary feel (hence the type of shots used), and for the most part, it accurately displays the realities of the depression. However certain additions to the movie that separate it from the book, including a totally different ending that neither Ford or Toland wanted to add give the movie a contradictory feeling to it (thanks to the PCA).The harsh struggles of the Joads throws the viewer into a world of desperation, mistreatment, and death. Anyone that saw this during it's original must have been moved, as for today's generation, it's hard to imagine the kind of destitution and difficulties the families of the depression endured. And as the viewer begins to sympathize with the Joad's situation, Ford throws a curve with how Tom Joad acts during a meeting with an lost friend.While it's clear this movie had a political message in mind, the restrictions of the PCA almost ruin the ending, giving almost an opposite message that Ford had.Technically, Toland is at his usual greatness, putting together shots that make the film appear so real that the viewer wants to step out of their seat and into the scene. While watching The Grapes of Wrath, it's easy for the viewer to forget the advantages of the life we live now and to step into the depression and feel the pain of the main characters.


                
Rating: 8 out of 10. Directed by John Ford. "The Grapes of Wrath" is based on John Steinbeck's novel, takes place in the Great Depression, and effectively portrays the grief and hopelessness of what many people went through during this time. Henry Fonda plays the lead character as the eldest Joad family son returning home from serving time in jail for manslaughter. Expecting to work on the family farm, he finds the farm deserted and run-down. His family has been kicked off the land. After reuniting with his family, they begin a long difficult trip to California in search of work.Nominated for seven academy awards, winner of two, including John Ford's second of four best director awards.


                
The Grapes of Wrath is a novel that I read and enjoyed in school, and this movie is a classic in its own right. The story is well-known at this point, and the movie powerfully tells the story of the Joad clan as they journey to California. There are some changes from the novel, frequently for the better. Some of the elements of the story in California were re-arranged and ends on a more optimistic note than the novel. The difficulty in expressing the more abstract chapters of the novel is clear, but I think they are well-done. The movie is more vaguely optimistically technocratic, but that agrees more with my politics, so I hardly mind!(I saw this movie on June 22, 2017.)
John Ford won the second of his record four Best Director Academy Awards for this Depression era drama from John Steinbeck's novel about the Joads, and other families of Oklahoma sharecroppers whose decades old farms were destroyed by the Dust Bowl, their migration west (in an overloaded jalopy-truck) to California, a place purported to be "the land of milk and honey", and their disillusionment about the American dream.Jane Darwell won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar (on her only nomination) for her role as Ma Joad, the family matriarch whose last words are perhaps the film's most optimistic. Henry Fonda received his first nomination (Best Actor) as Tom Joad (voted AFI's #12 hero, even though his character is an ex-con that struggles to stay out of trouble during much of the story).Produced by Darryl F. Zanuck, the film was nominated for Best Picture, so was its Editing (Robert L. Simpson's only Academy recognition), Sound, and associate producer Nunnally Johnson's screenplay. It appears at #21 on AFI's Greatest Movies list, #7 on AFI's 100 Most Inspiring Movies list, and was added to the National Film Registry in 1989.The cast is chock full of recognizable character actors whose performances – along with Gregg Toland's dark cinematography – help to convey the squalid conditions of the situation and bleak outlook of the time. John Carradine plays the former preacher Casy, who makes the journey with the Joads. Charley Grapewin plays Grandpa, whose depression about his reality contributes to his failing health, while Russell Simpson plays his son and Fonda's Pa Joad.John Qualen gives the best of his prolific career as Muley, whose driven crazy by losing the land he and his family had tended for 70 years. Others in the credited cast are Dorris Bowdon, O.Z. Whitehead, Eddie Quillan, Zeffie Tilbury, Frank Sully, Frank Darien, child actor Darryl Hickman, Grant Mitchell as the caretaker of a most unusual (almost commune-like) Department of Agriculture facility, Ford company regular Ward Bond as a policeman, Selmer Jackson, Charles Middleton, Paul Guilfoyle as an agitator, Cliff Clark, Joe Sawyer, Frank Faylen, and Irving Bacon.


                
Most things are done right in this adaptation. They took a good book, found a good director, took the time to find good locations and make realistic sets, hired a stellar cast, and tried to find the essence of scenes form the books, and present a shorter yet faithful version of the story. It's hard to blame the producers, writer and director for cutting away parts of the book, just as it is hard to not miss the parts that are not adapted.There are some tweaks to the story that changes the tone a little, especially regarding the ending. I find myself forgiving it, due to the time it was made in. Had a modern day adaptation taken similar shortcuts (in order to achieve a happy ending), I would most likely not have accepted it. The same goes with how certain characters at times are a bit exaggerated. It feels right in a movie from this time, but maybe only if you are used to watching old(er) movies like this.


                
