Narcos is an intriguing and entertaining series. Netflix again done a very good job. Season 1 tells the true story of notorious drug kingpin Pablo Escobar, who became a billionaire through the production and distribution of cocaine, while also focusing on Escobar's interactions with drug lords. This is a massive story.Escobar's life has attracted my attention too. I watched many videos and read books about Escobar's life. The show educates you on the Medellin Cartel and it is a very interesting topic to learn about. Pablo Escobar had much more influence on the political system than i would expected. This series has added a lot to me about it. Wagner Moura is an excellent actor and he learned Spanish just for the Pablo Escobar's role. He was born for this role. The bilingual dialogue adds a new layer of authenticity to the project and shows it's commitment with the original story. The long and often complicated story of Pablo Escobar is portrayed simple and effective for viewers not to get lost in what is going on.Congrats to Netflix for such a powerful, incredible production. I would recommend this show to all my friends and anyone looking for a great show to watch. This is one of the best shows I've seen in a while. Can't wait for the next season to come out! 10/10


                
As a native Colombian, born and raised in Medellin (in 1975) and victim myself of the Pablo Escobar era, I must say that I am pleasantly surprised with the show!!! I thought it was going to be another bad gringo movie about Colombia with lots of mistakes and not even Colombian landscapes in the background but, I WAS WRONG!!!! Very good actors too, I didn't like Escobar accent since it's not real Paisa accent but it's OK; it will go unnoticed to non- native Colombians ;)Good Job Netflix!! Sksjdjdjdufirjfjfifrior difjrirjfjfkririfrjrjrkf. That's all I had to sayCatalina Suárez


                
Incidentally, I saw an ad for Narco on YouTube, and instead of skipping the ads like I normally do, I played this one out because I was genuinely excited for what I was watching. Instantly I jumped onto Netflix and I was not disappointed. This is a truly gripping show, one of the best I've seen this year. The characters and acting are done well and the storyline moves at a fast enough pace to get your adrenalin pumping for the whole episode. My only fear was that it would be too generic of a Crime drama, but those feelings were quickly swept away. This is truly an original and thoroughly planned out TV show with a whole lot of heart. Maybe the best on Netflix at the moment. Narco doesn't disappoint with any aspect of the show. It's exciting and fast paced, but above all, it makes you want to keep coming back for more.


                
It's beautiful , this's the way TV-series should be directed and produced, i loved the fast pace of the series from the first minute till now i haven't skipped anything or felt bored.The narration way of the story from the first beginning adds another depth to the story. It shows you scenes from the future then gets to the present to elaborate how we reached that point .The cast is great , probably you haven't seen anyone of them before , but sure as hell they can act , they are able to deliver the feeling they have so you can interact with them .Simply , a masterpiece .P.S : Netflix has always been picky about its series, that''s why it's my favorite network.


                
Having seen all Padilha movies, I was anxious to see this new Netflix series and had great expectations. He did it again. I cannot stop watching. One episode after another. OK if the cast is not Colombian. But they are all good actors and play the parts very well. I will try to finish this weekend all the episodes but i think there will be more seasons. Best series of the year so far. The action is great. The scenarios are perfect. The 1980's atmosphere is awesome. 10 out 0f 10. I hope they will make more series like that in the future. Good real stories and perfect action and direction. I could not expect less from Padilha.


                
At one point in Episode 7 the new president of Colombia says to a group of US officials trying to have him accept more aid to hunt Escobar, "660 tons of cocaine were consumed in the United States last year. Perhaps if your resources were focused at home we'd all be better off."Can I get an Amen? He hits the bullseye. Netflix gives us yet another reason to stay out of the cine multiplex with this slightly fictionalized but excellent new series. It takes most of the pertinent action right out of the history from this sad era of Colombian (and American) history. Filmed entirely on location in Colombia and with a good 50% of the dialogue in Spanish this series aims to be as real as possible. The story also colors way outside the lines of the Manichean version of the Drug War most Americans have swallowed hook, line, and sinker since Uncle Ronnie started feeding it to us back in his presidency.In the role of Pablo Escobar is Wagner Moura who actually had to learn Spanish to play the part. I wish that he would send his Spanish teacher over here to teach me because he speaks it very well. I'm sure native Colombians can tell that he's not one of them but I can't. Besides that he is a dead ringer (pardon the expression) for Pablo.Unflinchingly brutal and set at a desperate pace this is one of the best crime dramas I've seen in a long time. This series reminds me of the two great novels of Don Winslow which chronicle the Mexican cartels, The Power of the Dog and The Cartel. The structure is almost like a documentary in concept with a voice-over by one of the principal DEA agents on the scene. I am only a few episodes into this and already hoping for another season—a very high compliment.This series is vastly superior to the Benicio del Toro Escobar film which was pretty awful. Movies can't hold a candle to the best series. There is no way to tell this story in a 90 minute movie. Great job, Netflix!Season 2Is it just me or was Season 2 almost completely in Spanish? Granted, the Spanish they speak was difficult for me to understand at times but I just wonder how most of the American public feels about seeing a series in which they are almost entirely dependent on reading subtitles. I think Americans are getting more and more sophisticated in their tastes and any series in which Pablo Escobar speaks English would just be phony and stupid. I thought the directors relied too much on music montage scenes that just took up a lot of time without adding much to the story. It just seems like an unoriginal cliché. The show worked best when they followed the real historic events of the story and when they delved into pure fiction it was much less compelling.There was way too much of his wife and kids in the second season. I get it; Pablo was a family guy. That doesn't mean you need to have scene after scene of him playing with his kids or talking to his half-wit wife. Why should we care about the family of a monster who blew up airliners and placed horrifically powerful bombs on crowded city streets? We don't. Los Pepes should have killed them all, including his mother. There were much bigger things in the picture that could have been discussed. I loved the CIA guy and his role in the story. He was creepy as well as totally believable for his part. In the end you have to realize that the United States' effort in Colombia amounted to doodly squat. All we really did was to fan a drug war that took the lives of perhaps thousands of people, either guilty of some infraction or completely innocent. The two DEA agents seemed barely competent to do their jobs, whatever their jobs were. At least they alluded to this in the final scene. "The king is dead; long live the kings!"S3 Almost binged it and I have to say this Season 3 is the best of the three by far. It's more layered and has better characters. Seasons 1 & 2 had Pablo and I really like the actor but this I never liked the gringo DEA guy much. This story is more complicated as well. I also think they make good use of their time. I love the fact that it's only 10 episodes and we can expect some sort of resolution (I hope so) at the end.Each episode is skillfully crafted to contain a single story and then leave you practically begging for the next installment. Overall this storyline is a lot more interesting than the two previous season involving Pablo Escobar. Who needs Pablo?The violence is chilling to the core because it is handed out sparingly, at least at first. How many people have died so that Americans can use cocaine? Half a million people? More? A lot more?
I just watched the first three episodes of this new Netflix series and it is just awesome. The vintage 80's charm plus the good acting and the amazing story line will keep your attention like a fast paced action or thriller movie. It all begins as a one person who is supposes to be killed in Chile somehow survives a firing squad and goes to Columbia to offer his new product cocaine to the trafficking lord Pablo Escobar to sell it in Latin America. Escobar accepts the offer but moves the product to the USA where the price is higher. On the other side of the law in this series is USA DEA agent Murphy who is a young, dedicated and smart and he fights the new war on drugs in the USA and Columbia helped by a local man Javier Pena played by the one and only Oberyn Martell (GoT fans will understand).
When Padilha bring to us Robocop reboot I was really sad to see one of the greatest mind in show business just vanish. I recently see a interview when he move out to Los Angeles, because Brazil become dangerous to he an his family, consequence of his movies about dirt Brazilian cops, and he have been attack on his studio back in Rio De Janeiro, and now I see he was right, he did again, the great Jose Padilhais back. I love Wagner Moura, and all the scenes of Pablo Escobar is just amazing. Resuming, this series is solid, just another Breaking Badlike, but with new stuff and Padilha's scenes, AMAZING! Jus watch this amazing show, too realistic and fun...


                
Many Colombians will object to this series, because it draws so much attention to an aspect of their culture of which most of them are not proud. The reality is, society-connected Colombians of a certain age all know someone personally that profited from the drug trade. Most folks I knew there brushed elbows with someone famous from Cali, at some point. It was a talking point back then, but maybe not now. The first episode of season three should put things in perspective for everyone who might still feel beguiled by the relatively sanitary reputation of Cali's cartel. The final scenes of the episode drive home once again the basic point of the series, which is, these were brutal, deadly efficient criminals on a scale that utterly dwarfs anything ever seen in the U.S. In Cali, they did it in style, as much as or more than any Stateside mafiosi ever did. And that, like it or not mis queridos amigos Colombianos, makes for an unforgettable story -- rich people with not much compassion and a lot of material pretense, but well-polished at some level, akin to the decent rich folks in the same social class, but much, much richer.Thematically speaking, this is just another chapter in the history of American colonialism, but one that speaks powerfully to the personal experience of many. The scenes from this series powerfully evoke memories of what it was like to travel in Colombia in the 90's, when every airport lobby was haunted by one or two sicarios en route to their next job. They were not hard to spot. The casting, locations, soundtrack, writing, acting, direction -- even the lighting, which captures so well the look and feel of Colombian home architecture -- are all superb. Te extrano Colombia -- but not your miseries. Folks should know Colombia now is, in a great many places, a booming middle-class haven of opportunity, as such a naturally wealthy country should be.


                
This is the only show I can truly enjoy while scoffing down an 8 pack of Monster Munch, the subtitles means no important plot lines are missed. Apparently 5 lines of text are needed so I thought I'd list some other foods you can eat.Kettle Chips - Doritos - Wotsits - Salt & Vinegar SpiralsThe show is pretty decent.


                
It is undeniable that Wagner Moura is one of the big names in the current generation Brazil, and builds a far cry from Captain Nascimento Escobar made him internationally known (established in another partnership with director). In his hands, the dealer exposure are even more dangerous the former leader of BOPE, but much more relaxed and verified. Your greatest weakness are spaced in lack of knowledge about the Spanish, far from what would be expected of a Colombian cot. Even someone with little familiarity with the language, like this his speaks, can are bothered by the "put" and "right" inadvertently released the actor. "The exhibition series in detail the clash between the forces conflict - legal, political, police, military and civilian - that ends in an effort to more powerful the commodity control world: a. cocaine "While commanding 80% of world trade during cocaine the 1980s, Pablo Escobar figured in the magazine's list of billionaires "Forbes" in 1987. To this day, is considered the most Rico dealer of history. "Narcos" has the obvious quality of other products with the seal the content service on demand and are benefit of strong list headed by Moura, which also includes Pedro Pascal ("Game of thrones ") and Juan Pablo Raba (" Los caballeros las prefer raw ").
After the charismatic performance by Wagner Moura as Pablo Escobar and the story of Pablo Escobar itself, we thought Narcos will find tough time finding the same quality of story. But no, we were totally surprised, if you are looking for serene intrigue and suspense and well played action, you will not be disappointed. The performance by every cast member was amazing, led by Pedro Pascal (although we missed his partner DEA agent) and all four Godfathers of Cali cartel. So hell yeah, Narcos is back with a bang.


                
It's great when a show sinks it's claws into you from the very first minutes. Even before the show title came up, I knew this would be great.The pacing is brilliant. Director really nails it on the head, guiding us effortlessly from the micro cosmos of Miami's DEA police hunting small time pot-smoking criminals to an already accomplished smuggling scheme of Pablo Escobar. We're served with a colorful economical, political and social global picture, but also introduced to the everyday lives of both the good guys and the bad guys. Truth and fiction are blended seamlessly with the help of archive footage and historical details from the era.The main protagonists and antagonists are beautifully set up on the scenic backdrop of late-80's Miami, but also on the violent streets of drug-capital Medellin.The voice-over and freeze-frame techniques as well as the dynamic soundtrack clearly borrow from hits such as Goodfellas or The Wolf of Wall Street, but make no mistake - the brutality of the drug-trafficking world is displayed without holding back. Headshots and tortured bodies hanging from trees are shown all the way through, giving an additional sense of credibility to the show.With the blend of macabre realism and authority by which the show tells the story, it's almost impossible not to be dazzled by Narcos. It's an honest look at the rapid spread of cocaine into the USA, as well ass the futility of the law enforcement trying to stop it. Told in interesting way that mixes both drama, reality, violence and archive footage that gives it almost a documentary feeling, Narcos is definitively a treat for fans of crime shows.


                
It is rare to see that in a television series, each season is improved upon its predecessor. The plot of the third season has more twists and turns, and there is always something unexpected, especially in Episode 6 to 10. The style of this season is darker, more violent, and extremely fast-paced. Next I will discuss each episode. Episode 1 basically shows how clever and cruel the Cali Cartel are. They are good at intelligence and are called Cali KGB. Also, they kill people secretly and make sure that the corpses disappear without anyone knowing. Besides, they pretend to be nice in the eyes of the public. Cali Cartel are much harder to deal with than Pablo Escobar.Episode 2 mostly demonstrates how the Cali KGB work. They can tap your phone and monitor your room. In this episode, they video the family scandal of a government official and force him to tell a lie to the world, which covers up a horrible crime committed by the Cali Cartel. After seeing this, Agent Pena feels it is necessary to eliminate the Cali Cartel and sends Agent Feistl to Cali.If the first two episodes are the prologue of Season 3, from Episode 3 on, the real play begins. Agent Feistl confronts members of the Cali Cartel face to face. DEA begins the investigation by tracking the money of the Cali Cartel, in order to find the evidence of money laundering. Agent Feistl gets a search warrant and searches the financial building of the Cali Cartel. But he fails to find anything useful in the end due to the excellent job of the Cali KGB, led by Jorge.Gilberto Rodríguez, one of the four leaders of the Cali Cartel, is arrested in Episode 4, during a raid on his houses initiated by Agent Pena. However, there are still three leaders in Cali Cartel, which means Agent Pena still has a long way to go before he takes down the Cali Cartel.In Episode 5, Miguel Rodriguez suspects that there are rats in the Cali Cartel, who leak information to the DEA and result in the arrest of his brother, Gilberto Rodriguez. Therefore, he kills Calderon, a corrupt cop involved in the arrest of Gilberto, and Cordova, the leader of the security department, in an extremely bloody and brutal way.There are three breathtaking action scenes in Episode 6. The first is the chase of Agent Pena after Jurado. The second is the attack of North Valley on Pacho. The third is the escape of Miguel from North Valley. The plot is twisted. When you think DEA has got Jurado, Cali Cartel holds his wife as a hostage. When you think North Valley may kill Pacho, Pacho succeeds in counterattack. When you think Agent Feistl could attack Miguel, North Valley do instead.Episode 7 is the best episode of Season 3 so far, even better than Episode 6. There are a lot of intriguing questions generated during the storytelling. First and the most important of all, can Agent Pena arrest Miguel in the end? Second, can Agent Pena pass the perimeter? Third, can the local corrupt police interrupt the raid? Finally, can the DEA team break the wall before time runs out?Episode 8 tells two plot lines in parallel. The first plot line is that Agent Pena rescues Mrs. Jurado. Just as everyone believes that Franklin Jurado will cooperate with DEA, he is unexpectedly assassinated by a killer from the Cali Cartel. The second plot line is that Miguel is trying to find the rat. Jorge and Enrique are the two main suspects and the confrontation between the two is absolutely tense and fantastic.To be honest, Episode 9 is one of the fastest and the most intense crime thrillers I've ever seen. Not a single second is wasted. There are so many intriguing questions in the episode such that you have to hold your breath and stare on the screen all the time. Can Agent Pena take down Miguel? Can Jorge survive? Can Jorge's dependents survive? There are plenty of twists and turns as well. When you think Miguel will leave his building, he receives the call from David and stays. When the audience think that it is a victory that Miguel is arrested, Agent Pena realizes that the president is bought by the Cali Cartel and the DEA never had a chance.The first half of Episode 10 is gut-wrenching, especially when Jorge and Navegante confront each other in the car. We always wonder if the DEA team can bring Pallomari out. The second half of the episode is relieving, in the sense that at the very least, the endeavor of Pena is not in vain.All in all, the season is absolutely worth watching.
We've already seen the release of several good Netflix originals, including Orange Is The New Black, Daredevil and House Of Cards. I'm currently halfway through the first season of Narcos, and I can definitely say that Netflix has nailed it again. From the Goodfellas-like voice-over to the speedy (pun intended) editing of the violence and drugs scenes, Narcos offers a The Wire kind of look on the rise of Escobar's cocaine empire in the 70's and 80's. It relates to The Wire, because the screen time is evenly divided between the 'good and the bad', between the ruthless Escobar (played magnificently by Brazilian actor Wagner Moura, who I already loved in Tropa De Elite), the Colombian government and two DEA agents from America. Even the CIA and president Reagan are there. Everyone is involved.Narcos doesn't joke around or turn its back to the sheer drug terror that reigned in that era; expect full-frontal shots of violence, drugs, nudity and more. I did like the fact that they mixed these particular scenes with actual archive footage.Although Narcos ultimately does not reach the same dazzling heights as The Wire or Breaking Bad - let's not kid ourselves; only The Sopranos might come close - it's absolutely, 100%, worth a watch, and a great addition to the already impressive 2015 list of Netflix Originals. Bring on Season 2!


                
This is one of the best tv shows, like seriously it just can't get better then this! A must watch for everyone the acting,story,screenplay,everything is just best.
My personal favourite is season 3 I know you won't believe it but it's even better then the first 2 <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008E><f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+008C>


                
I've only watched 1 episode so far and I am almost certain I am going to like the rest of the episodes.When I watched the first episode of House of Cards I had the exact same feeling. Yes the show is completely different, but you need to pay attention right away and you don't have to wait 3/4 episodes to get into this show.I knew just a little bit about Pablo Escobar, since I am only 21 years old and I just found out I was born in the year he was killed. The story so far is very interesting and rough, it is basically about how Cocaine smuggling between Colombia and the USA started. This is coming with some insane facts, that I was surprised by.There is an American voice (same actor as the DEA agent) explaining how the stories goes in the background quite frequently. I am glad that he is doing that, since the Colombians are speaking Spanish instead of English for a change, so the English voice explaining the story is a nice contribution. Well done Netflix! Trust me, go and watch this show as soon as possible! Netflix has once again shown that they are good competition for the big TV stations, or in my opinion even outgrowing the competition.P.S. you don't have to wait a week for the next episode, like your normally do with TV stations!


                
The narrative of "Narcos" starts from the very beginning. It follows Escobar and the Ochoas from the first baby steps that would soon become the march of a giant. Very reminiscent of the cinematic style employed by films like "Blow" and "Goodfellas", the show is narrated by Detective Murphy as he retells the story of the Narcos' rise to power and his struggles as a DEA agent to take them down and not ruin his own life in the process. His knowledge of the traffickers' history allows for the story to be told in a linear fashion following multiple story lines. It also serves to remind the viewer that they are watching a unique and thrilling story unfold, the likes of which will never be repeated. The viewer knows that times are different now and the cowboy heyday where such prominent figures were allowed to thrive are long gone. The Regan-era had just begun and the "War on Drugs" hadn't even begun to comprehend its enemy. The first error the writers committed was maintaining the same speed of story development that we observed at the beginning of the season where the narrator it catching the viewer up. I felt that for several episodes I was waiting to finally be caught up and for the slow to slow down and be told in more detail, but that never happened, it just continues to move along very briskly. music that transport the viewer straight into early 80's Medellin and Miami, the series is captivating from the very first scene. The performance by the show's main characters is, for the most part, top-notch. In some (but not all) cases, the actors even have the correct Spanish accent to correlate with their country or city of origin. However, in a few cases the acting is poor and the accent is completely off from how the real life character actually spoke.Firing on all cylinders, "Narcos" absolutely nails all the pieces needed to craft a great series. Even while staying true to the facts of real story, it manages to still take full advantage of the small stories and dialogue that have the potential to make or break a screenplay. Any viewers who were fans of "Blow" or "Goodfellas" will certainly get their fix of crime, drugs, and power with "Narcos".With regard to the accents, Moura is of course Barzilian in real life, so his accent is incorrectly Brazilian and not Paisa. Guzman is Puerto Rican in real life so he accent is inaccurate as well. Many other characters have Rollo (from Bogota) accents where they should probably have Paisa accents if they are from Medellin, but at least they are still Colombian accents. Most Americans would probably feel like this is splitting hairs, but Netflix is an international medium, and if you were to cast Frank White's character in American Gangster with an African guy who spoke Swahili natively and had an African accent when he spoke in English, you would think that it was a weird thing to see, and it would be hard for you to believe what you were watching. The Latin American fan base would probably think Americans in this case would be the ones splitting hairs because they would probably not hear the difference, while Americans would think it's a huge deal. This is about the equivalent of having a guy who speaks Portuguese natively play a character with a very specific Colombian accent that all native Spanish speakers recognize as not being Colombian.


                
The first season and the second season have focused on the rise and fall of Pablo Escobar and Medillin Cartel. It was a bit difficult to get used to Narcos without Pablo Escobar, but especially after episode 5, the series went crazy. Apart from Escobar, Steve Murphy does not exist, I do not know why, but Javier Pena is closing this gap very well. The most hated character of season 3 was undoubtedly David Rodriguez. I can say it's hard for me to avoid head-on-the-scenes. My favorite characters are of course Javier Pena and Jorge Salcedo. Thanks to these two guys on season three, it's been so good. There was Chepe Santacruz who looks like Pablo. He is also one of my favorite characters. This season did not feature in detail the events and characters from other seasons. In the first two seasons, everything was processed to the finest detail and the details were given for a long time. But on the third season, the opposite is happening.They also finished the Cali cartel, which they said was great from Escobar. I guess we could say that's the only bad thing.I think it was perfect, even more exciting than the other seasons. See you in Mexico
OK, I need to write these review because I see a lot of people complaining about "No More Escobar", hell what you expect? These show is based on Narcos = Drug Kingpins; and the course that take the drug when the most powerful drug kingpin on the world bite the dust for the first time in his life. "I miss Escobar", "The show isn't the same without Escobar", "Cali Cartel is boring"; I guess these people never hear of character development and the assumption that the drug kingpins don't have the same methods, because they evolve and learn from the mistakes of their opponents. I see other people saying that these show is the same as the others narcos shows like: El Cartel De Los Sapos, El Patrón Del Mal, Bloque De Búsqueda, Alias JJ, El Señor De Los Cielos and the list goes on and goes on. Wrong, AGAIN. The quality of the music in these show, the actors used to represent all the characters (especially the role of Jorge Salcedo personified by Martín Varela was the best of the 3 Narcos seasons so far, even better than the recognized Pedro Pascal as Peña, Wagner Moura as Pablo Escobar and Damián Alcázar as Gilberto Rodríguez) and the beauty of the setting make these show the best TV show in history when the 95% of the actors speak in the Spanish language.And I feel very proud of that as puertorican, because a lot of the music used in the show by the genre of "Salsa" comes from my island like: Héctor Lavoe, Ismael Rivera, Cheo Feliciano, Angel Canales and the list goes and goes on and bring an unique caribbean flavor to the show. Of course, I'm not proud of the actions committed by all those narcos, but it's important to know the history of our brother country, Colombia. My only complaint is some of the actor accents, but what the ****, if you want quality actors you need to let that triviality pass. Hell, I expect that the next season will be based in the ruthless empire of Orlando Henao Montoya and the Cartel del Norte Del Valle and I assume by the popularity of these show the producers will continue these show with the mexicans drug kingpins that rise after the destruction of Cali Cartel, Medellín Cartel and Norte Del Valle Cartel. Can't wait for season 4!!!


                
Very Addicting show, Love the action and suspense I can look forward to when sitting back on Netflix and putting Narcos on. Just finished season 3 in a breeze and was kept very interested in the Cali Cartel and how they were taken down. Season 1 & 2 about Pablo definitely blew season 3 out of the water, but I'm crossing my fingers Narcos comes back for a season 4 in Mexico despite what happened with their casting director. One of my top 5 favorite shows in a list including Breaking Bad, Black Mirror, Weeds, and Entourage.


                
It is just amazing to see Netflix doing a great series those days. I can't wait the next season. I know they have a lot more to tell us. But I think 13 episodes would be just great, 10 always let me down.Wagner Moura is doing a excellent job playing Pablo and even without having Spanish as main language it doesn't bother me. The direction, production, photograph, costume, make up and overall locations is just great.Keep the great job Netflix, well done!Gustavo Pereira


                
I used to watch many series at my collage time but then It was hard to find catchy and interesting. One of my friend highly suggest me and there was no hope from my side since I checked the cast list on IMDb anyway I gave a change and start to watch first episode and only 5 minutes I was fascinated by actors, music, cinematography and story line. I have watched first and two season within one week also started to watch documentary about Pablo Escobar. I wish the director would have focus more on Pablo Escobar the way how he rise and how he was cruel and all. I would love watch 4 seasons just with Pablo Escobar since he is such an interesting person. Oh God, I am completely fall in love with the actor who role Pablo Escobar.


                
This terrific series combines the high production values (beautifully shot in Colombia) and acting of a feature film with the clarity and thoroughness of a documentary. I enjoyed this more than some of those fictional drug war movies because the story of Pablo Escobar is stranger than fiction. I'm glad I knew who he was but I wasn't aware of the details his many crimes so watching them unfold in this series was completely mesmerizing. The story is narrated by a DEA agent. The DEA agent's activities aren't the main story. The struggles of the Colombian anti drug personnel from cops to politicians against the drug cartel is told in a clear and non confusing manner. This is a real accomplishment given the multitude of characters and complex events. So much happens each episode. Most of the dialog is in Spanish and subtitles are pretty clear.The acting is better than it needs to be with so much going on. Brazilian actor Wagner Moura as Escobar has the benign look that the real Escobar had. He doesn't over act so things are more believable and not an exaggerated caricature of evil. Boyd Holbrook as the DEA agent looks right for the 80s part. The many excellent Spanish speaking actors who play the Colombians both drug traffickers and law enforcement and politicians are excellent and really carry the show with their believable earnestness.Given that the war on drugs is still going on right now this series goes beyond historical interest. Hurry up Netflix can't wait for Season 2.


                
he third season of Narcos is no let down after the previous two that actually felt more like one big story told that might have never been unwrapped so expertly. This season is the aftermath following the vacuum of Pablo Escobar's Medein Cartels collapse. Enter The Cali Cartel. This cartel was co-existing with the Median Cartel for years as both were claiming their grounds and getting the feel of co-existing in a new world where cocaine was rising fast. It was always a slightly bumpy ride between the two, but the enormous profits were such that any differences were easy to skim over with green. Everybody was getting super wealthy and the crumbs thrown around to suppress the flak was working. That playing field was changing due to violence which was on a scale that was impossible to ignore culminating with Escobar's death.As in any war when there's a vacuum created by the sudden change in the ruling party the same holds true in the business of illicit drugs. The Cali Cartel was always more savvy with their wholly owned banks and countless shell game companies. They even, at first, eschewed much of the violence for cloak and dagger business and political moves. It worked mostly. It gave them the belief that when the only other cartel that they depended and answered to was reduced to cinders the game was all theirs. Well, they thought wrong. The DEA was not a factor in their particular area only because they'd picked their first target to be Escobar. Now, largely without a whole lot of support from the local Columbian government and not much more from the national government the DEA was relentless. Cali would be their next dismantling of the drug pipeline that was infiltrating the USA. This is a tall order as the Narco series so well depicts. Is it all non-fictional? Hell if I know. I guess if your worried about that you should read a dozen or so books on the topic and reach your own truth. In lieu of that I suggest just being entertained by this excellent third season of the show centering in on this part of the so-called "war on drugs" in it's heyday. This series already reached a sweet spot of good in the first two seasons and this one isn't a letdown. With a cast that feels right in most every scene this is a painstakingly well depicted on-screen version of the "big turns" of the drug fueled 80's and 90's. It kind of shows where we succeeded, where we failed (to a minimal degree), and why we can't seem to ever really make the big difference we set out to. I've always heard this age old phrase: "you can't legislate human nature". I think that speaks volumes as when there is a demand, no matter how illegal, there will be a supply. Anyway, for a great insight into how the Central American drug wars with our DEA unfolded see Narcos<U+0085>All Three Seasons are highly recommended.
