Before watching this TV show I had already watched the 113 episodes of the original series 'Pablo Escobar, El patron del mal' that was broadcasted on Colombian TV stations a few years ago. I loved the way they told the story and I was impressed by many of the the actors. Specially Andres Parra who plays Pablo. Luckily enough I speak Spanish fluently and had no need for subtitles. Having this to compare with I noticed that the US version of the story, 'Narcos', had changed a lot of important things, had crammed things together and also invented a few new things I had problems believing. For starters the focus of the 'Narcos' is to show how thanks to USA and the work of an American in Colombia they where able to catch Escobar. But they left out the story of people that where really affected by him and the people that really did all the hard work. The Colombian newspapers, journalists, politicians, police and military. Shameful and also boring! The camera-work and cutting etc, and a few of the actors where perfectly OK, just a shame the story is so... wrong!


                
They should have used Colombian actors for this. Very bad accents in all principal actors. Also bad time line. the sequence is not good. The few Colombian actors appearing there do a very good job. The actor that plays Escobar forces too much all his dialogue, even to say bad words. That should be natural like in all the previous Colombian series about this same topic. This is the only one that makes Colombia see as a very weak country and that without foreign help would not have done anything against NARCOS. Some part of the story is not good, for example when M-19 releases Marta Nieves Ochoa. Lacks of research. Other topic is the subtitles, "plata o plomo" means you get money or you die, but not "silver or lead" like they posted. Thay should have hired someone from Colombia that knows all local expressions and again make someone to tell them naturally, not reading it with no sense


                
Why does Netflix feel the need to repeatedly produce series that have to be read because they are in Spanish or Norwegian or what ever. I can understand a few minutes of this, just to set the stage, but episode after episode. It is so frustrating to have to stare at the screen non stop, eliminating any possibility of multitasking or taking my glasses off and laying on the couch to watch. Watch, Pause, Read, back it up, I Missed That, OK, Watch, Pause, Read, Back it up! WAIT!!! SIGH... I missed it!!!!!!!Come on Netflix, Even this review is required to be in English.What a waste of another Good series with POTENTIAL to be great!!!!!!!!I love to read but sometime I just want to watch TV


                
I have read the Spanish speaking Parts of the show made it "authentic", I say good writing, directing, And acting make a movie or show Authentic. All you have to do is watch the movie Scarface. If I wanted to read I pick up a book. I truly want to be able to rate this show Much higher but I cannot. You release the show or movie in the United States have the courtesy to do so in our native language, English! I will not apologize for expecting any less. You want our money and appreciation for your work, then please respect your viewers. I do not expect to go into another country and have them learn my language I would ask the same of everyone else. It is ridiculous many of those who have reviewed the show do you not the only way I could feel authentic is to have read subtitles . I suffered through season one but not sure I'll be able to make season two or three. Perhaps if there is a four he will show us the courtesy have all the dialogue in English, there are many excellent Hispanic actors to speak both languages and in fact sound authentic even when they are speaking English.


                
You really have to wonder what the writers are imbibing in when they write this stuff. Case in point: Season 3, Episode 3: the DEA and Columbian cops serve a warrant on a Cali brothers office. The Cali accountant is upstairs with a bunch of U.S. cash on the table and his notebook with all the secret names. Do the DEA find it? (I'm whispering here, good gracious I wouldn't want IMDb to think I was shouting... oh goodness...) ..... Of course not. (...is an exclamation allowed?.. oh goodness me, I don't know...) They're too foolish. Inside the large office they search all the clerk desks - But do they search the boss's office? Oh yeah, one guy walks around it, in the dark, for 5 seconds - It's all good. Meanwhile the supposedly smart DEA guy, he doesn't even think to go look himself. Come on. They pack up boxes of clerical stuff from the plebes BUT don't think to really search the boss's office. This story hole is as big as a black hole and just sucked the life out of me. I am in China, we don't get a lot of good Western movies or TV shows. When I find one I am so happy. And I was really excited about Narcos, just started it. This is the worst feeling ever - a show sucks you in with good writing then suddenly when you are hooked, a boot to the head. Nothing is more infuriating than this. Even worse, you have to wonder if the writers really care about the audience. Maybe cash is all they care about, sorry, is all they care about. I guess 'integrity' isn't in their lexicon, obviously. As a writer myself, it's impossible to see myself doing such an idiotic thing, like painting something marvelous then stabbing a hole in it. Brutal.
