This show starts of really well, directing is great, acting is great. No complaints at first, in fact I was thinking a 10 out of 10, that's how pleasantly surprised I was. I must say it sucked me in and I got hooked before I knew what the goal of the show was. And there is is a goal and its not a good one. Unfortunately this show is a (as we have learned before) a perfectly designed propaganda piece trying to push a agenda (for you guessed it who). I would not necessarily have a problem with this if it was honest right from the get go but it was not. It ends up being a anti socialist, anti communist, anti youth, anti everything progressive piece that in my opinion tries to excuse the atrocities of the US government in South America instead of explain them (if possible). And that for me unfortunately is in excusable and reminds me of once again Zero Dark Thirty, American Sniper, etc. Its a dangerous slippery slope this series continues to take us down and as such I can not in my right heart recommend it.


                
This is a classic case of an audience being unable to distinguish between an amazing story to tell and a well-told story. The story of Pablo Escobar is an incredible one but the story itself (rather the bit depicted in Nacros) cannot save a TV show from a weak and disjointed script, terrible acting, an awful lead (the blond American DEA agent, not Pablo) and the absence of character development. Nothing flows well at all and there is little scope for investing in any character.Wholly undeserving of it's 9+ rating on IMDb. For good TV, see The Sopranos, Mad Men, Dead Wood and Carinvale for convincing characters and thrilling narratives.This is a first time review. I was so shocked by the reception to Narcos, I felt compelled to moderate. I'm pissing in the wind a bit of course.


                
Literally, every episode is the same thing as the last.


                
I really don't know why people are giving this show such high ratings. Maybe they are just in love with the Pablo story or in love with the 80s.The show is shot very cheaply and because of that the depictions of the 80s are filled with architectural designs, devices, vehicles, styles and weapons that absolutely did not exist in the 80s. Now I am not saying they were using smart phones but the scenes are littered with items that are clearly from the late 90s to present.The acting is OK, the actor playing Pablo does a pretty good job but the rest of the actors are truly unknowns and aren't all that great. The narration I believe is an attempt to sound like Johnny Depp's character George Jung from the movie "Blow".I believe the story is correct and is interesting but for a person that is into cinematic accuracy, this show scores very low in my opinion. Netflix should have found a better producer/director combo and spent a little more money on the talent. Sub par at best.


                
I watched the first episode last night, and I like this show and I like where it's going, but the animal abuse in this show adds nothing to the plot and is (always) unnecessary. They feature a horse more than once being forced to carry around a full grown man on his or her back while doing this stupid fast walk to the music. They also show caged chickens. Animals used in the entertainment industry are always harmed. The most effective way to force an animals to do meaningless tricks on demand is with negative reinforcement. The company that says "no animals were harmed in the making of this show" is a lie, and that is because they don't monitor the treatment of the animal off set (such as the training methods or the living conditions of the animal), nor do they monitor the treatment of the animals when the camera isn't rolling. That means abuse between takes is totally allowable. On top of that, they are self-regulated, and have been caught on multiple occasions providing this seal of approval even though there is documented animal abuse and even death occurring during filming. Once the animal is old and no longer considered usable for entertainment, they are often warehoused or cast to roadside zoos where they spend the rest of their lives languishing in deplorable conditions. I assume that the animal abuse carries on throughout the show, considering it was so prevalent in the first episode. Narcos would be an ever better show if it stopped supporting animal abuse and perpetuating the idea that intelligent animals are ours to use for cheap entertainment.


                
I've been meaning to watch this for ages now and finally got 'round to it a few nights ago. This ain't no Sopranos I can tell ya!Virtually no charisma from any of the principal roles , I found myself listening to their lines in Spanish just to help me brush up on my rapidly failing fluency ... it really helps you get it all back when there's subtitles.(shows how bored I was)Apart from the lavish lifestyles and unbelievable amounts of snow that's being moved, there's not much in the way of depth to this series. To me it just seems that Escobar got lucky and with that stroke of luck. he got very,very rich.This bestows a mythical level of all around ability on him that he doesn't deserve, he's essentially just a thugMurder and treachery ensue and you wouldn't want to get in the way of any of the participants (FBI included)but I'm always asking myself what the heck we're trying to achieve when we send trigger happy dudes from our side to try and wipe out their side when they're outnumbered 100 to 1.Just like Escobar, The United states got lucky with its bountiful resources. These resources have been exploited by hard working and intelligent people to help pay for the idiots who continue to fight this war on drugs by taking machine guns to press-ganged workers.Meantimes the Drug Lords themselves go virtually unmolested. Yes there's the odd headline making catch but the majority just snort with laughter at the enforcement attempts. I could go on but I don't have any better answers than anyone else, all I can say is that this series is a poor and poorly acted representation of the problem. It could have been so much better


                
