Initially I thought it was very mediocre, although it did improve significantly as the story progressed. I have quite a lot of issues with it, however. The characterisation is limited, and to me that is a huge problem because I consider characterisation to be the key component of any story. Generally I prefer shows that are deeper, more engaging and with a heavier tone. That's not to say I automatically dislike the lighter approach in this genre – Justified did that and was one of my favourite shows. This though didn't have the charm, likability or witty dialogue that Justified had. Ultimately this show ended up feeling too superficial due to the lack of depth. I would also say it lags considerably behind some of the other top foreign language shows I have watched recently such as Romanzo Criminale, Gomorrah and Les Revenants. The pilot was the weakest episode – I didn't really enjoy the first couple of episodes at all. We hardly had any backstory to Escobar – there was a scene where he threatened soldiers - but he was already an established criminal and before we knew it he was running his cocaine empire. I also still feel that I am ultimately none the wiser who exactly Pablo Escobar was, what motivated him and what made him the man he became. Despite the fact that Escobar's rise was covered at lightning speed, the start of the show felt like it was moving at a snail's pace, such was its banality. That said, he was obviously the real star of the show and easily the most interesting character – the actor did an excellent job and conveyed the character with a James Gandolfini style approach, using subtle mannerisms and expressions with lingering menace. There was almost a degree of sympathy to the way he played the role at times. The character often committed these horrible acts with such detachment that you forgot it was really him behind all this, as he was caring for his family. The other characters were really limited though. Gustavo was Escobar's right-hand man and was considered a 'brother'. The character just seemed to exist though - initially I had no idea what was going on with his affair - until they explained it was the Ochoa's sister. It wasn't until his last stand and he was killed that the character did anything for me. I have no issue with the actor who played the role but the character never developed as the show went on, and you can say the same about many of the characters. After Gustavo's death I really liked the scene between Pablo and his Mother – finally the show conveyed some emotion and resonated beyond just the surface. This gave a humanised quality to Pablo too. The protagonist 'Steve' was also extremely limited. The character just did not grow at all – he was simply a cardboard cut-out cop. Pena was very limited too – Pascal could have played the role in his sleep. Really disappointing considering how fascinating he was as the Red Viper. The other members of the cartel were the same too, we learned virtually nothing new about them and they never grew. If the main characters in the story are the same as they were when the story started, is that really an example of good storytelling? I think I would rate this a fairly solid 7/10. If there was more depth to the characters it could have been excellent.
Narcos is a refreshing look at the drug cartel phenomenon from Latin America. I have seen only four of the ten episodes and plan to continue watching until the end. While I would have preferred the actors portraying the Colombian characters to have come from the country, the cast is credible in their portrayal. A good interpretation of Pablo Escobar is given by Wagner Mouras, who I was surprised to find out is Brazilian, and prior to this series did not speak Spanish. Mouras does resemble Pablo Escobar.The production values of the series are high. The scenes of Medellín are as I remember the city when I lived there in 1994 to 1997. The Bogotá scenes, especially those of the facade of the Capitolio Nacional, (where the Congress sits), and of the Judicial Palace destroyed in 1985, were authentic.So far, up to episode 4, the story follows the actual developments reported in the media, at the time. I presume, though, that the story of the formation of the "Cartel de Medellín," was a bit more contentious than what is shown.Unfortunately, the political stories around the US war on drugs and the role played in Colombia are simplified, and the role of other Latin American countries is downplayed. Not enough is explained of why Medellín and Pablo Escobar became important in the development of cartel organizations to put the story in a dramatic context.The acting and dialogue are uneven, Walter Mouras so far is carrying the load: Boyd Holbrook as Steve Murphy does not fill the maverick role as robustly as he could; but Pedro Pascal shifts easily between the American culture to which he belongs, with the Colombian society in which he is working. Danielle Kennedy (Ambassador Noonan)is superb as a representative of a country calling the shots in an independent country.This is clearly a series written by foreigners and it shows. But there is a credible effort in portraying the unique and complicated culture in Colombia and of cartel behavior, particularly when other countries like México, the Caribbean and Central América are overwhelmed by the same type of scourge. I give this a 7 out of 10, and will continue watching the next episodes.


                
They did wrong by manipulating true story with US perspective of narration,unnecessary drama,not suitable actors and no proper justification to the loyalty of "sicarios" towards Pablo.This show starts promising but goes downhill continuously towards the end of the season.The second season is outright boring and only fanboys can enjoy it.All women are beautiful and sexy to get more audience to this show.There is no proper line between truth and fiction in this series.And making another two seasons out of this is pathetic attempt.Writing needs to be improved.People in power are shown powerless whether that is true or they made it so to elongate the story only God knows.This is nowhere near to modern day classic.But I should congratulate them for this attempt.They tried hard but it didn't cut out.
Four episodes in and this show is great so far. I'm familiar with some of the source material having read Mark Bowden's "Killing Pablo" but this series still adds a lot of information to the legend of Pablo Escobar. It is a fictional portrayal but for the most part it's fairly accurate I don't mind the voice over, it often injects sardonic humour in the series.I don't speak Spanish so the criticisms of using a Brazilian who couldn't speak Spanish prior to taking this role don't apply to me. So far he's done a great job of portraying Escobar.The role of the DEA is overstated in my opinion but this show is directed to a western audience I presume. I've docked 3 stars at this point due to the failure to give any back story to Pablo Escobar before he entered the cocaine business. Lots of gratuitous (and explicit) sex scenes and graphic violence so would not recommend watching with any kids. Will update my review after I finish the show.
Season One: 8 out of 10.
Season Two: 7 out of 10.
Season Three: 6 out of 10.


                
Apart from the audacious humanization of murderers and criminals such as Pablo Escobar, his crew, and Los Pepes, I think the first two seasons are impressive. And what great acting by Wagner Moura. Unbelievably talented.


                
Imagine a Hollywood movie about JFK .... in which Kennedy speaks with a clear tinge of French accent ... and all supporting characters are Australians who try hard to speak American English, but fail miserably. A French speaking JFK! Awesome, right?This is what Netflix managed to produce by using a Brazilian as lead actor playing Colombian Pablo Escobar and having Mexicans in most supporting roles. Anyone who speaks fluent Spanish can tell there is something very very wrong in Moura's Spanish. Even my partner, whose Spanish is barely decent, was able to tell that Moura is not a native Spanish speaker. That aside the series is very well done, and I would recommend it.


                
Just finished watching the first season of Narcos, and overall it's a good show. Not a great show by any stretch -- certainly no House of Cards or Breaking Bad -- but the story is interesting and the performances competent enough to keep you watching. My first real complaint is around the production values. The producers obviously were trying to keep a period look (these events take place in the late 1980s), and they largely succeed; the clothing, hairstyles and locations are all pretty authentic. But there are enough sloppy details to pull you out of the illusion -- things that a show of this caliber should not get wrong. Some of the technology and accessories the characters use (cell phones, jewelry, sunglasses, etc.) are wrong for the era, as are several cars. And not just background cars parked on a street either. In a pivotal scene, one of the key cartel bosses makes his getaway in a pickup truck that wouldn't have been built until the 1990s. And in another scene, a major character arrives in a 1998 BMW. There is absolutely zero excuse for this kind of nonsense. Maybe I'm spoiled by the obsessive period details of Mad Men, but the bar has been set nonetheless and a big-budget show like this can afford to hire people who sweat the small stuff. Other than that, the acting tends towards the melodramatic at times. I'd also like to have seen a slower buildup to establish backstory and develop the characters. The first half of the series is very rushed, clearly because the director wanted to get to the action quickly. But this is at the expense of character development, and we never really understand what motivates any of the players, including the main characters of Escobar and his DEA nemesis. It's a shame, because there is a lot of opportunity to really dig deep -- these were people dealing with enormously complex, consequential events -- but unfortunately they're only roughly sketched out in favor of some quick action and cheap good-guy/bad-guy melodrama. I really would've liked to have seen this entire first season as a slow-burning character study, leading up to a cliffhanger in the final episodes, with the real payoff in season two. But still, a good show and worth watching, particularly if you're a fan of the genre. The show finds its stride in the last two episodes (the best of the series thus far). Lets hope that season two is able to build on that.


                
The first episodes really draws you into it and the pilot episode feels like you are watching a movie. A great movie. But that partly brings it to it's problems. The show goes too fast without getting deep into the characters. It feels like the show is structured as a movie and not a series that has time to develop the characters. The cast and everything else is "fine" in this but I can't help but to think if they just went much slower pace with it and this could be as epic as Breaking Bad.So this makes me think "what do they want to show in this series?" It seems like they only want to tell the story but nothing else. Time seems to go by so fast that I can't keep up with it. I have no idea how long it has been since the beginning of the show. Now I am near end of Season 1 and I can't tell if its 5 years, 2 years, 1 year or what? That wouldn't matter so much if the story was going slower. But since things are happening so fast they should tell where we are in time. But usually again only movies tell like "2 years later" since movie has much more restricted time to show things. But this show doesn't have reasons like that so I feel a bit disappointed in it. It lacks of character development. This show would have had much more material and potential to have much deeper telling that it has now.


                
This looks like a good solid production from Netflix. Once again they bring something with good quality as we are used to with some of their originals. Nice touch with narrative and the scenery. I also like that it's fast paced compared to other productions that treat the same topic.The show is full of clichés that everyone knows and expects when handling topics like drug dealing and Pablo Escobar; the one Colombian most people associate with this country and drugs.This kind of show has been exploited already in the Latin American shows, including Colombian productions like "El Cartel" and "Pablo Escobar, El Patrón del Mal". Of course there are many more. If you know Spanish, like the topic, you may like these shows too.I would like to ask future reviewers to pay attention to the country's name. It's Colombia with an O and not Columbia with an U. The District of Columbia is in the United States. Just to point it out, if you watch something make sure you watch it correctly (^.^)


                
After watching Patron del mal, no one can't disagree that the acting is twice better than Narcos. Nevertheless el Patron feels a bit soup opera, Latin telenovela contrary to Narcos more film like, more Hollywood. Conclusion mixing the acting of one with the production of the other one would have delivered an authentic piece of Art. Narcos is a really good show highly recommended. I gave them a 7 and not a 10 because of terrible casting, you cannot use a Brazilian for the role of Pablo that's like watching a film of Lincoln playing with Mexican accent. It just does not work. Pablo's wife Mexican accent, Gacha one of the most relevant Narcos Puerto Rican accent, is just a chaos when you listen all these actors speaking in completely different Spanish accents.


                
The show is good everyone speaks perfect actual Colombian Spanish except Pablo which is quite annoying since he's the main character and makes no sense because isn't it suppose to to be based on the real Escobar but for all you non Spanish speakers should be no issue. You wont notice it. But over all the story line and rest of the actors are pretty good. very interesting but i just cant get over the accent i here in Pablo's voice. Am sure am not the only one that feels this way. Pretty sure my fellow Spanish speakers can relate to it. Anyways if you can get past that or aren't a Spanish speakers you should watch it. Shows you how the drug lords operate and why some are loved by the people


                
It is a very good show and I find it very entertaining but it is lacking in character/story. Very similar to Game of Thrones it suffers the same problems in my opinion. It had potential to be superb, but settled for being "quite good". The story progresses way too quickly, making a lot of the scenes seem rather out of context if that makes sense? Consequently the characters have little depth as we don't really know them that well, especially Escobar himself. It is difficult to get emotionally involved, which I think is very important for a successful series.I find it a bit tragic, as this series (+GOT) could have been an absolute masterpiece, with just a little extra TLC. Nevertheless, judging Narcos on its own merit, its very entertaining and I love the subject matter. I can't wait to watch each episode.


                
A chronicled look at the criminal activity and many sides of Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar.Intriguing, like watching the 2005 documentary Cocaine episodes 1,2 and 3 Viva la Coca, An Honest Citizen, Leo and Ze respectively mixed with Scarface. With some genuine photos and footage of the day briefly inserted into episodes you get reminded that what you're watching is a good rendition of what happened. As the story unfolds you get a sense of the many viewpoints and different levels of both the government and Narcos. The series depicts the Colombian drug cartels power and gives a sense of its reach across the globe.There are great performances from a relatively unknown but stellar cast including Wagner Moura (Elite Squad) as Pablo Escobar. Boyd Holbrook (Run All Night) whose resemblance to the real Steve Murphy is uncanny and Pedro Pascal (Game of Thrones) Narcos exceed expectations.On the backdrop of the finely recreated late 70s, 80s and 90s it's violent, tension filled and fuelled with emotion. While Miami Vice was fiction and ripping stories from the headlines it showed the effects of the drugs on the streets. This shows semi-factually to an extent through dramatisation how they got there and just how characters are a shade of grey. While the accents may not be perfect each fast paced episode is well written, has great production values and with a shot on location feel it gives the proceedings weight. It's certainly one to watch driven by its true life subject matter and an inevitable second series.The second season, spends much more time with Escobar, is more of a manhunt as Pablo's empire falls apart and there is less of Murphy's narration and the DEA. You see the effect on the families and anyone involved. It has the same on location feel and production values remain as it remains 90's setting to a predestined conclusion. The third series follows the Cali cartel and is of the same high quality set on the backdrop of the Clinton administration. Violence, corruption aplenty as two new DEA agents are assisted by the Cali family head of security. Emotional at times season 3 ticks all the boxes. By default Pablo is not present and actor Boyd Holbrook doesn't return however Pedro Pascal does (in a fictional hybrid of real life people) as Pena once again. Packed with faces from season 1 and 2 the acting and production is first rate, notable are Pepe Rapazote in an intense small role as Jose and Edward James Olmos cameos. The season closes opening the way for a Mexican set 4th season. Highly recommend.
It's a very well-made show, very well-entertaining, especially if you are into history. However, like most Hollywood shows, if you suspect it is a glorification of criminals and a mockery of law enforcement and the salaries it makes. What you don't see on this show are the lives that drugs ruin and the decades in prison the criminals spend when they get caught.An intelligent person can see the consequences of the lives the drug dealers have on this show. Uneducated, low-IQ people just see the money and materialism and think the cops are the bad guys when they catch the dealers.One season of this show with Pablo Escobar was enough. Two was pushing it, three and four is a glorification of criminals. We get it Netflix, drug dealers can make a lot of money. Is there actually a story beyond this or do you have nothing left. I do agree with another person who pointed out that every episode is the same. Dealers sell drugs, make a ton of money, buy expensive things, backstab some friends, kill some people repeat.


                
It was really interesting to learn about Pablo Escobar's life through this show. However, the character of Murphy really irritated me. His character was dull and It always felt like he was acting whenever he was on screen. His whole life, his wife too was just so basic and too much of a "good guy, American hero cop who is going to save the world" for me. I feel like maybe they could have cast a different person there to make me believe it. Especially if they were going to make him the protagonist! I disliked him to the point where I was rooting for Pablo in the context of the show. I honestly kept watching just because I was curious about how it would end. It is a well made drama, which makes me appreciate it but either than that it did nothing for me.


                
The name of the series is Narcos. It's a series of the criminal kind. This series comes from the United States. The original language are English and Spanish. There are four seasons. There are twenty episodes that have been broadcast. This is a series on drug trafficking in Columbia. It is a realistic series.


                
Narcos has several problems.The first is that it is overly reliant on narration. Major events are glossed over with narration in the same time it takes 2 lovers to have a pillow talk in a subsequent scene. The pacing therefore is all over the place as sometimes we are going through months of violence in just a few minutes before drawn out discussions typically in Spanish.The second is that it tries to interweave old footage with the actors. If ever you need reminding that you are watching a recreation, then Narcos is great at throwing the real faces onto the screen to make sure you don't get drawn into the characters on set. Most docu-dramas get around this by recreating the images/scenes then showing their real life counter parts in the credits, and this was defintely a mistake by the producers not to take this approach.The third, somewhat related to the first, is the pacing. They really missed the chance to make this a proper multiseason drama by covering so much in the 1st season. The first 15 years of Escobar's ascension is in season 1, so season 2 is the final 18 months or so of his life.The fourth, a direct consequence of the third, is that it's never clear why his men are so loyal. Some obviously are driven by fear, but if anything he doesn't seem particularly threatening in the early episodes and only really alludes to it (by suggesting he knows all about certain policemen's families etc). The series completely fails to address how Escobar became so famously violent. He just "is" from the beginning.In terms of production, there's nothing you can fault. I just feel it's missed a good opportunity to address the major stages in the evolution and demise of Escobar by trying to cover too much ground in the 1st season. It's like the producers were short sighted when writing the scripts.


                
I've only seen season one, renting season 2 now. I've enjoyed what I've watched so far. Nothing is "glamorized" which makes it worthwhile.
I didn't like the "Godfather" movies for that very reason. Brutality, violence and pure evil lives in men all around the World, it's time to put a spotlight on those that think they are above the law but fall very short of it, without making them romanticized or heroic because they are not.
This is a very interesting story in our American history.


                
I watched Narcos over a few months, and the storyline is incredibly interesting - that is, until Pablo Escobar dies (no spoilers there). I really enjoyed Wagner's acting and how interesting the person he portrayed was in actual life. But after Pablo's death, the storyline got a bit mundane for me (other than the brilliant acting of Alberto Ammann), and I ultimately didn't get through the third season.


                
In regards with Season 3 of Narcos.It's a very well made production. Hollywood style as can be.But for me, having lived through it all in my hometown. It is a real shame that all historical facts and characters are distorted and certain situations are mixed up with others or plainly did not happened just for theatrical purposes.Also, I can't understand why all main characters are foreign. Speaking with Mexican, Puerto Rican, Spanish and Venezuelan accents. Especially David,Miguel son who's name was changed. The actor is from Guatemala and speaks way too Mexican. This is laughable.I hope in season 4 in Mexico the main characters are from Colombia. Following the tradition of Pablo Escobar's actor (Moura) seasons 1 and 2 being from Brasil.If all of this aspects where covered, I would have rated the series a 9/10.


                
I've seen a lot of documentaries about Pablo Escobar, which are all very interesting, but I love how this one is narrated by a different point of view. I love the rawness of the narrator. I was pretty disappointed with who they used for Pablo. In real life, he was a man that gave you a sense of fear and dominance. I didn't get that feeling from this actor. Probably because he had a horrible paisa accent. His Spanish was actually hard to understand sometimes. Being the main character of the series, I thought that was a very poor choice the makers made; which is the reason I didn't rate this series higher. For non-Spanish speakers, it's irrelevant, but I would've loved to get the full effect of a true paisa. I guess that's what the subtitles are for!


                
