Since movies have become nothing but shoot-em-ups and comic books television has emerged as the way to get great drama to adults.Narcos is a tale that everyone knows today, but the storytelling of this series is done with great visuals, interesting casting and a storytelling format which I love.Using the protagonist as the voice over narrator gives this series the feel of Goodfellas or Casino (two of my favourite movies by the way).Its extremely watchable and kept my attention the whole time. The scene with Pablo Escobar on the bridge was stunning.A worthwhile watch, if you have interests in things other than comic books.


                
Alright so, when it comes to drug related TV Shows which almost always include the DEA, the first thing that comes to mind is Breaking Bad and The Wire.Needless to say, while preparing to start up the pilot, I continuously tried to imagine how can this series give us something original or even something that will make us say "Hey, this isn't a cheap knock off of something." Well. I was profoundly surprised. Netflix has done it again.They managed to present the show in a way that includes every positive aspect of the two aforementioned series. It has the darkness of Breaking Bad, the intensity and the smart writing while also maintaining the thoroughness of The Wire in the sense that we get to see both sides of the drug trade, the clichés and even the everyday life that surrounds it.The narrative style also gives it a different aspect which helps the viewer engage in a more positive way. The cast seems to be very specifically chosen since the roles don't even make you question the legitimacy of the actors. I would say that this looks promising although I am yet to finish the series to be able to give my final word. Definitely a series you should watch if you are into this kind of thing.Kudos again, Netflix.


                
TO all Colombians complaining of Moura's accent: get a life. Did you really expect all of the guys to be playing their characters with perfect accents? I'll give you a tip: this show wasn't made for Colombian audience, but for worldwide audience. And they sound great to me :-) The portrait of Medellin seems quite good, and the only reason I'm not giving 10 stars is Murphy's annoying voice narrating even the simplest events, like if we couldn't see it. Pascal, Padilha and Moura did a great job, but all the actors playing small characters were also good. If you like History, DOcumentaries, series and besides all, a little bit violence, then, you're gonna love Narcos.


                
There are very few series that deserve to be considered great. This could well be up there.It's based on the true story of Pablo Escobar. I don't know how accurate it really is, but at the very least it FEELS 100% accurate.The series hasn't gone down the English with columbian accents route, they have used Spanish with subtitles. For me it just adds to the authenticity of the series! Pablo's part is played effortlessly by the Brazillian actor Wagner Moura. He seems born to play the part! It has gone down the scorsese / goodfellas narrative approach. So if you don't like that style, you will be disappointed! If you are looking for a well researched authentic look into the life and deeds of the most notorious of the columbian drug lords - THIS IS IT! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! (It get's a 9 because NO series can ever be perfect!)


                
I see a lot of people posting reviews based on the first three episodes, which don't do justice to the production's quality. The first three episodes look a bit like Padilha's Robocop remake, posing a geopolitical context which can feel slow or "documentary-esque". The next episodes produce that addictive effect that occurs in the good TV shows. Agent Murphy (Boyd Holbrook) resembles a lot Capt. Nascimento (Wagner Moura) from Elite Squad I & II: he's completely taken by his job, and sometimes he's not so fond to the human rights agenda. The spectator tend to forgive the latter aspect due to the atrocious way drug traffickers treat their opponents, but sometimes we stay confused about who are the good guys here. Anyway, it's good seeing a TV show which avoid a Manichean point of view.The season ends leaving room for another one season, or perhaps even a third one, functioning like Elite Squad II, which was a sequel, but with an entirely different approach, deepening the political axis of the drug traffic business.
This series is captivating, dark, intense, addictive and I can't wait for season 4! Breaking Bad is the best series ever but Narcos is more real and almost as good. It's just getting better and better.Love the way how they focus on the finer details, it's perfect. Amazing and a highly recommend it.


                
Fascinating, thrilling and powerful in all aspects. Brilliant acting performance by Wagner Moura playing Pablo Escobar. Boyd Holbrook as Steve Murphy is in a role of his life time. The background voice of Murphy, the scenic Columbia and the busy urban life makes it visually aesthetic as well. It is the best on Netflix at the moment. Netflix has once again lived up to to the expectation by bringing a show which is next to reality. Another good thing about "NARCOS" is the the fast pace it has to keep the audience engaged. Film lovers who like gangster movies will find this new series gripping. Folks looking out for some action paced crime drama should definitely hang on to this one. First episode will grab your attention to the level that you would want to see all ten episodes at once. Finally we got some gangster stuff to look at in classic settings.


                
Stunning performances, chilling reality. An new benchmark in television. Netflix, you scored. Wagner's acting sets new standards. I watched all 10 episodes in a 2-day marathon, this is television at its best. You don't know if you hate or love Escobar, the series puts you on a different side at any moment. After episode 3 you are hooked. A few inconsistencies to notice; a late model BMW of a different era, lightweight body-armor. But that is detail to a series where character building in historic context is done at its best. Superp co-acting. If you thought Narco is bad, reset. It is VERY bad and you will see. A great way to quickly get the history of Colombia and its struggle in the last 30 years.


                
Where is Season 4? What happened? Has it been cancelled? Its no longer in the list.


                
"Narcos" is a crime TV series showing the story of the famous (and real!) kingpin Pablo Escobar, the drug lord and owner of the Medellín drug cartel in Colombia. Pablo became a billionaire through the production and distribution of cocaine, a new drug at the time. Up until them, the biggest problem was marijuana, that was sold by "hippies in flip-flops". Escobar was an established black marketeer in Medellín, moving trucks worth of illegal goods (alcohol, cigarettes, and household appliances) into Colombia during a time when this was strictly forbidden, when introduced to Mateo "Cockroach" Moreno, a Chilean exile and underground chemist, who pitched the idea that they go into business together, with Moreno producing and Escobar distributing a new, profitable drug—cocaine.Since cocaine is highly addictive, we see the ascension of the violent cartels in Colombia trying to bring tons of cocaine to the US and the battle with the DEA agents trying to hunt Escobar down. Pablo Escobar ascension to the most famous/ richer Drug Dealer in the world is also shown, and the story is told through Steve Murphy's perspective, an American DEA agent working in Colombia whose sidekick is the Mexican DEA agent Javier Peña.In my personal opinion "Narcos" is a very addictive and an incredible TV series, with top performances from Wagner Moura (Tropa de Elite!), Pedro Pascal (Oberyn!) and Boyd Holbrook. I remember being very young in Brazil and seeing the news talking about Pablo Escobar on TV and how terrified some people were about visiting Colombia at that time. Wagner Moura is a great actor and makes Escobar at the same time monstrous and charismatic. A lot of the series is in Spanish, so "kudos" for "Narcos" one more time, since most TV shows hardly have any other language besides English. I see some people saying Wagner Moura doesn't look like a drug lord boss, but most of them didn't even bothered to search for Pablo Escobar real picture. Yes people, bad guys can be middle age, overweight and don't look exactly intimidating at first sight.My vote is 9/10.
NARCOS is a great show and Season 3 was a roller-coaster ride, despite not having 2 of the main characters from the first two seasons. In the beginning, most people (me included)thought this Netflix original series was solely based on Pablo Escobar's rise and fall as the powerful Colombian drug lord. The show is really about the U.S. involvement in the ongoing drug wars in Latin America. After Pablo Escobar is taken down in Season's 2 finalé, Season 3 is about the rise and fall of the Cali Cartel, which became very powerful after their rival's demise. We get to see how sometimes the DEA has to side with certain drug lords and crooks in order to capture their priority target. In the first 2 seasons, the DEA sides with members of the Cali cartel in order to get Pablo Escobar. It was obvious that after Escobar was out of the picture, the DEA would set their eyes on the Cali Cartel, who even "negotiated" with the Colombian government its surrender.The only "flaw" that this show (and movies about drug wars) has in general is its "one-sided" perspective of things. Sure, Colombia and Mexico smuggle coke illegally into the U.S., but once the "product" is in the U.S., who moves the stuff? Surely there must be a well organized network of drug lords, godfathers and mobsters in the U.S. that take care of distribution. After all, the U.S. is the biggest illegal drug market WORLDWIDE, so how come we rarely see what really happens to mobsters in the U.S.??? Not everything is run by Colombians or Mexicans and surely a huge amount of Americans BUY this stuff, hence perpetuating the drug trafficking for years and years to come. How come there are few Movies or TV series that ADDRESS this reality??? Supply and demand indeed!NARCOS features big production values, like a high end Hollywood flick. The acting is mostly superb (it's obvious some American actors of Latin descent have certain difficulties saying their parts in Spanish, but for the most part it works), the drama and the violence feels real, maybe because this stuff actually happened and, in Mexico's case, is still happening. That's when I think, "Damn, NARCOS is just like watching the 6 O'Clock news down here". The stuff you see in NARCOS happens EVERYDAY in Mexico, yet we've somehow grown "used to" this kind of stuff. It's become an everyday thing. Just as the U.S. had the force and the might to put order in Colombia, they should think about doing the same here, their "next door" neighbor. After GAME OF THRONES and now NARCOS, Pedro Pascal (Agent Javier Peña in this series) is destined for Hollywood greatness, and some Mexican and Colombian actors will surely benefit from the series' success. The ending of Season 3 leaves no doubt that the 4th season will mostly take place in Mexico, a place that is STILL suffering from the ongoing drug wars and from an uber corrupt government. The production team of NARCOS will have to be very careful in what they portray in the series or they'll too end up victims of the story they're trying to tell.
Not since House of Cards has there been a show so captivating it must be binged to be experienced with. Such as the case with Narcos, which is subtitle heavy since most of the characters speak Colombian. It takes some time to pay attention. Like every Netflix show, there is a considerable amount of sex, violence, language, and nudity that is not appropriate for kids. I'm almost done with season one on Blu-Ray and can't wait to see what's next in season 2, which is now streaming on Netflix. Most of the cast is unknown but the blonde chick in that show is really hot. The locations are really great and they use archival news footage from the era to set the mood for the saga.


                
Surprised this TV series hadn't been done sooner, but this show makes it well worth the wait. Wagner Moura is outstanding, and deserves a couple of awards for his performance. Compelling, enigmatic and quietly brutal.I found this both entertaining as well as fascinating, exploring the nuances of the past, seeing what these characters were up against. Netflix have created something quite special here. Thank you!I'd give it a 10, but because I have to wait for season 2 (God I hope there is one!) it only gets a 9. Watch this and enjoy a great production, you wont be sorry!


                
BRAVO! Wagner Moura, what a brilliant performance, the subtle facial expressions and dark undertone played perfectly with the raw visuals and sound. I loved how Escobar could look so calm while leaving you unnerved, at times you were wondering will he congratulate you or kill you.The small details were what made it special, how he reacted to disrespectful body language and really created a character you could understand and be confused over at the same time, can a man be this evil? Great directing, they kept it authentic with the subtitles and it was a pleasure to watch, cannot wait for season 2.
I recently watched the first two seasons of Narcos and was quite impressed by them. This was the first time I was watching a show about the life of Pablo Escobar and Columbian drug cartels and I did not know much about Pablo's life story, but this series provided me with the opportunity to see what happened and the reasons why it did.I loved everything about the show: acting, music, directing, characters. But the thing that makes this show so good for me is the fact that it show the story from all angles: how Pablo sees the situation and why he does what he does, how the Colombian government and police are operating, what strategies they use against Pablo and why, and how it feels like to be an American DEA agent trying to capture Pablo Escobar.Overall, the show is great, highly recommend watching it.


                
I prefer the first seasons revolving around Pablo Escobar. The subsequent story arcs aren't as compelling. In any case great drug trade TV drama!


                
This is the BEST series ever on Netflix. Engrossing, adrenaline-rousing action; absolutely believable and sometimes bone-chilling acting; great cinematography.... capped by a superb performance by Wagner Maura as Pablo Escobar. He aptly conveys the charisma that the real Escobar (not as good looking as Maura) must have exuded. This series will take you on a dark rollar-coaster ride that will leave you breathless to see the next episode.


                
We can divide this series into two part. First part is Season I & II and second part is last (III) Season.In the first part, I would give it 10/10 stars. Acting, soundtrack, place and plot are incredible. It tells the story of Pablo Escobar. Everything works perfectly fine. Plot is fastmoving and sometimes real bust scenes are shown and you can compare them with series scenes.In the second part, it focuses on Cali Cartel but Agent Peña is not with us anymore, besides Pablo Escobar. First part was more successful and entertaining with those two characters. Third season seems to be extra action scenes for those who fell in love with first two seasons of Narcos.In conclusion, I really enjoyed watching first two seasons of it. Third season is not bad but it overshadowed of first two ones. Narcos is my third favorite series.


                
At first, I wasn't ready to watch this show but somehow I convinced myself and watched The first 2 seasons. And all I have to say is that it is faar beyond what I expected from it. All the actors have justified their role. I really loved that narrative part ( I have just fallen in love with Murphy's voice). All in all, it is a "must must watch" series.


                
If you like crime action drama series then Narcos will never disappoint you. The storyline and how it progresses is amazing to see. The story revolve around the Pablo Escobar a druglord of Columbia. How he started and how he was mentioned in Forbes magazine this all is like entertaining to see. And also it covers story after the death of Pablo Escobar. So it will really entertain you throughout the series. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0081>


                
I started watching Narcos and although I am not an typical bingwatcher, the series proved to be quite addictive, almost like the drugs Pablo Escobar earned his billions with. Of course it is a matter of taste if you like the series. The frequent voice over could be annoying, Pablo reminds me in his last months of Adolf Hitler in Der Untergang, there is a lot of violence, but acting, directing and producing is great and after every episode you think "ah, just one more...". It is fascinating to see how series like this are developing. We have seen The Wire, maybe the all-time standard, but then there were many more, like Peaky Blinkers, Breaking Bad or Billions. For me, Narcos is certainly among the best!


                
One of the best i must say. I just love series nowadays. You can transport you self to nearly every situation of life and follow character for a long time. And they really use the advantages of series if you compare it to film. With the blend of macabre realism and authority by which the show tells the story, it's almost impossible not to be dazzled by Narcos. It's an honest look at the rapid spread of cocaine into the USA, as well ass the futility of the law enforcement trying to stop it. Told in interesting way that mixes both drama, reality, violence and archive footage that gives it almost a documentary feeling, Narcos is definitively a treat for fans of crime shows. 9/10


                
In a way this is a spiritual successor to true detective season 1. Just like that one, this is an anthology detective story.Set in Colombia and around, this is the inception of cocaine from obscurity to prime time. Jose Padhila does a fantastic job putting it all together just like Cary Fukunaga did on true detective season 1.The production value is through the roof, Netflix is really going big on this one. This is probably in their top 3 best series produced.WelI, I am only 3 episodes inn. I'll finish this after I've gone through the season.Highly recommended.


                
Netflix has yet another fantastic show with Narcos.Overall the cast play their roles amazingly and the subject matter is as entertaining as it is dark. The story of Pablo Escobar is told well and the depiction of Columbia and Pablo feel very authentic. My minor complaint would be that Wagner Moura's Spanish accent stands out a little against some of his fellow actors, its not a big problem and probably only really noticeable if your'e fluent in Spanish. Everything else about the show is done very well and the production value is great! Narcos is a fantastic mafia/cop show that adds even more value to your Netflix subscription. I hope that shows of this quality will continue to be a trend on Netflix.


                
Have only watched the first couple episodes and I am hooked! It reminds me very much of the movie Blow. If you enjoyed that movie then you will love this show.The only reason I never gave it a 10 is because of the subtitles for the non English speaking parts. I would normally stop watching any show or movie that requires that much reading. It feels like at least half of the show is in Spanish. But the show is so good for the first time I am willing to read instead of just listen.I plan on binge watching the rest of the episodes over the next few days.If you enjoy shows that involve true stories with crime and drugs then this is the show for you. As long as you don't mind some reading.Edit....after finishing all 10 episodes I take back what I said about the subtitles. It is much easier to read subtitles than to try and understand and actor with an accent. In some of the scenes where a guy with a Spanish accent spoke English I found it hard to understand and would then actually missed the subtitles.


                
