Bad. Like Michael Jackson.Gervais is just cynically exploiting a very serious condition, depression, to justify his usual nasty, mean spirited obsessions. The character here is a hateful, repulsive mean bully to everyone he encounters -"Yeah, but depression."No. That's not good enough! Millions suffer from this condition and aren't horrible to everyone around them all the time! Gervais simply uses "Yeah, but depression" as a Get Out Of Jail Free card for his character to harass people, often in low-paid jobs. It's just pettiness. Nothing has changed with Gervais - this is him at his worst, allowing himself to binge on pettiness and nastiness.People constantly tell him how and lovely and funny he is all throughout the show - despite there being zero evidence for the former and little of the latter.We see clips of him prior to his wife's death, so we can see what a lovely chap he was! But all we get are clips are of him playing horrid pranks on her! - letting off an airhorn while she's painting or sleeping, chucking a bucket of water on her when she comes home from work! Oh - at one point we see him giving her a puppy, cos that's a lovely gift isn't it!!? - making a huge joint commitment without seeking your partner's consent first!!Why is the headline of this review "Body Dysmorphia"?If he really wants to challenge himself he should make a programme about body dysmorphia, something he really should be trying to deal with. His seething hatred of fat people (there's oodles of it on display here) is becoming tedious and alarming.Oh, and I love some of what Gervais does - I even liked the Brent film so I still dutifully trudge through much of his stuff (I draw the line at Derek!)- but this is dreadful and I'm amazed at how well received it's been.


                
I understand grief doesn't have a cure. I understand that the road to wellness isn't marked with act breaks and episode structure. But that's why I don't watch people who are grieving in real life and instead look to storytellers to tell me a story. The craft comes from sculpting a story out of a real life emotion or situation, controlling what the audience sees and what it doesn't and in what order. To show 5 episodes of someone being understandably miserable and then have them get better with a series of long winded monologues doesn't display a lot of craft to me. And if you're going to just build up to a big final episode, make sure you make that last episode a big celebration of catharsis. I watched it all in one sitting, partly because I wish more TV shows had 30 minute episodes, but partly because I was waiting for something to happen. Very disappointing.
