After Life is Ricky Gervais' sermon on the meaning of life, and it's as saccharine as that subject could possibly be. Derek was also fairly saccharine, and it was that element of it that left a bad taste in people's mouth, but I liked Derek because it was about some things and some people who are very rarely written about. Nothing in After Life hasn't been written about before--and most of it written before by Ricky Gervais himself.The worst episode is the final one in which Ricky sits you down and tells you exactly what you were supposed to have learned from watching the series. There is no room for interpretation, and interpretation is how the audience interacts with the art. It's like if Bernard Shaw hadn't let his audience go home until he read to them the essays he appended to his plays when he published them.I was wondering if I would have felt differently about this show if I hadn't already seen Gervais' other comedies. There's a scene in a pub where he is annoyed by a man who is eating crisps too loudly. I had already that routine with soup in Extras. There were also some lines in which he fights a straw man in a religious argument which i was quite certain I'd seen before, though i couldn't as easily place my finger upon it--perhaps it is more appropriate in this film about death than in its original place (although writers need to learn that weak opponents and easily won arguments fail to show off the cleverness of the protagonists and are easily forgotten). There was one good idea, and that was the resolution to the child bully story. I hadn't seen that before and thought it was a good idea that might work. I also very much enjoyed the actress who played the prostitute, although the ongoing joke about whether she should be called a prostitute or a sex worker felt about ten years old.


                
Afterlife was the series equivalent of scrolling through that one loose friends Instagram account who daily posts obvious and annoying inspirational quotes.
A lot of the jokes had been cut and pasted from previous work. Also the characters all seemed too similar to those in Derek (Kev is pretty much the same but that's not a bad thing as he was one of the best things about Derek)
It wasn't filmed very interestingly with lots of clichés (heroin bit).
scenes felt staggered and just set up for poor jokes.
All in all it's a poor but somewhat easy to watch comedy not believable enough to run the line between tragedy and comedy.
When Extras repeated the brilliance of The Office I thought Ricky Gervais was unable to do anything of low quality. His standups Animals and Politics were equally fantastic. The Invention of Lying was pretty bad but I gathered that was Hollywood's pressure to make something more main stream. But both Derek and this series show even the sun has spots.I cannot really be engaged in a drama if there are too many unrealistic behaviours and reactions going on. When the therapist is bordering on slapstick and the postman is obviously a cartoon character, then you realise the show is not showing a real world but a fantasy. Couple that with some really bad acting, not least by Gervais himself, then I give up trying to really care about the characters. That of course does not matter much if we are instead in a comedy, but the really funny situations are very few and the type of comedy just seems a much paler and repetitive version of the style of Extras and Office.I also question the constant casting of Gervais as the lead actor of anything Gervais does. I can imagine the show could have been more interesting with a more surprising choice of lead. For instance, casting someone like Charlie Sheen or Mel Gibson as lead, would have meant a bold and in itself funny choice, that would have felt much more like the refreshingly creative old Gervais.I have definitely not given up hope, the guy who created the best tv comedies in my lifetime should be able to do so much better.


                
I'm a big fan of Ricky. I've listened to his podcasts and seen his films and TV shows so I was looking forward to watching this.
Unfortunately, it didn't hit the right note with me. A lot of the jokes are old stuff he's done and said before in the podcasts and stand up. Case in point, the joke about the 93 year old being scarred for life is just one of them.
There's no doubt that Ricky is one of the best in the business. He does human emotion perfectly. This just seemed a bit unrealistic in places and laboroured. In fact I heard so often he wanted to kill himself that it started to get a bit stale.
The cast is perfect however. Great actors and it was nice to see Ashley Jensen back again in a more savvy role.
Overall it seemed like everything was Ricky just being Ricky instead of a character.
Glad I saw this but won't watch again.


                
I was really looking forward to this. But I'm coming to the realisation that Ricky Gervais has Louie Syndrome. No, not that...I mean, comedy that goes way serious for no good reason when it's meant to be entertaining. This was so lame on the humour and then completely grim and depressing. And nobody seems to care he basically murders the junkie! His friends are boring and dull idiots, he's not, and he has to give up grieving his wife, who literally seems like the only normal person he ever knew? Then he asks the nurse out, who was completely awful to him and calls him a c word? No way, this script is awful, obvious and badly done, and Gervais can't act serious, he just stops moving his face. RG, get back to Merchant, who's also no good alone. Write another season of Life's Too Short. This is mediocre, underpar, and not even offensive. Four stars, because I love you, but this is as bad as Derek. (I loved Cath, though. And he should have dated Daphne, she was the only nice one.) Actually, worse. I reckon if this had been written by a student they wouldn't pass their filmmaking course.
Once upon a time I could barely contain my anticipation at the thought of a new Gervais offering, that was before I realised that Merchant was the true genius and this is proven every time Gervais releases something new.
After Life continues the drawn out decline of a once cutting edge artist. It's not very interesting and it offers nothing new, just the same old Gervais themes and humour that he's been trotting since his last decent creation and self fulfilling prophecy of Extra's.Possibly the most vapid and predictable show I've seen in a long while, just because he turns on the waterworks it doesn't make the show deep. Many seem to be fooled and believe the opposite.The characters are likeable but don't scratch below the surface and the main character is just another vehicle for Gervais to tell us what a nice guy he really is.The show will appeal to those who cling to sentimentality but won't do mutch for those who require something deeper in order to be entertained.Apart from a few wry smiles, it wasn't funny, the standard Gervais shock treatment just doesn't shock anymore and it's pretty lame.


                
Starts really well.
So a challenging - dangerous even - comedy/commentary with genuine depth and really good ,subtle performances sets us off.. But Oh dear Oh dear. Without a second's hesitation, Ricky plummets into a sludge of sentimental feel-good junk that made my toes curl. Laying aside the questionable morals and ethics on display here (they are worthy of separate scrutiny) in purely dramatic terms this is dreadful beyond words. Empty, silly, unambitious. What a chance wasted!!
I truly believe that if this had been made for British TV, it would have packed a harder punch. But this is diluted, feel-good dross. Sentimentality trowelled on so thick in the last two episodes that I seriously wondered if Ricky was 'having a laugh'?
Maybe get Stephen Merchant back onboard? Or curtail the compromises? Because this all about compromise,
Just a thought.


                
Yet another Ricky Gervais "comedy" that I can't get behind and am bored by. That's why I gave up on trying to like it after 3 episodes.I have no idea which parts were meant to be funny, and even the lines he lifted from his stand up shows fall flat because the tone and set up render them not funny.If it was meant to be something other than a comedy it failed, as it was pretty obvious it was meant to be a black comedy, and the other elements of the show weren't enough to fall into any other category.I am unimpressed by Gervaise's TV shows. His stand up is good, but everything else he's done has been bad, flat, boring, and lacking in anything to enjoy.If you enjoy seeing a boring 57 year old saying unpleasant things to people with filler in between, this is the show for you.


                
Have only watched two of the six episodes available on Netflix, so I hope this series carries an unexpected surprise, but, so far, this seems to be very much a 'formulaic' Gervais series. The central character is world-weary, self-pitying, cynical and pathetic. The laughs come from the ineptitude of his and the supporting characters' inability to fit into society's acceptable boundaries and very often situations rely on crudity to provide humour. It is perfectly watchable, but if you have seen The Office, Extras, Derek or, indeed, Gervais' stand-up, don't expect to see anything very different or refreshing.


                
I got as far as the end of the second episode and gave up. It's about a bloke in his 50s, with no kids, living in a pretty road, in a pretty town in a pretty house. Married for 25 years, with his soul mate. She's now dead and he's a totally miserable ****, being rude to everyone he meets. I'm not sure if it falls into the category of dark humour, it's just plain miserable. It's not even bleak like you get with Nil by Mouth, This is England, Fish Tank etc, it's just miserable, boring and pointless. Unless maybe, you can relate to that. Which I guess a few million probably will. Acting is poor.


                
Maybe it was the dreadful language throughout or the lack of humour but really one episode was enoughCome back Stephen Merchant


                
Ricky Gervais used to be funny and I'm amazed at the positive reviews this show has gotten. The supporting cast was brilliant, but Ricky Gervais dominated almost every scene, which is unfortunate. His character was certainly bitter, which I suppose was part of the plot, but Gervais played a flat, one-dimension character whose bitterness was repulsive, perhaps because Gervais lacks the acting ability to be able to add any nuance. Random evangelizing scenes about the awfulness of humans and how infinitely superior his character was for being an atheist was simply boring. One got the sense this was completely self-serving and given that this show was written by Gervais, perhaps that shouldn't be altogether a surprise, but again, Gervais lacks the nuance that might have made this theme more palatable. This same problem is evident with his continuous references, in almost every episode, to wanting to kill himself. Perhaps if this character had done the deed, this show might have been saved, as the supporting cast was, once again, brilliant. There are some moments of wonderful comedy, but unfortunately, these moments were to few to save this show.


                
Its just boring. A bloke mopping about and not much else..


                
Two great early albums followed by rubbish for years and living off past glories whilst shooting one's mouth off as a rentagob.


                
What a waste of time this is.. a self righteous narcissistic lead character who the viewers are supposed to like, because he's depressed about his dead wife. Many many fat jokes - wow, so cool because he's not PC.
Again, like in the terrible "Derek", Gervais writes his characters as saints and mocks the overweight and unattractive men.


                
