My favourite line ......."I'd rather be nowhere with her than somewhere without her"


                
Best thing Gervais has ever produced and the bar was set very high. Couldn't stop watching.


                
From office to Extras to stand up to Xfm/Ricky gervais show. This is unlike anything I've seen from Ricky , a complete story told so true and heart breaking to watch at times. Very funny but u kinda laugh through the pain for most of it. Encapsulating watch. Well done again that man, class.


                
I stumbled across After Life when I wasn't interested in anything on My List and I didn't care to Continue Watching anything either. I've never been married and I've never lost the love of my life, mainly because I haven't met them, but I have struggled with depression for years now and this past year has been a particularly hard battle. The portrayal of grief and depression I found to be very relatable, the story was told very realistically and the cast were brilliant. I particularly loved Anne and Daphne. Perfect show to binge watch and just allow yourself to feel all of the emotions and then share it with someone because nothing's as good if you don't share it.


                
"You got takeaway?"
"No it's drugs"
<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0082><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0082><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0082>
Lol great show, very funny.


                
A wonderfully real take on how to carry on. Tony,a man who has lost his wife to cancer,starts to think "Why bother?" but as the series progresses we are given the answer to that very question. Supported by a strong cast,Gervais creates a perfect balance of humour and poignancy. The language may offend at times but it stays relevant to the context of the scene.
I found myself laughing and crying,quite literally.
Can not recommend enough.


                
Thought provoking and occasionally very funny!
Loved it


                
One of the best things Ricky Gervais has done in a long time.Gervais plays Tony, who is working as a reporter at the local newspaper and struggling to come to terms with losing his wife Lisa (played by Kerry Godliman) to breast cancer. She has left him videos on what to do after she has gone. Oh and to look after the dog.What follows are 6 funny and moving episodes. We see snippets of Tony's life with Lisa which often involved her being at the end his jokes and pranks. Also his struggles with suicidal thoughts, thankfully saved by the dog who he adores. Plus his job he hates but his boss is his brother-in-law.The supporting cast as expected are also very good.David Bradley (Argus Filtch in Harry Potter) plays his dad sadly suffering from dementia.Ashley Jensen (Extras & Ugly Betty) plays the care nurse looking after Tony's dad.Diane Morgan (Cunk on Britain) plays the of the wall reporter at the local paper.To name a few...For once the hype around a TV show is worth listening too because this is a great show and hopefully, season 2 won't be far behind.
Not what I was expecting. Utterly sad and incredibly funny at the same time.


                
Just binged it and what a true return to form. Beautifully acted and great tragic story telling. There's a bunch of great characters in there with more to tell. Not sure where season 2 goes from here but over 6 episodes, I'm very satisfied. Made up for you Mr Gervais.


                
I watched this show in one sitting. It madr me cry snd laugh at the same time. Very good show that makes you think about your lost beloved one. Liked it!


                
Gervais at his very best.Laughed cried and thought.


                
Excellent series from Ricky as usual. Both hilarious and devastating at the same time. Loved every minute.


                
6 episodes on day of release. What can I say but this show is a roller coaster of emotions. I laughed, cried and in all honesty came out the other side valuing my family much much more. Ricky Gervais continues to surprise and entertain with a perfect piece of commentary on dealing with death outside the social norms of God and religion.


                
Not sure I can compare this with anything else. It is funny, it is sad, it is happy and it is certainly a grower. I enjoyed the first episode just enough to watch the second the next day, and then it became a binge fest rudely interrupted by food and toilet breaks.
There's a great message here, that I don't mind to listen to again!


                
Only Gervais' can take you from nail biting awkwardness to belly laughter to tears all in the same scene, everything about this mini series is breathtaking, the believable and lovable characters, the music, cinematography, the delicate and touching story, yes the ending was a bit preachy but it still felt organic and not forced, ignore the low votes probably didn't like it because they think comedy can't be more than a few cheap laughs, best new show this year and a strong comeback from one of the finest living British comedians of our time, BRAVO!


                
After LifeAfter Life is one of Ricky Gervais's best works.
A story of a man (Tony) who is in self destruct mode following the tragic death of his wife to breast cancer.
In typical Gervais fashion After Life explores the boarders of comedy which teeter on the bad taste and acceptable.
Like him or loath him you have to admit that Gervais is a master at this type of thing. Ultimately After Life has some very funny moments but is more often very sad.
A tale of a man trying to cope when his entire world has been destroyed.
Performances by all are excellent but it is Gervais that is the stand out here.
Totally convincing as a
man who has stuck up his middle finger to the world.
I binge watched this show with my partner. We both laughed with a tear in our eyes. Not tears of joy but sadness.
The world isn't full of happy endings and no
matter what life throws at you it is solely down to you to try and steer yourself towards happiness.
Gervais subtlety hints at this through the progression of the series.
This bringing me on to my only gripe.
This show just isn't long enough to thoroughly explore the complexities of
Tony's mind state.
I wish there was more. Both myself and my partner was shocked when we realised that the sixth episode was the last.
Bare in mind each episode only being around twenty five minutes long.
Still this show was superb and definitely one worth
checking out.
If you can endure the pain with Tony that he goes through then you will definitely be rewarded at the end.Sad, funny, painful and uplifting all at the same time. A bit like life then?
People expecting another Office or Extras, forget it. This show is about a man devastated by the loss of his wife, who is filled with anger that he tries to contain - not always successfully, and who, initially, just wants to take his own life. What stops him is their dog who always seems to turn up in the bathroom or bedroom just a Ricky has decided to end it. The dog was his wife's and he bonds with it as a way of maintaining some kind of contact with his wife.This is a very sad but absolutely brilliant drama. Written by Gervaise, this series shows just what a genius he is in how his character is written and portrayed.There some funny bits in each episode where he reacts in anger to people who offend him. Only some bits in each episode - being so frustrated at his daily visits to his father in a care home who has dementia. You can see how he believes that he should reach out and make some contact with his dad but he can't, the feeling of loss is so strong that he can't feel concern or love for anyone else except, perhaps, for his wife's dog. I have watched three episodes and I think I can see his character slowly start to build his life again. It is one of the great television series, deserving of awards without a doubt!
...substitute while waiting for the last season of Game of Thrones. Actually it's a bit like GOT, if Vesteros was a small, sleepy town in England, the Wall was an even sleepier newspaper, and the dire wolfs a cute german shepard trying to save her daddy from comitting suicide. And yes, the same actors.


                
Pure, original, English. I loved After Life. It's hard to go on after a big loss. Sometimes it feels like stopping with life is an option, a relieve. But its not. Just go on, make the best of it. And laugh! And love. And cry. I did.


                
Great show. The only thing that ruined it was the constant sobbing sound coming from my wife towards the end of the series.


                
I expected "After Life" to be funny but I didn't expect to cry. Ricky Gervais delivers a great performance along with an inspiring message. My favorite quote from the series was. " I would rather be nowhere with her than somewhere without her."


                
Loved the show. Makes u think about life and appreciate ur lif today


                
This is a gut-wrenching comedy
This is a genre that Ricky Gervais created with "After life" ; Finding unintended humor in life after losing somebody
That show made me laugh/cry all within 20 mins
And Gervais is a genius.
Ricky Gervais and DiNiro have one thing in common: Delivering serious/and seriously funny statements with the utmost and largely unintended (at least on Gervais' part) sincerity.
I had a phase like that - where the only joy I could find, after losing somebody, was making everybody else miserable


                
That gorgeous German shepard makes you feel the ways a dog is going through for all the episodes. Makes you feel hungry, happy, greevy.. That dog!


                
