I saw the 2005 version with Keira Knightly as Miss Elizabeth Bennet and Matthew Macfayden as Mr.Darcy,and just watched this version last night. I barely could stand to watch this version! Sussanah Harker who plays Miss Jane Bennet is not even attractive in the least,so it was unbearable to hear the woman who played the girl's mother to comment several times about how "beautiful" her daughter Jane is,or tell poor Elizabeth how she is not as beautiful as Jane,YUCK! Where in fact Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth (the second oldest sister) is MUCH prettier than the unattractive Jane!Plus this version does not even develop the romance between Jane and Mr. Bingley,it also aggravated me to no end to have this Elizabeth-Lizzy refer several times to things Mr. Darcy,was supposed to have said previously,that you never actually hear him say,in this version,but you do hear him say them in the other version! This version is 2 discs or 3 videos(which I saw) but it's just filler that didn't impress me. Give me the one disc version with Keira Knightly,that has more development of the romance and interaction between Jane and Mr. Bingley, and more of the early interaction between Lizzy and Mr. Darcy any day! I also like Donald Sutherland as the father Mr. Bennet,much better than this Mr. Bennet! Only 3 stars from me on this version!


                
If the rest of the cast could equal Colin Firth's immense range and believability, this mini-series would rate a nine.  But, too many characterizations of the supposedly offbeat supporting characters are just shallow and annoying.  And, the last hour tries to wrap all the points from the book much too quickly, including points that had never heretofore found their way into the miniseries,


                
It is commonly known that a single man in possession of a fortune must also be in desperate need to flee from this parade of gold-digging dingbats; unless of course it's a period of courtly love and artificially elevated feminine priorities, and there is otherwise no escape. It is less commonly known, but no less true, that anyone in possession of penis would do well to avoid Jane Austen products, lest his friend shrivel and he discover some newfound merit in chattering about pretty clothes, dresses and dreamy boys.There WAS a time when women's values dictated social rules, and it was in every way a match for the stupidity of the patriarchy. Countless excuses to parade clothes in front of idle bachelors. A catalog of brainless romantic values, flattery, rumor-passing, smiling, self-impressed hens, stagnant chamber music and interminable squealing at the merest mention of a "ball." It's a miracle anything got done in the 19th century. Mr Bennett had my deepest sympathy ten minutes after this started, living as he does with his many irritants. I couldn't decide which member of the Bennett family I'd prefer to strangle first. Their idiocy is overplayed, such that no one else in this milieu would endure them very long. I find it hard to imagine I occupy the same universe as people like this, even if it is 150 years later. I kept praying for an anachronistic spaceship to arrive and vaporize the Bennett household.This movie is scarcely more than a 19th century version of Batman. Put a cape on D'arcy and the point is made. The book is better, with much more intelligence shown by Elizabeth and better pacing. But the Austen cult escapes me.
