I have reads the novel and I think that the feelings that come across from the novel are exactly those that are portrayed in this video version. I think it can be said that this is the best TV version that can be made. In the novel it states that Jane is far prettier than any of her sisters. I think this is true in this version but not in many others. This film is for all those people that adore the novel like myself. Also this is a pleasant film which can relax you if you would like a nice calm film to watch... Colin Firth is like so cute and there are some very good British actors in it. I thought that Elizabeths mum was just adorable. She acted so well I would have expected her to get an award.


                
The actors, filming and music are all big pluses for this movie.  The actors are very good, and the movie is quite true to the book.  The beautiful photography and music are very enjoyable.  The thing I DIDN'T like about this movie is mainly that the Lord's name was used in vain over and over again (mostly by Lydia), and it's hard to even mute them all.  Most people are not too concerned about this these days, but I think it is a sad shame! Otherwise the movie would be one of my very favorites!


                
This is a near perfect adaptation of Ms Austen's and the English-speaking world's favourite romantic novel. A pity that it was made for 300 minutes running time rather than about 250/260 minutes, for episodes 4-6 are far too leisurely, somewhat repetitive, and severely redundant in places, eg Whickham and Lydia holed up in London. Otherwise the narrative is strong, the dialogue true to the book with some additional Andrew Davies sly observations, the direction crisp (with only one or two jarring 'visuals'), the acting excellent mostly, and the production visually stimulating and largely correct for early 19th century. There are one or two caveats - the character of Lydia is overplayed - as usual, the writer makes sure that you do notice the ridiculous plot line of Whickham running off with Lydia (this would be desertion - a hanging offence) and utterly incomprehensible, the character of Charlotte Lucas is made to suffer for her choice of Mr Collins, and Mrs Bennet is overplayed by Alison Steadman. I will pass over the fact that Susannah Harker is ridiculously pregnant throughout! But these are minor carpings as we follow Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle to their destiny together with all the misunderstandings and false starts on the way. A bravura classic from the BBC - not repeated often enough!
