Jane Austin's novel "Pride and Prejudice" is without a doubt one of my favorite books. And now, finally, it has come to the screen!! I absolutely adored this mini series, and I would recommend it to anyone. All of the characters are played brilliantly, especially Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy, and Jennifer Ehle as Lizzie Bennent. The film also has an outstanding supporting cast as well. And do not worry about it being boring, there is something exciting happening every second!!! All of the costumes, furniture, and especially scenery are beautiful, so, I encourage you, that if you have nothing to do on a rainy day, you watch this extraordinary piece of television. You will not be disappointed!!!! Enjoy!!!!!


                
Can't believe that they are making a new film version! This is the creme De la creme and anyone who knows and loves the novel would see that it as near perfect as one could get!! All the characters are fully realised and perfectly cast, down to the smallest part, for example Maria Lucas who (as far as I know) has been left out of every other adaptation! There are one or two slight script errors (which only people who have watched it one thousand times like me would spot!!) but the acting is almost flawless- special nod should go to David Bamber as Mr Collins who has jumped from Miss Austen's 'little square of ivory' direct to the screen!- and all praise to the excellent Alison Steadman and Benjamin Whitrow and there will never be a prettier Lizzy Bennet (sorry Keira!!). A two hour film could never capture what a six hour mini series can and I can only think that loads will have been missed out!In my parallel universe this would have been a film on general release and would have won the 'big five' at the Oscars for Best Picture, Director, Actress (Ehle) Actor (Firth) and adapted screenplay (Davies) as well as nods for Supporting Actor for Bamber (Whitrow would also have been nominated!) and Supporting Actress for Alison Steadman (Susannah Harker would also have been nominated!) as well as costume design make -up etc!!!


                
"Pride and Prejudice" (1995) is a BBC TV mini-series directed by Simon Langton. Pride and Prejudice is probably Jane Austen's most popular novel, and it comes to life in this film. (If you haven't read the novel, I would try to find a synopsis. The plot is complicated. Characters appear and you're not always certain where they fit in, or to whom they are related.)Jennifer Ehle portrays Elizabeth Bennet, the second of the five Bennet sisters, and the one with the most intelligence and the best grasp on reality. Susannah Harker plays Jane Bennet, also intelligent, but more gentle and loving than her younger sister. There are three other sisters, but only one of them figures prominently in the plot. Alison Steadman portrays Mrs Bennet, who is extremely foolish, but, in truth, is sometimes right.Important male characters are Benjamin Whitrow as Mr Bennet, who has not an ounce of romance in him, but respects his two older daughters.The male characters include Colin Firth as the brooding, fabulously wealth Mr. Darcy. Crispin Bonham-Carter portrays Mr. Bingley, also rich, but under Darcy's spell. Adrian Lukis is Mr. Wickham, who is able to charm everyone, until they know him better. David Bamber is the insufferable Mr. Collins.No one can deny the greatness of Jane Austen's book, and I think it will be considered a masterpiece as long as people read English novels. For IMDb, we reviewers have to review the film version of the novel. How well did the director and the actors reflect Austen's written word?I think that this version is a wonderful interpretation of the novel. The plot revolves around Elizabeth, and I think Ehle's portrayal is masterful. In the novel, she is considered attractive, but not conspicuously beautiful. (Jane is considered the great beauty.)What makes Ehle's acting wonderful is the expression in her eyes, and her beautiful smile. That smile tells us of her character. It's not a full cheerful smile--it's the smile of a woman who knows what is happening to her, and around her, and smiles in understanding.Colin Firth is an excellent actor. Maybe he broods a little too much, but who can say whether Jane Austen had that much brooding in her mind when she wrote her novel. One of our friends told us that the moment when Firth emerges from swimming in the lake, with his elegant white shirt clinging to his body, represents one of the great iconic moments of BBC television. I can accept that.We saw the film on the small screen. It was made for television, so clearly it should--and does--work well. However, if it's ever shown in a theater, I'd go to see it on the large screen. That's because the BBC production values are so high that the colors and scenery of the countryside would be shown to better advantage on a large screen.This 1995 P&P is a longer and better version of the 1980 version that I've also reviewed. However, the earlier version also has a great many good points. My suggestion--see them both.


                
I would say that this movie is probably one of my favorite adaptation of famous Jane Austen masterpiece yet. I love Jane Austen novels and the attitude that she always brings. This is a story about love,struggle, survival and acceptance. The storyline is great and powerful.The characters brings to life as Elizabeth Benneth and Mr. Darcy. The movie captures every aspect of the story line and plot. The characters of Mr. Darcy(Colin Firth)and Elizabeth(Jennifer Ehle) brought a lot of stigma and chemistry to the movie. The settings and costumes of the 19th Century Britain society is lively. The story all throughout is compelling and touching were as the details seems overwhelming. I like the way the dialogs seems so relevance and appropriate to the movie and to each other. The acting part is what gets me, it's full of connections to the characters. All throughout the movie is excellent and full of life.


                
This film adaptation of Jane Austen's classic work, ``Pride and Prejudice," is a worthy effort.  The film is very long but in this way manages to stay right with the book, which is a treat indeed.Jennifer Ehle (as "Elizabeth Bennet") and Colin Firth (as "Fitzwilliam Darcy") shine.  Both actors are perfect representations of the book's characters.  The cinematography of this film is also terrific; the houses of the Bennets, Bingleys, and Darcys are all well-done and realistic, along with the costumes.  Anyone who has enjoyed the book is sure to enjoy this miniseries; it doesn't disappoint anyone in want of a clear, precise adaptation without the Hollywood fluff.


                
For those of us who grew up reading Jane Austen, it's hard to imagine any screen version being able to truly bring to life the one story that captivated us so. But this production manages to miraculously do so.It's no secret that Collin Firth became an overnight heart-throb and the ideal personification of Mr. Darcy and rightfully so (something evidently Firth himself got quite tired of!) Firth does Darcy proud (both here and in Bridget Jones' Diary, which was loosely based on P&P.) To e fair, all the other characters are perfectly cast here as well, with Jennifer Ehle (Lizzy) being my other favorite. No other screen adaptation had come even close to the magic of the book for me before--and since.Hats off to A&E for pulling off such a magnificent and timeless feat.~NN


                
I'm sorry I ever doubted Jane Austen as a writer. After I finished reading the book for the first time, I still didn't understand why Pride and Prejudice and its creator have the mythology surrounding them. It took a viewing of this miniseries for me to see the light. Seeing the dialogue acted out opens your eyes to how screwed-up these characters' lives really are. Consequently, I was surprised by how emotional I got as it neared the end.The sisters' performances indicate straining to keep within the occupational and behavioral boxes their society assigns them. In the original text, that isn't so apparent, though I bet it was to readers back in 1813. The fact that I couldn't grasp it reading the book is more a testament to the shortcomings of my reading skills at 17 than Austen's shortcomings. I really rooted and feared for the Bennett sisters, especially during the cringetacular Collins proposal scene. It is strange that fans find Pride and Prejudice romantic. To me, it is really about the horror of living a life where your husband is likely to be vastly unpleasant and extramarital relations and divorce make you a pariah. I need to give Elizabeth and Jane credit for their intelligence. They rose above all this and stood up for their own choices as women, a theme whose importance, namely for 1813, it is easy to miss today. This is why Pride and Prejudice is a literary milestone.Needless to say, I can't find any issue with the acting. The score and production values are unbelievable; you can tell they had the utmost love for the material and cared about presenting it well. Good films and shows ought to be pleasant to look at. I have a theory that this legitimized the miniseries adaptation as an art form. If you watch BBC adaptations of novels made before 1995, they feel lackluster, stilted and embarrassed to be what they are. After 1995, the recreations of past centuries feel more and more convincing. Pride and Prejudice set an example of bringing great novels to life--no more sound stages! If they did use sound stages, I can't tell. Thanks to this miniseries, the BBC would keep bringing attention to nineteenth-century novels which might have been largely forgotten, such as North and South and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall. The list goes on and on.Unfortunately, I don't get the Darcy thing. He's not what you'd call smooth. If you can watch this as vicarious romance, you are more tolerant than I.


                
I perfectly respect the recent movie adaptation of this splendid novel, but having watched the Firth-Ehle series I must say that every other adaptation would have the towering disadvantage of the comparison to this one.Firth and Ehle made an excellent identification of the leading characters, leaving the audience realizing the inner turmoils they are going through, no-matter how reserved they appear.The battle of the sexes is brilliantly given, at an era where men were very favored by the law (the Bennet girls will lose their family estate, since they could not inherit it!!!!). Austen was clearly a feminist but she provides good arguments for her conclusions. I bought both DVDs and watched it in one day. A treat for the ones enjoying a day at home!


                
I have watched this version of Pride & Prejudice many times, and afterwards I have read the book, which I also enjoyed.The best thing about this movie was how all of the elements from the book (the scenarios, dialog, characters, etc) were interpreted to a mini-series, so that it is applicable and understandable by people like me, in the 1990's, who have a minimal understanding of English society 200 years ago.I understand that for other movies, period pieces have been adapted by putting it in a modern setting (e.g. Clueless for Austen's Emma, or Baz Lurhman's Romeo + Juliet for Shakepeare's play of the same name). What this movie did well was that the characters and settings were kept in the period that it was written for, but the interpretation was kept flexible enough to provide understanding for modern audiences. For example, more emphasis was placed on some social niceties which were required to understand why the characters reacted the way they did, or the actors played the characters in a particular way to convey how they would have been perceived in our society (case in point, Mrs. Bennet). And all this while keeping as close to the original book as possible!Thoroughly enjoyed this version, highly recommend it. Oh, and the actors playing the main characters were great! (as everyone else says hehehe)


                
This is a brilliantly played out and superbly acted movie. It may be on the long side, but you won't be bored. This movie is very funny at times. The casting is nearly perfect--there couldn't be a better Darcey and the supporting cast is wonderful. I particularly like Lydia. Jennifer Ehles is pretty good, but her Elizabeth lacks a definite personality, though that may be part of her charm. Someone like Kate Winslet would have been interesting in the part, considering her wonderful performance in Sense and Sensibility. Other than that, it is a very good adaption of Jane Austen's novel, Pride and Prejudice. It's better than the new version in the sense that everything is elegant and even the performers look better in the movie than they do normally! Definitely recommended.


                
If you've had the misfortune to view any of the BBC's previous efforts to dramatise Jane Austen's work, and have consequently experienced perhaps the torture that is their Northanger Abbey, or maybe the fair disaster that was Mansfield Park, or the purely dire Fay Weldon Pride and Prejudice, then it is conceivable that you might be now purposely avoiding this newer product of their stables, Pride and Prejudice (1995).Don't. fortunately for her fans, the 90s were sometihng of a wonderful renaissance for her works' popularity and appreciation, and this decade spawned some lovely movies of her novels (the heart warming and sharply funny 'Emma' and 'Clueless', the achingly gorgeous and subtle 'Sense and Sensibility', and the infinitely more dubious but at any rate interesting Mansfield Park) and TV adaptations (including the atmospheric "Persuasion" and 'Emma') I don't remember any of these more fondly, though, (except for maybe Clueless :)) than this wonderful realisation of Jane Austen's most enduring story. Pride and Prejudice is the ultimate Romantic Comedy:so rich and filled with wit, with characters so intricately and delightfully drawn (Austen surely acquits herself as the greatest social commentator in history) and with romance so subtle and warming, that contrary to one astounded male fan upon its' initial publishing's reaction, who was prompted to exclaim that the book was too witty, intelligent and remarkable 'to have been written by a woman', i have always thought it a book so beloved by women it could only have been written by one.Surely Screenplay writer Andrew Davies was taking on a huge risk in toying with the emotions of the literary fans of the novel when he undertook to transfer it to screen.Acting wise, the cast can hardly be faulted- excellent support from, among others, Alison Steadman as The Bennet Girl's Hysterical Mother, and Barbara Leigh-Hunt as Lady Catherine uphold the terrific comic value of the story, while standouts such as the excellent Susannah Harker as Elizabeth's angelic older sister, the charming Crispin Bonham-Carter as her lover Bingly, and Adrian Lukis as the dashing but not-all-he-seems Mr. Wickam.An instant national icon upon the serial's release, Colin Firth is superb and brooding as the proud Mr Darcy, never tipping into the trap of becoming forced or wooden. his performance is understated, emotional and yes, pd sexy. I defy anyone with female reproductive organs to not be shivering with warm feelings at the sight of the ne'er before seen smile on his lips in the final, joyous scene.The one bona fide complaint that can be made is the possible miscasting of Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennet. playing a character that personifies vivacity, wit and charm, Ehle seems distinctly uncomfortable and never seems to truly capture the lively essence of Lizzy Bennet- her performance comes across as too subdued and withdrawn. that said, her performance is by no means a failure as such, as she makes a sympathetic, very likable and pretty heroine, and, when surrounded by such a terrific, spot-on cast as this, you'll find yourself willing to forgive a great deal.not that there is much elsewhere that needs forgiving. Shot in Cinemascope (a conscious artistic decision by the directors) this film not only contains wonderful landscapes and locaitons that simply drip with the atmosphere of the period, but also looks wonderful, with its' rich tones and its' wonderful set and costume designs.add to this the beautifully assured wit, romance and awesome genius of Jane Austen, backed up by the faithful screenplay of Davies, and possibly a silly scene or two that betray a sodden or bare-backed Darcy and you've Romantic Comedy, at its' hilarious, gem-stone best.


                
I loved Pride and Prejudice. The movie did a very good job of portraying the pretension of the upper class and the pride of the lower class. They really did the book justice.The 1940's version was good but I prefer the 1995 version with Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle.I love that the continue to adapt Jane Austen's books into movies. It will allow those people that don't enjoy reading partake in classical literature anyway. I usually watch the movies on A&E whenever they come on. I recommend that you watch for them as well. Other Jane Austen movies are: Mansfield Park,Emma, and Jane Eyre. These are also very good movies.


                
While the arrival of wealthy gentlemen sends her marriage-minded mother into a frenzy, willful and opinionated Elizabeth Bennet matches wits with haughty Mr. Darcy.This co-production between the BBC and the American cable channel A&E is still considered by Jane Austen fans to be the definitive adaptation of Austen's most famous novel and her work in general.
Colin Firth, who perfectly captured the character's aristocratic refinedness, his shyness and sense of decorum that come across as apparent stuffiness and disdain, and his underlying passion, all at the same time. He perfectly blends all these different traits and is utterly convincing in portraying the outward stiffness as a simple facade for the strong emotions and character underneath, rather than simply being stiff and wooden. His looks, and especially his eyes, say so much of the complexity of his character and his feelings with subtle expressions. Similarly Jennifer Ehle excellently portrays Lizzie, showing her to be tender, witty, thoughtful, occasionally prone to strong judgments without all the information, yet trying to grapple with different feelings as her involvement with Darcy. The others are great, too, but there is no point in listing them all. The bottom line is that I find it hard to beat this production, which is utterly gripping and keeps anyone interested in these stories completely entranced the whole way through.Doing justice to Jane Austen.


                
11 March 2006. A superlative presentation of how class distinctions clashed and came together in old England along with an authentically, entertaining middle-class family experience of five daughters. The characters are rich with personality, the acting both obviously bold and at times quiet, subtle but powerful. The British etiquette and the varying levels of proper behavior and sometimes its defiant denial are well on displayed in this version of Jane Austen's novel. Even with the extended version, the plot details are sometimes difficult to follow. But overall, this delicious transport into another time and place is a fun, compelling, educational sensory experience as Jane Austen's almost updated Shakespearean presentation in a play-like staged directorial in some seems along with the opportunity to capture the richness of on-location scenes the vividly capture the opulence of the British aristocracy. Nine of out Ten Stars.


                
Wonderful adaptation. 9 instead of 10 because of the irritating, one note performance of Alison Steadman as Mrs Bennett. Her entire career has been sustained by such caricature choices as an actress. Why was she cast?


                
Having first read the book a little over a year ago and currently re-reading it, I thought I would try this version first. Having been seriously disappointed with a lot of Dickens that has been adapted for the small screen, this is a revelation. It sticks faithfully to the book for much of the time and lifts decent chunks of text from it as well. No tricks, changes or gimmicks have been introduced, leaving us to enjoy the authors work as it was intended. It has been said before, but the other revelation is the casting. I have come to the conclusion that the best TV and film in any genre, is a combination of good writing and good casting. Colin Firth captures Darcy perfectly and other highlights for me are David Bamber as the excruciating Mr Collins and Benjamin Whitrow as a perfect foil for his wife, Mrs Bennets 'nerves'. I only wish that Judy Parfitt had been cast as Catherine De Bourgh as the portrayal here doesn't quite convey the force of nature that she so obviously is in the book. I enjoyed this hugely and although looking slightly dated on Netflix, the old crop ratio and grainy quality certainly give it some atmosphere. In HD & widescreen, the grand locations would have been done full justice and it would have looked as fantastic as well.


                
The first thing I would like to say is the I love Colin Firth. I think he is an amazing actor and he was amazing a Darcy. In fact I think that all of the actors and actresses did a wonderful job. I think that Pride and Prejudice is possibley the best book I have ever read and I fell in love with the characters and certain scenes from the book and was delighted to see that they had transitioned well onto the screen. I would love to give this series a ten, but there is one thing that I couldn't get over. In the books Elizabeth is only 20 and Darcy is around 26. The actors where to old!!! I'm not sure if anyone but Colin Firth could have done so well as Darcy, but Elizabeth looked 30, and Jane the same age. Another thing that bothered me was Jane. While Susannah Harker is pretty, she isn't breath-taking. Some of the casting that was done I found disappointing, and not true to the books. However, they all played there parts so well that it didn't really take me that out of the movie (I got the DVD set) and all in all this is an excellent series! Capital!


                
At last in 1995 for the first time appeared a definite screen version of Pride and Prejudice making justice to the remarkable Jane Austen masterpiece in which epoch and spirit of the novel have been carefully reproduced. Filmed as a 6-episode miniseries 1995 P&P features a fine acting cast. Particularly I've enjoyed a very subtle performance of Colin Firth as a leading male character Mr. Darcy. It was director Simon Langton's good luck that he chose Colin Firth to play Darcy because he made him very close to the literary hero.Unfortunately performance of Jennifer Ehle as the second half of the romantic duo, Elizabeth Bennet, doesn't distinguish itself with subtlety so characteristic to Colin Firth's portrayal. Besides Jennifer Ehle lacks grace in her manners and appearance. When I look at her I can't get rid of a feeling that in front of me isn't an 18th century English lady but energetic modern American female dressed in jeans and sneakers.The actress who would make an ideal Lizzy was in my opinion Vivien Leigh. She was witty, noble romantically unselfish: the character traits she shared with Jane Austen's heroine. Moreover Vivien Leigh had unsurpassed ability to create a laconic screen characterization. She didn't need words to give a spectator an absolute notion of her heroine, her eyes could transfer smile, joy, laughter, hope, suffering, her movements were full of grace and expressiveness. Having said all this I realize how difficult is to find an actress comparable to her because of the unique nature of her talent.Mr. & Mrs. Bennet ( Benjamin Whitrow and Alison Steadman ), Mr. Collins ( David Bamber ) and Lady Catherine de Bourgh ( Barbara Leigh-Hunt ) are the most outstanding actors in a strong supporting cast. Though there have been a few performances that were not up to par. Miss Bingley and the youngest Miss Bennet (Anna Chancellor and Julia Sawalha) look overdone and Mr. Wickham (Adrian Lukis) is too dull and doesn't have enough male charm for suave fortune hunter.Jane Bennet ( Susannah Harker ), Elizabeth's elder sister is a type of character common for Jane Austen novels. She is a kind reasonable girl capable of intense feelings, which she is able to suppress and hide from the others. Susannah Harker for the most part succeeds in bringing Jane to life; she is graceful delicate creature who always tries to think of people better than they deserve. But in several key scenes calling for her ability to make a spectator aware of the intense emotions her heroine experiences and at the same time to leave other characters in the scene ignorant about her feelings Susannah fails to talk directly to the audience. It becomes particularly obvious when you compare her performance with Emma Thompson's brilliant portrayal of Elinor in the recent adaptation of the other Jane Austen's novel Sense and Sensibility.In the conclusion I want to mention the excellent work of director Simon Langton, screenplay Andrew Davies and composer Carl Davis. Without them Pride and Prejudice could never be as good as it is.


                
