The basic premise of ERASED is not totally unique - Time Travel. There has been a lot of movies and shows based on this concept but ERASED stands apart for several reasons. 1) Pace:: The anime moves at a soothing pace. It's neither too fast nor too slow, but ideal and so, it never gets boring or too hard to follow.2) Character Development:: There are a lot of anime in which even after watching 100-200 episodes, one would never feel empathetic with the characters. But in ERASED, even from episode 1, all the characters seem so real and you would really feel connected with at least one of them.3) Narration:: This is one of the few anime which shows the lead character thinking out his strategy. Like Code Geass and Death Note, you will get a clear picture about the insights.4) Animation Quality:: It has one of the best screenplays! There is also a lot of attention to details and colors are used very effectively to convey the message / emotions of the characters. It is definitely worth a watch, especially given that it is a short series.


                
Anime is simply amazing...In less words.It has a great plot and the in very first episode you will love the main character and his uniqueness.While watching anime you will be getting the feeling of watching a movie this the first i've seen which delivers that.There are scenes which will make at the edge of the seat before you know it.The voice actor of the protagonist (Shinnosuke Mitsushima) was his debut and he nailed it and he deserves a special applause.This anime will keep your mind in the story till the end of the episode and that's a big thing.It has great opening and ending song even though i don't understand Japanese the songs are good to hear.Their are no negatives i can point out in the anime.Art is great and it has nice background music.Anime overall is a must watch anime if you are looking for something good!! there hasn't been anime like this in a while..Must watch! :-)


                
Everything about this anime has a unique atmosphere which you can feel from the first episode.Story: Some people like to compare this anime to Stein's Gate because it involves some time traveling. Other people wondered about the mystery and crime genre and compared it to Death Note. This anime is neither of them. It doesn't revolve around time traveling as the main idea or the plot of the story. Also, it doesn't involve that much darkness and crime twist as Death Note. It is about loneliness and friendship, courage and hesitation, evil and good, family and abuse; It is about a lot.Art: The art in the anime is much better than the manga. It is also somehow unique than other animes I 've watched. You will unlikely to find mistakes while watching that may disturb you. The art is very well done.Sound: It just got me in the story. I didn't feel that there is a SOUND being played. I just felt the story going before my eyes while I am feeling it.Characters: I felt the characters as they're real. Actually, I think the characters are taken from real persons. The characters, their backgrounds, feelings and complications are very well put. You can watch the character grow up and evolve as you march through the anime.Enjoyment: YOU WILL NEVER GET BORED WATCHING THIS ANIME.Overall: I gave this anime 10/10


                
up till this point i have not bothered having an account on IMDb, but after seeing this anime i just had to make make a review, its just that good!the plot keeps you on the edge of your toes the whole time while the protagonist tries to change the unfortunate events from the past and present. the character development is amazing and you grow more and more attached to the characters as the time moves toward the darker and terrible events. There are moment in the anime which are utterly heartwrenching and other which make you feel happily warm inside. The music is just fantastic and sets the mood where it needs to be while also using silence to great effect.The similar themed anime called steins gate was a damn near perfect series, but Boku dake ga Inai Machi is just THAT much better.i give it 10 out of 10 a must watch for every anime fan with a taste for mature and thoughtprovoking plots.


                
ERASED also known as Boku dake gai Inai Machi is the breakout winter hit for 2016 based on the manga by the same name. Going into this series I was largely skeptical, between Aniplex as a business souring me on shows produced by them, the show's director being the same who did Sword Art Online adding to that a time travel plot I was set up for this to be a failure. The only thing this had going for me was hopefully a passable Yuki Kajiura score. From episode one I was already hooked and as the series continued on I was immensely pulled in by the strong atmosphere and strongly woven mystery.Time travel usually falls along one of two plot lines, set-right-what-once-went-wrong or change the future sometimes with overlap of both. In the case of Erased we have an overlap as our main character Satoru goes back to his past to rewrite the wrongs of history to solve a kidnapping he feels partly responsible for, for not doing enough to possibly prevent it in the first place and help a friend who was set up to take the fall for such a crime. Through the course of several episodes we see him craftily work out tactics as a grown man occupying the body of his 10-year-old-self. Slowly but surely he has to make a connection with Kayo, a seemingly cold and distant person but finding out she's a girl hiding incredible amount of pain in her life.As the episodes progress the series really is less about the time travel and more about a kid trying to do the right thing, even if that kid is really an adult. If not for the clever visual reminders and the ongoing mystery of the future which propels Satoru back in time, it would be easy to forget this is supposed to be a time traveling mystery.If the show has a few shortcomings it does unfortunately suffer slightly by it's short length. With a 12 episode count a good chunk of the story is focused on Satoru's efforts to save his classmate, Kayo Hinazuki from a grim fate and terrible home life while the other victims of the story largely come in and are quickly resolved. The who-done-it aspect of the mystery might not hold you for long thanks to some fairly obvious clues and hints but then again plenty of red herrings can keep you guessing all the same.The finale does bring some good emotional closure but as it is but felt rather rushed and anti-climactic as a culmination of 11 episodes worth of suspense and buildup. In spite of the flaw the dramatic pathos and tight scripting of the series as a whole should keep you engaged consistently.The animation by A-1 Pictures is quality with many good uses of symbolism in its art, color design and cinematography. The art of the manga is evolved to fluid and dynamic looking animation with clean looking character designs making them adaptable and distinguishable.Yuki Kajiura's music shapes up to make a good atmospheric score using her usual blend of synth and real instruments to mix and match mood of the series highs and lows. The opening theme provided by Asian-Kung-Fu Generation feels like a standard rock song but with a few listens manages to mesh decently into the series as a whole. The ending by Sayuri is a song bolstered by a good melody written by the accomplished Kajiura but hampered by a poor arrangement by Ryou Eguchi.ERASED in the end proves to be a gripping thriller filled with many emotional twits and turns and will leave you consistently on the edge of your seat. A few shortcomings aside I can't deny it had me biting my nails through most of it and I highly recommend it.


                
Erased started out as a very interesting decent anime. It already had gotten attention on just episode one. But it made insane progress on MyAnimeList. On merely episode two it was already rising through the ranks of MyAnimeList. By episode three it was already within the top 20 of the website, and with the release of episodes 4 and 5, it broke through the top TEN, an incredibly rare occasion considering the numerous episodes and efforts put into the other classic shows (such as Your Lie in April or even Code Geass). As I type this up now, with the show having 7 episodes, it is already at 6th place, threatening to overtake the legendary Hunter V. Hunter! Even though it is based on a manga, and its pace may feel a bit quick, it is still excellent for a 12-episode anime. With a very nice soundtrack and voicing, along with beautiful scenes combined with the very tense plot along with good characters, this anime brings the manga to life! With a less obvious display of the murderer than the manga, and with full suspense making the watcher want to know more, tortured by the weekly cliffhanger, Erased is looking to be one of the best anime of 2016--if not of all time! You should watch it if you like murder mystery, mind-games, psychology, tension, along with some supernatural powers.Even so, be warned that the anime is not perfect. The ending may disappoint some who were expecting a red herring-- but those who have read the manga will not be surprised. Even so, the overall characters are in-depth, the tension is taut, and this anime is very good.FYI: the highest this anime has been was in 4th place, threatening to overtake Gintama and/or Steins;Gate!


                
I've just recently started watching animes and after watching this one, I don't think I'll be able to enjoy the others as much. This is truly a masterpiece. The first episode alone will keep you hooked for the rest of the series. It's such an interesting and psychologically provocative story that will play with your feels, making you experience all sorts of emotions and keeping you on the edge of your seat while you watch as the narrative unfolds. It has beautiful animations, deep and really lovable characters and it touches on the subject of "Time Travel", which is almost always done wrong, but done perfectly well in this one. I don't want to spoil anything, I just think everyone should watch this and enjoy their well spent time whilst doing it.


                
It is very good. It's worth a watch. But is a bit overrated.


                
So right from the description I knew this was going to be good, and as predicted I was dead on(at least for my tastes). This is one of the best titles I've seen yet. In ever aspect, the story is just spectacular, artwork & character designs are appealing, music is great. I have no real flaws with this as a person who has only seen the anime that is, apparently the manga has much more detail towards the later of the show but from what it shows I think it does just fine. This show gave me a feeling of Steins;Gate & Death Note. It was very well thought out & makes you think, every single episode leaves you with suspense that could kill. For me there's nothing else to even say. Don't look up any details about this, just watch it & you will not be disappointed.4.8/5 Why? Its spectacular, the story is so good. Every episode leaves you dying to watch the next. Artwork & animation is great. Music is awesome, the OP & ED are so catchy you can listen to them for days without tiring. All the characters are great. Its so close to perfection for me, my only wish (not a complaint) is that they would have just given it another 1-2 episodes & included the details that were missing from the manga. But even with that being said its perfectly fine the way it was done. I can almost guarantee anyone that watches this will enjoy it very much, & go on to add this to one of there all time favorites.


                
This anime? Man Is there a perfect definition of word "Awesome" available on the internet? I am sure it wont be enough to describe this Anime "Boku Dake Ga Inai Machi" aka "Erased".I am not gonna describe everything of it! Just gonna say some words- "If you liked Death Note, then you'll love this".Now move your lazy as* and go watch that series!But beware!!! After the latest episode you wont be able to resist the temptation of watching the whole series or reading the whole manga in one go!Lets see how much suspense you can handle!


                
MORE REVIEWS AT booksequalhappiness.blogspot.comThis anime was pretty interesting. It reminded me of the movie "The Butterfly Effect" starring Ashton Kutcher but with a cheerier ending. It was entertaining to watch especially if you don't know anything that will happen (please, don't spoil yourself before watching the whole anime). I liked the bonds that developed between the characters. They were a fun bunch and they helped each other a lot. I didn't give this a higher rating because I didn't feel much of a surprise with the twist. I was like, 'Oh, okay' and then the story went on. There wasn't much back story as to why certain things happened. I felt like there was something missing with the revelation.


                
Erased is one of my favorite anime. It is so natural and real. This has a strong message about Believing which itself a metaphor of hope and will. It may be turf for someone to understand the whole premises first but I advise that please float straight obtained to the stream and you will find all the answers. The Animation is actually soothing and the story really catches my nerves. here I am mentioning the plus points of this anime1. It is so realistic in its story, characters and screenplays 2. The Hero is pretty much suitable with the stream as he is as normal as other human beings. He takes his lessons from his faults and that is the key of his success 3. The musics, textures and special mentioning the OP is really great. 4. The messages that it throws to our society are really spell bounding. 5. Mental and Relational strong Bonding between characters.(Mother- son) 6. And lots more.It says when a man lost his all hopes and doesn't want to stand again against his problems, then he have to ruminate the smiling face of his close peoples whom for he is OK on this earth and thus give him the sprite of fighting again.(I think this message is really needed into our present society) (Here I am Putting my own opinion about its realism. So I mention Death Note Anime....Please don't misunderstood me. It is on purpose)we know Death Note is another mystic Anime but if you just thought about the main protagonists of that anime for a minute, you can come to the point that they are actually supernaturally talented who barely do any faults, that is coincidental and unrealistic. It has no good for us as they are not normal. But for this anime the main protagonist is nothing but a simple man who gets success by doing faults. So for this reason it is real and super that can inspire some people at least.Thanks for paying your time to read this. I know I bring forth many commotion facts that may be offensive for you but I request you to compromise with the fact. Thanks Again.


                
Predominantly thriller it is a multi genre anime (supernatural,time- travel,psychological,love,crime and school). The plot is phenomenal very unique and well encapsulated. The characters are all intelligent(typical Japanese) and have different personalities,aura and kindness level the story is told from the perspective of a 29 year old Satouro Fujinama He is a struggling Manga artist and works past time in a pizza store. He develops a friendly relationship with 17 year old high school co worker there. He has a supernatural ability which he calls revival in which he relives his past and his actions can change/prevent the outcome/disaster. It gets pretty interesting when his mother discovers that the case about the mass abductions from when Satouro was a 5th grader had a totally different story than concluded by police, but Satouro had forgotten most of that. Same day she gets murdered and Satouro gets framed for that. Running from the police Satouro gets a rather long revival where he is now living as a grade schooler. It is now up to him to save his mother and do the justice.Another major character is Hinazuki about whom I will be mysterious so as not to spoil it for you. MUST WATCH <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+0097> THIS IS AN IDEAL THRILLER. Warning it is a little sad but no ideal thriller is possible without that *sigh
It is a great anime for those who are searching for something to see , actually. I dare say it is the best anime I've ever seen , the drama, the characters, the mystery involving the whole context , and develop the story, give a unique feature that leaves you stuck to discover WHAT happened and WHAT can happen , few anime new seasons bring this particularity personally recommend ! you will be amazed at the powers and dejavus that happen and how the story goes quickly and with a lot of content , and for those who are already watching , we have some theories? let your ideas of what is happening in this amazing work !!! do not forget to rate! this anime deserves pass too !
How I felt about the characters?Now, coming to a very important part of the anime; the characters. The characters turned out to be bland and puppets made of clay moulding themselves to the convenience of the story. The anime fell short of characters which aren't so good like you remember them forever like Light Yagami( Death note) and Natsu Dragneed, Happy and Gray (Fairytail). The viewer doesn't feel at home with the characters. They sometimes behave awkward with respect to their ages too.The 29 year old Satoru was boring and wasn't interesting at all while his childhood self was lively and happy because of his friend Yuuki, a friend of his way elder to him but was always good to Satoru. I never understood why he becomes dull in the present.Kayo Hinazuki, the first girl out of the three girls who go missing and found murdered was abused by her mother. The depiction of the scenes was mortifying and moved me. But Kayo was one character I liked a lot. She is simple naive and was in need for a friend. Satoru was a support for her through her bad times. But, sometimes I felt that Kayo's character and back-story had little to do with the story.Sachiko Hinazuki, Satoru's mother; she is one caring mother. Honest with her son and supports him with what he wants to do! She could've been the mother of the year (if and only if my mom wouldn't participate)The villain had a little screen space for himself too but we still don't get a complete picture of him.Lines on the StorylineHere I can assure you that I won't divulge any details that would hamper the Erased experience!The series has a light humour where Satoru talks stuff out loud which he was just thinking placing him in awkward situations.The characters sometimes seem too mature for their age. I don't think Satoru's friends (11 year olds) would help him in all his endaevours. They are kids after-all, they don't have huge attention spans and kids fool around which they seldom do! While Satoru behaves like a kid sometimes even though he has the maturity of a grownup. A grown-up wouldn't trust just anybody who is sweet.Kayo was given a lot of screen space. But there was no back-story or anything much related to the other two victims! They just have about two episodes with very little mentions for each of them.The series seemed hushed and was finished just so that the story could be wrapped up in 12 episodes. I felt that a 16 episode series would've done justice to this anime.The story becomes a little boring around the 8th episode. The story goes on like a flip-book made by a twelve year old!There is no mention of Yuuki who was the primary suspect of the missing girls. I vouched something good happens to him and I am left with an empty void as to what happened to him.Now, the villain. He/she wasn't portrayed quite well. His/her character seemed to contradict his actions. There wasn't any real reason shown for him/her (I'm not giving you a clue about the villain).The motive isn't quite clear and satisfactory too.Now we come to the last two episodes of the anime and then again bang! The tempo is raised and heart-beat rises and you are left in awe.After a while when you reminisce, that's when you would feel the little shortcomings in this anime.What I thought of the animeNow that I warmed you up, or rather I think I warmed you up. Here is what I thought of the anime.Just as much I am full of praise of the first three episodes, I could praise it until the 7th episode. The story becomes hazy, the pace becomes too fast with very less descriptions and loses the charm it held. Well not all of it, but only in a few aspects.The art and the animation of the anime seemed apt and perfect for the setting and themes in this anime. The backgrounds and the light shades of colour are pleasing to the eye and also the expressions and the drawings of the characters were great except, whenever I saw Satoru's mothers pout always made me cringe.The music and the opening song is very pleasant and I would like to download the opening track and add it to my albums!It falls short with it's original theme as a psychological thriller too.It story is in bits and pieces which haven't been merged properly with thin strands of logic connecting each other but barely.The over-all series is just alright, thanks to the climax that spiked a little interest back into the story.Would I recommend it? Well, it is a good anime and could be in the best anime in the year, but I would say that you could add it to your must watch list, but not necessarily in the top.Oh! Before I forget, If you felt that I missed out something or would like to know more about this post, please do let me know!!


                
I was gonna give this a 6/10. But made it a 7/10.Now, what can I say about this? Well, the beginning was intriguing and great. I knew there was good potential for this to be the greatest winter anime of 2016! I was hooked and binge watched all the episodes that were released! (I didn't watch when it released, only when there were 5 episodes available at the time and I loved it.) And barely any show can do that to me! I'm working on my own thing currently and I made time for this show. There were so many things going great! Until episode 10 came along. Not gonna spoil anything, but if you were to watch it? And yeah, you should. But personally? No. The ship didn't sink, but no doubt it was damaged. (A methapor to saying it had a good start until that episode, just to clarify that. And might mean something else too now that I think about it. But a ship that totally sunk. Now that's a spoiler.) Anyway, I thought they were gonna do something around episode 11 and it didn't happen the way I wanted. But granted, episode 11 was intriguing and it seemed like the first episode? Dunno. It strangely made me feel like there was more to go on is what I'm trying to say, but we are nearing the end and I know it won't be good since I have the feeling that it could've been longer and done better.So, episode 12 happens and there you have it. Now, some might not like what happened from then on. (Just like me.) But I gotta say? It wasn't that bad. You may feel mixed around episode 10 or maybe 9 for that matter, but I suggest you should watch it if there isn't anything good on and you haven't watched it.Regarding the ending too. (This is for those who watched the show.) Some of you that may have not liked it. But it sort of adds realism. This isn't a fairy tale or fantasy even though it has elements. This show was going for that realism and sadly they failed in my opinion. And you might agree too. But I would love to see that more and rightfully done in future stories. May it be in a book/TV show/movie or whatever.


                
This anime opens in 2006 where protagonist Satoru Fujinuma has a strange power; if he witnesses something bad happening he travels back in time to just before it happens so he can prevent it happening. Typically he goes back a couple of minutes but after his mother is murdered, shortly after reminding him of a crime that happened when he was a child, and he is accused of killing her he finds himself back in 1988 when he is still in elementary school. The date seems relevant; a few days before Kayo Hinazuki, a girl in his class, had been kidnapped and murdered; he is determined that he will befriend and save her and in doing so hopefully have his mother as well. As the series progresses he will have to relive painful moments before learning who the killer is and in doing so he will but himself in real danger.This is a contender for the best anime of the season; the central idea works surprisingly well and one can't help but feel for Satoru as he struggles to save his mother, Kayo Hinazuki and other potential victims. The story is told in a gripping way and the fact that he occasionally jumps back in time means that he has to see them die again before he can save them. As the end approaches there is a feeling that the price of saving others could ultimately be his own life. The end isn't this bleak; some may even find it a bit of a cop out, but I felt it worked well enough. The characters are mostly likable, there are however some deliberately unpleasant characters; most notably Kayo's mother who routinely mistreats her. The series looks really good; beautifully capturing the downbeat nature of much of the story. I'd definitely recommend this to all anime fans as it is one of the best series I've seen in a while.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
Anyone saying this was a above 3/10 was either payed or edited!The show introduced a similar concept to Steins gate where the protagonist is able to change the future. However, this story has more focus on an event that happens in the past. Ever wondered what you would do as your 10 year old self if you had all the knowledge you have now? This series delves into that. It really had something going until it was going to reveal the bad guy. The series continuously laid out obvous hints on who the bad one was, which is why it really shouldn't be that person... which it was. From there it was just a matter of lack of excitement. The "thrill" when it comes to the fight between the protagonist and the antagonist was just so freaking bad I wanted to grab the nearest knife and commit sepukku. And it was just so disappointing to learn that the killer was nothing but an unrelatable psychopath.


                
Absolutely amazing and heartfelt show! Would recommend.


                
At this time most of shows are just run for next season but that not here this is a straight story that impress. Time jump to thriller and suspense. And even I watch this one time it is too cute story I watch this again. Live adaptation also happen but that does not touch this masterpiece.It gives you almost 3 different live of same person and a suspense that wait for you. You just see it yourself.Look I m Indian and watch this series in Japanese with English sub and watch this again and it stun me every and I understand everything in first time also now I looking for this kind of anime but never found one. I never gives a review expect if it is too good or too bad this is too bad may be after raid 2 this is only one which I like to said some thing about.


                
1) TIME RESETS MAKE NO SENSE. Just look how there is absolutely no consistency amongst them.2) THE PROTAGONIST HAS NO STEADY MOTIVATIONS. They change in every episode with no rhyme or reason, something the fan boys didn't notice because he is a bland self-insert who can be anything and anyone at any given moment. I mean did you even see how generic his face is? Take all faces A1 Pictures animated from light novels and compare them. They are the exact same one, featureless face!3) PLOT CONVENIENCES. Many events happen seemingly by chance and end up affecting the plot considerably. No proper mystery or thriller should be so reliant on chance because it cheapens what it's trying to accomplish.4) THE PROTAGONIST'S REASONING MAKES ABSOLUTELY NO SENSE.He runs away from the police, thus incriminating himself for no reason. The fan boys excuse it as him panicking because of the murder of his mother, thus he wasn't thinking reasonably. If that is the case, why is he STILL running away from the police after he returns to the present? He is calm now, and thinks reasonably. Hell, he spends half the episode playing with children out in the open for everybody to see, and then goes to chat in a public cafeteria full of people. Seems like he is not afraid of being seen, right? But when police officers arrive, he is running away again. What is this bull?He assumes that he can save his mother by saving a little girl, the two of which have absolutely nothing to do with each other, just because he is at the time when the murders began. Well, thank goodness nothing else happened in the world that year, or he might have arbitrarily assumed he would have to do something completely different.5) THE MYSTERY ASPECT OF THE SHOW IS COMPLETE GARBAGE. 6) FAKE TENSION WITH CLIFFHANGERS. Every episode ends with a cliffhanger that makes the average viewer wanting to find out what will happen next. The problem here is that what follows the cliffhangers is a dud. It is always something anti-climactic or completely stupid. The show systematically tries to undo consequences or hide its plot conveniences with cliffhangers that are too obvious to spot when you marathon the show. 7) VICTIMIZING GALORE. A one dimensional evil parent hits while laughing her own child for forced drama. - No fan boys, saying this happens all the time in real life does not make it any less forced. - Let's have the girl being bullied at school as well. No reason to assume the more victimizing they throw at you, the more absurd it becomes.8) PLOT INDUCED STUPIDITY.9) PEDOPHILIA, AS THE PROTAGONIST IS SEXUALLY ATTRACTED TO A LITTLE GIRL. No fan boys, just because his body is 10 years old, does not make his brain not 30 years old. And nobody knowing he is not really a child does makes him not pedo. Pleading ignorance does not pass in court. Oh, sorry officer, I thought I could have sex with 10 year old because I'm a time traveler.10) ONE DIMENSIONAL EVIL CHARACTERS. 11) AWFUL TIME SKIP. Any hints of logic the show had, are completely gone when a time skip takes place in the last episodes. 12) UNDEFINED FOCUS. This show has no idea of what it's trying to be about, leading to a complete lack of identity. This is evident in how the fanboys were gradually changing their opinion of the show, every time something was disappointing them. SO WHY THE DEVIL WAS THIS SHOW SO HYPED AND ADORED BY EVERYBODY? Erased fails in everything besides emotional manipulation. It had a premise where a good heart ed man tries to save his mother and a cute girl the viewers feel sorry for. As soon as both these issues were solved in episode 9, the interest in the show immediately evaporated and what followed was a bullshit killer revelation and a retarded time skip nobody could take seriously.Basically, while the show was using forced drama and a sickening romance between a man and a little girl, everybody was blinded to its problems. The second those were dealt with, they instantly woke up and realized it was crap all along. The whole thing is yet another example of why crap like Sword Art Online become super hyped and loved by everybody while they air, and then are hated as soon as they are over. The anime community is a cesspool of immature people who can't think straight and let emotions cloud their perception. And then some wonder why Donald Trump is so adored for all the ridiculous things he does. Faith in humanity, lost.
If you don't watch this series right now.It is flabbergasting how an anime that is only 12 episodes long can leave such a profound impact upon closure. Everything in this series, from the contemporary manga style, sharp dialogue (thanks in part to an excellent English dub landing it on Netflix) and diverse themes to the very last haunting acoustic guitar riff that simmers on during the epilogue, is played pitch perfectly to create an instant classic.The character writing in particular deserves a special credit, so Taku Kishimoto, eat your heart out. What this series does better than any is placing Satoru's character development at the eye of the storm; really honing in on the internal conflict and as a result, attaining an incredible level of focus that seems unrivalled in its medium. This does two things; 1) it creates an urgency to his actions beyond that achievable with an ensemble cast and 2) it makes us empathise the consequences, both good or bad, with a much higher stake. Together with the sardonic and razor sharp internal monologue, y'all better get your tickets to this masterclass in character writing.Goes without saying, but the story and premise is all time. I reckon it's a series that'll leave you thinking about it for a while.9/10Notes:"Did I say that out loud?" - a little overused.
"Witch." - classic call.
Hiromi is a dude.


                
This is a great show. Stellar. Erased is well written, entertaining, and emotional. I haven't seen it since 2016 and yet I vividly remember it.Erased is about a young man named satoru (if I remember well enough). He's serious and a bit cynical. He's in his late 20's, works at a pizza shop, has no girlfriend, and wants to become a mangaka. He also has the ability to prevent death. By the power of time travel. Everytime someone nearby dies he's sent 5 minutes into the past repeatedly until it's prevented. Wild ride so far. But get this: one day, he's sent back a bit further than 5 minutes to prevent a death. Thus begins the wild adventures of a dude, along with many friends, to save someone's life. (If I made it sound like a comedy funfest it's way more serious then that).I won't go into too much detail that everyone else has gotten into. The characters are likable, they develop, the pacing is pretty good, the setting's cool, and there are nice, strong emotional moments. This is one of the best anime's I've ever seen. Gold star. (I swear to god if you haven't seen this already then don't spoil yourself and go watch it I beg of you). I am an incredibly picky person, but not too picky to not absolutely adore this show.That being said, it is not perfect. I gotta say that it's flaws don't really hinder the experience. But, to point out what I think it's flaws are: (spoilers lmao, not in order of importance)the villain was sorta obvious. I'm an absolute dumbass but I could tell right when satoru had a deep conversation with him that somethin' was offspeaking of mr. villain remember how I said the characters seemed really human? No? Well that's because in this anime I don't get this guy's motive, his reasoning. His backstory + some more details are in the manga FYI. (I recommend)the big finale wasn't that big. All went down in less than 10 minutes tops. Confrontation on rooftop, attempted murder, then whoopsies haha I landed on an airbag I sure tricked you there mr. Villain. We heard everything. Sorry for bringing the manga up but it really had a more climactic ending. I was fine with the anime ending though. It's alright. Got really intense actually. I enjoyed it.in the manga red coat girl (forgot her name sorry) still goes to satorus school after moving in with grandma. In the anime she has to leave and that's it. Bye amigo. I thought that since the manga kept her around longer it did their relationship better, ya know. Longer time spent bonding the better. (You know what I think it was Kayo) In general there were small details I'd like to see in the anime.the anime only showcases satoru saving people with his travel powers like once before the main plot kicks off. In the manga (sorry) he saves someone like three times, with the help of nice pizza girl whose name I forgot (probably aoi or something) who also showed up moreI'm thinking maybe it would do better with a few more episodes. Maybe like 3. Or just go all the way and make it one of those 15 - 20 episode anime's. It doesn't suffer too bad cause of its length though.Well I think that's it. Overall, a good experience. 9.5/10. It's only flaws are what could be improved upon. (Adding a .5 for the anime not giving present Mr. villain an ugly beard like in the manga, I only watch my villains when they're hot lmao) go see this show it's great.
Excellent sci-fi anime
I didn't see the quality anime for long time
If you want to find exiting story
And the beautiful pictures
I recommend it
Go to watching
thank you


                
Good to watching.
Really good exciting anime
The pictures is so beautiful and cute


                
