Things that are bad about this show,The poorly written and underutilized ages of the characters. The main character is 29, but there are countless frustrating moments where he acts like a child when he really shouldn't be. Yeah there are parts where he has to pretend to be his younger self, but for the most part he acts like a child and not an adult pretending to be a child. He even falls kind of in love with a little girl. Yes, she doesn't know he is really an adult, but he does. Honestly the concept of a person being put into his past self is extremely underutilized because the writing is too bad. Also, there are a lot of scenes where the actual children act way smarter than they should be. Also, also, someone should tell the writers that being physically and mentally abused doesn't make you smarter and more mature. The villain. The villain is easily guessed the second he was onscreen. He is so incredibly obvious, that I initially thought that he was supposed to be a red herring. This wouldn't be too big of a problem, but its played off like it was supposed to be a surprise. If it had been confirmed at the beginning, and the audience followed both the protagonist and the villain throughout the show, then that would've worked better. Or they could've just made it harder for the audience to guess the villain. Honestly this could've been much more interesting without the failed attempt of making this a murder mystery.The time travel. While no explanation is often better than a bad explanation, it kind of bugs me that they did not explain how the time travel works. They didn't really need a reason for how he can do it, but maybe more on how it works? Or anything? I don't really mind it being there as its just a plot device, and this particular point is more of a nitpick, but the overall explanation for this could've been better.The sound design. The audio for this show is pretty bad. Audio queues are loud, overbearing, and hilariously cheesy. One example is when the protagonist's mother is stabbed (this isn't a spoiler it happens in episode one) the sound effect was really weird and awkward and I just burst out laughing because it sounded so stupid. (Some other things wrong with that scene, there is a continuity error where her stab wound changes locations. Also the mother doesn't yell or try to fight off the assailant, or doing literally anything to alert people that her life is in danger.)NO ONE CALLS THE POLICE! There are so many scenes that wouldn't have happened if someone just called the police. In episode one, the mother finds some evidence for an investigation and instead of calling the police so that they can at least help figure it out, she investigates on her own and ends up dead. (Pretty sure that she knew that her life was in danger at that time as well, but I'm not checking. She still should've called the police regardless based on everything else she knew.) Also there are a lot of scenes where people say that they won't call CPS or the police on an abusive mother because it would "cause quite a stir" and other nonsense like that. If a child is being abused, and there is a ton of obvious proof, you should call the police. the whole point is that the situation is disrupted. That evil mother. There is an abusive mother in this show. She is a sadistic, cartoonish, over-the-top evil abuser who constantly attacks her daughter and is one of the worst characters I've ever seen. Guess what this show tries to do. IT TRIES TO GET YOU TO SYMPATHIZE WITH HER.


                
