MORE REVIEWS AT booksequalhappiness.blogspot.comThis anime was pretty interesting. It reminded me of the movie "The Butterfly Effect" starring Ashton Kutcher but with a cheerier ending. It was entertaining to watch especially if you don't know anything that will happen (please, don't spoil yourself before watching the whole anime). I liked the bonds that developed between the characters. They were a fun bunch and they helped each other a lot. I didn't give this a higher rating because I didn't feel much of a surprise with the twist. I was like, 'Oh, okay' and then the story went on. There wasn't much back story as to why certain things happened. I felt like there was something missing with the revelation.


                
How I felt about the characters?Now, coming to a very important part of the anime; the characters. The characters turned out to be bland and puppets made of clay moulding themselves to the convenience of the story. The anime fell short of characters which aren't so good like you remember them forever like Light Yagami( Death note) and Natsu Dragneed, Happy and Gray (Fairytail). The viewer doesn't feel at home with the characters. They sometimes behave awkward with respect to their ages too.The 29 year old Satoru was boring and wasn't interesting at all while his childhood self was lively and happy because of his friend Yuuki, a friend of his way elder to him but was always good to Satoru. I never understood why he becomes dull in the present.Kayo Hinazuki, the first girl out of the three girls who go missing and found murdered was abused by her mother. The depiction of the scenes was mortifying and moved me. But Kayo was one character I liked a lot. She is simple naive and was in need for a friend. Satoru was a support for her through her bad times. But, sometimes I felt that Kayo's character and back-story had little to do with the story.Sachiko Hinazuki, Satoru's mother; she is one caring mother. Honest with her son and supports him with what he wants to do! She could've been the mother of the year (if and only if my mom wouldn't participate)The villain had a little screen space for himself too but we still don't get a complete picture of him.Lines on the StorylineHere I can assure you that I won't divulge any details that would hamper the Erased experience!The series has a light humour where Satoru talks stuff out loud which he was just thinking placing him in awkward situations.The characters sometimes seem too mature for their age. I don't think Satoru's friends (11 year olds) would help him in all his endaevours. They are kids after-all, they don't have huge attention spans and kids fool around which they seldom do! While Satoru behaves like a kid sometimes even though he has the maturity of a grownup. A grown-up wouldn't trust just anybody who is sweet.Kayo was given a lot of screen space. But there was no back-story or anything much related to the other two victims! They just have about two episodes with very little mentions for each of them.The series seemed hushed and was finished just so that the story could be wrapped up in 12 episodes. I felt that a 16 episode series would've done justice to this anime.The story becomes a little boring around the 8th episode. The story goes on like a flip-book made by a twelve year old!There is no mention of Yuuki who was the primary suspect of the missing girls. I vouched something good happens to him and I am left with an empty void as to what happened to him.Now, the villain. He/she wasn't portrayed quite well. His/her character seemed to contradict his actions. There wasn't any real reason shown for him/her (I'm not giving you a clue about the villain).The motive isn't quite clear and satisfactory too.Now we come to the last two episodes of the anime and then again bang! The tempo is raised and heart-beat rises and you are left in awe.After a while when you reminisce, that's when you would feel the little shortcomings in this anime.What I thought of the animeNow that I warmed you up, or rather I think I warmed you up. Here is what I thought of the anime.Just as much I am full of praise of the first three episodes, I could praise it until the 7th episode. The story becomes hazy, the pace becomes too fast with very less descriptions and loses the charm it held. Well not all of it, but only in a few aspects.The art and the animation of the anime seemed apt and perfect for the setting and themes in this anime. The backgrounds and the light shades of colour are pleasing to the eye and also the expressions and the drawings of the characters were great except, whenever I saw Satoru's mothers pout always made me cringe.The music and the opening song is very pleasant and I would like to download the opening track and add it to my albums!It falls short with it's original theme as a psychological thriller too.It story is in bits and pieces which haven't been merged properly with thin strands of logic connecting each other but barely.The over-all series is just alright, thanks to the climax that spiked a little interest back into the story.Would I recommend it? Well, it is a good anime and could be in the best anime in the year, but I would say that you could add it to your must watch list, but not necessarily in the top.Oh! Before I forget, If you felt that I missed out something or would like to know more about this post, please do let me know!!


                
A disappointment.
Not because of the manga, (I read that after) but because of the terrible ending.
The story, art, sound, characters, and enjoyment were all a 10/10 until the last 3 episodes hit.Story: The story was really good and included a lot of psychological themes within it, along with romance. It was great. Till the last three episodes came along, and the final "arc" was so bad. A good ending is essential for a good anime, and this one failed to deliver such an ending.The art was constantly good throughout the whole show, 8/10 for that, didn't look great or anything like mob psycho or Serial Experiments lay.The sound was seeming less and great. A good memorable opening, good voice actors all around. It was a nice relief to hear an adult when he was thinking, rather than always hearing a child. However, both were great actors. 10/10 for sound.The characters were very well developed, but again, ruined at the final "Arc".My enjoyment was 10/10 in the beginning, but it was around a 6 for the last three episodes, so it is 8/10.Overall, I rate it an 8/10, and yes, the manga did do the ending differently, however, it did it badly too. I wish there could be an alternative ending that was better, but none-the-less, there is not.


                
Let me get 1 thing straight. I liked this anime. It's good and enjoyable anime. It has likable characters, good setting and an amazing drawing style.The story however is simple written and is not very original. I even dare to say that it's like a micture of the Hollywood movie "The Butterfly Effect" and Steins-Gate.The story: The main character Satoru Fujinuma(, who is 29 year old in the current timeline,) has the ability to unwillingly relive a time moment. (Never explained how and why he has this power, but whatever) He use this ability to prevent accidents and deaths. This ability of his sends him usually back a few minutes or seconds before an event happened, but this time it gets different. He suddenly gets back to his childhood to prevent a chain of bad events, involving deaths of his close ones. Sounds good, right?Well, here's the thing. The story is somewhat predictable as you can easily identify who the murderer is and the story has a lot plot-holes. Like, really a lot. Overall will I rate this anime a 7 out of 10. Despite it flaws is it still a good anime that you can easily get hooked on. Definitely recommended if you like thriller animes.
The main advantage of this anime is the story. It's very interesting how it unfolds slowly and how the supernatural factor actually doesn't take up most of it, rather its a trigger for the story to start. The MC and frankly all the characters are nice and very interesting, mainly at the first part of the anime, with the story about the abused girl. The In addition, the mystery was entertaining and kept the thrill high till the very end of the anime. The conclusion, finally, was satisfying enough for this kind of anime. As for the art, it was fine and quite realistic.
