Erased is one of my favorite anime. It is so natural and real. This has a strong message about Believing which itself a metaphor of hope and will. It may be turf for someone to understand the whole premises first but I advise that please float straight obtained to the stream and you will find all the answers. The Animation is actually soothing and the story really catches my nerves. here I am mentioning the plus points of this anime1. It is so realistic in its story, characters and screenplays 2. The Hero is pretty much suitable with the stream as he is as normal as other human beings. He takes his lessons from his faults and that is the key of his success 3. The musics, textures and special mentioning the OP is really great. 4. The messages that it throws to our society are really spell bounding. 5. Mental and Relational strong Bonding between characters.(Mother- son) 6. And lots more.It says when a man lost his all hopes and doesn't want to stand again against his problems, then he have to ruminate the smiling face of his close peoples whom for he is OK on this earth and thus give him the sprite of fighting again.(I think this message is really needed into our present society) (Here I am Putting my own opinion about its realism. So I mention Death Note Anime....Please don't misunderstood me. It is on purpose)we know Death Note is another mystic Anime but if you just thought about the main protagonists of that anime for a minute, you can come to the point that they are actually supernaturally talented who barely do any faults, that is coincidental and unrealistic. It has no good for us as they are not normal. But for this anime the main protagonist is nothing but a simple man who gets success by doing faults. So for this reason it is real and super that can inspire some people at least.Thanks for paying your time to read this. I know I bring forth many commotion facts that may be offensive for you but I request you to compromise with the fact. Thanks Again.


                
If you don't watch this series right now.It is flabbergasting how an anime that is only 12 episodes long can leave such a profound impact upon closure. Everything in this series, from the contemporary manga style, sharp dialogue (thanks in part to an excellent English dub landing it on Netflix) and diverse themes to the very last haunting acoustic guitar riff that simmers on during the epilogue, is played pitch perfectly to create an instant classic.The character writing in particular deserves a special credit, so Taku Kishimoto, eat your heart out. What this series does better than any is placing Satoru's character development at the eye of the storm; really honing in on the internal conflict and as a result, attaining an incredible level of focus that seems unrivalled in its medium. This does two things; 1) it creates an urgency to his actions beyond that achievable with an ensemble cast and 2) it makes us empathise the consequences, both good or bad, with a much higher stake. Together with the sardonic and razor sharp internal monologue, y'all better get your tickets to this masterclass in character writing.Goes without saying, but the story and premise is all time. I reckon it's a series that'll leave you thinking about it for a while.9/10Notes:"Did I say that out loud?" - a little overused.
"Witch." - classic call.
Hiromi is a dude.


                
This is a great show. Stellar. Erased is well written, entertaining, and emotional. I haven't seen it since 2016 and yet I vividly remember it.Erased is about a young man named satoru (if I remember well enough). He's serious and a bit cynical. He's in his late 20's, works at a pizza shop, has no girlfriend, and wants to become a mangaka. He also has the ability to prevent death. By the power of time travel. Everytime someone nearby dies he's sent 5 minutes into the past repeatedly until it's prevented. Wild ride so far. But get this: one day, he's sent back a bit further than 5 minutes to prevent a death. Thus begins the wild adventures of a dude, along with many friends, to save someone's life. (If I made it sound like a comedy funfest it's way more serious then that).I won't go into too much detail that everyone else has gotten into. The characters are likable, they develop, the pacing is pretty good, the setting's cool, and there are nice, strong emotional moments. This is one of the best anime's I've ever seen. Gold star. (I swear to god if you haven't seen this already then don't spoil yourself and go watch it I beg of you). I am an incredibly picky person, but not too picky to not absolutely adore this show.That being said, it is not perfect. I gotta say that it's flaws don't really hinder the experience. But, to point out what I think it's flaws are: (spoilers lmao, not in order of importance)the villain was sorta obvious. I'm an absolute dumbass but I could tell right when satoru had a deep conversation with him that somethin' was offspeaking of mr. villain remember how I said the characters seemed really human? No? Well that's because in this anime I don't get this guy's motive, his reasoning. His backstory + some more details are in the manga FYI. (I recommend)the big finale wasn't that big. All went down in less than 10 minutes tops. Confrontation on rooftop, attempted murder, then whoopsies haha I landed on an airbag I sure tricked you there mr. Villain. We heard everything. Sorry for bringing the manga up but it really had a more climactic ending. I was fine with the anime ending though. It's alright. Got really intense actually. I enjoyed it.in the manga red coat girl (forgot her name sorry) still goes to satorus school after moving in with grandma. In the anime she has to leave and that's it. Bye amigo. I thought that since the manga kept her around longer it did their relationship better, ya know. Longer time spent bonding the better. (You know what I think it was Kayo) In general there were small details I'd like to see in the anime.the anime only showcases satoru saving people with his travel powers like once before the main plot kicks off. In the manga (sorry) he saves someone like three times, with the help of nice pizza girl whose name I forgot (probably aoi or something) who also showed up moreI'm thinking maybe it would do better with a few more episodes. Maybe like 3. Or just go all the way and make it one of those 15 - 20 episode anime's. It doesn't suffer too bad cause of its length though.Well I think that's it. Overall, a good experience. 9.5/10. It's only flaws are what could be improved upon. (Adding a .5 for the anime not giving present Mr. villain an ugly beard like in the manga, I only watch my villains when they're hot lmao) go see this show it's great.
This is one of the best murder mystery animes I have seen. With so many time travels, suspense and major plot twists. If your looking for an anime that has murder mysteries, suspense and a lot of brutal scenes then I would highly recommend it. However when it came to voice actors (I have only watched the dub) if they are voicing little boys with an exception of Sataro and the overweight boy majority of them sound too female then male. I get that in some scenarios like Ben Tennyson from Ben 10 and Bart Simpson from the Simpsons are both voiced by women and are really good at voicing them but this is no exception, I get the content of the anime was R rated since they couldn't get child actors but they might as well have got actually grown men to do their voices especially since they Kyle Mccarley, Xandar Mobus, Ben Diskin and Max Mittelman in this and those men are pretty good at voicing little boys. But other then those problem it was a good anime. I will not spoil any plots otherwise I would be writing this review all day.Long story short go watch this anime.


                
Boku dake ga inai machi is one of the anime in 2016. It's about time- leap in which the main character back to the past to save or fix every mistake that may happen in the future. The psychological intense is so great so if haven't watched this anime, I highy recommended it!http://miminime.blogspot.com/2017/03/erased-sub-indo.html
Mysteries are conflicting inherently. They appeal to a section of viewers leaving the rest fuming. Perhaps this lies in their deep-seated ability to arouse anticipation, emotions and fear that vary with personalities. Erased or Boku dake ga inai machi is not for those intent on mind twisting mysteries. It is a series that has twelve episodes of about 22 mts each for a story that has some heft and decent number of characters. Hardly sufficient for patient character build. The mystery is simple enough that any person of reasonable intelligence could guess 'who dun it' early enough. The ace this series holds is the emotional pull it generates to the extent that you are feel the emotional rollercoaster of the lead character. Kudos to the director for that one.This is what sets this show apart along with the atmospheric build - up. Story is interesting and not many loose ends are left at the end, and there is even a slight twist that may be debatable. But heck, there is no such thing as perfection so I was able to gloss over it. Though I must commend the director for keeping everything simple and sticking to his storyline. In this series screenplay is the king. Not just dialogues or settings or story but the entire screenplay that weaves them all together. Since it involves a lot of screen time for characters who are essentially kids it is all the more commendable. It is very easy to over-complicate mysteries, as most us may have suffered, but herein a good mystery is delivered in a simple non-fussy manner. Mind you mystery is not simple per se but it has just been delivered in a definitive and decisive manner.Excellent!


                
