My thoughts on this film are very, very similar to those written by "Hill-1" except he was a little more tactful than I would be regarding Oliver Stone's famous Liberal bias. "Hill-1" also speaks from experience from being an infantry soldier Vietnam, and I cannot say that.I like a good war movie but I was tired of Oliver Stone's left-wing propaganda films so I waited until the '90s before finally seeing this on VHS. He didn't disappoint me - it's biased and very profane, which is what I expected. It also had excellent acting by the two leads, played by Tom Beringer and William Dafoe and some stunning jungle photography. I didn't have to be in Vietnam to know the horrible conditions those poor guys fought under. The action scenes were not credible in that, as Hill-1 points out, guys would have been killed doing the things they do here, such as some of Martin Sheen's actions. I rooted for the infantrymen, of course, but I didn't appreciate Stone's (and Hollywood's in general) typical stereotypes of showing a gung-ho solider as the bad guy and the more pacifist-type as the good guy. It'so so clichéd. I also think it was a horrible cheap shot, and a typical one of elitist Liberals, to portray almost all soldiers as the lowest class in American society. John Kerry did the same recently, calling the American soldiers in Iraq not the brightest people. This is normal name-calling by Liberals like Stone, and it ruins me enjoying any of his films.You want an intense Viet Nam war movie without all the bias? Watch "We Were Solidiers."


                
As a vet and from a family where every male is a vet, I have to say this movie is one of the reasons why there is still a vastly skewed view of the Vietnam War in popular culture. I do believe the film has it's good points, but its damage to the common view of Vietnam vets is undeniable. I realize Oliver Stone was a vet, but the view is obviously one-sided. Charlie Sheen's character is based on him and therefore every character is seen through him. Everyone who smokes dope and hangs out in the psychedelic bunker are certainly the good guys and are of course the heroic, top-grade soldiers. Their "leader" is Willem Dafoe's Elias. Meanwhile the other side, led by Tom Berenger's Barnes, are just a bunch of dumb rednecks. They sleep in a bunkhouse with Confederate battle flags on the wall, drink beer and whiskey, and listen to Merle Haggard. In the field they are either incompetent cowards or crazed murderers who kill unarmed innocent women and children for fun. If you want a more realistic portrayal of the ground war in Vietnam, We Were Soldiers is your best bet, followed closely by The Green Berets (at least the first two-thirds, before the "commando" mission) and the Vietnam part of Forrest Gump.


                
So much praise for such a preachy film.Let's see, our Vietnam soldiers were baby and wife killers who would even kill each other to cover up their crimes, right?Well, that's what Stone would have you believe in this complete slap to the face of any real Veteran.While Speilberg and others could show the horror of war while still not insulting our men/women who served, Stone shows our men as essentially slime.This is not to say there are not parts in the movie that are not well done. But as others have noted, this film pales in comparison to other well done films.  Plenty of films with the same message (horror of war, evil in men) such as Apocalypse Now or Full Metal Jacket tower way above this one.
But Stone can't handle subtlety, so he has to beat you over the head with how truly evil our Amercian soldiers were in his eyes.  Besides the preaching, all of these characters are rather predictable card board cutouts.  Not that great of a film, really, and very much overrated. Would be good for all the anti-war protestor types, however.


                
I can't believe they made another "oh-war-is-terrible" film about Vietnam. And that it won the Academy Award! This film was about the same thing that all good war movies are about, but this one is very unoriginal and boring. And just listen to that ending speech by Charlie Sheen, I think it was unintentionally funny, that's how corny it was. The film wasn't all bad, though. It had some very strong scenes, especially the Vietnamese village-part. They could have made this film much better, but because it was going to be a mainstream film, I don't think they had the guts. If you want to see a great War movie, go see Apocalypse Now or Full Metal Jacket.


                
