I remember watching this film about ten years ago and not being impressed. I have since been plagued by people insisting that it is the greatest film of its genre so I decided to watch it again and give it another chance. My original impressions were correct. Some of the acting in this film is truly awful (John C. McGinley, for example, is consistently weak throughout). Also there are some serious questions to be asked of the dialogue. The major problem with the film, however, is the the plot in general and the characters that are central to it. The blatant juxtaposition of Sgt. Barnes with Sgt. Grodin trivialises the atrocities that are committed in war. The gross simplification of the issues by Stone here is actually quite irritating. If one wants to look at a war film that deals with the horrors without being overly sentimental (note Barber's Adagio!) then I would suggest The Deer Hunter.


                
This movie would have been good, if not for the scriptwriting and directing. This almost feels more like a Shakespeare play than an actual war movie. No one in Vietnam, in the heat of combat, is going to find the time to hump through the jungle to frag one of your own guys. The conflict between Willem Dafoe's character and Tom Berenger's character gets a little too cartoonish and too convenient at times. Charlie Sheen does an OK job. I have been told that pretty much every aspect of this movie is accurate. Dale Dye, an actual Vietnam soldier and advisor, acted as well to add some realism to this piece. The soundtrack is another bummer in this movie as well. There are no period-authentic pieces, like on Forest Gump with Fortunate Son. The soundtrack only further adds to the aggravation of the movie which seems to force a history lesson down your throat at times.


                
... I figure that Stone must have been smoking some of the same grass that the characters do in this movie to end up with a product like this. Sure, it's beautifully filmed, but really, all it is when you come right down to it is a bunch of Americans sitting around, getting drunk and stoned, and talking bull. Occasionally something actually happens/explodes, but then Stone goes into hyperactive camera mode. It might be authentic from the perspective that none of the troops knew what was going on either; but it's frustrating for an audience member trying to piece together some sense from this garbled mosaic that says 'War is hell!' in between long pulls on a 'J'.None of the cast are particular standouts either, ranging from 'going through the motions' to pitifully bad.It is rare that I have had to endure such a boring experience from an otherwise regarded classic. It is beyond me how this won so many awards and so much acclaim.


                
I'm not willing to say that Platoon is terrible but rather an extremely mediocre movie that tries to pass off as important. I just don't understand d the hype for this movie; it ranges from the occasional good performance (William Dafoe almost saves the film) to a well-choreographed battle sequence, but for all its "shocking" appeal it has very little going for it. The dialog is terrible, the emotions feel fake and the acting feels forced, and it creeps along at an almost unbearable pace. I would recommend Coppola's far superior Apocalypse Now to this film, another piece of trash from Oliver Stone. I don't remember ever seeing a film from him I've enjoyed. I'm sorry, but it's true.


                
This should be named "Samuel Barber, Adagio for Strings". Oliver Stone is a great movie maker but timing was bad on this one. Born on the Fourth of July is a better story as it is biographical to an extent. In either case see Apocalypse Now instead.


                
I think the movie is getting far greater credit then what it deserves. There is a tendency of people to vote highly for whatever seems different..Saw the movie and feel it is just another average war movie. It lacks the realism of "saving Private Rayan" and the story is also very normal. although Charlie Sheen has done good acting.... The story lacks the punch and worst of all is very predictable. i knew the end right in the middle of the movie..even the last war scene left a lot to be desired. the action is also not at all gripping.. all in all avoidable..


                
A distorted telling of the Vietnam war where the US can't do anything right or win any battles. The opposite of "The Green Berets" which is overly positive. Granted, the portrayed mistakes probably happened. But they happened over 10 years. Not common occurrences and not all to one unit, as implied by the movie. To be expected from Oliver Stone.


                
Besides the Holocaust the Vietnam War is pretty much one of the most touched upon topics in motion picture history. With that being said I've seen most of them. And to be quite frank I am convinced that this movie is one of the worst in this particular genre. It lacked a clear structure (the story was all over the place and felt inconsistent at times), there was basically no character development, and the special effects were laughable, to say the least. All of the explosions in the movie looked like fireworks going off. I kid you not. There were some scenes that I really liked but I can't get over the fact that they were followed up by fireworks explosions. In some scenes even the projectiles were replaced by "fireworks". In other words: it looked like they were shooting plasma beams out of their guns (just like in Star Wars). The only good thing about the movie was the cast. A lot of my favorite actors starred in the movie but that doesn't make up for the aforementioned points.


                
