Though I'm not a war movie fan, I thought Platoon was a solid film.Oliver Stone did a great job at directing, with perfect shots especially during the combat scenes. Great cast, but you can only admire Sheen's performance as the rest of the actors is a bit in the background to me. Now on the other hand, I felt the movie could have used some extra dynamic script-wise, because even though it is a good storytelling, it is a bit linear.I rated Platoon 7/10, because I'm not fond of war films, but I have to admit it is a solid one that conveys emotion especially through Sheen's character.


                
Oliver Stone's 'Platoon', which he wrote and directed, is partly based on his own experiences in Vietnam. Our protagonist, Chris (Charlie Sheen) is an idealized kid from a privileged family who feels it is his patriotic duty to enlist, and therefore is one of the lone volunteers in his platoon, headed by the badass Staff Sgt. Bob Barnes. (Tom Berenger, looking even more badass with a deep gash in his face that runs from forehead to chin) Somewhat acting as Chris' mentor is Sgt. Elias Grodin (Willem Dafoe), and the two provide (in the most rudimentary sense) good and evil influences as Chris experiences the every day horrors in the jungles of Vietnam; from the irritating <U+0096> bugs, inclement weather, to the terrifying <U+0096> combat with the Vietcong, to the gut-wrenching <U+0096> the ruin of a Vietnam village, mostly innocents.I thought that 'Platoon' was a good film <U+0096> it is obviously a film made before Stone's highly stylistic period (which he still appears to be in), and is instead a fairly straightforward film about the horrors of war. Sheen was decent as Chris; he managed to believably convey innocence as well as hardness without falling into cliché. Berenger was pretty brutal as Barnes, but it was Dafoe who I was most impressed with, (though his talent is obvious throughout his many roles, he still has the ability to amaze me. This was obviously a very personal film for Stone, and I think that he conveyed his message of 'War is hell', 'War kill innocence' effectively. There were some moments where I was incredibly disturbed, mainly the scene in the village. I found that I couldn't stop crying during this scene because it was just so terrifying, and unfortunately very true. 'Platoon' doesn't give us any new insights on war, but it also doesn't prescribe to clichés either. It is a solid and well-done film that does not glorify the war experience, nor does it preach. I would certainly recommend this film to any war-film lover, but it also has enough of a storyline to hold the attention of most other film lovers as well.--Shel


                
I remember liking this movie a lot better the first time I watched it back after it first came out on video. Maybe it is just dated or is perhaps the kind of movie that only has a big effect on you the first time you watch it. I remember some of the scenes were very shocking to me back then. I probably don't need to say which ones I mean, it's obvious to those who have seen the movie and would be spoilers to anyone who has not watched it yet. Today though the scenes are much less shocking. Maybe it's because other movies are going a lot further now or just because I've already seen this movie before. I still think it's a very good movie that has things to say about war and men, it's just not as powerful as I originally believed. Great acting and direction and a very good script too.


                
Oliver Stone's hard-hitting, compulsively watchable Vietnam epic is based on his own experiences fighting in the US army. It's rightly regarded as something of a classic film of the 1980s, and watching it you get the right idea about war: it's a terrible, soul-destroying, and utterly nihilistic experience in which men are turned into cattle and moralities fly out of the window. It's also a hugely influential film; pretty much any Vietnam film made since must use this film as a template. You can't imagine Mel Gibson's WE WERE SOLDIERS without this, for instance.Unlike many modern war films, this isn't an action film, although there is plenty of fighting. Instead it's an intense drama with some scenes of physical violence and rape that are almost unwatchable – not because they're graphic, but because they're so powerfully portrayed and well directed. The film has something of a slow start, and it does take a while for the lead, played by Charlie Sheen, to warm to the viewer (I suspect this is because Sheen has mercilessly spoofed his role in the HOT SHOTS! films). Once we reach the jungle, though, the film hits a high note, as loyalties are divided, booby traps and the enemy are lurking around every corner, and tempers flare. Things culminate with an overwhelming onslaught from the enemy in which everybody's fate is finally decided. The ending of this film is truly intense – I haven't seen much like it – and will leave you feeling tired and emotionally drained afterwards.The cast is superb. It's one of those films where nobody puts a foot wrong. By the end, Sheen is giving his greatest performance in a film – ever. Tom Berenger's scarred sergeant is a supremely scary creation, more monstrous than a dozen Kruegers or Vorhees. The film served as a springboard for many young actors in the '80s, so roles are fleshed out by the likes of John C. McGinley, Forest Whitaker, Tony Todd, Johnny Depp, Keith David, and Kevin Dillon. Cinematography, music, and effects are all great but the one thing you'll take away with you is a career-best Willem Dafoe as one of the good guys for a change.
I definitely smell an overrated movie here. "Platoon" was very good and I did enjoy it. However, through no fault of its own, many people rave on about this movie as if it's the be all and end all of cinema. I ended out disappointed because of the huge expectations I had. It's definitely behind war movies like "The Thin Red Line", "Apocalypse Now", "The Bridge Over The River Kwai", and "Gallipoli".Regardless, the above movies and "Platoon" are so far ahead of "Saving Private Ryan" it's a joke.Hey "Platoon" (7.5/10) Nice Job Stoney.


                
Oliver Stone, Platoon was name a "masterpiece" and one of the most realistic Vietnam war movies of all times.I did enjoy the village scene showing how crazy yanks are at yielding their way to scared the populations.Charlie Sheen memorable motto "They're just humans being..."man, showed what wars movie is all about.Charlie's great and all, but Platoon's thrill is in its supporting cast, namely Tom Berenger as a rather evil yet invincible Staff Sargeant, and Willem Dafoe as the unforgettably moral Sargeant Elias. When Berenger and Elias spar, it's epic acting -- and as Stone details on a commentary track, it's a bit ironic since up until this film, Berenger had always played good guys (a la The Big Chill) and Dafoe had always played terrorists. Dafoe, of course, would go on to play Jesus Christ.Highly recommended as one of Stone's greatest works.


                
I do not watch Vietnam movies because having served in the war, most are far from the reality my expediences of combat. However Oliver Stone did a great job of bringing his own wartime experience to the screen. Charlie Sheen was not the first choice for his part and his performance showed why. He apparently left a lot of his character wisping away in the smoke of a hash pipe and not in the movie. Worse and by that I mean THE worst actor (not character) but actor was Kevin Dillon. Having watched Entourage and enjoying it, except for Dillon, he also caused my 7/10 score for Platoon. It was just Johnny Drama in Vietnam and Entourage was Bunny survives the war (unfortunately) and goes to Hollywood. Dillon in everything I have watched him in, is a stiff, cardboard cutout of someone that should be there but didn't show up. He has only 2 facial expressions, bad attempts to smile and worse attempts to frown, from which he tries to cover the entire range of a characters emotional actions and responses.Willem Defoe, Tom Berenger and Forest Whitaker were the three main actors who along with several others rated this movie a 7 for me. The soundtrack was great, the cinematography was excellent and for that Oliver Stone deserves his awards. I have however watched my last anything with Kevin Dillon anywhere in it. In all, I do so wish Mr. Stone had looked further than Charlie Sheen for an actor, a real actor anyway, and for my money the movie would have been better without the character of Bunny entirely if Dillon was the only choice. YMMV


                
Perhaps one of the most over rated yet necessary films made.  Typical of Oliver Stone, the imagery is wooden and the characters stereotypical.  Yet in spite of the crassness of his eye, the movie tells the story of Vietnam in a manner that communicates the complexities of the war to average movie goers.  If we juxtapose Stone's handling of the Mi Lai massacre with Coppola's metaphorical scene of the slaughter of innocents by the boat crew in Apocalypse Now, you see the difference between the art film making and the "art" of self righteous cinematic flotsam.  Yet on a real level, Platoon was released during the heat of Reganism and the nationalist chest pounding that went along with it.  Society was swallowing the palled justifications for world wide police actions easier than trickle down economic theory.  In this vein, this hyperbolic reminder of the last great feat of American nationalism run amok was well timed. Unfortunately, this film gave Stone the credibility with which he bashed us with such gems as "Wall street", "Born on the Fourth of July", and the seminal example of the girth of his ego, "JFK".  However, this is a small price to pay if he presented the dangers of being a myopic super power to a polity that had just re-elected an actor as President.


                
The film does a fairly good job of placing the viewer in the boots of a Vietnam soldier. The battle scenes are all visceral and wouldn't be surpassed in realism until Saving Pvt. Ryan. When the film is showing the foolish of the US military adventurism in South East Asia it is gripping and on point.However, Stone doesn't trust his story to expound the points he wishes to make. Stone contrives voice over narration, as letters back home to a character we never see, that spoon feeds the viewer the basic story dynamics and central themes. Of course Chris's soul was in a tug of war between Barnes and Elias. I really didn't need that stated. It gives the film an theatrical feel that is at odds with the realism of the rest of text.Likewise, Stone's flourishes-use of black and white footage, shifting the color palette, having eyes grow red etc.-stand out as too theatrical for the story. It makes the film overwrought which robs it of emotional heft. This film could have been so much more without these problems.


                
For a rather powerful film, this movie seems permanently stuck in the 1980's. It's still very much a trend setter that inspired other war themed films to follow even though they have emulated the theme of war, it can never fully be duplicated. Yes, "Platoon" still succeeds in capturing the fear, the unpredictability, and the uncertainty that comes into effect when you're in the war. However, Oliver Stone's other war themed follow-ups become more stylized in contrast to the substance that this film delivers. The visceral effects seems to be more personal due to the horrors director Oliver Stone faced during his time in Vietnam. The characters depicted here have the emotions to convince you that these soldiers are fearing their lives and know they can come out of this war as heroes or dead.Charlie Sheen stars here as Chip Taylor, a college flunky from a posh upbringing arbitrarily enlists into the military feeling that the underclass should not be the only ones fighting in the Vietnam War, which shows little significance towards his allies who accurately says that only the rich could convey such an attitude. Sheen doesn't have the impression or the range as Taylor from the inexperienced novice to grizzled veteran he never sparks any kind of adequacy which makes this movie very distracting.As times strolls on, Taylor becomes more respected by his troop who ignores the fact that other new recruits won't make it out alive and we grow onto them which is something the audience never really does. The platoon has two superior sergeants who they admire. We have a scar-faced mean-tempered tyrant Barnes (Tom Berenger) and the more level-headed but effective commando Elias (Willem Dafoe). Berenger excels quite well as the brutish leader who seems like he was born into this lifestyle and may not adjust well to civilian life. Both Berenger and Dafoe were nominated for Best Supporting Actors at the Oscars, only to be humbled by Michael Caine for "Hannah and Her Sisters".Barnes and Elias's friendship falls out when the borderline insane Barnes threaten to kill a Vietnamese lady who may or may not be helping Viet Cong fighters which eventually leads to a divinity within the platoon which Taylor likes to awkwardly describes as a "civil war".The loose formatting of "Platoon" we see a cornucopia of unrelated occurrences of grunts and the endless chatter about how how long before their tour of duty will come to a conclusion. The movie lures into the daily regiments that the soldiers go through in their endless quest for survival. The battles with the enemy is illustrated with realism along with the constant reminder that heroism or death are the only options in this war. The physical and psychological wounds is vintage in terms of storytelling. But Stone's choice of music is highly questionable. The "Adagio of Strings" song feels out of place and it more or less hinders the scenes as opposed to contemplating them.The narration by is seen from Taylor's letters to his grans must've been giddy over his cheery sentiments about if his sanity is in tact or his doubts of making it in his war. His diary looks like it was written by a Junior High student coping with anxieties rather than a man in the middle of what is threshold of hell. Elias' death tends to be vastly overplayed loosely inspired by the 1968 picture of the soldier aiding a helicopter to the ground which runs its welcome.The strong points in "Platoon" that's handled well is the stress of these average soldiers face when heading to the front line. The Viet Cong are depicted as semi invisible ghosts using their mind games to inject fear is handled very convincingly. So when the scene where the platoon invades a village and destroys it an annihilates the people serves a purpose. In the midst of battle, we see the fear, the pressure and the determination in which leads the troop to the brink of madness. It is a reminder to the environment in which these soldiers are facing and is an open invitation of what could happen if we were in their situations.
My beef, with this movie is that though it's set in the Vietnam War in '67-68; it doesn't quite jive as an drama with action picture. It seems as though Stone felt obligated to have firefights since NOT having any would be detrimental for audiences and undermine the chaos of war by portraying it as "uneventful". Or, he didn't want to "glorify" any war. The battles seem too meandering. No real outcome is implied or alluded to. Furthermore, Sheen's acting while not underacting, certainly is overdone. Specifically when he snaps in the ville at suspected VC. Alligator tears and wrought brows were probably not character requisites, but Stone's "method directing". If you watch the special features, you'll learn of Stone's madness to "inspire" great acting. The final thing that bothered me, was how Elias and Taylor rationalize. "We're gonna lose this war. We've been kicking other peoples' asses for so long, it's time we got ours kicked." So that's what America failed to see in that quagmire ? "The truth's in the eyes! When you know, you know!" So a gut instinct is substantial enough to warrant a summary execution ? This is ethically flawed judgment at it's worst and apparently, Stone's best. Or, a reflection of Stone's own rationale ?


                
Platoon does a nice job of balancing reality with Hollywood theater. The atmosphere is pretty much spot on, with only a few scenes going a bit over the top. The "war" in Vietnam was supposed to be a somewhat normal "by the book" conflict, but everyone on the ground found out fast that the rule book just wasn't translated into Vietnamese. The characters portray the general feelings that persisted through much of the war, including the in fighting and back stabbing in some units. It was a brutal, non-standard conflict, and it reflects that reality all the way through the movie...But...the movie also crosses the line by implying that the conduct of the soldiers in Platoon is somehow justified. As the years after Vietnam have come and gone, we are seeing more and more incidents where American soldiers are not holding to the conduct that built this nation. Iran. Afghanistan and Pakistan are merely the latest examples of how our own moral values have been left by the wayside.Anyway, overall this movie is gratingly accurate in showing the realities of "modern warfare" on the ground. I liked it, but it also made me cringe at the same time. Perhaps that is the real intent of the movie, and it does make you rethink your own values...
When this film came out in 86/87 there was so much buzz about it.  Now after FINALLY seeing this film in my adult hood, I can say that the film is good but not the masterpiece I remember people saying it is..The film is good and has great performances.  It shows war as it truly is 'Senseless'.  The soldiers walk around through filth and muck, shoot at shadows, disrespect each other, get killed and dream of getting out.  Its as if there is no method to their madness, and the only way of expressing their frustration is to murder, rape and pillage.It's also a great accurate portrayl of what I feel IMHO of American soldiers in Nam.  Not the best war film (IMHO Grave of the Fireflies is) ever made but Platoon makes it's point.Rating 7 out of 10


                
This is one of the all time best. I had to watch it a couple of times to let it sink in. But once it does, you really understand the tragedy and horror of war.


                
Platoon is not up to the standard of Best Films (although it is much better than Titanic).  Its major problem is that it's clean.  I saw it a while ago, so I may update this later, but my memories of it are that it didn't accurately portray the war itself.  Other than that, my biggest disappointment with it was Elias' death.  Pure Hollywood style.  Not a bad film, but with flaws


                
The photography in this film is great - it's got lots of original camera movements and shots.  For example when Taylor shoots Barnes in the end, the shot stays on Bob as the bullets hit him. The downside I found, was that it seemed predictable once some basic character traits had been developed.  We could all see Taylor surviving to the end, and that many of his mates would perish.  Also that Elias would be shot by Barnes seemed too obvious. I think a few moments of Taylor narrating to the audience a quick reminder of what the US was doing in Veitnam and why there was fighting would have been helpful.


                
The greatest war movie ever made, and one of the greatest movies. A breathtaking film. It is photographed exquisitely. My favourite shot is the sun coming through the trees right near the beginning. This is Director Oliver Stone's masterwork. Brilliant performances by Tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe, John C McGinley (who adds a bit of comic relief). Watch for an early appearance by Johnny Depp. The supreme aspect of this movie, however, which gives the events the gravity of an opera, is the original score by Georges Delarue - the main theme of which is one of the most memorable in all cinema.This film ranks among my greatest admired.5 stars.


                
This is the only movie that I watched at home for the first time and immediately rewound and watched the entire movie again. Being a teenager in the 60's and actually being part of the birthday 'lottery' (I had a high number) everything about the war in Vietnam is very emotional. This movie was a great cinematic experience but if you have ever read a novel based on real experiences such John DelVecchio's "13th Valley" you will appreciate how unrealistic aspects of the movie were. Just as an example real soldiers in 'the bush' in Vietnam would never have made so much noise. The basic story of good versus evil battling for the soul of the Charlie Sheen character is excellent.


                
The craziness and ugliness of war is told with such realism, grit and deeply disturbing moments that Platoon must be appreciated for its emotional engagement. The destruction of war on the human spirit and soul is deeply haunting.Platoon is not an easy watch, and I was left emotionally drained by the experience. This is testament to Oliver Stone and his screenplay, which evokes raw emotion and a tense, alien environment through the cinematography.Dafoe and Berenger are the most celebrated actors in Platoon, and that is how it should be. There characters do have more depth than the others of the platoon but they are both exceptional and draw you into their characters mindset. Although Sheen is very good as Chris Taylor, I did not feel that he was cast correctly. I understand that Taylor is an educated and affluent young-man but I felt he was a little too fresh faced, and rather unfitting for the role. I never succeeded in believing in his reasoning to join the forces.I felt at times that the 'Adagio for Strings' was overplayed, if left to certain moments it would of been more poignant and powerful. The best moment was when Taylor joined Dafoe and his men for a night of relaxation to the music of 'Tracks of my Tears' singing/dancing away, it is so well-done that you are enraptured and share their moment of peace and happiness.Platoon is one of the most poignant war films I have ever seen. Platoon is shocking and hard to watch, but tells one much about the sheer ugliness of the human soul when confronted with such pitiful and dire circumstances.
Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen) volunteered for the Vietnam War and is placed in a platoon with two leaders, SSgt Barnes (Tom Berenger) and Sgt Elias (Willem Dafoe). As the war rages on, a civil war breaks out between the two platoon leaders. And the whole platoon takes sides.Platoon is most definitely one of the greatest Vietnam movies out. It shows how hard the soldiers who fought in that war had it.One thing I really like about the movie is the characters. They are all believable and give great performances on how war can make you crazy. Dafoe and Berenger are especially good. One of them is good hearted, while the other one is ruthless.Charlie Sheen is a little to hard to take serious at times. After watching him in so many comedies, I just don't take him serious at all. Other that Sheen, the acting is wonderful.Another Complaint I had is that it is disturbing and very uncomfortable at times. If you have a problem with rape and innocent killing, you will have a problem with this movie.Other than that everything is fantastic. The battles are very well done. The battles have explosions, screaming, machine-gun fire and everything you expect form a battle scene. When they aren't at battle, the film shows you how rough the military is. People are breaking down, there is a lot of racism and soldiers fighting each other.While this is a great movie, it is disturbing, and I had a hard time watching a few moments of it, but if you can bare with it,you can't afford to miss this one.7/10


                
Though I thought Platoon was a good film, it didn't seem long enough to me. I felt it should have established more character development for the characters presented.  Though I do look at it as an ensemble, it's obvious who the main characters are.  Yet, there just isn't enough emotional prowess to warrant a feeling of sympathy for what the characters are subjected to. I am not knocking this film though, I thought it was an entertaining piece of work and a strong comment on the atrocities of war.  However, I do not think it is Stone's best film.  JFK is his best, and Platoon ranks to me alongside of Born On the 4th, Talk Radio and The Doors.  Natural Born Killers was even better than Platoon.  I can also not believe that Platoon won the Oscar for director, Lynch should have won for Velvet which was far superior in every way to Platoon.  7 out of 10.


                
Visually stunning movie of a combat platoon in Vietnam. The atmosphere and settings were beautifully filmed and conveyed, and the characters were extremely realistic and portrayed well.It's hard to know what to feel about this film, though, as a military veteran. For one thing it is hard to imagine a military unit getting this out of control. I have no doubt than many things portrayed here happened over there, but to this level? with no one stepping in? The Platoon had created virtually a "Dodge City" within their unit. I understand that this war really got out of hand in many ways, but it's hard to come to grips with the murderous and thuggish attitude developing to this level without someone taking notice and stepping in. Maybe it's my wishful thinking, but I would hope that this situation would not take place. It may be what Stone is showing us is the desperation that we found ourselves in over there, we were willing to unleash characters like Sergeant Barnes to wreak as much havoc on the enemy as possible, and turning a blind eye to the means and methods he used. Perhaps this is how a My Lai incident could happen. There was ample evidence of dysfunction and rage within that unit, but perhaps it is to our benefit to use that rage and psychosis to achieve the body count which became so important in Vietnam? I am not sure of the answers to these questions; maybe there really aren't any acceptable answers. Maybe this is the position guys like these were placed in, with no answers and no real guidance or objective, other than to achieve as high an enemy body count as possible. To achieve this, you do not need thinking soldiers, or even a cohesive military unit. You only need a rage, a psychosis, and someone to focus and direct it - Barnes.How does this then apply to Sergeant Elias, obviously a thinking soldier, and an advocate and representative of a cohesive military unit? If he had won the battle for the hearts and minds of the men in the unit, would things have been different? He was certainly capable of achieving the desired body count, but with a tighter, "watch-out-for-each-other" leadership, as opposed to Barnes, who left you to your own devices, and presented death as a consequence for mistakes.Some bits of this movie seemed overdramatized, and there is symbolism galore. However, beautifully filmed, and the atmosphere is pure hot, sweaty jungle, with mayhem lurking behind every tree.Astonishing Job by Tom Berenger. This has always been thought of as Charlie Sheen's movie. Not to me. Tom Berenger's Sergeant Barnes character virtually dominated this movie. He has not shown this level of performance in anything else he's done, really, but this is simply the performance of a lifetime. His was a bigger than life character. He deserved an Oscar, plain and simple.


                
Oliver Stone took home his first Best Director Oscar for the hard-hitting "Platoon", about a young soldier (Charlie Sheen) arriving in 1967 Vietnam and experiencing the horrors of US operations there. Although Stone based this movie on his own experiences, I actually wish to assert that "Born on the Fourth of July" was better. I guess that this one seems sort of limited in its focus (I still say that "Apocalypse Now" was the best Vietnam War movie ever).As for the plot, Sheen is harrowing in the lead role, but the two most harrowing characters are Tom Berenger as the cruel staff sergeant, and Willem Dafoe as the more logical-minded sergeant. The movie shows how Sheen's character is going to have to choose. But no matter what he chooses, the awful memories of this war will haunt him forever.So, this isn't the greatest Vietnam War movie ever, but definitely worth seeing. Also starring Forest Whitaker, Kevin Dillon and Johnny Depp.


                
The movie's story unravels a bit slow at the opening stages although with all those strong images of war. The story gets more interesting about half way the movie plays by depicting the internal conflict.. The set, props and makeup are done nicely, even for that particular time of the movie's production. The things that lack quite a bit are the sound and visual effects. The sound doesn't really give the real feel of stereo location placing, a technology that wasn't yet available. Yet the visual effects look somewhat too much forced, like we see on the lightning scene. The use of throwing flares in firefights is quite stupid since the damage of the unseen bullets are not really visible aside from what the makeup depicted. It's great to see that many alumni of this movie grew into big names such as Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe, Forest Whitaker, and even Johnny Depp. Most of them acted out really nice performances in this movie.


                
waste of time its more about effects of war on human psyche conditions of war keeping up team morale etc Vietcong are just like ads in the movie.seriously i thought i would see war in its actuality the way it was fought this was far from it.you would be wasting your precious time watching this movie.it starts off well with this guy freshman straight away pushed to war and you see the war from his perspective some cool sermon on war plays in the background and our hero seems to fade into semi-consciousness all the time.it was real boring and far from actuality it was as if they were making a mockery of a serious war dancing and partying around you would hardly have time for all that in the middle of a war.disappointed with the movie didn't live up to the hype.the songs playing in the background were great though.


                
