It is almost considered heretic to write something negative about Fellini. As a matter of fact, Fellini succeeded to create an ambient of adoration around him like possibly no other film director ever. However, all is not gold that glitters.In Fellini's "Cabiria" we see some whores of Rome, although they are bitterly poor and misused by their pimps, jumping and dancing in the streets, merrily laughing, having fun with drinks and food all together enjoying their lives. Even the pimps are there, and if something bad happens than it is a curse or a smashed car-door, not more. And when they fight, it is less harmful than amongst children. Even in one of the last scenes, where an old whore is shown who must live in an earth-cave: she is happy, and as long as the angel provides her with food, she thanks god that she is allowed to have such a miserable existence. Fellinis whores have no diseases, and when they suffer, than because of loneliness and not from hunger, gonorrhea and bloody limbs.It is hard to believe, yet true, that the screenplay of this movie was written by Pier Paolo Pasolini, by the same Pasolini who portrayed the world of the whores of Romes in a quite different way than Fellini did. In film theory, one tries to absorb this difference by a notion of time: Fellini is "realistic", Pasolini is "neo-realistic". In literature one would speak about the difference between realism and naturalism, and in truth one has to speak about the difference between the blissful stupidity of Fellini who by guarantee never has made a step down to Ostia and Pasolini who lived there and was killed there. Pasolini's "Mamma Roma" is not a childish grinning clown-esquire puppet like Masina's "Cabiria" with her school-girlish white socks, but the Academy Award went to Fellini's wife and not to Anna Magnani. Clearly, Fellini who resided on one of the 7 hills of Rome made the money, Pasolini was 36 times before court and was poor almost like his friends in Ostia.This is bitterly sad because it is objectively false. One of the main reasons why the big earthquake came in film in the Sixties, called "Nouvelle Vague", "Neue Welle" of "New Wage" is that film makers in whole Europe were fed up with rose-red lies, conformism, idealistic prosthetics of fascism and other wonderful post-war achievements. In Germany, Fassbinder ended brutally the "Schulmädchen-Report"- and "Lederhosen"-culture. In France, the "grandfather of Nouvelle Vague", Jean-Pierre Melville, lead the level of the French gangster film up to that of the best American Film Noirs. And it Italy? In Italy where the fascism was almost more popular after than during World War II, supported by the Catholic church, Fellini continued his artificial sugar-sweet artistic, astonishingly untouchable by any critique who wanted to make film besides Fellini. Less than 20 years after "Cabiria" was released under his own collaboration, Pasolini knew only one answer to the deplorable and miserable intellectual situation in Italy: his gigantic masterpiece "Salo" (1975).


                
I cannot figure out what the other reviewers on this site found here to praise so highly. This film portrays Italians as bickering, violent, selfish dolts. The title character is unsympathetic, irritating, and nasty, and the person portraying her cannot act at all. It is like watching an eighth grade Italian Kabuki presentation.I have seen and enjoyed many Fellini films. Many have the characteristics seen here, but also include some redeeming qualities; fine acting, attractive people, an engaging story. Not this turkey. Cabiria would have done better to have drowned, as was threatened in the opening scene. Of course she was saved (or there would be no movie) and promptly chews out her rescuers. Just because a film is European, black & white, and done on the cheap does not make it art.I am so glad I rented this instead of buying it or paying to see it in the theater. But, after playing it, I felt like I needed to clean my living room! Absolute dreck! Avoid it like a plague.


                
