The endless pursue of your dreams.
Cabiria is a woman always hoping for love, chasing each opportunity, just to be put back into misery by the harsh reality.
Still the spirit of this movie to be brave enough to go after your dreams with all your might and still being able to stand up again and again after being disappointed, is something most people can easily relate to.
The cinematography is stunning and you will be left with thinking about Cabiria and how her future might turn out to be.


                
(Some spoilers below) This film is about illusions, and how everybody - individuals, governments, performers, religions, actors, prostitutes, film directors - exploits them for their own ends. Some do so in ways which are harmful to others. Some, like Cabiria, harm themselves.Fellini's examination of illusion draws on a rich tradition, particularly in European theatre (the dominance of "seeming" over "being", illusion and deception over honesty, goes right back to Hamlet and beyond).The film is structured around a series of expositions of illusion, involving a bogus lover, a famous actor, a pilgrimage, a variety show, and, finally, to close the circle...a bogus lover again. Add in the fact that the central character is a prostitute...I think you're starting to get the picture.So if all is illusion, why watch the film? Because the central purveyor (and, more importantly, victim) of illusion (the prostitute Cabiria) is a convincingly-portrayed, complex character who exhibits a tough, life-affirming drive to take on the world (in the best Camusian, post-war existentialist sense). It is this that makes the film such an exhilarating experience. Millions of people in Italy and all over Europe in the 1940's and 1950's had to live in a world which had utterly collapsed. In this world, one did what one could to get by, and religion, love, sensual pleasure, and, of course, the cinema, offered only brief respite from the everyday realities.The classic neo-realist edge-of-city building-site sets add the requisite touch of alienation and barrenness to the action. But this is not the kind of hardline neo-realist tract satirized by Nichetti in "The Icicle Thief". Fellini's natural sense of cinema as fantasy enables the viewer to feel good at the end of a film where no conventional feelgood factor is offered. And surely that's an achievement in itself.
Cabiria (Giulietta Masina) is a street walker in Rome. She is first joyfully with her boyfriend Giorgio. Suddenly, he pushes her into the river and steals her purse. She almost drowns. When she regains consciousness, she screams at her rescuers and calls for her boyfriend. Life is hard for her. Giorgio is gone with her money. She's not pretty. She's not the brightest girl. She's frustrated. A vaudeville magician hypnotized the woman as she acts out a date with her dream man. Accountant Oscar is impressed with her honest love and proposes marriage. Cabiria sells everything she has to get 400k lire so that the couple could open a shop. However, her struggle to find love may not come to the happily ever after that she wants so much.Cabiria is an unique character. She is not always likable. She is angry at times. She is an idiot at other times. Federico Fellini creates a damaged character who can't seems to get it right ever. It does meander for much of the first half. The most interesting section starts with the vaudeville show. It ramps up the energy of the movie. The last half of the movie is riveting.


                
Federico Fellini's "Nights of Cabiria" is of all his films perhaps the most representative of the filmmaker and his art - it displays his cinematic genius, his ability to draw out fantastic performances from actors, his deluge of empathy, and his greatest weakness. Allow me to explain; for Fellini, much of life and art are a circus. This can be seen in the comic touch of "I Vitteloni", the farcically random events of "8 1/2", and in the three-ring music of Nina Rota. The theme of life as a circus is all very well, but it sometimes leaves you hanging - as if the movie will continue forever but you, the viewer, will not. This is the problem with "Nights of Cabiria" - it is the tale of a young prostitute who is trying to find some kind of salvation. She at first tries to find it in boyfriend, moves on to a movie star, then attempts to attain it through religion, and finally tries to discover it in love - but salvation seems forever out of reach, for each of those things listed above ultimately fail her, and thus the movie fails to really end; it simply goes on piping and marching as the viewer sits wondering where s/he is left. For these reasons, "Nights of Cabiria" doesn't fully work; but this is not to damn it, for it is for the most part a heart-wrenching, beautiful, and powerful film. 7.5/10


                
