It's hard to tell which Fellini's film leads the way; "8 1/2", "La Dolce vita", "La strada", "Amarcord" and so many more, you just can't choose.But, when it comes to this beautiful picture, things become clearer. It's not just the amazing perfomance by Giullietta Masina, it's not just the wonderful, semi-crazy characters wondering around the screen and emphasizing Kabiria's sad and lonely world, it's -and that's the film's greatest quality- this sense of optimism that Fellini wants the viewer to take with him/her as he/she is leaving the theater. The master takes everything from his heroin but at the end he wants to convey one simple, eassy-to-grip but so essential message: "Please, don't give up". The power of the film's last ten minutes is unpreceded in the world of movies and, sad to say, never again have we seen such an amazing finale. This is a must-see film, and, most important of all, a film so generous to its viewers that one time is not enough. A total 9/10


                
Gorgeous early Fellini, often considered the mid-point in his career, between the more obviously reflective, supposedly realistic early work, and the bleak extravaganzas that followed.  But Fellini was never a neo-realist in the dull way Rossellini was: his use of landscape was always heavily symbolic or subjective.  Here Cabiria lives in the middle of a bleak wasteland, which perhaps serves to figure the emptiness of her life, the sterility of life for women in macho Italy, or a comment on post-fascist Italy itself.It doesn't really matter.  The sentiments of the film are actually quite trite - women are treated badly in Italy, etc.  What's riveting and astonishing is not the experiences of Everywoman, but the experiences of one particular woman.  Although there is a great variety of locales, and Cabiria seems to be always moving forward, the film is actually a melodrama. Cabiria never escapes, whatever her adventures, wherever she goes, she always ends up where she started, at home.  Even when she finally sells her home for a supposed new life, her last (in the film; we just know the circle will never be broken) mirrors her first in a depressing circularity.Yet the film, for all its melancholy, is anything but depressing.  Fellini is most famous for being an indulger of frail male egos, but CABIRIA's strength lies in its imaginative sympathy with its heroine.  The film's structure mirrors her situation - the film has no plot as such, just an accumulative series of self-contained episodes which follow the same pattern: escape, hope, betrayal.  In each episode, the further Cabiria moves away form her 'neo-realist' base, the more dream-like (verging on the fantastic) the film becomes, as if she is stepping into an enchanted world (this is made literal when she follows the actor into the nightclub, like some mythic warrior entering the dragon's lair).  And each time she gives into the dream world, the illusion is rudely shattered -  the scene at the hypnotist's is as heartbreaking as anything in CHIMES AT MIDNIGHT.  So while the reality/illusion dichotomy is facile as an idea, it is extraordinarily powerful as cinema experienced through character.Fellini's filming is as beautiful as anything in 50s cinema, that decade mirabilis: more restrained and grounded than later, with less obvious flourish, but the mixture of realism and dream is made all the more convincing with the gentle, coaxing camera movements, beguiling us as well as the heroine, but with the strange editing, and sometimes disruptive composition giving us a distance she can never have.Giuletta Masina gives the most sublime performance by an actress in Italian cinema- an exuberant mixture of hope and resignation; her gorgeous big eyes not quite ready to give up yet, even at the end, although the submitting to the youthful racket seems as hopelessly bleak as 8 1/2.  Her seemingly unprepossessing body is actually an instrument of unparalelled grace, and the comparisons with Chaplin are not unwarranted - when you see this performance you'll realise how unexpressive most actors' bodies are.The Chaplin model is not always helpful - there is a mawkishness and emotional manipulation towards the climax that almost grates, but by then you so adore Cabiria, and so hate everybody else that thought doesn't really come into it (although doesn't it seem that many male viewers seem to prefer her as helpless).  Throw in a lovely, playful Nino Rota score and you're in movie heaven.
I saw this movie for the first time last night, and I have to post my first review on the site to say it is really wonderful. Giulietta Masina's performance is truly one of the most impressive I've ever seen - her face is as expressive as Buster Keaton's or Charlie Chaplin's.The movie is a deceptively simple story about the day-to-day encounters of a prostitute who does the best she can to make a living and maintain her hopes and dreams of a better life. Her relationships with her neighbors, friends, and street-corner associates are a major focus, as are her relationships with the many men that come and go in her life. In the latter regard, it is obvious that this film was the inspiration for many other plays and films, including Sweet Charity. The series of people encountered by Cabiria in the movie shows us the full range of human reaction to life's adversity - some respond with cynicism and prey on others without remorse, some respond with generosity and hope, some respond by clinging to certain belief systems that don't really help them in a material way, etc. Cabiria definitely stands out as a unique character within the gritty, grimy community of post-war Rome, where there are stark differences between people of different classes and livelihoods. We can see that she is a good person living in a world that is not always humane or fair.I won't give away the ending, but I will say that it took a lot of creativity and inspiration to include the ending of this movie as it is - I'm sure it was as startling and unexpected to audiences in 1957 as it is emotionally moving still today.The direction, photography, and acting are all first-rate in this classic. Everybody involved was obviously engaged in a labor of love. I cannot recommend it more highly.


                
Cabiria is a wretched prostitute who in spite of her vulgar bravado is sensitive and fragile like a child. She would never let anybody know, that her dream is to love and be loved. Seeking a man who will cherish and protect her, C. becomes an easy prey for scoundrels. They can just show interest in her to make her give them everything she has.
Giulietta Masina found a great gesture for Cabiria - a wry smile, the smile of shyness and despair, loneliness and uneasiness, and at the same time of great dare and resoluteness. And it is this smile that makes us love and sympathize with Cabiria - a delicate and awkward child who has to overcome herself to earn her hard living. But she is the one who has guts: robbed and betrayed, deceived and disillusioned, she is never beaten; she goes on living, no matter how hard it might be.Although filmed in 1957, "Nights of Cabiria" is still exciting and revealing, since it touches the inmost human feelings and depicts true human characters.


                
Disagreeing with many of Federico Fellini's opinions, I don't deny that he has not belonged to the list of my favorite directors. Some of his movies are really difficult and a bit psychedelic. However, I have to admit one thing clearly: Fellini was one of the few men in cinema who was able to create something really powerful, captivating, enthralling, controversial, something really innovative: and that is what one may undeniably say about NIGHTS OF CABIRIA, his 1957 movie where again, after marvelous LA STRADA, he cast his wife Giulietta Masina in the lead, a performance that may be regarded as one beyond any awards. But let me analyze the content of the movie first before I comment on acting.Cabiria, an outsider among outsiders who is "living the life" is a Roman prostitute whom we find rather individual and with whom, from the very beginning, we can easily empathize. She is robbed, thrown to the Tiber River and, fortunately, rescued by a group of men. From this "in media res" opening moment, we start to get to know her. In spite of Cabiria's profession, she is not that "immoral." What Cabiria gets through is disappointment. She cannot understand that someone who always said "I love you" stole a few thousand Lira and was going to kill her. Although she seems to have a friend at her side, Wanda (Franca Marzi), also a prostitute, she feels lonely and desperate. The director masterfully supplies us with Cabiria's physical and psychological journey through different places, realities...something very life-like. Therefore, the movie appears to be built upon various worlds=various moments that do not have much in common with one another but which constitute a perfect integration at a higher level of life analysis. This is rather a series of events than a linear plot and... these events are really unforgettable being embedded in highly unpredictable action.Perfect harmony, wonderful insights into social realities, memorable, innovative, brave (as for these times) MOMENTS. Fellini appears to draw a parallel between Cabiria's experiences and everyone's life. Consider, for instance, the main motifs why she goes to these different places: she wants to find herself, looks for happiness, looks for love. Does she find it? Difficult to say... I particularly loved the moment she is so confused in a luxurious house of a famous film star, Alberto Lazzari (Amedeo Nazzari), but, from the social point of view, so lucky to get the autograph of his. But does this autograph give her satisfaction? A different must see moment is the visit to the Sanctuary of the Amore Divina - a pure realism of people in prayer trance shouting "Grazie Madonna!" Cabiria seems to be touched by them but is she able to ask Madonna for the right thing? Events are one factor why I really appreciate this film.Another reason for my love to this movie are the top notch performances. The cast, particularly Giulietta Masina (foremost she), make NIGHTS OF CABIRIA nearly a masterpiece. Giulietta Masina patterns her acting on purely original building block of cinema's charm which is FACE. That is where you can read her feelings, that is where you realize what is going on. As a matter of fact, dialog is only an additional aspect when applied to her. From portraying anger, disappointment, confusion, trance, hope, to affection, sorrow and yet an optimistic smile, Giulietta is a marvel! I would not compare her acting to the ones in other Fellini movies, including LA STRADA and JULIET OF THE SPIRITS, because she is unique as Cabiria, the same as she is unique in the roles of Gelsomina or Giulietta! The supporting cast also give fine performances, particularly Francois Perier as Oscar D'Onofrio, Amedeo Nazzari as Alberto and Franca Marzi as Wanda, seemingly Cabiria's real friend.But for me what will always play a decisive role after seeing this movie is the specific Italian charm of long ago. This is something I found in many old Italian movies and and that is something Fellini managed to entail here like other geniuses of cinema from his country. The film is nice to watch but not light to watch, it has reflections but also relaxation, all is in its right place. Moreover, all is enriched by the wonderful music by Nino Rota, a genius with whom Fellini worked with many other movies.As one reviewer before me has already stated, NIGHTS OF CABIRIA is like Cabiria's or Giulietta's smile, the smile of optimism, the smile of long ago, the smile that after 50 years still moves us and uplifts us. What was happiness for Cabiria? Was it the luxury she found in Alberto's life? Was it a group of pilgrims she joined? Was it Frate Giovanni who insisted on maintaining the Grace of God? She illusively found her angel in D'Onofrio; yet the truth occurred entirely different. What is happiness for us? Have we found it or is it just like in Cabiria's life...it passes by as such an unnoticeable, simple thing and we look for it and expect it in totally wrong places? Great movie as a real experience and touching empathy with the heroine. 9/10! If it's one of the first Fellini's films that you see, you're on the right track!


                
This is being a very typical Fellini movie, with a Fellini style and look to it as well as some of the typical characters and story developments. And I must say that this is probably one of my favorite Fellini movies! As basically all Fellini movies, it has a very simple concept and an extremely straightforward storyline. It's simply following its main character around, who is in search of love and happiness. The story is getting told almost like an adventure movie, as the main character visits lots of different places and is meeting a wide variety of characters. The movie is foremost a drama but it also has a strange comedy tone to it, making this still a very entertaining movie to watch as well.The message you can take from it is that you shouldn't desperately search for happiness and then expect to end up getting more happy than you were before. That's a lesson the main character in this movie learns the hard way. But luckily it really isn't a movie that is being preachy in any way. It never tries too hard to get its message across or to try to get any emotions out of you. It's a far too subtle and superiorly made movie for that.Most credit of course needs to go to Federico Fellini, who does a wonderful job with the storytelling. But the cinematography also is an important aspect. The movie has some very dynamic camera-work in it, that makes the movie a very lively and warm one, even thought its shot in 'cold' black & white.But just as much credit needs to got to Mrs. Fellini, or rather said Giulietta Masina, who plays the lead role. She goes through some amazing transitions throughout this movie and she was an actress that could act just as well with just only her eyes and facial expressions. Truly a wonderful performance and all a real pleasure to watch. It's probably even a better performance than the one in the other Fellini movie "La strada", which was also a movie that I just loved.Simply storytelling and film-making at its very best!9/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
This was simply a beautiful testament to the strength of the soul, beaten and bruised and left for dead, how the anguished still find purchase to lift themselves up and continue on, a sip more weary, but still clinging to the hope that their dreams of contented happiness might still be fulfilled. Out titular character is perfectly captured by the wonderful Giulietta Masina, a doe-eyed beauty that captured the viewer's heart so completely that we truly wish to know of her fate after the credits have rolled. The story meanders in a splendid fashion, with scene after inspiring scene, each of which serves to portray the feminine strength of Cabiria as she picks herself up time and again, no more bitter than before. Fellini's direction was of course magnificent, but that is merely stating the obvious. A wonderful account of the majesty born of hardship, Nights of Cabiria should serve as a monument of hope for the downtrodden masses. Merci beaucoup.Genruk of Evil Eye Reviews


                
I first saw this film at 22. As the lights came up in the theater I was openly weeping- Not just tears but actual sobs. I sat there alone a goodly amount of time until I believed the theater was empty. When I looked up another woman and a man were still seated. We all smiled at each other, and left without speaking. Masina is called a female Chaplin by some- Frankly, she is better.I have also read criticisms of her for this. Why? Must we separate theater and film? Her facial expressions confirm that communication is only 40% verbalThe "man with the sack" scene was not censored by the church- If anything this film is very pro- catholicism; temptation vs salvation.


                
NIGHTS OF CABIRIA is a melancholic drama about life experience, courage, vulnerability, different interests and human pathos. The main protagonist is an ordinary prostitute in Rome. The story follows her adventures and life experiences.This is a very touching film in which a seemingly innocent life becomes a victim of unfortunate circumstances and conflicts between pathos and irony. Emotions are strong and visible even in the smallest details. The fear in this film almost does not exist. This is a very bold move by Mr. Fellini, considering that he deals with a life story. Scenes and dialogues are mostly tragicomic. Mr. Fellini made a kind of emotional trap, which causes a strong sense of optimism in the viewers.Giulietta Masina as Cabiria Ceccarelli is "funny face" with which we can read the children's joy, sadness, bitterness of life, love, temperament and hope. She is lost in her own emotions, playfulness and temperament. That is why the story is interesting and unpredictable. A charismatic and a somewhat eccentric prostitute tries to rise from the world to which she belongs. She is cheerful and positive. Her appearance is at least reminiscent of a "Countess" from the street. She is s sort of a female Chaplin. However, she is not dancing tramp of the street. She is a small woman who wants a change in her life in a rather confusing and hostile world. In essence, she is an incurable romantic, with a huge heart, which was destroyed in her own pain.Her support are Amedeo Nazzari (Alberto Lazzari) as a big movie star and a womanizer, François Périer (Oscar D'Onofrio) as a charmer and spontaneous suitor and Franca Marzi (Wanda) as a beautiful and buxom prostitute and her friend.The smile on the face of the main protagonist, with which the film ends, is a great victory of the human spirit.


                
Rome, 1957. A woman, Cabiria, is robbed and left to drown by her boyfriend, Giorgio. Rescued, she resumes her life and tries her best to find happiness in a cynical world. Even when she thinks her struggles are over and she has found happiness and contentment, things may not be what they seem.Wonderfully engaging movie from Federico Fellini. There's a lightness and sweetness about the main character that makes her easy to support. Some great comedy too. It's not all wine-and-roses though. There is a fair amount of struggle, bitterness and cynicism involved. The ending is particularly cynical, possibly too cynical. I am generally not in favour of Hollywood, happily-ever-after, endings but this story deserved a bit more happiness and closure than it ended with.While Fellini pulls the strings to perfection, it is the performance of Giulletta Masina as Cabiria who makes the movie. Street-wise and sassy yet sweet and vulnerable. Very funny, yet able to convey great sadness and struggle too. Some of her physical comedy is Chaplinesque in its brilliance. Her performance spans the whole gamut of human emotions and expressions and she does it incredibly well. Incredibly engaging and it is this engagement that makes the movie so great.


                
NIGHTS OF CABIRIA, Fellini sixth feature film, which marks that he has assertively reached the full- blown phrase in his creativity and sleight-of-hand at the age of 37, and anticipates the acme of his career, LA VOLCE VITA (1960) and 8 AND A HALF (1963). The story (with Pasolini inside the coterie as a collaborator), is a tale of woe about a roadside streetwalker Cabiria (Masina) in Rome, whose real name is Maria Ceccarelli.In the opening long shot, we see Cabiria gambols with his beau on a Sunny day in the field near a river, and quick as lightning, he grabs her handbag and pushes her into the water. Cabiria is almost drowned, the same course of events will (almost) replicate itself in the arresting culmination, this time, with another suitor, a well-groomed but greasy self-claimed accountant Oscar (Périer). Why Cabiria hasn't learn anything from her miseries? It is much easier to shoot out pointers in post- mortem, in fact, as we audience follows closely to these non-interrelated episodes of Cabiria's experiences, her wretched destiny doesn't strike more like a subjectively injudicious decision than a fusillade of flak targeting at the injustice of contemporary society and the worst of human vice.Cabiria is petite, petulant and starry-eyed, apart from a narrow escape from death thanks to her dastard boyfriend, she is perfectly content in her own achievement, her self-reliant means of earning secures her a house of her own and some savings in the bank, even during her serendipitous "one-night-stand" with a famous movie star, Alberto Lazzari (Nazzari in his Erroyl Flynn suaveness), in his palatial villa, she is not ashamed of her bog-standard house. Only when she peers from the keyhole of the star's bathroom when Alberto romantically reconciles with his trophy girlfriend Jessy (Gray), she realises there is something missing in her life.A pilgrimage with other working girls jolts her out of her hard earned fulfilment, she transforms from a non-believer to a devotee, daydreams a miracle will bestow on her. After religious epiphany, next in line is prestidigitation, Fellini cunningly alludes to the collusion between them, religion seduces a simple soul and illusion brings her the undoing. In the hypnotic performance, a cynical Cabiria unwittingly reveals herself, the inner child, a love-longing Maria Ceccarelli, which instigates Oscar, a spectator in the audience to conspire his act. Since manifestly Cabiria is not an accomplice of the magician (Silvani), then her state-of-hypnosis is indeed real, which is boldly against the common savvy, and can be perceived as a further tactic to turn realness-and-illusion topsy-turvy, with the sudden arrival of a Prince Charming, willing to marry her and doesn't want to know anything about her past, only with an ulterior motive.Giulietta Masina, what can I say, such a godsend to her hubby, a force of nature can effortlessly entice a viewer to vicariously discern and undergo her character's emotional trajectory, all the more she provoke immense sympathy along the way, the suspense-heightened final revelation is so gut-wrenching to watch yet it is completely captivating and emotive (bolstered by Nino Rota's sublimely emotionally manipulative score). What a triumphant performance, Cannes' BEST ACTRESS honour has never been so worthy!NIGHTS OF CABIRIA won BEST FOREIGN LANGUAGE PICTURE in the Oscar race, a consecutive second win for Fellini after LA STRADA (1954), unlike its tragic protagonist Gesumina, also played by Masina, who succumbs to the hardship and abandonment, in the coda, Cabiria manages to squeeze a smile through her tears with a parade of people singing and dancing around her, like a phoenix back from the ash, the message is uplifting, she may be homeless and penniless, but she has a true friend Wanda (an ace Marzi, in her very naturalistic mien) to rely on, she can go on working the next day and start every from the scratch, what can not kill you only makes you stronger, girl! Such a potent feminism manifesto, one might not expect it from a Fellini's creation.
This is the very first time I see an Italian movie, and I loved it! This was very adorable movie. It was a nice journey, that I am glad I took. The movie was produced in 1957, set in the beautiful city of Rome and directed and co-written by Frederico Fellini.The story of the movie is about a pretty crazy prostitute who we join in her journey of life, she looks for love and salvation. It's funny and true. She is an optimist who sings, dances and swears a lot.The idea is really nice, I don't know how often was a prostitute's story shown in a movie in the 1950's, but it's defiantly an interesting idea. Let's see what I loved, I loved how open minded and independent was Cabiria (main character) in the movie, she owned her own house and was so proud of it. She wasn't looking for marriage as much as love.She wanted to change her life and didn't accept just how things were.I also enjoyed how although she went to church and asked for grace from virgin Mary, nothing changed in her life, because she kept it as it.I thought the directing was very good, it kept me interested and enjoying the movie. I loved the scenery and acting of all actors. It was fun, lots of fun, even the soundtrack is fun, please listen to itMy favorite scene involved Cabiria hypnotized and revealing here true innocence in front of many people on stage.I still had few comments that I didn't like, when she met a father in the church, he told her you must get married, it's women's duty to have children and be wives, that was a little lame. And it made me feel as if its sending a message that those who want to be independent, must be bad and that they should go back to their "natural" duties. Also it kinda made me sad that although she such an optimist, things never turned out right for her. I absolutely loved the ending scene, brought a smile back to my face.At the end, I would recommend the movie and would say it's very enjoyable. Oh, almost forgot that the Italian language is awesome, extremely lovely to hear. Definitely worth of being on the top 250 list.its-lalas-land.blogspot.com
Never before have I seen a film so sad and happy at the same time. The film stands at the midpoint of these two diverse feelings, and somehow the ending is able to reconcile the two into a coherent and understandable scenario for our favorite Italian prostitute, Cabiria.This is a story that really hinges on the performance of the lead, and it could have gone either way despite Federico Fellini being behind the camera. Fortunately, his wife was in front of it, and Giuiletta Masina's performance does far more than carry the weight of the plot. She transcends practically every scene, basing her performance on Charlie Chaplin and dancing as much as she can. Of course we love her, but more than that we sympathize for her; despite her job we see her as someone we might know, sweet and gentle but very naive.Also to be commended is the style in which Fellini documents this journey; we are taken through the seedy undergrounds of Rome some 50 years ago. Cabiria's life has its most unpleasant moments, such as the opening sequence and when she goes home with a famous Italian movie star, but Fellini always feels for her and so do we. By the time the ending arrives, we are utterly ensnared in the short, rather unusual looking woman. And it is because of the husband and wife team of actress and director that we care about any of these people and are so moved by what is easily one of the best final scenes in movie history.


                
Fellini knows how to direct a story, and this one tugs at all of your emotions. It is a simple tale of a woman who wanted better in life. Of course from the poor side of the tracks and as she grew up her life hadn't gotten any better, she did have one thing: her dreams. And that, with her spirit, makes watching the film all worthwhile.Fellini wants you to hope for the best for his character Cabiria (Maria) and Giulietta Masina plays her well. As her life unfolds as a prostitute, she never loses her Cinderella dream while those around her crush it in every which way possible. But she does meet her "prince", and she is led to believe her story will end "happily ever after", and that's when we the audience is let in for a shock of horrific proportions. But, as we sit and watch this unfold, Fellini delivers skillfully what only Fellini can; and in that, we sigh with relief as we are still on Cabiria's side of love and hope.Filmmed in Black and White (subtitled) with all the artistry and rawness of Fellini, this is the type of picture that makes you fall in love with film and story. No special effects, no contrived love story. This is done as if these are folks you know and see everyday. You can't really turn away, you want to know what's next. Excellent film.
Before Federico Fellini became the audacious and surrealistic film auteur of the 1960s he was a lauded and accomplished Italian Neorealistic film director of the 1950s, more in league with Vittorio De Sica and Lucchino Visconti, and no film better represents this era of Fellini's art than his sterling 1957 film Nights Of Cabiria (Le Notti Di Cabiria), written by Fellini, Tulio Pinelli, and Ennio Flaiano (with Pier Paolo Pasolini scripting the Roman street slang), and starring his wife Giulieta Masina. It won the 1957 film Oscar for Best Foreign Film, and deservedly so. The film deals with the trials and tribulations of the impoverished and downtrodden in a humorous but realistic way that Hollywood still does not dare to do. Yet, even in this film, one can see the filmmaker that Fellini was to become in a few years, for, despite its seeming realism, there are many neat touches of Absurdism, Symbolism, and Surrealism<U+0085>. In many ways, the film is a picaresque of one of the oldest clichés: the hooker with the heart of gold, but such a generalization utterly disservices the 'how' of how art affects one, and how it does its task. Masina's brilliant performance, which won the Best Actress award at the Cannes Film Festival, is often compared to Chaplin's tramp character, even though it is more like Lucille Ball's TV character of Lucy Ricardo, from I Love Lucy, albeit with depth, delicacy, and heart; such a depth of a character that a lesser actress would have let descend into burlesque. Yet, Cabiria's expressiveness is more subtle and true than either Chaplin's or Ball's characters, for they exist only in comedies, and Nights Of Cabiria is not a comedy, despite some funny moments. Cabiria exists in a far more complex and realistic world than the Tramp or Lucy Ricardo. Her face contorts into twists of pain Lucy Ricardo never dreamt of, and which the Tramp simply shrugged off, or responded to with wild slapstick. Cabiria is wary, mistrusts, and does not seem to learn, frustrating both her and the audience she has gotten to root for her. I knew many such women in my New York neighborhood while growing up. And they can be tough, street smart, yet still gullible enough to fall for an Oscar. That said, critics have disagreed, over the years, over whether or not Oscar was conning Cabiria from the start. I think it's clear he was, for from her answers to the mesmerist he felt she was an independent woman of means, assuming a poor woman would never even go to such a show. One can even see from their scene of meeting at the train station that Oscar is putting on an act, changing his facial expressions the moment he sees her, dropping a toothpick from his mouth, after looking like the consummate con man, and then assuming a weak demeanor to lure Cabiria into his trap. That the woman who makes her living in sex is still so naïve to the ways of emotional sexual involvement says a lot of Fellini's prescience in parsing out realities of character development. Then, when he found out she was a prostitute, he felt a bit guilty, as if preying on someone from his own class, and thus wanted to not know of her 'job'. A part of him, it seems, wants to not con her, at the cliff, and this was why his demeanor is so different. Yet, ultimately, he's a con, she's a whore, and reality dictates they act their parts. But, unlike Giorgio, he is no would be killer. The only question is what his initial con was to be- to marry a woman of means, and then, failing that, to just take Cabiria's money the moment he saw it, knowing his original plan was dead, for he could not sponge off of her. Such small ambiguities, even if not pertinent to Cabiria's ultimate unhappiness, nor the film's ending, makes Fellini an artist of the first rank, for only such artists pay attention to such things. These things, not the great things, are often the difference between greats and minor artists.These sorts of subtleties in common folk are never even broached, much less dealt with, in modern Hollywood films. Such is the richness of this marvelous study in class and self-deception, where humans live in small concrete boxes they call homes, as if lab rats. That the film does not follow a conventional narrative format is a good thing, for it heightens the realistic sense of the film. It also subtly repudiates religion, although not so much in the overtly religious scenes, where Cabiria's spiritual entreaties go unheard, nor where she mocks the religiots as fools, but in those scenes where Cabiria reveals her most human side, the non-fantastic, which is ironic, since she works in a profession that deals with fantasy. The film also deals with survival, at its basest level, for Cabiria barely grows intellectually through the film. Yes, by film's end, one could argue that her latest user and abuser, Oscar, is a step up from Giorgio, whom she began the film with, but has Cabiria really ameliorated?To close, Nights Of Cabiria owes much to City Lights for its focus on the poor, as well as to De Sica's The Bicycle Thief, for its realistic view of life at a certain time and place, especially its end, which simply ends, with no indication of whether or not Cabiria will be better off or not, and this helps viewers more strongly identify with her, because we all are unknowing and uncertain of our futures, and even though Cabiria's uncertainty is half a century removed, the tingle we get in our bellies, at the film's end is a recognition of our fears in her gaze toward us, and despite it's unsettling effect, such butterflies still flap their wings for the future.
Giulietta Masina stars as the title character in this Oscar winning film that also earned her an award at Cannes. She has a sweet and also clownish look as a prostitute that walks around the city looking for love.Federico Fellini won one of his four Oscars for this funny film (You see a lot of Chaplin in her character.) that has Cabiria holding her head high despite her occupation.In the opening her current boyfriend tries to drown her. She spend one night in a movie stars mansion - in the bathroom with the dog, as his girlfriend shows up. She goes on a pilgrimage to ask the Virgin Mary to get her off the streets. That smile is always on her face.You see a sinful woman who is in search of her own spirituality. She tells a friar that she is not in God's grace, but you see in her face that she really wants to be.She is so desirous of marriage that she again gets ripped off, but managed to get that smile back anyway.A lot of this film is recycled in La Dolce Vita, and Sweet Charity is a remake of it. To see Giulietta Masina makes it an investment of time well spent.


                
