Well, it's finally over:  Peter Jackson's adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's mediocre epic concludes with  *The Return of the King*, a 3-1/2-hour test of endurance.  How many times can a movie show Elijah Wood's big blue eyes welling up with tragic tears?  how many times do our heroes single-handedly dispatch thousands of evil creatures apiece during big battles?  how many times do we have to endure the jokes from that hairy dwarf?  how many times must Howard Shore's repetitive, sappy score rise to deafening levels whenever a minor character lies in a broken heap on the battlefield?  how many times must director Jackson waste his wide screen photography with gigantic close-ups of the actors  (I haven't seen so many BIG HEADS since the last Academy Awards broadcast)?  how many times must we withstand grand, cartoon-animated armies? . . . and how many more times must we watch plot developments that contain virtually no suspense??  (What -- did you think the Dark Lord would win?  that any of the main characters of the Fellowship would actually die?)Apparently, many MORE times, because this 3-1/2-hour trudge is but the appetizer to the main course of the  "Extended Edition", New Line's continuing money-grab that will reveal perhaps a FIVE-HOUR version of this movie alone.  (Taken all together, *The Lord of the Rings* -- The Extended Version -- approaches the length of 14 hours, give or take.)  Well, as P. T. Barnum once observed, There's a sucker born every minute, and New Line has found the suckers, who are not only willing to pay at the movie theater, but are also only too willing to fork out exorbitant amounts for  "special editions"  of movies that ought to have stood on their own -- AS RELEASED. A simple standard should obtain in a movie theater:  what you're seeing on the screen should be what a director wants you to see.  "Extended-edition DVD's"  don't count, and especially should not be taken in consideration in reviews by either professional critics or by amateur reviewers at places like IMDb.  I can already hear the defenders of the films demur, "But these movies would've been too long if Jackson didn't cut them into shorter versions!"  But that's precisely my point.  *The Lord of the Rings* remains an unfilmable book:  it's too long; it's too unwieldy.  As far as an adaptation is concerned, none -- not less -- would be more.Which is not to say that there aren't any great filmic moments in *Return of the King*:  the lighting of the watch-fires along the mountain ranges is pure cinema; the entire scene with Frodo and Sam fending off a giant spider in a cobwebby cave is terrific, providing the one suspenseful stretch in the entire movie; and Gollum remains a wonderful creation, a rare successful collaboration of technology and old-fashioned creative virtues.  Taken as a whole, the movie is better than, say, *The Matrix*  or other expensive Hollywood blockbusters of the  "action-adventure"  genre.  But to say so is not to say much.  The occasional high points don't constitute a comprehensive whole, or make Tolkien's saga any less silly.  It's a book about magic rings, wizards, Dark Lords, and dwarfs, for God's sake.  In *Return of the King*, there's a scene in Minas Tirith where the citizens watch a sad parade of soldiers go by:  but it's comical, because everyone looks like refugees from a Renaissance Faire.  It doesn't do to inflate this material to cosmic levels.  Claims that Tolkien's fantasy was the greatest book of the 20th Century truly make my head spin:  what, was  *Ulysses* chopped liver?  What was the second greatest book -- Stephen King's  *The Stand*?Pardon my long-windedness, but the very subject inspires it.  I'll wrap by lamenting that one of the better elements in the first two installments, Christopher Lee as Saruman, was a victim of the cutting room floor.  Even fans of this material might agree with me that any number of the scenes with Frodo and Sam blubbering at each other would've been better replaced with a coda to the Saruman plot-line.  While others may say, "Well, he'll be in the Extended-Edition version,"  I'm sure that will be cold comfort to Mr. Lee. At least Saruman was a villain we could sink our teeth into:  in *Return*, we must instead settle for that damned Eyeball atop that tower.  Granted, in this film the Eyeball has developed the power to sort of roll about, rather like a lighthouse lamp,  but it's still a pretty lame villain.  Here, perhaps more than anywhere, Jackson reveals the limitations of his source material.  In the book, as I recall, Sauron's Eyeball was really more of a psychological entity.  Grasping for any straw, Jackson has made the Eyeball a concrete reality, so that we would have SOMETHING to identify as a villain.  But don't fret:  Sauron's Nose will doubtless turn up in the Extended Edition.  In the meantime, sweet dreams, everyone.


                
I loved the first two LOTR films, and was keyed up almost beyond endurance to see ROTK the first week it opened. When the film was over, I was stunned by the depth of disappointment I was feeling. In fact, I went back and watched the movie again a few days later; I could not believe that it really had been as bad as I'd experienced. The fault must have been mine, I thought; I'd been too wound up to really take it in. With a cooler head, I'd be able to enjoy it and the magic would work again, as it had with the previous two movies. Alas, no. The movie was just as bad as I'd thought, and it somehow managed to posthumously poison my pleasure in the other two movies as well. I've never been able to enjoy any of them since.I came to really hate Peter Jackson, especially after watching all the "making of" interviews on the dvds. I believe he is an undisciplined, self-indulgent egomaniac, and these characteristics progressively took over as the film series continued. Fellowship of the Ring was the best of the lot, and I feel it's because it was a gamble. Now that the series is over, people forget that before FOTR premiered, there was no guarantee that the film would be a success. LOTR was a notoriously difficult book to adapt, and many worried that it couldn't be done. In that atmosphere, Jackson and his co-writers were at their most deferential to the original Tolkien text, and almost humble in their approach to such a daunting task.After FOTR was a big success, they became more confident in their own skills, and felt bold enough to try a little rewriting for The Two Towers, even while assuring fans that it was only a little strategic reorganizing, and the original story would be preserved in ROTK. By that point, however, Jackson was so deluded by the sycophantic flattery that surrounded him on all sides, he was convinced that the fans would adoringly accept anything he filmed, simply because it was the product of such a genius. ROTK could not contain both Tolkien's story and Jackson's ego, and guess which won in the end? The story flopped all over the place, with Saruman's storyline simply chopped off and left unresolved, while Jackson wasted time indulging in invented scenes back in Rohan, when the story should have moved decisively to Gondor. That, however, was not the part of the story that interested him, so we had to have more loving photography of carved dark wood beams and animal-skin rugs, plus a vastly overdrawn love connection between Eowyn and Aragorn. When Jackson finally had to tear himself away from this romantic Viking paradise and turn to Gondor, he revenged himself on the story by turning Gondor into a sterile, dead cement city, full of cowards and idiots.Worst of all, I felt that by ROTK Jackson was even getting sloppy on what had been a trademark of the films until then - set design and scale. For a scene where Gandalf and Pippin are on a balcony, looking towards Minas Morgul, he had both actors on the same set, with Pippin merely kneeling at the balcony, while Gandalf towered over him. However, the brain can quite clearly calculate that the scale of the balcony in relation to the bodies of both characters is wrong - in FOTR, Jackson would have built a larger-scale model of the balcony for Pippin, to keep up the illusion that he was a smaller figure in a setting made for people of Gandalf's size. This time, he couldn't be bothered, as if he felt that he'd paid his dues being accurate in the first two movies, and now he should be free to play around and have fun.That was amply demonstrated with the stupid green goblins, the endless battle scenes, the noise, the shaking camera, and the labored "humour" in every Gimli scene. What annoyed me the most, however, was that Jackson seemed to have no grasp of what Tolkien thought was important. In the movie, only the "stars" are able to act (and yes, that includes the Hobbits), whereas Tolkien showed that nobility, courage and heroism are EVERYONE's business. In the books, the individual soldiers of Gondor had personalities, felt connected to the greater cause, and debated how best they could do their duty. In Jackson's movies, Aragorn and Gandalf do all the fighting, while crowds of women blubber helplessly and soldiers blunder about uselessly. This is why his removal of the Scouring of the Shire was both execrable and inevitable. Jackson can't recognize any drama in ordinary people in ordinary settings facing crisis and either failing or rising to the occasion - to him, the Shire is just dumb peasants who were too stupid not to leave home for adventure, and there's nothing more to be expected of them. Tolkien's whole theme was that adventure and crisis are NOT the sole property of noble heroes, but that it can touch anyone, and how we react when it does is as important as Aragorn's struggle with Sauron or Denethor's descent into madness.


                
I have been an avid LOTR fan for almost ten years now. I love love love love the books, but I really hated this movie.What Jackson did (and I'm surprised Phillipa or Christopher didn't call him out on it) was cut all the really important ending bits for sake of having disgustingly overblown battle sequences that made me want to kill myself. An hour is too long to be in battle, in a movie, I'm sorry. The CGI was amazing, and the deaths were good and all, but it didn't really help the story along. All it did was sit there. And we aren't even going to get into how much I hate Orlando Bloom.The fact that the scenes in the houses of healing were cut just pisses me off. Faramire and Eowyn deserved more than a glance during Aragorn's OMG SPIFFY coronation. They were the the link between Gondor and Rohan. They were actually quite major characters, and they were totally glossed over for the sake of some Oliphants falling over. Butchery? Yes, yes it is.And the endings. The endings weren't long enough. I know what you're thinking, "but... the ending dragged on and on with no sign of an end in sight until it actually ended", but seriously folks, don't give me that BS unless you've read the books as many times as I have (if you have, then by all means, give me that BS many people have read them more times then I have, but those people would agree with me) when Peter Jackson decided to use his "artistic" license to completely forget about half of the stuff in the books, he cheated people out of some seriously amazing story telling. The scouring of the Shire is what the whole trilogy is supposed to be about. It's about how Frodo leaves hating how much the hobbits take for granted in life, and then coming back, and helping to save them from something they have never before had the displeasure of meeting, and that is slavery. And then when they won their freedom back, they loved their heroes, and they celebrated them, and they were happy again, and they (hopefully) wouldn't take so much for granted again in the future.Okay, I'm getting myself upset, and I'll shut up. But seriously, all this movie is for is watching people run around and stab things. Not interesting to me.


                
*SPOILER ALERT*The latest hoopla for the last and weakest film of the trilogy from Jackson came to myself and friends as quite a shock.  I have always been a huge fan of the books, but I must say that I was rather disappointed. Why?1)  Weak performances from the cast-- most notably, the characters of Denethor, Aragorn and Frodo.  These performances did nothing to make me feel anything for them or what would happen to them in the story.  Such a hammy portrayal of Denethor (what's up with him stuffing his face during the entire song of Pippin?)2)  Absolute terrible film scoring by Howard Shore (as usual)3)  Poor compositing for the effects, in most of the crucial scenes--most notably:  Mt. Doom.  Frodo's feet float above the ground.4)  A Porky Pig orc captain that ruins any sense of danger at the Pelennor Fields Battle.5)  Jackson's intermittent disrespect for the characters.  Most notably--Gandalf striking down Denethor . . . twice!  The Dead King looking like he came out of Army of Darkness with a swiss cheese face.6)  The biggest abuse of slow-motion in cinematic history (even beyond that of John Woo)Jackson shamelessly pimps out elements of the story for audience cheers and laughs.  Whether it's Gandalf hitting someone, the Palantir turning into a ball of fire, or Smeagol & Frodo battling for the ring after Smeagol has already won it from him.Even the Lord of the Nazgul scene--which is already set up to be a crowd-pleaser.  The Nazgul waits long enough for Eowyn to deliver her line, remove her helmet, tossle her hair and stab him.  Why?  Only to give time for a bigger cheer from the audience.  After all, isn't that what it's all about?  Like Legolas surfing on an orc shield or a Mumakil trunk?And why show Denethor as an evil man trying to burn Pippin and then jump off the cliff of Minas Tirith?  Doesn't this trivialize the Father/Son conflict of the story?Sentiment was often transformed to cheese for "dramatic effect".  Utterly disappointing.However:The Oliphaunts and Shelob are very impressive.  There are also many battle shots that came through spectacularly--particularly the Nazgul fell beasts. Unfortunately, in the more sensitive scenes with hobbits, whenever we see them from afar they are obviously a dwarf double or some poorly composited green screen effect.Sean Astin did a poignant performance as Samwise.  Ian was fantastic once again as Gandalf--even dispite his character continuity problems. Miranda was also wonderful and very touching.  I can't wait to see more films with her.  Merry and Pippin, even though simplified, added a touch of innocent naive enthusiasm.  Pippin's loyalty to his position as guard of Minas Tirith and Merry's puppy love for Eowyn were great.I realize that this will be a hopelessly negative review to a film that has already made over 30 million before the end of it's first weekend.  There are obviously people that LOVE this film.I've written this review primarily for those who are LOTR book fans like myself that are looking for a more critical take on the film before seeing it or those that actually have seen it and are feeling just as confused as I am as to why everyone else seems to love it as much as we wish we could.In fact, I would have been much better off in the theatre if a reviewer had warned me ahead of time about a few things--and I'm not talking about the omission of Saruman or The Scouring of the Shire.This will be the version of Tolkien's masterpiece remembered for generations and years to come.  It is a pity that it wasn't treated with the subtlety and care it truly deserved.  But then again it was only "a fool's hope" that it could be made in the first place.  Hats off to Jackson for trying, even if he didn't fully succeed.  We'll always have the books.
I went to see this movie at midnight the day it opened in the cinemas, just as I did for the first two LOTR films. The first two movies were both excellent. This was going to be IT--finally, a good film version of the greatest story ever told--Tolkien's lovely tale, perfectly written over the course of more than a decade of writing and revisions, excellent actors cast perfectly for their roles. All the film needed to do was stay the course--stick to the story, let the actors keep up their good work--and it would have been the single best movie of all time.BUT NO, for some reason, Peter Jackson could not stand to do this. I'm not one to whine about a few mundane details altered by the transition from book to film--I expect and sometimes enjoy such differences. However, I could not help but be disgusted when I saw Jackson's Saturday-morning cartoonish depiction of the Battle of the Pelennor Fields. For those of you who did not read the book, just believe me when I tell you that battle contained the most pivotal moment in the entire trilogy, and Peter Jackson decided to make a joke of it.HOW COULD YOU DO THIS?? In the real version, the onslaught of the Riders of Rohan slows down after the attack of the giant elephants, and things begin to turn against the good guys. Just when things seem like they can't get any worse (the Lord of Gondor is insane, Theoden is dead, Aragorn & co. are nowhere to be found, the sky is dark, etc.), they do. The long feared fleet of black ships floats up the river, and the strong south wind that the good guys first blessed now bears their final curse. Just as Eomer prepares his people to die in their last battle before the end of the world, Aragorn's flag, that of the line of the kings of Men, unfurls from the Corsair flagship, and thus came Aragorn to Gondor, the rightful king. This IS the Return of the King. The entire book is named after this moment, and it is glorious to read, and would have been glorious on film as well.Instead, we have some evil-looking black ships float up to the orc-dock. the ugly harbor-master complains about them being late, and then 3 guys jump out of the ship looking ready for a fight. The orcs get the joke, and begin to attack, BUT WAIT! an undead army is hiding in the ships! How clever and funny! GIVE ME A BREAK! HOW much more lame can it get? I know! instead of including some other very valuable scenes (Gandalf v. Lord of the Nazgul, a decent portrayal of Denethor's more complex character, the parting of Arwen and Elrond, etc.), we can add 5 extraneous ending scenes! Disappointment after disappointment followed the tasteless portrayal of the Pelennor battle. I was heartbroken to see this film, as would be anyone who knows and appreciates the masterpiece that Tolkien conceived.
There was so much love and hate from me and my friends for the first two movies: Nearly perfect visualization, but some really bad interpretation of the main characters. Watching The Return of the King was unbearable and I left the cinema when I saw Gandalf and Frodo giggling after the fall of the ring and making themselves ridiculous.I guess Return of the King totally missed the spirit of the book. All the highlights of the third book went wrong in the movie: The fight of Eowyn against the Lord of the Nazgul; Aragorns and his way of the death; the relationship between Gandalf and Denethor; when Gandalf saved Faramir of the Nazgul; the relationship between Pippin and Denethor; the meeting between Gandalf and the Lord of the Nazgul; Aragorn healing the people of Minas Tirith after the battle; ...But mostly I was disappointed about the behaviour and attitude of some of the main characters: I think that Gandalf, Legolas, Eowyn, Pippin, Merry and Denethor don't match with the characters in the book. And that is really a great disappointment for me.Sorry for my bad english...


                
If I can only describe the whole movie with one word only, that word will surely be "LONG". It is 4 hours and 11 minutes long with a predictable ending. It is such a pain to wait for the climax. The climax is no longer exciting no matter how perfect it is, as the audience has already suffered for 3 hours already. While I watched this movie, the whole cinema was happy about the ending. Not because of it had a good ending but because it finally ended.It is such a waste to film this movie in New Zealand, as the scenes are all computer-composed. It is also very difficult to memorize all the character, places names. The script is basically composed by a group of proper nouns which are unreal.The only thing I like about the movie is the costume that Gandalf wore. It is purely white which I think is cool.It might be great if it is shown on TV in episodes, but surely not worth to spend 4 hours in a cinema for this movie.


                
Mr. Jackson let us all down on this one. I sat through all three of these films before it hit me. I wasn't really enjoying them. Every dramatic moment was being thrown away because it was filmed as a close-up. Over and over again, the epic context was stripped away and all we got was big, blue eyes. People say they liked these films, but I don't think they know what they are missing. I sat there disappointed as each great moment in these stories passed by without soaring to any great emotional heights. It was flat as cardboard.


                
I loved & adored the Fellowship and Two Towers. I repeat. They are my top favourite films of all time, even above Star Wars & Blade Runner. These films had furious pace, plot unity, the characters had gravitas, the dialogue had consequence, the language was masterful and elegant, the music either beautifully dominated the scenes or perfectly underscored them with gracious subtlety.Return of the King was a bitter disappointment and a terrible movie. Gandalf "the White", seems no longer the wizard who defeated the Moria balrog! The Witch King of Angmar, whom Aragorn had stood against on Weathertop seemingly without much effort, and a few swings of this torch, seemed about to kick Gandalf into the dirt and make him eat it. The Orc general was pathetic as a disabled elephant-man. Most of the dialogues are utterly disjointed; the voices of the actors who had acted so brilliantly in the previous movies had no weight. I also felt what they were saying was pointless. Take the scene in which Pippin finds Merry on the Pelennor Fields - one says "I found you", the other replies "yes, I knew you would". How does that advance the plot at all?! The Black Lieutenant was a misguided attempt at comic relief at a crucial juncture of the film, when all seems despair. Some of the shots in Mordor were dubious - the sky behind the hobbit scenes a light grey, whereas as viewed from Gondor the sky is black!! What's the deal about Sauron becoming a light-house?! The soldiers of Minas Tirith are a bunch of incompetent poster-boys I wouldn't trust to defend against a poodle. What are the women and children doing still in the city after the orc armies have broken in?! Pippin seems to be able to run all the way from the Citadel to the lowest city level and back, twice, just to ask Gandalf to help him save Faramir. The Saruman scene was dreadful and the dialogue repetitive. The musical score had no soul, no uniqueness: it could have been the music in a 100 other films (and probably will be). The opening scene was pointless, badly acted, not believable, and served no other purpose other than delaying the beginning. What was the point of that Indiana Jones-Temple-of-Doom-skull avalanche in the mountain of the ghost army? The falling in love between Eowyn and Faramir is completely unsubstantiated and not believable. Alas, I could go on and on.I just don't understand people who liked it. Sure, it had superb CGI action, but frankly that's all. I suspect it appealed to Independence Day/ Alien vs Predator all-action-no-brains Jerry Bruckheimer fans.I do understand Peter Jackson - he was tired after working so, so hard, so many years on this single project. He just let his focus slip on the last straight-line (editing it, while already preparing for King Kong). A great pity. For me the trilogy is unfinished. In my opinion it could benefit from a complete re-editing but I doubt it will ever happen because of its Oscars. The first two should have been so recompensed - this one doesn't deserve being shown in a Tijuana whore-house as side-entertainment.
The problem with this movie is that there's nothing new going on, its more of the same from the previous 2 movies. This is by far the weakest of the series, the ending was just so corny and predictable. Same old battles, same old Frodo, same old clichés, same old everything, this movie had nothing. This whole series could've been 1 movie, instead they just milked it for all that it was worth, and by the time this one came around i'd had more than enough. I don't understand how this movie ranks at number 4 on the top 250 list of all time, it shouldn't be in the top 1000 let alone the top 250. The only words to describe this movie are bloated and self-indulgent.


                
I came to the 3rd installment full of hope for greatness, having loved the first two parts, but I have to say I was greatly disappointed. Not to put too fine a point on it, Peter Jackson has blown it. This is all the sadder when you consider that the first half up to the siege of Gondor is stupendous. (Apart from the ludicrous bit when the palantir of Saruman appears in a pool at the foot of Isengard - without any explanation as to why the most precious thing in the tower has ended up there.) But after the siege the problems really begin ...The brilliant moment when Eowyn slays the Witch King of Angmar is cut into two halves, denuding it of much of its power. Arwen continues to be a drippy character. Sam has some more toe-curling soppiness. Sauron remains a bizarre electrical 'thing' - he doesn't even have the character of the introduction to the first film, even more he has none of the self-doubt that comes through in the book. The moment we've all been waiting for (a very very long time) through three films - i.e. the downfall of Sauron is a bitter anti-climax. Over 10 hours of struggle and we end up with a minute's collapse. Then we're treated to another Sam moment (argh!) and a particularly dreadful moment where the hobbits jump on Frodo's bed. The Shire at the end looks like it's just been planted with not a petal out of place. And the whole thing peters away. Some of this is of course the problem of the book - but Jackson should have grasped the nettle and been better and bolder with the ending.I'm afraid this could have been so so so much better. Really disappointing and, basically, poor.
I have actually watched this movie having watched the previous two too. I guess the reason why I did it was because I was still hoping that something of some value would eventually come out of it.I was wrong.Truth is that I fell asleep after the first half of the first movie - the guy sitting next to me gave me a push to wake up. That was admittedly one of the slowest and most boring movies I had ever come across.Things went slightly better during the second part, mostly because of the battle that managed to keep me awake due to noise.Third movie just gave another back to the rule that if something starts wrong most likely ends up the same way.Frankly I don't know why people value this movie that much - if you exclude the fancy effects the rest is absolutely flat. I suppose it is always a matter of perception. But placing this movie higher than other jewels in IMDb ranking, hey, something is wrong with this picture! I give trilogy a 3 since it gave me a good sleep.


                
While it has more action than the first two movies, it dragged and dragged and dragged on. This portion of the story could have been told in 90 minutes: the other two hours are there merely to give your subwoofer a work out. The movie does accurately portray the book, which was also exceedingly boring. The story is not memorable. I couldn't remember enough about the first two movies to know what the situation was for the third movie. The highlight of the movie is the boost it gave to the New Zealand economy. It is also a great travel video for the South Island, enough that I may take a vacation there to see it. Don't waste your money on this, unless you need a good nap.


                
From beginning to end I can sum this film up in two words, mindless dribble. It took me till the last scene of the film to realize that almost every scene in both The Two Towers and Return Of The King had been tragged on for much longer than it should have done, scenes that should take 2 minutes to watch take 10 minutes, in most scenes it consists of slow motion movement, special effects, and soft meaningless music. I couldn't believe the last 30 minutes of the film, I was actually thinking to myself what am I watching. I believe LOTR trilogy to be no different from the Matrix trilogy, a good start to a story but then in the sequels both films were packed jammed full of special effects, supposedly they thought that if they shoved enough special effects in that in would breath take the audience and maybe they wouldn't think too much about the story. I truly feel embarrassed for the people that have rated this movie in the same league as such real epics as Braveheart, Titanic, Terminator 2 etc. This may bring great controversy and I look forward to hearing your reply's. Feel free to contact me through my email address with your views.


                
Okay... here goes.  I am preparing myself for another year of vicious, profanity-laden and hysterically defensive e-mails from the rabid fanatics who refuse to believe that these 'Lord of the Rings' movies aren't beloved by everyone.  I have received well in excess of five-hundred such emails, while only receiving forty or fifty in support of my views.Obviously, I am in the minority in this particular case.  Only 17.2% of IMDb users gave the first two films anything other than an 8, 9 or 10 out of 10. Four out of five people, who regularly go to the movies, really like these films.  Some are so obsessed with the film that it borders on a cult-like following.So lets dispense with the bulls**t.  To save yourself some time... if you feel like sending one of 'those' emails, just type in the word "ditto" and I will get the message.  Alternatively, you can be at peace with your rabid fanaticism and use your time more wisely... perhaps attending a LOTR convention dressed as your favorite character and rolling your R's when you talk to your fellow geeks.I am also going to dispense with the plot summary... Everyone has seen it anyway, and it will just feel redundant.  Frodo and Sam are walking, Aragorn and Gimli are fighting Orcs, New Zealand looks beautiful, Gandalf glows -- Yada Yada Yada.I will admit this however... 'The Return of the King' came as close to a recommendation  as any of the three.  I even toyed with the idea of pushing it over the edge just to avoid at least some of the hate-mail.The final thirty minutes of the film did enough to evoke tears from my eyes, partly from relief, partly because it was very sentimental.  If the previous ten hours of material had felt more like the final denouement, I would have given the films glorious recommendations.  Those last minutes were gentle and kind and emotionally powerful... it actually felt like Tolkien's work for a change.The best acting in the entire saga came in that final act.  The one that stood out the most was Sean Astin as Sam.  Sam acts as our 'witness' throughout the film and I got choked up watching his character in the final scenes.Like I said... I was close to giving in to this film, but I just couldn't do it.  There were too many corny scenes, too many lulls, too many overwrought speeches, too many special effects.  Don't get me wrong, some of those battle scenes were spectacular, but they also never seemed to end.  I felt more exhausted than exhilarated after having watched them.  And interspersed throughout the film were a couple of musical numbers, that felt very out of place, along with a few intended 'tender' moments that seemed awkward and melodramatic.Can I give Peter Jackson any praise at all?  Hell Yes!  He must have worked his ass off for years to make this project happen.  The amount of thought and coordination and organization that went into all of this must be mind-boggling.  I respect and admire his accomplishment, but I think he was the wrong man for the job.  He was concerned with the wrong aspects of the trilogy... the action, the adventure, the battles and the gore.  He didn't focus on the kinder and gentler aspects of the story -- the hobbits, the friendships, the beauty, the innocence, the childlike imagination... but, of course, that would not have sold as many tickets at the box office, now would it?  I think his limited and gory experience as a director hurt him in this regard.  This was "his" version of the trilogy... but 17.2% of us didn't really share that vision.Will this third installment win the Oscar this year?  Probably, but I certainly hope not.  I agree with Roger Ebert who said, "That it falls a little shy of greatness is perhaps inevitable. The story is just a little too silly to carry the emotional weight of a masterpiece."Will this third installment surpass 'Titanic's' mammoth box office tally in the US and around the globe?  No, not even close.  You could add any two of the three film's worldwide gross and their tally would not add up to that of Titanic's total alone.  LOTR is a huge box office success, but it won't change the industry in any substantial way.  Perhaps we will see a few attempts to emulate the success with more fantasy adventures... it will probably become a fad like the recent Marvel Comic adaptations.Will this trilogy go down as one of the 'All Time Greats'?  Probably not. I don't believe that this film will hold up over time, even with its strongest fans.  Movies with special effects of this nature usually seem dated after a decade or so, as technology continues to improve beyond our wildest imaginations.  There are rare exceptions of course... but even Star Wars' fanaticism is petering out slowly... and that was the most popular fantasy adventure ever made.  'Attack of the Clones' made $120 million less than 'Phantom Menace'.  I doubt that the last installment will even reach $250 million domestically.The fact is that people grow up... they grow out of this sort of thing... it fizzles away into nostalgia.  Most films that truly last and stand the test of time are based more in reality than in 'Orc-world'.  That doesn't mean that a film like this can't be a wonderful diversionary escape, a fun trip to the theatre.  But it does, in all likelihood, mean that it won't be remembered as a masterpiece of filmmaking.'The Return of the King' is the best of the three... I really liked the final scenes, the farewells, the tying of the loose ends.  But it still falls short of the Middle-Earth that I wanted to see, and thus I cannot rrrrrrrrecommend the film.


                
The Lord Of the Rings series was something I was never really into. I like fantasy, action, drama, and all that stuff but to me they were a bit monotonous and clichéd. That said I enjoyed the first two especially the second one but I had no big interest to see this one. My neighbor however insisted that it was a crime against nature to have never seen it so I borrowed it from him. With in the first half hour or so I shut it off. I was in disbelief that this could possibly be the movie so many were raving about. I then heard it gets much better, so I put it back in and started to watch it where I left off. The amount of overacting is just astounding...from Viggo to Bloom, everyone seemed to be trying way to hard. The action scenes were not great either. Just because they are big does not mean they are good. I saw so many awkward battles and terrible reactions to CGI enemys....ugh. ANd then there is the ending that is complained about even by fans. It dragged on and on as if to say "we know you have to pee but instead here is some crap to make you think we are artistic by showing 300 different endings". Really, I feel that a lot of the appeal of this movie comes from Dungeons and Dragons type people who think anything Peter Jackson makes, and anything Tolken writes is immediately gold....it is not.Summary Acting-5/10 Story-3/10 Action Scenes-3/10 Paceing-1/10 Dirrection-6/10 Ending-0/10 OVERALL-3/10 do not be fooled by the die-hard fans. This movie is absolutely terrible and an extreme waste of talent for everyone involved.


                
All I can say is this: I have watched Fellowship about 100 times, Two towers about 40 times and Return of the King 3 times. And I'd say that the number of times I've watched them is directly proportional to how I regard each film.Before I discuss the film itself, let me start by saying that I'm not one of those who dis's this (and all the other LOTR movies) simply because they don't follow verbatim those the horribly written, over-baked novels. To those who think this way, I have this to say: I noticed that JRR seems to have lost patience with writing this trilogy towards the end. You'll notice that fellowship is neat and punchy and two towers is engaging, but drops off in parts. By the time JRR was writing RotK, he must have been absolutely fed up with the whole LOTR because the syntax and language is rough, awkward, rushed in parts; and the author's own interest in winding up the story in style is visibly lacking.My criticism of the film itself is more reserved for the fact that the film-makers clearly attempted to hoodwink the population into thinking that this was a grand epic. Post production was over way the top and many elements were far too sentimental and over-dramatic (epic cinematic devices). If they wanted to create a truly great epic, they should have looked at films like Dances with Wolves where the powerful score, grand-standing and sentimentality work seamlessly with the story. For some reason, I felt that this film had all the elements of an epic.... but it just wasn't one. Perhaps the underlying novel didn't give them enough to work with. In any case, it really doesn't rank highly in my humble opinion. Fellowship was, without a doubt, the best of this series. How RotK ended up with all the awards and praise, both here and from the critics, has me absolutely stumped! Sometimes, I get the feeling that everyone was waiting for the final chapter before showering with awards and praise ... and when they finally saw it and realised that it wasn't as great as they had hoped, they were either sucked in by the epic devices (as opposed to an epic MOVIE) or they felt obliged to simply reward it notwithstanding because they had held off their showering of praise on the first two and felt obliged to give one of them all the accolades simply out of respect for their dedication in executing a task this size. Yet... the final product is unsatisfactory.


                
How can anyone who has read the books think this is a good adaptation? The liberties taken with the story were almost forgivable in the previous two movies, but The Return of the King is just hogwash in my view. It's a shame that Fran Walsh and Peter Jackson succumbed to the trend to Hollywoodize everything adapted for the big screen. Major disappointment.


                
It had taken me quite a while to see the last part of the Lord of the Rings trilogy and I must say I wish I'd never seen it at all. I started watching, thinking I would have myself a nice evening watching a good film. I had this feeling, because I had seen the first two parts several times each and both films had a good impact on me. The Return of the King however vanished those good thoughts of me regarding the first two films rapidly. I will now explain to you people why this film is the worst of the three and, in my opinion, the most overrated film in film history (it is assumed to be the #11 of all time).First of all I would like to point out that it is not the story I dislike. I've read the three books two times and that's quite unique considering the fact I've read about 10 books the last 10 years. And I'm not going to bring up the fact that the film doesn't really match the story told in the books. That doesn't bother me at all. I prefer films over books and I believe there's nothing wrong with bending the storyline a little bit to cut it short or make it possible to get on camera.Now let me get to the film. This has to be one of the most corny, fake and unnecessarily dramatic films ever. The acting was just too much and because of that not real. The music just made me laugh even harder. The way the film was brought to the viewer is another thing the makers shouldn't be too proud about. Almost every shot had that corny white glow over it, that made me just want to press STOP on my remote control. I didn't, because I liked the book so much and I wanted to see what Jackson did to the rest of the book. And last but not least the 'great' special effects and visual delight everybody seems to love. Really, put on some glasses, and if you already have them; buy better ones. Because your overwhelmed by the great story you're not paying attention to the crappy work with the blue screen. This especially comes forward when Frodo comes into play in the film (for example on mount doom). There are however, although very little, some things that I can't complain about. The battles are well made and Ian McKellen put on a good performance (because he didn't have to put on some sentimental scene). That however, is it. I don't think I'll ever watch the first two parts again, since I might be disappointed. And even though this film has a great story(/book) at its foundations, IMDb is a site for films and not books. And for a film, LOTR III did really bad...


                
Minus the special effects there is nothing redeeming about this movie. The characters are one dimensional. The story lines (of which there are several) are predictable and uninteresting. The ending is far far far too long and completely unnecessary. Even the way this movie is filmed isn't particularly interesting. Every third shot seemed like a pull away crane shot or an aerial computer generated fly by. The film did do a good job of wrapping up the trilogy, but otherwise I was unimpressed with this movie and the other two for that matter.What really bothers me is that contemporary movies, especially science fiction movies get rated so highly on this site. There is no way this movie is better than Casablanca or La Dolce Vita. Yes, I would say it was mildly entertaining for a popcorn movie, but at 3 hours it was just too much.


                
After the glory of the first film, and the almost-glory of the second, I was expecting better from this film than Peter Jackson delivered.Up until now he had been fairly true to the storyline.  Not so with this film.  I won't spoil it for those who haven't read the book and/or seen the film, but all I will say is that the ending to this film is, shall we say, different.A three hour film is fair enough, and I can happilly sit through one. Except when the last half hour or so is as bad as this one.  It could so easilly have been cut down to a reasonable length, just by following the plot.  Instead Mr Jackson, in his wisdom, decided it would be good to change the ending completely and extend it by about 30 minutes.I was on the verge of walking out it got so boring to the end.A bit of a disappointment really.  Such a shame as he started out so well with the other two parts.


                
What a waste of time.  The lack of realism was horrible.  Why is it that everyone if raving about this director - his character relationships, etc. did not touch me in the slightest.   I can suspend reality to belive in giants, trolls, orcs, and dragons but don't paint unrealistic human relationships and expect me to believe them. So the orc army was killed by ghosts. Uh, okay. So women are killing bad ass shadowlords. So calvary can kill orc infantry+ huge animals bigger than mamoths.So a stormed castle does not fall. So 2 hobbits are barely alive and exhausted, and they're running all around.So a hobbit can kill trained warrior. So what's up with mister baggy eyes getting all that screen time again?So we have a 80 year old wizard who seems to only be a master swordsman and not a magic user. So the humans approve and cheer when an freaky elf marries their king. So what's with all these little reminesings prior to imminent death?So how many loose ends you gonna tie up?Perhaps the most annoying thing was the emphasis on the two other hobbits (although Frodo and Sam were bad also).  I actually walked out of the movie early - just as they were about to go to the 'shire'


                
Well New Zealand gets a 1.5 for this movie. Way to long, 3.5 hours without an intermission is not good. Did the director never see "Gone With the Wind" when he was a young child?I also found somethings quite disjointed, they just didn't make sense, such as, the switching of the ring back and forth between Sam and Frodo. And why do they have some of the redundancy in the lines. When Mr Evil says "No man can do...", the King's daughter then takes off her helmet, but has to reiterate, that she's no man. Duh!! Another part that was poorly done was the ending, they get to what should be the climatic ending and then decide, well we've shot an extra 15 minutes of celluloid, so let's put that in the film also!As for people who've asked about getting 200 horses and riders to go up or down a hill, that's already been done, it's called the Civil War (a reality show from the 1860s, not a SciFi makeup). Speaking of the battlefield, next time please get Dale Dye (Cpt, USMC, Ret) or somebody to please help. Frontal assaults with light cavalry rarely work against infantry, except in favor of the infantry and usually resulting in a lot of bloodshed. Also where was all the blood on the battlefield, with that many dead, you would have expected to see pools of blood all over!This story was done better in the original 3 of Star Wars, but without the benefit of all the latest in computer graphics.


                
I was actually really disappointed with this movie. I suppose it's because I read the book first and you usually get disappointed with the film based on a book if you've read the book first. Anyway I think it's so obvious that the most important reason to make this film was so make a lot of money. The film makers have put too much energy and time to all these boring and endless action scenes that only anyway are destroying the mystic feeling of the movie. All the other parts of the movie are actually pretty good and I wonder why they didn't give these parts more space in the movie. I don't see why they had to change that much, especially in the ending, if it wasn't just to get more time to the fighting scenes, and then be able to make more money. And that's not good movie making is it?


                
This movie dragged on for what seemed like six hours.  The primary battle scenes are fantastic and a worthy final chapter to the story.  Of course, all three movies dragged on seemingly endlessly with uninteresting hobbit conversation and bickering.I rate this movie a "3" due to a 3 hr 21 minutes of mostly boredom for me. If it had been half that long...I'd rate it a "6" for being a very interesting story with great effects.


                
