I stuck around for this movie to serve something not yet seen or experienced in dozens of related films which I was so sure this movie would provide. Sadly, that moment never came.Although I have no complaints with the acting and setdesigns which were on par with any quality movie, there are basically three things that deprive this movie of being anything great.1. Though truly beautifully shot, Pan's two sided scenario with the Good vs Evil Children's-picture on the one side and a drama/war-movie on the other, provides no deeper layers. A 'what you see is what you get' type of film in which the fantasy part seemed more or less something that would look nice on the adverts in combination with a superabundance of very graphic violence in a foreign movie which offers a subterfuge to sell something slight and cursory as profound and insightful. 2. Since there is no thread running through both the scenario's it is like watching two different movies which bear very little to each other nor compliment the other. Because I liked the fantasy part zealously better than the war/drama bit, I was very disappointed that it had no follow-through and that it in the end just seemed like a shameless cloned-off short-impression of movies like Alice in Wonderland, The Wizzard of Ozz and The never Ending Story, to name but a few, but never with a meaningful reference of any kind. It is almost like the writers hit behind the fact that they never even saw these movies. 3.There is just nothing subtle in the story that draws you in, I found it all annoyingly superficial and cliché. It never invites you to share the little girl's fantastic world or truly reject El Capitan's actions because it is all far too black and white. Plus the film leaves no room for any other interpretation aside from the one which is already painted elaborately on its cinematic walls. Something I find quite odd since most true children's pictures have a lot underlying messages and symbolism. The more I think about it, the more this story just seems lazily written or without any terribly interesting thought behind it. -In the end of it all, there is simply no hope-..nothing more than a flipflop of any and all sappy-happy-endings Hollywood has been laying on us for years on end. Furthermore, with style over substance as its forté the movie tends to plod tremendously at times. And since none of the characters are really focused on, they all just seem to be stereotypes and are hence neither likable nor unlikable despite their (too) obvious good or bad demeanors. Vidal is simply bad, mom is simply weak and Ofelia was nothing more than the little girl playing with imaginary friends in the corner of the room.This film is alas just another example of a movie where they just don't seem to be able to get it both ways (powerful story AND powerful cinematography) which is the Achilles' heel of many a film lately but which oddly doesn't seem to bother the average moviegoer nor professional movie-critic who somehow seem to think that foreign+different=Masterpiece.


                
I was warned that "Pan's Labyrinth" had some violent content, but I was not prepared for the senseless brutality, cruelty, and depravity that this pointless horror film contained. It left me feeling disgusted and angry at the people who wrote this piece of trash. Beyond the sophisticated production and excellent special effects, I have nothing whatsoever to say in favor of this ultimately nihilistic, pseudo-mythic-poetic fairy tale. It has no grace, no wit, no soul. I would never even mention this film in the same breath as "Lord of the Rings" or "Chronicles of Narnia," which are both on an entirely different level altogether. And yet this film is rated at #41 on the IMDb Top 250 film list--higher than "To Kill a Mockingbird," "Alien," and even "The Wizard of Oz"! This has a lot to say about the graceless and degenerate age in which we live, and about del Toro himself, who, by virtue of this film, has shown himself to be quite in step with the prevailing moral climate of today.The reviews, marketing, and previews would lead you to believe that this film was a fantasy tale for both children and adults to enjoy, which it most assuredly is not. What you really have is an utterly grim war drama with a touch of fantasy thrown in for good measure. But both of these elements are not confluent and the juxtaposition only serves to muddle the film and create an incoherent whole. Graphic depictions of amputations, wanton killing, and what I consider to be the most reprehensible act of all--the senseless murder of an innocent child<U+0097>make "Pan's Labyrinth" irredeemable in my eyes.I think that any society that can embrace this psychotic and sadistic film as art is in danger of imminent decline. Anyone with a sensitive soul and kind heart will quickly see through the subterfuge parading itself as fantasy and recognize the beast for what it truly is.
As I see movies made within the past 20 years climb the ranks of the IMDb top 250 with alarming speed, I wonder what on earth is happening. I see that this movie is at #41, higher than Chinatown, The Third Man, To Kill a Mockingbird, Alien, The Bridge on the River Kwai, Metropolis, and even The Wizard of Oz. Does Pan's Labyrinth deserve such high praise? Yes, it is steeped in intellectual metaphor and is crafted in such a Philip K. Dickian manner that the audience is left wondering what was real in the film. I applaud the filmmakers abilities in this manner, but regarding what they are willing to portray, they have the restraint of sociopaths. This movie contains some of the most wretched, horrific violence and psychologically uncomfortable character interactions I have ever seen in a film. Early in the movie, we watch as the cruel Captain Vidal crushes the face of an innocent young man while his helpless father watches. Vidal shoots the father moments later, after the man had to watch his son die in front of him. Art is no longer on the minds of movie makers, instead they revel in their abilities to accurately replicate grisly murders and terrible nightmares. Suggesting violence gives way to indulging in the talents of the make up artists and the FX men. Subtlety and metaphor are discarded so the audience is not simply a witness to gruesome murders, but is forced to be a part of them. The story, fascinating as its concept may be, is buried under layers of constant uncomfortableness. There is no relief for the audience. Thanks to the movie establishing the evil of Vidal early on, the audience squirms in dreaded anticipation for what his next cruel act will be, and who he will direct his wrath towards. The movie ultimately delivers, committing the cardinal sin that a movie can make: showing the graphic death of a child. Pay It Forward tried this bit of emotional manipulation, and lost any credibility it had as a story. The narrative was lost, the escapism destroyed. Once the innocent little girl died in Pan's Labyrinth, the audience remembers that they're watching a story and their emotions are being toyed with.I despise seeing such films because I ultimately feel anger not towards the characters in the films, but at the filmmakers themselves for presenting me with such atrocities. I know Pan's Labyrinth is based in folklore, but I don't believe for a second that this is any kind of fairy tale. When a parent reads a child Hansel and Gretel, the visuals are very cartoony and are relayed through the buffer of said parent. With this "film," there is nothing but blood seeping from the mouth of an innocent little girl to tell the audience that the fairy tale is over. A fairy tale for adults? That's false advertising and I hope that all with weak stomachs are fairly warned.


                
Not sure what the point is here: cool graphics? This is a film with a child's fairy tale storyline and adult violence. Evil is pure evil, goodness is purely good. There is only one truly complex character in the film - looking out for the little girl though not believing in fairy tales, distrusting of the world, yet full of idealism and love.Aside from adding realistic and violent imagery (in both the real and magical elements), I don't see that this is much of an update or significant (valuable) reworking of of a typical fairy tale. Perhaps it is in the ending where we get the true point: there is no hope in this world.I, for one, don't buy it. And the cardboard cut-out characters who supposedly illustrate the point constitute the main problem. The film did nothing for me but leave me grumpy and feeling quite a bit cheated. All the great special effects and phenomenal acting simply serve to cheat us even further: it all serves the function of a facade. Strip it away and there's not much underneath. It is for this reason I am refusing to give this "bonus points" for all of it's excellent qualities. These are the very qualities that make the film that much more offensive.
And I didn't expect what I got when I saw Pan's Labyrinth, either. Based on the marketing, the reviews, the previews, the buzz, etc., I was looking forward to a moving, visually rich mythopoetic tale that would feed my spirit and inspire my imagination. What I saw instead was a bloody, disgusting, depraved, amoral, aspiritual, nihilistic, and ultimately pointless horror film that fried my nervous system, left me furious, and made me fearful for any culture that embraces this sort of psychotic trash as art.I signed up with IMDb just now for the sole purpose of warning others like me away from this soul-abusive celebration of torture, blood lust, killing, and graphic ultraviolence. I'm so glad I didn't see this in a movie theater, as it would have been severely traumatizing. Thankfully, this nightmare was a rental DVD from the local video store and I'm headed out the door to return it as soon as this review is posted. I don't want this sadistic violation of my senses and my spirit in my home any longer than necessary.If you are a sensitive person with a kind heart, a vivid imagination, and a rich inner life, do yourself a favor and do NOT expose yourself to this psychotic splatterfest.


                
The Childeating Creature with eyes in his palms stands up from the table in readily pursuit of young human flesh. The little girl notices nothing. Including the paralysed, the entire movie-crowd gets up from their seats and simultaneously shout: "LOOK OUT LITTLE GIRL, BEHIND YOU!!!" This lame viewer-involvement trick which even Disney has not dared to use in their films in the last 30 years wasn't just the single over-fried potato. It was the accurate typifier for the whole of the movie I was watching. A flat, pointless story with cardboard cutouts as characters which would not have been entertaining even if they had skipped the gore and wardrama and had made it soly a fantasy movie for children.But no matter, there are two movies for the price of one to be seen. The second one being a war-drama! oh goody! Alas, even the reruns of North and South from back in the days are more entertaining wardrama-wise. Then maybe the blend of the two would ultimately make it all worth it? ....What blend?? They abruptly amputated the fantasy story as if it was a rotting limb, even though it was the best thing this movie had going for it...Thanks to the massive rave reviews and appreciation by a devastating number of people we can look forward to another couple of years of vacuous, bland foreign films which will be labeled masterpieces, in some form of eyecandy-wrapper for handy usage in trailers and posters.
I had an entirely different review for this movie written and posted, but after hearing more and more people comment on this "mystical, haunted wonderland of a movie", I had to re-write my comment, more out of anger than anything else. First, let me set some guidelines. This is a great movie. It was made with a lot of skill and talent, it is a different approach to story telling and there is a lot to be admired. However, one thing that I simply cannot stand anymore is how exponentially increasing masses of people keep calling this "one of the best fantasy's ever", "a dark and horrific, yet wonderfully creative trip down the rabbit hole". People, if this is one of the best fantasy's ever, or even of recent times, then all that means is our expectations of what a fantasy should be are sorely lacking. Throughout the entire movie, there are two, count them, TWO scenes that are pure fantasy, and neither one lasts more than perhaps four minutes. The rest of the fantasy takes place in real life situations with subtle hints of fantasy or one or two fantasy characters appearing to talk to the girl. Again, don't jump down my throat too quickly, these scenes are interesting to watch and for light touches of fantasy I think it was very well done, but by no means whatsoever can a movie that is 75% war drama and 25% fantasy, if that, be considered an "enchanting and mysterious fairy tale". If anything, it is a dark war drama with innovative and well crafted flairs of fantasy interwoven, but stop reviewing this movie in ways that are going to mislead people into thinking they are going to see a flood of creative and magical imagery!Possible SpoilersAs a final point, I think the biggest flaw in this movie is that I couldn't help but feel all the mystical elements of the story were, in the end, pointless. They in no way connect to the real world and are more like interesting side notes into the delusions of a little girl while the real world ticks on around her. Say what you will about the themes about losing one's innocence, and how the fantasy might have been real, either way there is a feeling of disappointment when the girl drops dead at the end and we think, "why did she do all this again? What does this have to do with ANYTHING else we've seen in the movie?" I was looking for a greater sense of importance to the girl's story. Perhaps the writers weren't going for that, which is fine, but it would have made the movie more enjoyable for me.


                
Why is it that the complete and total dog turd movies get all the raves? This is no different. If I had wanted to see a slasher flick, I would have gone to one. Unknowingly, I went to this one instead. Sadly, many have been tricked, scammed and lied to over this turd!!!!!! When you walk out of the theater, you'll feel as though you personally were tortured and flayed. Went Saturday night with the hubby and I was horrified, nauseous, angry and so awfully, incredibly disappointed. I kept wondering if I had seen the same "wonderful" movie others raved about! I WANTED to like this movie, the premise SOUNDS good. It could have been wonderful if some true imagination had been used. But the actual movie is so not good! The title of this movie should have been "Spanish Torture" or "The Captain's an A-hole!" I realize that the setting is WWII Spain and therefore the on-going horrors are not nice, but HOW LONG really does the movie need to bang us over the head with this concept??! The audience quickly learns that the Captain is a total heartless douchebag, so there's no need to keep proving it! But endlessly, they do. He kills, tortures, turns just about everyone around him into pulps of blood! They never spend enough time on this fantasy-land the small girl escapes to. For every two minutes of Labyrinth time, you get to suffer through yet another 25 minutes of the Captain's brutality! The violence/gore was persistent. Being a person who does NOT like blood and gore, this movie proved too much for my senses, much too graphic. Constantly, I was hiding my face from said gruesomeness. Every time they showed the Captain, I became nervous over what cruelty he would do next! Also this fantasy-land is not believable as something this girl would escape too. The creatures there were much too scary. A barfing frog, a monster that eats fairies head first, and the demonic faun are just too much! Do everyone you know a favor and DO NOT recommend this awful bloody mess to anyone! Save your time and money.
Went to this movie because IMDb had rated it 8.5. What are you people thinking? This movie is cruel and dull. I kept wanting it to end, and cared for none of the characters, from the viciously cruel captain to the incredibly stupid princess. If you want to see a good movie this year, go see Babel or The Queen. Something that actually makes sense. Or put in your Lord of the Rings trilogy and watch some excellent high fantasy. Something that actually has a plot and interesting characters. This also is not a movie you should take your kids to see. There are some incredibly brutal scenes. Many children were in the theatre and a lot were openly disgusted. This movie is horrible. Don't waste your time or money.


                
I'm not much of a wardrama movie fan, but sometimes a genre film can raise itself through a good or original storyline and or sub story. Labirinto doesn't do this at all. It offers nothing more than a meandering tale about the evil of men (set in the easiest of environments to make it work, namely war), which's obvious message is brought far too straightforward and clunky to make any impact whatsoever. People that spout off this movie being a fairytale should consider watching the movie again with a timer. Perhaps only 7% of this movie deals with what can vaguely be described as a fairytale, although I would rather like to call it fable-imagery. We didn't call Kill Bill a Manga movie either just because it had some Manga scenes in it, now did we.Although it was beautifully shot and occasional featured some good acting, this movie was rather vapid and over the top in it's depiction of violence at the same time. At no point are you required to think because the movie overexposes everything it tries to touch. The characters are all, note all, two-dimensional which makes it impossible to relate to them. If this movie had been made in Hollywood in the same quality with an English-speaking cast, it wouldn't have survived 4 weeks at the theaters. It was just that year's foreign cinematic darling and the audiences slavishly and ignorantly followed suit. This is one of those cases where the naked emperor didn't even bother to show up.3/10


                
What a well made horrible little movie. Is everyone zeroing in on the technology, seeing how amazing it is, yet not even considering the content? If one considers content, this is a technically well made movie about an awful nightmare and a set of childhood traumas leading to severe psychological degeneration with only negative effects. We are already aware of the pain and suffering war causes. We are already well-worn out and often reminded about the trauma Europe has suffered, as any country has in any war and also about terrible people doing terrible things to those who cannot defend themselves. Is feeding us this stuff in a different, more visually advanced way doing anything but making us lose respect for those who foist it on us, one more time? It is devolving the subject into a trivialization of the real, historical horrors that DID happen, but doing it better. How is that a good movie? Is all that is required to qualify as a good movie about a child traumatized into psychotic withdrawal, then murdered, that it is done with style? It is a good movie because the visual style of the presentation of the events leading up to a child's psychotic withdrawal from reality and then just plain being murdered in front of our eyes is so well done in an imaginative and new way? NOT! What kind of people would ever like this movie? It worries me.
What prompted me to see this film was, quite frankly, noting the rating of 98 it received on the MetaCritic website. I've never seen a rating that high here before, and it peaked my interest.Then, just to be sure, I visited Rotten Tomatoes, and found a rating almost as high. This plus the 8+ general public rating sealed the deal. This film must be pretty good! Unfortunately, I found it to be murky, muddy and muddled; long on horror, short on fantasy, and filled with brutality, blood an torture.It didn't help that the multiplex where I saw it had the most ear-splitting volume I'd ever experienced in a theater.I'm not sorry I'm with the minority on this one. It's a picture I'd rather not learn to appreciate, and one I'd rather forget.In short, I'm happy to be an outsider here.
It seems to be much easier for the film director to create horrible visual monsters and situations instead describing the psychology of the hero's. The film was too much unrealistic even for a fairy-tale, I mean there was often lacking psychological grounding for the acts of the hero's, just things were happening. In the past time, the fairy-tales were created to bring some lesson to our life, but where is any idea coming from this film? In the scene where Ofelia comes under temptation nobody understands why she did so, the temptation just does not seem to be so appealing at all and the consequences could be disastrous. There are many miracle things we can meet in life, but this fairy-tale is vulgarizing them. I found the film so boring that only my friends made me to stay until the end, but we all didn't like it. It's made for audience lazy to think. Don't waste your time with this film!


                
Any movie that promotes senseless violence and makes a scene consisting of a young man having his face literally bashed in with a bottle in front of his father until he's dead for no reason other than to show senseless violence and disregarding human life is crap in my books. I don't understand why people would even bother watching past that scene. It's mindless crap if all it can do is show disgusting visuals like that. I see no reason or need. You want to show someone is mean and heartless, there are better ways then to take to the extreme. At least if I go to a horror movie i know and have the feeling it's fake. This was too real for my liking.


                
I have read the wonderful reviews, waited in anticipation (could not make it to see it at the movies), and attempted to watch Pan's Labyrinth tonight. What a horrible disappointment. I was expecting more of the magic of 'The Devil's Backbone," but what I was rewarded with was a torture-fest that looked like it was directed by Mel Gibson. Much like 'The Passion of the Christ' took a holy subject and degraded it by turning into one of Mel's studies in male homophobic S&M themes, this movie was often tauted as an adult fairy tale. Only if we as adults have decomposed our standards so that torture and suffering constitute fairy tales. Fool me once, shame on you...I will not make any future efforts to see this director's works. Only a small percentage of the movie is dedicated to the fairy tale theme of Pan's Labyrinth, the rest is a poor version of Texas Chainsaw Massacre meets Passion of the Christ meets Apocalypse Now. Save your money.


                
I really like fantasy movies (especially LOTR), and saw this movie because of good reviews both on IMDb and elsewhere. I expected anything but this. It was a total bore from first two minutes onwards.1. The script is so bad that you almost cannot believe that something so poorly written ever made to screen. The story - an adolescent girl trying to escape into her childish imagination in the midst of partisan struggle against Spanish fascists - was simple as a piece of firewood. Dialogue was plain and banal.2. Characters were so cliché and their acting so illogical that it literally hurt to watch.3. Throughout the film there were only two fantasy scenes, the rest was imagination of a little girl, that no one else can see. There is more fantasy in any Jim Carrey comedy than there was here.4. However, everything was shot with very realistic horror and cruelty, blood and gore. I cannot imagine showing this to children.My advice - avoid this disaster at all costs.
I can't believe so many people have voted that this is a good film.. It is presently standing higher than thousands of unforgettable classics, and hundreds of beautiful fairy-tales (without all this horror)..======"spoiler"======= WHY must we watch -as a mans face is pierced with holes with a broken bottle?-as that saw blade seeps into the mans leg, as its cut off?-as a "heroine" cuts open a mans face with a kitchen knife ..just to mention 3..in order to be convinced that 'good is good and bad is bad', and fairies exist (?)..======"spoiler-ends"=======PlEaSe Don't LeT YoUr ChIlDrEn WaTcH ThIs FiLm(!).
I strongly disagree with the majority of IMDb viewers, and I know Pan's Labyrinth received wide critical acclaim in the USA. I can only conjecture that this is due to America's love for gore/horror movies. The gratuitous violence in this film is not only entirely unnecessary (we already know that the Capitan is evil, and blood spurting is not poetry unless you are a closet sadist), it seems to have been included simply for the entertainment of audiences who appreciate gore. The assertion that kids may appreciate it is just plain wrong. My 8 year old nephew is quite used to seeing foreign films as well as cartoons, but refused to see Pan's Labyrinth and certainly would have walked out of it in the very first scene. Some have compared Pan's Labyrinth to the sublime beauty of Spirit of the Beehive, which my 8 year old nephew loved, and that is like comparing fine dining with KFC. Sure, both serve dinner, but what kind of dinner? Pan's Labyrinth is a horror movie for horror movie audiences, who would probably find it tedious to have to sit through the non-violent, non-fantasy scenes, which were the only parts which I found palatable. File this movie under gore/horror, not drama. And don't bring a child, not unless you are trying to acclimate him/her to a world of brutal sadism.


                
This review may contain spoilers, though I won't go into full detail.The good: the cinematography, especially in the outside/afternoon and fantasy settings.That's about it, for me.Most of my brutal analysis of this film arises from its clichéd scenes, dialogue, and structure. The movie is PERFECT in that it flawlessly accomplishes the Hollywood tell-all and hide-nothing; the pseudo-emotional and super-predictable storyline.But, everyone has their opinions on what they like. I'm an extremist for originality and did not like it.To be fair, here is my non-extremist critique of the film.The movie is advertised as a fairy tale. Every poster, commercial and review emphasizes this. Yet, only about 20-25 minutes of the entire movie are fantasy scenes. The end, the frog, the cool eyes-in-hands guy, and the faun's place (trying to be vague...) are the only fantasy scenes in the movie. There are a few mixed scenes, but those are predominantly real-life.The movie is 80% war story. The advertised fantasy is only a sub-plot of an overly-graphic (Saving Private Ryan type) movie. And really it is. It's not that the switch from peaceful to bloody is too shocking, it just seems irrelevant and 'just-for-shock-value'- not important to the film.BIGGER SPOILERS BELOW: Two big clichés in the movie that killed me were the 1) unkillable bad-guy, 2)The complete obliviousness of Ofelia to the monster. I mean, in almost every movie you see someone, somehow, 'doesn't hear a monster like 10 feet behind them even though everyone is pointing and yelling.There are plenty more, but that should be left for the forums.--------- For the summary, then, if you enjoy most movies you see at the theater, this movie will blow you away with goodness. If you're into more artistic, less-self explanatory films, then don't see it.
Having seen the movie, I wished I hadn't and I'm inspired to alert others that the critical acclaim and 8+ rating is skewed. Almost every scene in this move portrays graphic scenes of violence. I'm hoping that others see this movie for what it is, an attempt to profit off of the average moviegoer by baiting them with big reviews and misleading trailers, then delivering a gore-fest that a demented 3rd grader could have written.The worst thing about this movie is that while this level of violence is expected in most horror flicks, I honestly expected an edgier version of the Neverending Story when I bought tickets. It was marketed to those who seek something artistic and unique... a diamond in the rough. Unfortunately this movie is the rough, yet there is nothing precious to redeem it. Somehow this show garnered rave reviews, big crowds and revenues. Yet, it only serves to present something as morbid as the holocaust films, or Faces of Death. It's unfortunate that there isn't a special rating for this type of depravity in movies. Other films that would fit into this category include Reservoir Dogs, Cell, Silence of the Lambs, Pulp Fiction, and Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Sure some of these movies are good to watch, if you're able to get into the right mood to stomach them. Because of this Laberinto de Fauno serves to overwhelm the viewer with horrific violence.While the previews suggest the premise of the movie is of fantasy and the beauty of the human spirit, what is presented is a message that it's okay to showcase the worst aspects of man, that a wrong countered with a greater wrong makes things right. That even sweet innocent girls fall prey to temptation and hellish suffering, but so long as they're self-centered and committed to getting what they want they'll live happily ever after. May the rest of the cruel world be damned.It bothers me that those who made this movie steal your time, your happiness and your hard earned money. If you do go see this film you're telling them you'd like them to stop investing in truly inspiring, artistic or entertaining films because there's a bigger return on investment for movies with shock-value.==================================================== Things portrayed in the movie:1. The graphic slaughtering of groups of men, each finished off with a execution shot to the head.2. The little girl protagonist's mother, pregnant with the evil step-dad's baby, is bleeding profusely through her nightgown, howling in pain. The girl, at the direction of a demon, uses a magical root fed by milk and blood, that becomes a fetid magic dish she places beneath her mother's bed. She's told this is to help her mom stop the bleeding during the pregnancy. The step-dad finds the root, hits the girl and burns the now-living root in the fireplace. The root, writhing, burns to death and as a result the mother dies during pregnancy (foreshadowed by the step-dad when he tells the doctor to let the mother die if it means saving the baby).3. A man is tortured graphically by the step dad, but lives until he's put out of his misery by the doctor who gets shot in the back by the step-dad.4. The little girl's "fairy" is a skittering preying mantis.5. The little girl is supposed to use magic to gate into another dimension where she encounters a creature as sinister as Hellraiser who kills 2 fairies by eating them alive, ripping their bodies apart.6. Graphic scenes of violent attacks where an innocent man's face is bludgeoned with a wine bottle until it caves in and then his innocent father is shot and killed at point blank range.7. Ultimately the step-dad who has been a sadistic torturer, killer, abusive husband and step-father is stabbed and has his cheek graphically cut open, and is then shot moments after mortally shooting the daughter.Since the positives have already been enumerated in the trailers, ratings and reviews, feel free to read them to gain a better sense as to all this movie offers. I didn't just think this was a bad movie, I feel sickened and traumatized after watching it. I don't regret feeling so affected. We should be sensitive to murder and death, it's part of why we value the lives of others, and that of ourselves.
When I got into the theater I was expecting a better movie than 'The Lord of the Rings' or 'Narnia'. Any director, at this point, must have learned about doing a technically good movie, that's a fact. What we, the audience want, is a good story. But after a while, I was sure of something: I was going to be disappointed. But I waited longer and longer, and the sensation didn't disappeared, only got stronger. Del Toro made a movie about a fabulous tale, but fail on the point of telling the story of Ofelia, a girl taken to the middle of the Civil War in Spain -that actually never concerns or interests her-, and confronted to an evil man who is meant to be his stepfather. She finds a labyrinth that nobody has explored even if is located near the soldiers camp, she goes down and finds out that she might be a princess, but has to go through three dangerous tasks. The faun, Pan, doesn't look believable and the story, itself, doesn't, either. Is she is the lost princess and the king has lived for centuries waiting for her, why does she has to confront dangers and prove it? The movie seems to be conceived as a horror movie, full of creepy sounds, with an evil man (Vidal) in the main character who becomes, at the end, in the only half-developed character in the movie (the mother, Ariadna Gil, appears like a ghost, an empty character), and has dozens, hundreds of unnecessary violence, shootings in the face, torture, blood and only more blood. What a way to waste a good tale and a good story. The girl, at the end, doesn't have but very short encounters with the fictional world. The real and violent adult world prevails.


                
i don't understand why everybody is so enchanted with this bad, bad movie. The digital characters are bad, the sound effects are ridiculous, as the script.The story is immoral because it uses the tragic history of Spain's civil war to illustrate the one dimension characters of this cheesy cheesy movie.This is a film for teenagers who ar immature and lack expeertice in life. This is not good Mexican cinema: this is a mexicn cinema that tries to copy Hollywood style and does it bad, just as Babel, 21 grams and the other Iñárritu crap. One day people will realize how ridiculous this is and start laughing at it as i'm doing now.


                
PRACTICAL PIECE OF ADVICE: IF YOU KNOW ANYONE WHO ENJOYED THIS FILM, DON'T LET THEM BABYSIT YOUR KIDS!!!This highly critically praised "magical fairy-tale" is rated R for a very good reason. In its 120 "enchanting" minutes, I counted no less than 85 homicides, all extremely and graphically violent, many by the most sadistic and revolting means imaginable and all guaranteed to repulse. For good measure, this "surrealistic escapade into a childhood land of imagination and wonder" also has as many body fluid scenes as any Texas Chainsaw Massacre sequel: after the obligatory appetizers of vomit, muck and slime, blood starts pissing from open wounds, a pregnant woman has "complications", hatred and violence being the prime motivators of all characters, an innocent peasant has his face literally caved in with a wine bottle for no apparent reason in front of his father, who is also killed for no reason, a mandrake root is fed the blood of a little girl, squalor is rampant, there is a completely gratuitous amputation scene (what serious film could be without it?) and an equally gratuitous do-it-yourself plastic surgery scene, scenes of disfigurement, military executions and cold-blooded torture, and, for good measure, even cute little pixies get decapitated along the narrative way. In this sophisticated age, it is assumed sufficient for the viewer to know that this is "an intriguing film", made by someone from a foreign country and with an imposing-sounding name and that it is "thought-provoking". It would be considered in bad taste or simply jejune to mention that this kind of film can seriously harm a child and is certainly warping quite a few adult minds as we speak. Or that it is a seriously depressing and morbid gore-fest from beginning to end and a revolting and cynical misappropriation of the spirit of childhood and poetry by deeply troubled minds working under the banner of lowest-common-denominator CGI-augmented slasher horror and freedom of expression.Everybody in America is falling over each other in praising this film but very few critics have noticed that what makes this film "the ultimate fantasy film" (i.e. totally cut-off from reality) is not its subject matter but the fact that it is set in Franco's Spain, yet fails to mention the Catholic Church in any way, shape or form (priests, rituals, imagery, symbolism, role in the repression of socialism), a feat comparable to making a film about Iraq that would fail to mention the existence of Muslims. Yet, its moral seems to be that "there is no greater love than to die for those you love", a Christian principle that is rather irreconciliable with the fantasy universe's pagan philosophy.Although not aimed at children (its violence is much too repulsive for that), this so-called fairy-tale for adults is sufficiently childish on every other level to appeal to the lowest common denominator. It was conceived after all by a filmmaker who specializes in comicbook adaptations - the new "literature" of dyslexic America. But I am mostly infuriated by the false advertising. This is a gory, harmful, snuff-porn, slasher film masquerading as an art film: Its tagline might as well be "Hey, guys, it's got subtitles, so you know it's good for you!" The people who are taken in by this trash are mostly young Americans, ignorant about history or the world around them, and who are fans of violent, sadistic cinema. It was conceived by a man with a troubled mind and no interest in reality, whose main obsessions are violent death and dismemberment. It would appeal to a people who has repeatedly failed to count the casualties in a war they have started in Iraq because it is good TV entertainment and good business and it is set in a faraway land they couldn't even pinpoint on a map of the world.Historical footnote: The film also fails as history. Its simplistic Saturday-morning-cartoon fascists-are-bad moral fails to take into account the fact that the most egregious atrocities of the Spanish Civil War were committed by Communists and Socialists, which turned world opinion against their revolution. The pope still has 9,000 Spanish Catholic martyrs on his canonization roster. This film is an insensitive insult to the Spanish people who is still trying to come to terms with that horror in its daily life. Mr. Del Toro should definitely confine his talents to adapting comic books for slow-witted American teenagers.
This film is an appalling attack on the senses with repetitive scenes of graphic murder and torture with no real purpose but to numb and desensitize the audience.If the brutality were removed or lessened the film would still be lousy because the story telling is so poor. The main character is so detached from her own fate that her actions are just not compelling to watch. She's a child who deals with a horrifying reality by escaping into a fantasy realm. Here she subconsciously deals with reality through fantasy scenarios and dream symbology and takes action only when directed by her mythical pal, the faun.Problem is, although there are many scenes of horror, there is no scene where she witnesses any of it. So what the hell is she escaping from? How do we identify with her if we are not made to see the "real" world depicted in the film through HER eyes? As an audience member I certainly wanted to escape the ugly real world depicted in the film but since the main character wasn't seeing anything I was seeing, I wondered why I was following her to begin with.I would like to recommend the stunning production design and truly imaginative and effective visual effects (or the excellent performances of the cast) but the fear that I might inadvertently convince anyone to go see it would keep me up at night. The films high rating by critics and audiences not only confuses me but makes me very, very sad. The pointlessness of the violence in this film makes it pornographic rather than illuminating. It won't be long before audiences will be eating popcorn and watching snuff films. What's happened to us?
Is it a fantasy movie? I don't think so, 3 or 4 fairy ugly creatures (not like nightmare before Christmas lovable ugly though dirty ugly!) with an uncertain role in the film! Is it really comparable to Charlie and chocolate factory? What exactly is the relationship between Ofelia and movie theme? A stupid story of reading a book <U+0085> finding a key<U+0085> a sword<U+0085> a drop of blood and then going back to heaven? Then why should we know a lot about Capitan, why should we know that Capitan fix his own watch, wax his shoes himself, Even do his own surgery? Who is Mercedes in the movie anyway? Is it a fantasy thriller movie? First, its not thriller, it's bloody-disgusting. Does he thinks he is so brave or so avant-guard to show cutting off a leg, distorting a face with a bottle, sewing someone's own mouth? Second, if so, why at the end of the film Capitan saw Ofelia talks to herself instead of a real creature? Should we think of it as a philosophical point (a very weak one though!)? We can't say this film can actually bring two completely different genres together.Wanted to bring fairy tale in real cruel world with use of a little girl imagination? When exactly should we understand this fabulous fantastic new awesome idea? At the very beginning of the film when Ofelia thought she saw a fairy creature OR when her mother get healed after she put something under her bed OR when she goes through walls OR when Capitan saw her talks to herself? Boring? Yes! Evils and Angels, Goodies overcome. We hate Capitan, and nice-brave Mercedes gets our revenge from him! Ofelia? Was the story around her?! Capitan's son's only role in film was that "his fairy tale" movie needs a blood of an innocent to complete the nonsense.
