I saw the film at FrightFest in London a couple of days ago, and was pretty well sure I'd be seeing something special - but I ended up seeing a film that is downright extraordinary. Brutal but beautiful, magical yet earthy, it has a remarkable cast, with standout performances all round.A special mention must go to Sergi Lopez, whose 'Captain Vidal' is indeed one of the most sadistic film creations ever seen. Yet he manages to make the audience understand why he is the way he is ... an astounding performance. Maribel Verdu's quiet but rebellious housekeeper is one of the strongest female roles I've seen in many a year, and she is supported by a wealth of talent. Young Ivana Baquero is surprisingly self-assured as 12-year-old Ofelia, and I especially liked her almost Alice-like approach to the magical creatures she encounters in the labyrinth. The icing on this warped fairy tale is Doug Jones, who gives a towering performance - and in this case literally, as well as figuratively - as the guardian of the labyrinth, a faun, full of grace and charm and latent menace. Although dubbed, his Spanish is perfect (Jones speaks not a word of the language), and his physical presence is incredibly powerful as his character teases, cajoles and harries Ofelia to fulfil her tasks. He also plays the devastatingly creepy and disgusting 'Pale Man' - a creature that almost equals Vidal in his terrorising habits.But the cast is just one facet of this gloriously photographed film, with Javier Navarrete's hauntingly simple score weaving itself into the fabric of a film perfectly edited and written. The brutality of post-Civil War Spain contrasts with the world of magic to which Ofelia is drawn, yet everywhere she goes she has choices to make. In fact the film is about choices, good and bad, and one discovers that no matter how desperate a situation becomes, a choice is always available - although that choice may mean one's death. The film is violent - very violent, but each moment of brutality, although graphic, has a purpose - nowhere is it gratuitous.I loved it - as I knew I would - and if the Oscar voters don't give this film at least a nod for Best Foreign Language Film next year, then I will know that they have lost any sense of reason or comprehension. Because this film is truly a masterpiece, and Del Toro's greatest work to date.


                
This is a movie with a simple and straightforward plot which contains layers and layers of intelligent writing, metaphors and message.To speak further about the script will end up in spoilers and that would be pointless since my very purpose writing this review is to encourage people to see it.This is no small feat, interpreting fantasy as something of a product of a real world, cross-referencing how the child acts to her real surroundings and the "other world", metaphors that describe the accelerated state of growing up some of us are put through... Incredible. Simple, straightforward yet there is so much to be appreciated.Those who are saying how it's predictable and thus not enjoyable, I ask of you, which movie nowadays aren't predictable? Hell, even 21 grams was predictable but so damned good. It's not about how it ends, you can always predict how a movie would end if you've ever taken a half-decent script writing class or have some common sense. It's always about how well you tell a story.I'm grateful there are still directors who aren't tied down to this new epidemic of including a plot twist simply because they need a plot twist.Pan's Labyrinth features some of the best storytelling and attention to detail without being affected by the now ever-popular opinion of cameras having to be put through several technical difficulties to make the shots eligible to be called a brilliant shot.I am also grateful for them not dubbing it. Watching it in its' original language is much, much more rewarding even if I had to rely on the subtitles for most of the time.This is a brilliant movie. Watch it.


                
Everyone's been raving about this. My opinion doesn't differ too much. It did however suffer slightly from the overwhelmingly high expectations I'd developed based on how brilliant everyone said it was, and the whole "20min ovation at Cannes" thing. Really, who stands for that long? That said, it's an amazing work.Skipping the plot recap (find the briefest synopsis you can if you need to be filled in), I'll go straight to the tech specs. I'm not a huge Del Toro fan, Cronos was interesting but lacked something for me. Mimic was dross. Hellboy was enjoyable and Ron Perlman is always great on screen. But here, the director really outdoes himself. By far. He has wrapped together some amazing elements and somehow maintains a balance, that doesn't tip into the mundane or the ridiculous for a moment. And this is no mean feat. The story is part historical drama, part fantasy, part family melodrama. When it dips out of the fantasy, it still enchants.Sergi Lopez and Maribel Verdú really drive the story in the historical drama scenes. I haven't seen Lopez in anything other than a film called Lisbon, in which he played a character so completely opposite from the Captain. He is a fierce and terrifying guy but actually comes across as sympathetic in a couple of scenes. Verdu is incredible as Mercedes, the head housekeeper (or something) who is Ofelia's closest friend in the house. The scenes with these characters and the civil war subplot never fail to hold your attention. Ivana Baquero is excellent as the main character Ofelia, her performance is very mature and believable and she shares some beautiful scenes with her mother and Mercedes.When the fairy tale elements return, it's astounding how naturally they fit into the story. I think that is the real magic of this film. The war drama and the fairy tale stem so naturally from each other.One thing that most reviews haven't mentioned is the violence. I think it's been firmly established that this is an adult's fairytale, but at times it is a very intense and brutal film. There are a couple of scenes in particular which are very disturbing and difficult to watch. These do not distract from the tone and theme of the film however so they don't seem exploitative at all. If you are squeamish, it may get a bit much for you.A final and obvious point I spose I can't get away without making: the set design, costumes and effects are superb. That's all.I was perhaps expecting a little more fantasy, but the unique blend of genres is absolutely compelling. There wasn't a false note anywhere or a plot hole, which are too often present in fantasy films. I can't recall a good, original fantasy film from recent years. Fortunately this blows MirrorMask out of the water. It doesn't share any of the contrivances, vagueness or ineffectual characters with that film.I just wish I'd seen it without already having read so much. I've tried very hard to not reveal any plot details at all as it does go to some surprising and unexpected places. Fortunately most of the reviews have done the same. I'd urge anyone with the chance to see it to do so immediately, and try not to read too much more.


                
Sixth viewing: My appreciation only grows. Interpretations-1st interpretation: Ophelia's world is real- happy ending.If this interpretation is valid, we deal with themes of war and disobedience. Here, Pan's Labyrinth serves as an allegory against the totalitarian regime of Fascist Spain, symbolized by Vidal. Vidal is represented in the fantasy storyline by the Pale Man; they both sit at the end of the table at the feasts, and they are both violent and cruel. Furthermore, the Pale Man is an allegory to "Saturn Devouring his Son" by Fransisco Goya, as both Cronus and the Pale Man eat the heads off of their victims first. If Cronus represents the Pale Man, and the Pale Man represents Vidal, and Vidal represents Fascist Spain, Del Toro implies that Fascist Spain is just as cruel as Cronus; like how Cronus devours his own sons, Fascist Spain kills their own people.2nd interpretation: Ophelia's world is her imagination- tragic ending (or is it? Some might say that she was better off dead than having to live with her terrible hardships).If this interpretation is valid, we deal with themes of self-deception and how reality and fantasy can coexist. Here, Pan's Labyrinth explores how Ophelia creates a fantasy for herself to deal with the harsh realities of war. In this case, we can interpret the final fantasy sequence as Ophelia's imagination, her creation and the world she wished to live. Besides, you can tell she is still alive, as Del Toro shows her lips quiver right after the fantasy sequence.Observations-*The film features many smooth cuts, which Del Toro hides with trees and black screens. This could imply how reality and fantasy intertwine, supporting the second interpretation. BUT smooth cuts never go from fantasy to reality or reality to fantasy, only fantasy to fantasy or reality to reality. This could suggest the first interpretation, where reality and fantasy are separate.*Vidal sees the monster under the bed, which supports the 1st interpretation. Yet at the same time, he does not see the faun at the end, which supports the 2nd interpretation. But again, Vidal has just consumed some kind of poison, so it may be his hallucinations in which he does not see the faun.*Del Toro never cuts away from the violence, emphasizing the brutality of war.*Cinematography is magnificent- dark, gloomy, blue colors in reality sequences to depict its dreariness, while bright, vibrant reds and oranges to depict enthusiasm. In the final scenes, the reds of blood and explosions stand out because the blues have become so common with the eye. Del Toro consciously had the blood and explosions to stand out to emphasize the violence of war.*Notice how Del Toro establishes tension between Ophelia and Vidal; When Ophelia shakes with the wrong hand, Vidal points it out, forming an uneasy tone between them. This first encounter between the two main characters in their respective storylines is vital for their relationship in the future scenes, especially the climax.Bottom line is, both interpretations are valid, and Del Toro utilizes both of them to deliver both of their respective themes.As magnificent as this film is, there may be authenticity flaws. For example, why didn't Mercedes kill Vidal after she escaped? Is she still obedient to Vidal? Then why did he directly disobey his order at the end when Vidal asked to tell his son the time of his death? For me, it's clear why Del Toro left these authenticity flaws: to drive the story forward. Attempting to patch these flaws would've been at the expense of pacing, and the audience's engagement is more important than plot holes.After all, these flaws are more or less hidden; visible only to those who know where to look.
1944. Franco's authoritarian fascist regime is a horrid world for a child, barely into her teens. Ofelia retreats into herself, finding in her fantasy world the lessons of courage, self-discipline and integrity she will need. With her, we travel beyond outward appearances, through a labyrinth of fears and uncertainties, from which Spain will not escape for several decades.A dark, brutal fairytale, chillingly set in the real world but full of hope and warmth, Pan's Labyrinth accomplishes a masterpiece.Our film opens with a momentary shot of Ofelia, blood from a nosebleed disappearing as the frames are introduced in reverse. A voice-over takes us back to the time of the Spanish Civil War. Ofelia arrives (with her pregnant mother) at a nationalist military base in the woods and is introduced to her stepfather, a vicious commanding officer. Capitán Vidal dispenses arbitrary justice to anyone he suspects is against him. Two suspected rebels caught by his men are summarily executed. Only afterwards is a rabbit discovered in their bag, proving their claim that they are just woodsmen (and maybe also a throwaway reference to Alice in Wonderland). Ofelia is unwilling to accept this harsh adult world. She retreats into a labyrinth where she meets a strange Pan-like creatures, Fauno, who gives her a set of tasks where she has to face some of her darkest fears, winning a key for her next task. The story becomes more intense, both outside the labyrinth (where Vidal is busy torturing people) and inside, where Ofelia has to face the Pale Man - a creature that has plucked out its eyes and can only see by placing them in the stigmata on its hands. Around the walls of the room are pictures of people being cast into hell by the Pale Man (From inference or the director's comments, it is apparent that the Pale Man represents authoritarianism, whether that of the Fascists or the Church). In Pan's Labyrinth we have a parable about the journey of Spanish society from the 1940s to post-Franco, a magical fairytale of stunning beauty, a story of the struggle and character development of a child on the edge of puberty, and a tense story of battles between Nationalists and Republicans. That they are all welded together seamlessly and precisely in a multi-level narrative is a remarkable achievement and thrilling experience. The sheer artistry recalls Cocteau's La Belle at la Bête. Del Toro sweeps us into a dreamlike, poetic vision, with a minimum of CGI and a grasp of dialogue that seems almost transcendental. In a brave decision, an actor (Ivana Baquero) who is only as old as her character has been used to play the young Ofelia. But as the ethereal figure between two worlds, she is also there to cast the earthy characters involved in material battles into more visceral contrast. Editing is crisp throughout, without a single frame wasted. Rich colours and unflinching camera-work keep us rooted in the experience, whether it is Ofelia crawling face-down in the mud and covered with insects, or a hapless victim having his nose smashed in by the Capitán. Yet scenes of tenderness and beauty are equally as moving - Ofelia retreating into her mother's arms, a nursemaid powerless to help her republican lover, or a doctor performing an act of mercy.The movies, like our dreams, folklore and imagination, are rich with symbols and images that can strike a chord in our deepest being. Artists, as well as creators of myths and religion, have long employed such symbols to guide and inspire, knowing that the conscious mind may accept a sign more easily than rational argument alone.In watching a movie, we combine ideas of the real, the imaginary and the symbolic to find an inner affinity. And, if the filmmaker has done his job properly, will feel truly moved.One of the things that can make or break a movie that makes extensive use of symbols is whether those symbols echo in the collective unconscious, often through time honoured association, or not. Knowledge of mythology or Jungian psychology can make all the difference. Much has been made of the title. Originally 'El Laberinto del Fauno', the translation at first appears sloppy, but Del Toro has done his research well. While quipping that it 'just sounded better', a little investigation of classical authorities shows Faunus as a form of the ancient god Pan (Lempriere). Pan, the goat-like god that represents a totality of possibilities, together with goat-like stubbornness and independence of thought, is the perfect symbol. In the film he says, "I've had so many names... I am the mountain, the forest and the earth. . . . I am a faun. Your most humble servant, Your Highness." In Greek Mythology, Pan also won the affections of a princess under the form of a goat. The freedom of thought (and sexuality) he advocated, with the rise of Christianity, caused him to be portrayed as the Devil; but we learn his intentions are good, whereas the holy-looking Pale Man offers temptation only as an excuse to rip his victims apart. As an aspect of the creative power, fauns in mythology also symbolise firm aspiration and human intelligence.The one symbol that Del Torro is less adept in using is that of dying. He tends to use the valid, if flawed connotation of redemption-through-death promoted by the religions he disavows, but it is a small point that in no way spoils the story.Pan's Labyrinth leads us through parallel stories and themes without once losing its internal consistency. Some audiences may be put off by the idea of using flights of fancy in such a blatant way or, sadly, by the fact that it is subtitled. Such minor monsters should not get in the way of enjoying the film on a simple entertainment level. Cinephiles, on the other hand, will not want to miss such a rare treat of talent.
I saw the movie yesterday in the Spanish premiere and I confirm: it's one of the best Guillermo del Toro's films (if not the best ever). Innocence and brutality, fantasy and reality, together in a wonderful fairy tale about the power of magic in dark times. The performances are great, mainly from Sergi López, Maribel Verdú and the big revelation of the film: the 12 years girl Ivana Baquero. Del Toro repeats the context of the film "El Espinazo del Diablo" ("The Devil's Backbone"), the Spanish Post-Civil War, with the same philosophy: the supernatural invading the daily life in a depressive environment and the innocence of children trapped between both world. But "El Laberinto del Fauno" is most compact, most mature and best done in very aspects, and perhaps it's the most personal movie from Del Toro.


                
It is Guillermo del Toro's best film ( 22 minutes ovation at Cannes). Del Toro gets a brilliant film but also superb performances from all involved, particularly from Sergi Lopez as a brutal Fascist army captain Vidal and Doug Jones (Abe Sapien from del Toro's Hellboy) as the Pan and the wonderfully disturbing Pale Man. But the real find is Ivana Baquero (12 years old) as the young heroine Ofelia. She gives one of the best performances from a child actor we have seen since Haley Joel Osment in The Sixth Sense. Come to it unprepared and with your mind wide open and you will be rewarded with one of the best films of the year."


                
The negative reviews of this film on IMDb seem to fall into two categories: a) it was too violent b) the fantasy element was too mutedWithout getting too political, worse things are going on in the world at this very moment than were depicted in this film. While many people prefer entertainment that insulates them from the harsh realities of this world, one shouldn't get so indignant when a film portrays the world for what it is. Capitán Vidal was a fictitious character, but there are plenty of people exactly like him. Humans are capable of terrible atrocities and looking the other way does nothing to improve our nature. If violence offends people so much they should do something about real violence rather than writing nasty reviews about depictions of it.The violence set a tone of desperation for Ofelia. Fairy tales themselves are extremely violent, and Disney cartoons are nothing like the stories they were based on. This film was rated R. What were you expecting?It is easier to understand people who thought the fantasy element was eclipsed, and were maybe hoping for another Narnia or one of the other countless fantasy flicks that has come out in the wake of LOTR. This film touched on many of the most fundamental themes of mythology, such as parallel worlds, dangerous tasks, hidden identities, sacrifice, and death. It did something more than the standard fantasy movie, which is part of why it was such a great film.


                
You would think that, with 1000 or so positive reviews, one more would not matter? However, this is not only one of the most extraordinary films ever made, it is also a personal fave which I have seen many times.Comments include: * can Guillermo del Toro actually make a bad film? I don't think so. Because of his name on the credits I have checked out many films of his that, while not in the same class as this one, were nonetheless flawless in execution.* of many film I have seen about war (too many to count) this one manages to humanize the condition to a greater degree than I can recall. Each character is perfectly cast with perfectly written dialog to bring home the metaphor of trying to live your life while chaos reigns around you. A little girl with a sick pregnant mother who just lost her father and finds her step-father to be a monster ... perfect!* many films deliberately strive for that special "ambiguous" ending but this one nails it. I remember couples coming out out the theatre arguing over what the real purpose of the film was, what the real ending was, what the intent was, etc * the one single scene where the young girl has to enter a subterranean land and retrieve artifacts WITHOUT EATING THE FOOD ON THE TABLE is in many ways scarier than the scariest horror films you could name. Moreso because the audience knows how hungry she was and empathizes. It reminded me of the Cyclops scene in the 1950s 7th Voyage of Sinbad, considered a classic of its own.* the scenes of violence (and there are many) are done so well you can almost taste the copper in the blood on screen One of the best films ever made
I just finished the movie today and I must say that this is by far one of the most artistic and beautiful movies I have seen in years. The producers of the film were right to call this a modern fairytale, since it has all the ingredients for an authentic Brothers Grimm story. Just don't expect there to be lots of happy faces in the film. This is a real, bloody (very bloody), moody, emotional fairy tale just like the ones in the past.First of all, I have to say that the technical design in this film was astounding. The art direction was spot on for all the locations, whether its the imaginary world of the labyrinth or the mill that the fascists call their base. The music is some of the best I've heard in a film for a long time, drawing that fantasy feel of the movie perfectly and inspiring so many emotions in one chord than other films could in their whole screening. The sound was top notch as well, never sounding like just a compilation of reused sound effects. And of course, the make-up design is flawless and imaginative. The biggest shock was the cinematography. Now, I personally thought Children of Men should have got the Oscar for this, but understand now why this won. Each shot is beautifully staged, colored and detailed in a way that they cease to be movie shots and become portraits of art.Guillermo Del Toro really surprised me. Not only did he assemble a surprisingly talented cast, but he was able to make you really connect with the situation. The characters are all well developed and the symbolism, though subtle, is so delicious that it makes me tingle with the thought of it. The dialogue is natural and authentic and he handles the film expertly to convey that timeless feel even through some of the film's harsher moments. You really feel this is a labor of love, since it bears its fruits at every scene. I didn't even mind that I had to read subtitles (which I think Del Toro knew that he would have to use it wisely, since the scenes are designed so you are not distracted reading the text to enjoy the scene).If I had any complaints, its that some of the visual effect designs were sometimes inferior. They weren't bad, but they had some rough edges that should have been addressed.I recommend this for anyone who has a strong stomach, an eye for art and a heart. It deserved all its Oscar wins and noms and should have won for its amazing music. This is the new standard for film art for the modern generation.


                
Guillermo del Toro how to tell a real fairy tale. A fairy tale that isn't all princesses, princes, magical fairies and happy endings. It might have them, but the point that has been sanitised out of fairy tales over the last century or so is the fact that they were originally cautionary tales for children, handed down through generations of oral tradition to teach children what life is. And what is the one fact that children should learn as soon as possible? That life is nasty!Laberinto del Fauno (titled Pan's Labyrinth here, though no mention is ever made to the faun in the film being Pan) is the story of Ofelia, a little girl forced to move with her pregnant mother to rural Spain to be near her step-father, a Captain in the fascist army during the Spanish Civil War. As she experiences first hand the horrors of war and fascism, she enters an ancient maze and meets a faun who tells her she is a lost Princess of an underground kingdom and must pass three tests to claim her place there.I will admit that I went into this film expecting a nice, children friendly movie, but del Toro pulls no punches when it comes to the war, a war he experienced as a child. It's hard sometimes to decide what was more important to the director; Ofelia's story, or whether that was just a backdrop to highlight all the more the cruelty and brutality of the war.There are no Indiana Jones style comedy Nazis here, the fascists are truly evil and we see it. Both the violence (which is just graphic enough to prevent us from being able to ignoring it without ever being gratuitous) and the mindsets of the people involved. What is more disturbing that any of the on screen actions is the attitude of 'pull the ladder up jack, I'm alright' of those who find themselves in privileged positions. Ariadna Gil, as Ofelia's mother showcases this perfectly. She knows full well what Vidal thinks of her only as a vessel for him unborn son, and that he probably killed Ofelia's father, but she never seems to resent him. Neither does she ever seem to love him. What you get is more a kind of relief, she knows that as long as he has a use for her she and her daughter are safe. It's purely self preservation, to know your place and survive, and that is more disturbing to me than anything else in the film.Sometimes it's even almost as if Ofelia's quest is the subplot, as even fantastical tales of giant toads, fauns, a magical kingdom, the Pale Man (a horrific creature with it's eye in its hands) pale into insignificance when we're faced with the true life horrors that we see mankind inflict upon itself.And that's one of the most interesting aspects of the story. Even as everything goes on around her, as the Civil War rages around her, her mothers life lies in Captain Vidal hands, what can the innocent do. Ofelia is not part of this world, she hasn't had a hand in creating it and she does not have a hand in affecting it's outcome. The faun and his quests are, to her at least, far more important as they are something that she is involved in, that are about her.On the technical side this is a beautifully crafted film. The cinematography and sets are wonderful, never once setting a difference between the real and the fantasy. Both aspects of the film seem just as important to del Toro, some directors would have favoured one or the other sides of the story and that would have made the film unbalanced.It's clearly influenced by many fairy tales, and a nice touch is, like many movie fairy tales, we never certain whether the fantasy is real. Is Ofelia really a lost princess from a magical kingdom, or are all her adventures and meetings purely from her imagination, one of the stories she tells to her unborn brother expanded to protect her from the nightmares of real life? What Guillermo del Toro has done with this film is to create a beautiful fairy tale masterpiece that harks back to the days when fairy tales were told around a fire to scare children, not read at bedtime to put them to sleep. But despite what I said earlier about this not being a children's film, take some to see it and I still think they'd enjoy it, even if it was from behind the cushion.


                
Pan's Labyrinth, by Mexican director Guillermo del Toro (Mimic, Chronos, Hellboy), is a serious piece of work, making profound use of its fantasy.It is Spain, 1944. The brave resistance continues the fight against the fascists. Carmen - Ariadna Gil (Alatriste, Belle Epoque, Revolver), travels to meet her new husband, the fascist Captain Vidal - Sergi Lopez (Dirty Pretty Things, A Pornographic Affair). With her is Ofelia - Ivana Baquero (Rottweiler, Romasanta), her daughter by her first marriage.Captain Vidal wants his son to be born in Franco's "new Spain"<U+0097>which he will create by brute force if necessary. The fascists' sadistic repression is demonstrated by violent sequences, such as Captain Vidal beating a poacher to death with a bottle.Captain Vidal is only concerned for his son and orders the doctor to sacrifice Carmen, if necessary.Full of fascist disdain for women, Captain Vidal fails to notice that his trusted housekeeper Mercedes - Maribel Verdu (Y tu mamá también, Belle Epoque), is spying for the resistance. He also fails to understand why Dr. Ferreiro - Alex Angulo (The Day of the Beast), does not simply obeyed his orders.He also fails to understand why the democratic resistance opposes his fascist fantasies.Ofelia is attempting to return to a fantasy world where truth reins and fascist lies are not allowed. There is a heavenly turn in the end, where the reward for passing the final test is her elevation to a throne alongside her father and mother. But, just like Spain, that is all fantasy as the Catholic Church was aligned with the fascists and there is no heavenly reward for the democratic unbelievers.Fascists the world over, including those in our government are determined to crush all opposition and to demonstrate their victory. The themes of remembering the evils and the search for truth are woven throughout the film.There may be only small pockets of truth left in America, as there are in Spain, but we can seek them out as we seek the remembrances of the Princess' life on earth. We won't find them among those who subjugate women or destroy democracy, but there is hope for all of us that cherish truth that we will find it.As Franco destroyed Spain, and the Republican fascists attempt to destroy America, we than Del Toro for his beautiful reminder that hope is not lost.
Guillermo del Toro thinks his latest production to be his best to date, and perfectly describes it as "a powerfully moving story, profoundly human and dramatic." Throughout the film there is a contrast between the fairytale land that the young Ofelia is mixed up in and the brutal goings on of the Spanish Civil War that surround her. One minute fairies flutter around her face, and the next minute we see her step father - "el capitán" - shooting two suspected propagandists at point blank range. The acting is very powerful throughout, with the perfect balance of innocence and enquiry from young Ivana Baquero as Ofelia, and a very convincing 'baddie' in Sergi López's Capitán Vidal, seeming to show absolutely no love for anything or anyone, other than his future child who he is sure will be a son - when the doctor says that it is not certain the baby will be male, the Captain replies 'no me jodas' (don't f*** with me). The film is beautiful from start to finish, with CGI perfectly fusing with the real rural images of a lodge deep in the forest. The film uses the horrific nature of the war to give added power without becoming overly politicised, for which del Toro must be commended. Overall a fantastic piece of film-making, and I look forward to seeing it again.


                
After seeing the film, and after reading many of the comments, I would like to say something about the violence that has attracted so much attention.This film is violent, but not in the adolescent vein of "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" or "Saw" or other similar films. It is violent in a realistic manner that counterbalances the fantasy portion of the story in a non-gratuitous way. All the violent scenes are entirely appropriate to the telling of the story, although many of them are difficult to watch. What you won't see are fountains of gore and exploding body parts. The fact is that people don't explode in a burst of red mist when shot with a military-caliber luger. This is not cartoon/video game violence.The CGI is done in an understated way that enhances the realism of the movie, rather than detracting from it. This is probably the single best use of GGI that I have ever seen. You truly walk away wondering if much of what you just saw was actually real.I have read comments disdaining the creatures in this film, but I think these people have entirely missed the point. The fantasy scenes, although some of them are disturbing, are almost charming in their child-like simplicity. They are rooted in the fears and imagination of a young girl, not the jaded mind of an adult. As such, they are frightening only in a "monster under the bed" sort of way.Finally, I would encourage anyone who loves fantasy films to see Pan's Labyrinth. I would not recommend it for any child under the age of 16, though I think that only the most mature 16-year olds should see it. It is a thought-provoking film that will haunt you for days afterward.


                
it was fan-tas-tic! I truly loved the magical touch in this movie. The movie is actually a combination of 2 very strong stories; a fantasy journey and a rather brutal Spanish war. Both stories blend perfectly! The acting is very good, very natural and the Spanish language makes the fantastic characters sound like they speak enchanted dead languages (if you don't speak Spanish of course :o) It differentiates itself from other movies because of this because there are no cheesy "i love you"-lines or tough American style WarHeroism-language.The magic isn't childish at all, it's more of a mature nature, very dark and can be very scary/spooky (like in Brothers Grimm). Believe me, Watch this movie, you WILL NOT REGRET IT. either if you like fantasy or a strong war-story, just let your eyes feast on this masterpiece.one of my all-time favorites.


                
This movie is a Mexican-Spanish co-production and in my opinion a Guillermo Del Toro 's masterpiece. If we defined a masterpiece as a content or form who finds an adequate expression in an art form then this movie is one . There are so many things to talk about but let's start with the photography that have an outstanding quality , it's almost like paintings . The screenplay unite 2 separate worlds , the world of fantasy and the post war era in Spain in a very wise way. Being Spanish myself I recognize many of the things the screenplay talks about . The actors and actresses do a once in a lifetime performances , for me this movie is a casting miracle . Ivana Baquero, Maribel Verdú ( in a performance full of dignity and courage), Sergi Lopez ( his fascist is a terrible character but he gives him humanity ).The music score by Javier Navarrete is full of subtle details and good orchestration .And the movie never takes the easy way , it's full of logic and good storytelling . A truly great movie that one cannot miss, be in cinemas or DVD.


                
The fairy tale aspects of "Pan's Labyrinth" resemble somewhat Lewis's "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" in that there is a fantasy world one steps into and out of from a "real" world. But the film of "...the Wardrobe's" book was not the work of CS Lewis but of a translator (into film). IMO "Pan's Labyrinth" has FAR more power and I suspect much of that comes because it is the director's (del Toro) fairy tale and his conception and realization was always in the grammar and syntax of film. Probably, for that reason, it is an EXTREMELY powerful, unforgettable presentation. Some will despise it while many others will value it, often for similar reasons: there is not a single message or a single point of view. The film can be viewed from almost equally valid contrasting positions -- one, that the fairy tale aspects are a young girl's fantasy life boat she creates to escape a harsh, uncomfortable world. The other is that her fantasy world DOES have a reality and life of its own. There is ample evidence distributed throughout for both points of view.HELPFUL HISTORICAL POINTS: The time is 1944, shortly after the end (1939) of the last Spanish Civil War which was won by the fascist dictator, Gen. Francisco Franco, head of the Spanish army in Spanish Morocco. His fight and rise to power was supported by many factions: the Catholic church, many wealthy Spaniards, and other factions. Franco's bloc was opposed by the existing government (a republic) and a coalition of other factions with opposing agendas (such as decreasing the strong influences of the Catholic Church and the wealthy upper class, etc.). Several autocratic regimes gave Franco support: Hitler and Mussolini sent tanks, dive bombers, and troops, flouting League of Nations efforts to keep others from intervening. Spain became Hitler's laboratory for his later Wermacht tactics. Socialists, communists, and anti-fascists in many countries provided volunteer soldiers to help the republic; the Abraham Lincoln brigade was composed of Americans who volunteered to fight fascism.Franco's forces made deliberate efforts to crush equally all opposition and non-supporters by brutality, coercion, atrocities. The actions in this film deal with residual rebel forces unwilling to concede defeat.I have no idea how representative Capitan Vidal's actions and attitudes would be for Spain in 1944, five years after the Civil war's end but they are symbolic of the approach used by Franco forces during the war (and possibly also by many of those who opposed him, maybe in retaliation? or maybe not?). The photography, music, visualizations, directing, casting and acting are superb. It's said at Cannes the film received a 22 minute ovation; IMO every second was deserved.There are some scenes of graphic torture that I could not bear to see and had to position my hands in front of my eyes so I could still read the subtitles while blocking the rest of the screen.THIS IS NOT A FILM FOR CHILDREN. It is both a history lesson and a fairy tale for adults.The preteen girl in the part of Ofelia is outstanding and carries a film that needs no carrying. The other main characters were also excellent -- Capitan Vidal, Carmen (his new wife), Mercedes (house manager & rebel), the doctor, and the Faun/Pale Man.IF you can appreciate ambiguity in the dividing line between fantasy and reality -- and competing interpretations, IF you can tolerate holding up your hands to block acts of cruelty from your eyes, SEE IT -- it's destined to be an iconic classic. BUT IF that sort of thing isn't your cup of tea, save your time and money, see something else -- and don't diss this for being something it isn't.FWIW/FYI: at this time, with 19,000+ votes, over 85% rated "PL" as a 10, 9, or 8; fewer than 5% rated it 5 or lower.


                
Very early in this film, I formed an interpretation which I believe to be completely correct, and borne out by the plot, details, and symbolism in the film. I will not share that interpretation here. All that I will say about it is that despite knowing where the film would end up and why, I thoroughly enjoyed the journey, and was surprised by many aspects of the film along the way.Written and directed by rising Mexican directorial star Guillermo Del Toro, Pan's Labyrinth is set in Spain during the Franco years. The story's heroine is a young girl named Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and the story is told mostly from her perspective. Ofelia lives in two worlds, the miserable abomination that Spain has become under fascist control, and a world of magic in which she has learned that she may just be a reincarnated princess who has to undergo a series of trials posed by the faun 'Pan' prior to being reunited after several hundred years with her father, the king. These two worlds come together at several points in the narrative, where Ofelia needs the magic of Pan's world to resolve problems in her other realm.Ofelia's other realm is populated by her pregnant mother, who is the only parent she has known, her reluctantly adoptive father (the father of the child her mother is to bear), who is a fascist commanding an outpost in which they reside. There are several other prominent characters including members of a resistance movement a caring housekeeper and a doctor employed by the fascists.The acting is all excellent, especially the heavy (Sergi Lopez), Ofelia, and Mercedes the housekeeper (Maribel Verdu). But the story and the exceptional fluidity with which the camera and sound tell it are the real stars here. There are no wasteful scenes in this film though, to be sure there are some painful and disturbing ones.Although I have enjoyed some of Del Toro's work previously, this is the most serious, intense, and well made film I have thus far seen from him. Everything about this perfectly coherent film works, from both an aesthetic and practical point of view. Pan's Labyrinth has reached my top 5 for 2006.Very highly recommended.


                
One of the best jobs in direction since LOTR. This movie is beautiful with its soundtrack and production. The story is touching and disturbing. However, I find it strange that more people haven't commented on the Spanish Civil War symbolism in the movie.We know from The Devil's Backbone that this movie would be more that a fantasy, just like The Devil's Backbone was more than a ghost story. Del Toro is using an old Spanish tradition of allegory, just like the old Pastores plays would criticize the government and the church using fantastic tales of quests and devils. I would like to put out some theories on the symbolism and see of any one agrees:The Tree and The FrogThe Tree is Womenhood and the Frog is Franco.(After Franco took over, women could no longer get abortions or seek divorce. They were discouraged from working outside the home. Franco died from peritonitis, a disease which makes you throw up.Tree resembles female reproductive organsThe Pale Man is the Catholic Church in Spain.Red and White Stimata (hands) Note the church-like hall She eats the fruit of knowledgeRunning out of time..so will be quickPan=The search for truth, independent thought (that's why the Capitan can't see him)Baby= New Spain, after FrancoOfelia = spirit of the Repulican Movement (That's why she has to die to be reborn)No more time, but you could watch this movie many times and still not catch all the symbolism. Bravo Del Toro. This movie is brilliant...Vale
Pan's Labrynth deserves a spot as one of the greatest movies of all time, in and outside of its genre.Many hearing of the movie's plot, its involvement with mythical creatures and a magical world through a child's eyes, might confuse this for a family fairy tale; I think, at times, I might have preferred that.In actuality, Pan's Labrynth borders on horror. Ivana Baquero plays a young girl named Ophelia who struggles through a life rapidly spiraling out of control, one she as a child cannot influence. A sickly mother, a brutal step-father, and amidst a war in literally her own backyard, one can't help but sympathize with Ophelia's desire to escape. She finds just that opportunity within an entity, the Faun, straight out of the fairytale books she carries about with her. The Faun himself seems frightening, almost demonic, with a snake-like tongue that leaves you unsure of whether his requests of the girl are truly in her best interest.Ophelia, desperate to escape into a world so like the fairy tales she's read, sets off through dangerous territories as the Faun's request. Yet, as dangerous as her quests are, her return home becomes a gradual descent into the brutal darkness of her own human people, leaving one to question just who is the real monster in the movie.In the end, it all seems very bitter; it starts to seem that no one really cared about Ophelia to begin with. I found myself so wrapped into the movie that I felt my own heart-breaking despair. I kept hoping it would suddenly get better, that someone would rescue Ophelia and protect her from the darkness encroaching from every corner.It's hard to say whether Pan's Labrynth truly had a happy ending. Losing the people who meant most to her, one was left behind, one last person who cared, and it seems no one in this story leaves without their wounds. The entire movie, from beginning to end, tugs at the darkest despair and deepest sadness you could only hope to avoid, with every happy moment tinged with poignancy.I think, all in all, this is a very adult movie that a family can enjoy with some serious parental guidance; the horrors within are as fascinating as the wonders to come. The top-notch acting will draw you in and hold you despite any language barrier (cleverly overcome with subtitles) and when it's finally over, it's hard not to feel the shame, anger, and triumph, as if the trials were yours alone.


                
Yes, this movie is a fairy tale. Yes, it deals with fairies, fauns, and ogres, with magic spell books and princesses. No, this movie is not at all for children nor those who dislike major violence.Labyrinth takes place in Spain in 1944s, during a time of Spanish civil war. A ruthless Captain (Sergi López), has set up camp in a distant forest, and requests that his pregnant step-wife (Ariadna Gil) and her fantasy-obsessed daughter, Ofelia (brilliantly played by Ivana Baquero) join him there. As she tries to adjust to the country life smack dab in the middle of the battlefield, Ofelia runs into a magical fairy who leads her to a mystical labyrinth, where she meets a mysterious and suspicious faun, Pan (wonderfully played by Doug Jones), who tells her that she is the long-lost princess of an underground kingdom, and that she must complete three dangerous tasks to return to her throne.While the movie closely follows Ofelia's tasks, spoken to her by a magic book from Pan, it is mostly about the war, double agents (Maribel Verdú and Álex Angulo), and the Captain's near-obsession with his expected son. The battles are extremely brutal (starting early with a couple of rabbit hunters) and made me queazy a couple of times. So brutal are these deaths, in fact, that you'll be relieved to see a simple shot to the head or back.The acting is top-notch, and young Ivana Baquero has a huge and brilliant future ahead of her (picture Dakota Fanning, only a better actress and less annoying). The animation is phenomenal, but not nearly as breathtaking as the costumes or scenery. The labyrinth itself just sucks all the breath out of you when you see it at night for the first time. The "pale man" (also played by Doug Jones), is by far the most terrifying creature in the movie, most-likely to give even the most mature and grown-up adults shivers.Yes, this movie does have sub-titles (it's in Spanish), but it's hardly noticeable at first, so much so that you forget about them by the tragic end of the movie.This movie is frightening and sad to the extreme, but it also gives you a sense of hope that magic does, in fact, exist. One of the best movies I've seen in a long time and truly the fairy tale of the decade!


                
I have seen a lot of comments about the violence in this film, and frankly I'm disappointed in the people who are posting them. This is not a children's movie. This is not a fairy tale. If you were looking for that, perhaps Narnia would be more to your liking.The fairy tale world that this girl inhabits is a form of escape from the realities of her life. Those realities include neglect, they include injustice, and of course, they include violence. The viewer has to see that, and they must feel it too. To not show the violence and not elicit that visceral reaction in the viewer defeats the purpose of the whole movie.Stop being such prudes.


                
Film's like Pan's Labyrinth only come once in a decade! This film is absolutely wonderful. It is a fantasy/fairy tale drama set during the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War at the end of world war 2. The central character is a little girl played by the subtle Ivana Baquero, but it is not a kids film. It is very violent and is bereft of ANY compassion. What is gained from all the violence is a strong metaphorical answer towards the 'real world' and the 'fantasy world' which the lead character is slowly led into. The films central explorations are hope, redemption, sacrifice, faith, fate and what answers lie beyond life itself. Yet, it is not an escape into a fantasy world.The set designs and costumes are outstanding. Doug Jones does a brilliant job of bringing Fauno and Pale Man to life. But the real star is Guillermo del Toro. With his great vision and excellent story telling, he brings the entire film to life. He knows exactly what fans want and works brilliant towards genre.This is a flawless film."It is not a matter of agreeing or disagreeing. I've got to the point where it IS the Citizen Kane of fantasy movies. As soon as ANYONE says BUT, I don't want to hear it. It's like looking at the Mona Lisa and saying "yeah, it's alright, gotta bit of a wonky smile" NO... NO... NO!! It is a masterpiece" - To that I agree and so should everyone else who watches this film.I can not praise this film enough. It is almost impossible to explain the experience. You have to see it for yourself. Especially with poor fantasy/fairy tale films that we've received this year and last year (Chronicles of Narnia), this should bring back hope towards cinema in everyone.If there is only 1 film you watch this year, watch Pan's Labyrinth.


                
I believed them on 'Front Row', on BBC Radio 4, when they said this was a tremendous 'fairy tale' for adults. They also said it was NOT in any way, shape, or form for children. They were right. It does, indeed, hearken back to the original Brothers Grimm, and the older form of fairy tale, which was violent and very intense. Contrast this with the dumbed-down nursery tales pumped out by virtually everybody else, especially Disney.Disney fairy tale stuff is fine for 3 to 8 year-olds. And they do some great movies for adults, too. But Disney's over-sanitized cutsie-a-thons even troubled me as a child. My dad gave me the book 'Pinochio', published ca. 1900, when I was 10. It was a long, brutal, and scary story, very exciting and satisfying. Nothing like the treacle the Disney movie dished up to us. This is not to beat up Disney--- they do fine work, for what it is: morally ambiguous, maudlin, saccharine tales suitable for the uncritical. But do, do, DO understand that this movie is as far from anything Disney has ever even contemplated as possible. This is not for kids. It is for you. It is deep, serious, and as thrilling and exciting as any war movie, murder mystery, or family drama you'll ever see.I was intrigued throughout, and uplifted and gratified by the end. Clearly, this spectacular beauty is a masterpiece! I gave it a well deserved 10 out of 10.


                
I was waiting this movie for a few months, and finally last week I saw it and I must to tell that all waiting worth it. It's a wonderful "fairy tale", with great performances (specially from Ivana Baquero), the setting, visual FX and all you can see in the screen is just great. This is a very touching story, and shows us an alternative reality in a world being destroying by hate, and this other "reality" is perhaps what we're looking for, inside of us, to keep a little faith. I hope you can enjoy this film as much as I did, because so long ago I haven't so much inspiration from a movie as I did with this one, it touched the little girl inside me, and all I can do is to bless our amazing ability to dream.


                
