I seem to be among the only people who consider this movie to be a terrible mis-fire, on a par with Shyamalan's *Lady in the Water* and Gilliam's "The Brothers Grimm".So be it. I shall back that claim up.Many people are reportedly enjoying the movie's ability to 're-interpret traditional fairy tale motifs'.If only that was what del Toro was up to, here. He didn't re-interpret anything. He just grabbed a bunch of classic themes and plot points (the three tasks; the magical guide; the unexplained magic rocks that are the bane of an evil creature for some reason; the magic book that foretells the future; the golden key and the choice of key-holes; the prohibition against eating in the underworld that is broken simply because it would be no fun if it weren't; the magical creatures that adults can't see because they aren't really there; the young girl on the cusp of puberty who fears her growing sexuality and capacity for reproduction and so retreats into a fantasy world to deal with her traumatic environment; the climactic flight into a maze that is conveniently nearby) and threw them into a ridiculously drawn shadow of the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War. On this front, Sergi Lopez and his lame impression of Ralph Fiennes in *Schindler's List* was particularly outrageous. The points which are meant to build him into a threatening character were always taken from elsewhere, and, even worse, always CAME ACROSS as points meant to build him into a threatening character: his vaguely harassing caress of Mercedes' shoulder; his rampant chauvinism; his graphic crushing of an innocent farmer's face; his slashing at his own reflected throat with a straight razor; his tortured relationship with his dead father's watch...etc. At no time did he seem like anything more than a caricature.Unfortunately, this was not unusual. The overall weak characterization meant that any real sense of Fascist Spain was just entirely missing, and the brief fantasy sequences lacked any real resonance.The dinner party was meant to relate the connections between the wealthy, the church and the Fascists, but it was too short to register.The faun himself had few lines, and was entirely cryptic. If Ofelia was simply dreaming him up, this perhaps accounts for the fact that she was never, not for one second, surprised that a giant faun was offering her faeries and tasks, but not his complete lack of any helpful, world-building clues. And, since we are not welcomed into his world, the threat of its destruction simply doesn't matter to us. The predicament of Mercedes didn't make any sense. Why was she not in the mountains with her lover? Was her ability to sneak mail and keys to (hilariously flimsy) wooden doors out to the rebels really so essential? In fact, having a few female rebels would have been more authentic and less offensive than having them all chopping potatoes for the Captain. Did anyone for one second think that she would not find some use for that blade she kept tucked into her dress? Why did she not kill Vidal when he was at her mercy? She had no trouble later on. (Was it really because he needed to live in order to continue driving the plot? Because that would be pathetic.)Did Ofelia's mother actually say, out loud, that she married a cold, brutal psychopath who made it clear that he valued her only as a vessel for childbirth, simply because she was 'lonely'? What the hell was up with that? (I mean, as the widow of a tailor, it isn't as though she needed to marry a soldier in order to maintain her accustomed level of luxury. Why be so massively anti-feminist simply because you can?) The death of the doctor, who tries to make a moral statement despite offering his skills to the Fascists whom he hates, was also hackneyed. (Hint: Don't turn your 'sympathetic' character into a cowardly Fascist collaborator who is so terrified of losing his sense of privilege that he would rather euthanize rebels than fight alongside them.)The attempts to work in allegories of change (the death of Vidal, the fact that his son would never know of him, the sly glances at 'Red Propaganda' which claims that we are all equal) also caused me to frown.Franco won in '39, the 'heroic' rebels (who were just as given to atrocity) were hunted to extinction, and the Fascists ruled well into the 1970s, ruining the lives of further millions; socialism in the Spanish-speaking countries turned out to be just as bad. Just what the hell is del Toro getting at? He seems very muddled. Even the special effects, which are getting excellent press, were cartoonish and poorly executed. (The toad that vomited up its tongue wouldn't have been out of place in *The Phantom Menace*, nor would the fairies whom Ofelia never quite seemed to be looking at...and did I actually spot a goddamn elf-ear on Ofelia's resurrected mother? Leftover sets and props from the Lord of the Rings, I suppose.)The overall lesson seems to have been that innocence is lost, and death is everywhere, so the only course is to delude oneself to the point that you are willing to trust 'the voices'. Ofelia needed psychiatric treatment, not a richer fantasy life. There was no value, to my mind, in her visions or her death. And that WAS a tragedy, of a different kind than the one intended. I could go on but I'll stop there. PS. If you thought that this film was excellent, just wait until *Coraline* comes out. Then you might see a truly re-interpreted fairy tale, with a greater depth of explanation, mystery and menace.
This is the first time ever I felt the urge to post a comment here on IMDb and this is simply because most of the times I have more or less agreed with what was already written by others. But now, I simply cannot believe this movie has such a high user rating! Did we all watch the same thing? Reading your comments and posts my impression was that this was a movie for grown-ups. But, common! Sometimes the given "reality" of this movie seems more fairlytaleish than the actual fantasy bits. The villain could not be more plastic and banal if this were a 007 movie (kills innocent elderly people and little children, beats women, tortures little animals and alike). I mean the Nazis from Indiana Jones and those Frank Capra Why We Fight WWII propaganda movies had more character depth than this one! And the good guys are good guys for the sole premise of being human vs this ultra-evil devilish opponent. There is no solid argument why we should support them apart from the fact that the alternative is a sadistic monster. Now, this movies main idea, or so it seems, is to contrast the actual world of reality to the imaginary world of fairy tales. But they don't differ! At all! The "reality" has as little to do with reality as the fairytale. They're as archetypal, as brutal and as imaginary. And seriously, it takes a master film artist to kill a kid and get away with it (like Brian De Palma in the Untouchables, perhaps? or whoever did the movie version of the Lord of the Flies for eg). Otherwise, it seems just pathetic. Like the easiest way to appeal to emotions. For me, this death felt "undeserved" because the script was so badly crafted. It felt even offending in a way.OK, the cinematography is great and Del Toros imagination, as we all know by now, can sometimes be stunning. But is that enough to deem it a masterpiece? I'm giving it a 2 instead of a 1 for the sole reason that its heart is in the right place.There is a topic in the discussion board on weather the girl really died or just went back to her kingdom. I couldn't care less. There's this other movie, Ghost World, with a similar ambiguous ending. If anyone skipped it, rent it and spend a great evening watching it. Don't go waste your money on this.Sorry about my English, Im not a native speaker.
What a con, I thought this film was meant to be an adult fairy tale. I expected a sort of adult version of Alice in Wonder Land, what I got was a bleak and violent war drama. The fantasy in this film is basically a side issue; her being in the fantasy world must only take 20mins screen time. The rest is just sadistic rubbish, I don't mind violence in films, but some of the scenes in this film are sickening and unnecessary. The bit when the captain smashes the bottle repeatedly into the guys face was horrific.I really do not know what this film tried to be, it was like two films put together, neither film adding anything to the other. The film spent too much time showing what a sadistic thug the captain was and not enough time on the supposed fantasy of the film.I cannot believe this film got rated so high, for me it was a major disappointment. Avoid it.


                
This movie is the most over-hyped, underwhelming mess I have seen in some years. Incoherent and idiotic, it combines disgusting brutality with stupid writing and unconvincing acting, creating a torpid, bloated, overwrought dreary mess that is so unpleasant, so torturous and so dismal that it is akin to having a tooth extracted without nitrous oxide. I literally thought this was a joke for a while--how could millions of people be so in love with this mess--but apparently people are lemmings.The central character is SO APPALLINGLY EVIL--so mean, so insane, so brutal, such a DICK--that it just slams the film into the wall. He is so bad that watching him becomes a chore, and silly at the same time.Direction of the actors reacting to him is like something out of a junior high school production of "King Lear". Everyone either stammers and quakes and stares in abject fear at this schmuck or salutes him with a "jahwohl" that would have given Hitler a hard-on.The art direction would be fine if we were all beetles and lived in humus in the forest. As I am not, it was barely discernible on the screen, with the saturation of darkness and the fuzzy lensing and the cobwebs and smoke and all the other crap he threw into every shot. The creatures are nothing you haven't seen in the cantina scene in Star Wars back in 1977. Feh.This film is TERRIBLE. DO NOT FALL FOR THE HYPE. Puppets and CGI notwithstanding, it is a train wreck.


                
Pans Labrynth is nicely filmed and imaginative and was definitely one of the most original films of the year. However, the film is not without serious faults, which in my opinion is it's very obvious pro-leftist take on the Spanish civil war. Instead of being objective on matters political, the film sets out to portray the leftists and communists as romantic freedom fighters, and the other side (supporters of Franco, the Catholic Church, the military) as companions in evil. As anyone who knows about the history of Spain will till you, things were far less clear cut than that and atrocities were carried out on both sides. It is my view that a nice fairy tail is spoiled by left wing point scoring, which should be taken with a large dose of salt.


                
I was really looking forward to this movie but was really let down by it instead. I truly cannot fathom the critical masturbation that seems to be going on surrounding this "masterpiece". If this is a masterpiece then the bar for high quality works of art in film has been reduced to a new low. The film is not bad, had I seen it out of context I would have thought it a watchable distraction with some slow uninteresting parts but pretty good effects. Instead I'm told this is a masterful, beautiful work of genius. It is not. It is far from it. The tone is far from magical for the fantasy pieces, and far from intriguing, dramatic or real for the civil war sequences.The tone is dour overall. The child actress Ivana Baquero does a great job in scenes dealing with sadness or cruelty. But as for a range of emotions she doesn't seem to go much further than this. I don't think I can remember Ofelia laughing at any stage, or being truly angry, or truly enchanted by these fascinating creatures appearing before her. "I saw a fairy" she says to her Mother <U+0096> "Did you? Well you sure don't look like you did" should have been the response. For that matter I don't think I can remember her convey much emotions apart from her the overall subdued morbidity. Perhaps Del Toro intended this but I doubt it and it tends to create very simplistic characters. The Father Vidal is a predictable card board cut out bad guy. Has this very obvious fact floated over the critics heads? The camera is pedestrian and unremarkable, and the production design could/should have been much better. I found the music was not evocative and certainly not enchanting or magical. **MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD STOP NOW** Things got even more diluted and un-focused toward the end, the Faun returns because the script merely requires him to and he decides to give Ofelia another chance. And killing the kid felt very forced and manipulative. I tend to feel if this hadn't happened and the "real" war scenes had been removed praise for the film would have been considerably reduced. These are the scenes designed to induce a feeling of bold greatness in the audience but I found them to be cheap tricks in a slightly above average film. "The Devils Backbone" remains Del Toros best film. Campared to that Pan is poor indeed.
Have we become so inured to violence that film reviewers don't even bother to mention it any more? I found this film almost unwatchable in its graphic violence. The characters seemed to me to be just overdrawn stereotypes and the situations - such as the childbirth scene and its outcome - obvious and clichéd. The Captain was an appalling sadist without a redeeming feature; the housemaid was sweet and saintly. When it was over my companion turned to me and said: 'Well what was that all about?' 'A fairy tale for adults' is hardly an adequate answer. What was the point of the fantasy sequences? I could understand if they were the child's way of escaping the horrible reality around her; but the fantasies were equally frightening. What was the filmmaker trying say ? Why did he set it in the aftermath of the Spanish civil war - was it supposed to be some sort of allegory for Iraq? I was totally baffled, as well as being sickened by the violence. I detect a trend of thought among critics and the Academy that anything made by a Spanish or Mexican director must be great. That may be the case with Almodovar, but then he's a genius.


                
I went to see this film after noticing the high rating it has been given on IMDb and after reading a few reviews. I was sorely disappointed. The reviews (ones on this site) led me to believe that it would be brilliant. I think i must have watched the wrong film because I found nothing of the sort. It was boring and had no plot. Also, they had tried to paste together two completely different types of film with sleep-inducing consequences. The film contains a small amount of violence which, given its graphical nature, I would rather have done without. How this film managed not to get an 18 classification based on that I don't know. I kept wondering if the film was leading somewhere but it never did. It yields a couple of small parts that are quite good (thats why I gave it a 2) but a minute or two later we get back to boredom. The only reason I wrote this review is that I find it unfathomable how it averaged an 8.3 rating. Stay home because there's nothing good about this film. Even the usher was keeling over.


                
Mix a war story (civial war) with a fantasy world then put some essence of tragic drama and some Bollywood emotions, you will get this movie right. The film would not have been very different even if you have omitted the fantasy part. They seems to be disconnected somehow. The same old story of stepfather being unfriendly to a child and the child finds shelter in her fantasy. Can you imagine? that after being shot at back, a man can take off his glasses, wipe his nose and then fall down. No joke - the doctor did. Nobody knows why Mercedes left the Captain alive. If she can open his mouth wider, she could have cut his neck more easily. This is stupid, considering a war film. The the faun suddenly forgave her without any real reason (just like he was so harsh on the child who has completed the second task) and ask her to do the third task. It appears, the film is better to continue that way. How come the labyrinth, which opened up for the girl, also opened up for her step-father (when she was chased) ? Was it not that the fantasy world was only for the child? If her father can also enter her fantasy then everything would have been very different. The child died when she came out of the underworld, and that is why she has to take a rebirth to get back to her real father who was waiting for centuries. But at the end, the child has to die again to be reunited with her world. Is it not funny?


                
Gore, immolation, close-range execution style shooting and allegoric abortions are some of the nicely rendered - in full detail - scenes in this movie that despise all the shocking effort, ends up disappointing as a story, fable or what the heck, a movie script.If something is to be salvage from this film, is the desire to shock as much as possible, for the sake of shocking, nothing else.Watching the film was boring, predictable and always exaggerated to the level of ridiculous in a confusing delusion between reality, imagination, perversion and stupidity that combined offers a nice gory experience for the easily amused and shock-craving lowbrow audience.The hype about this film steams from no other place than the realistic killing and schizophrenic mentality of each one of the characters, which, after all, reflect in good faith the current mentality of the masses dealing with a crumbling, unbearable reality seeking a fantastic escape without consequences.No Pan can show the labyrinth's exit of this movie monstrosity.


                
Bloody awful. Boy I did not enjoy this movie. The whole magical realism "red herring"-was just a pretext to suck the viewer into this sad-awful-degenerate catalog of Franco's god-awful war against the partisans. The whole Mystical-poetic wood-nymph side-story cannot camouflage the brutal Franco-ist nightmare we the viewers are subjected to: Torture-totalitarianism-and stupidity. I hate this movie. you should too.I was expecting, not alice in wonderland.Guillermo del Toro was making a point-I guess.I guess this movie builds character or something.Most American poets wouldn't waste their time on sorrow-like this movie. Most American poets are frauds.
Yes, as the other respondents note in the comments section below, there is a very violent image in the film, one of many such images that seem unmotivated and unnecessary. I don't mind violence at all. But this movie really disappointed me. It was also a slow, boring, and relentlessly upsetting experience to sit through, and people in the cinema where I saw it were upset to be sure. What worries me is that we are meant to celebrate moments of violence in the film. After seeing innocent people hurt and hurt and hurt again, the violence then turns toward the villains in the third act. But I was disturbed by this lesson! Teaching sadistic revenge, as the film does, is not responsible. And the tragic ending just made it all pointless, without a payoff. This is one of the most inaccurately marketed and over-hyped films in years. In the months to come, I think people will begin to see through it, and call 'shananigans' on this weak film.
I was very disappointed by this movie. I think the whole theater was. You can tell when you finish watching a good movie.. the theater seems to buzz.. hearing little chit chats about it.. but no.. not this movie.. it was dead silent..realizing "what the heck did that movie have to do with the wonderful reviews??? "Beautiful.. a Masterpiece"? Where was the masterpiece? Where was the Labrinyth? I will UNDOUBTLY say that the parts that WE'RE fantasy.. could of been expounded on.. could've been wonderful and I did enjoy watching them.. But the movie was more about "the real" than the "unreal".. We don't need the REAL right now..we don't' need a movie about war and fighting.. all we have to do is turn on the TV to see it happening all around us... we want and NEED the unreal. That's why, I think a lot of people thought that they were going to get.. an escape.. into the unreal. 95% of the movie was real. And.. it should've not been called Pan's Labrinyth.. something more appropriate (say something closer to the Spanish translation) should've been used. Oh.. and it's NOT a movie suited at all for Children.


                
Okay, how did Ofelia get out of the guarded room at the end if she was just simply imagining the fantasy elements? The room was guarded, and the guard was told to shoot her if anything occurred. Also, why would Vidal have found the chalk? Where did the chalk come from? Pan, right? I might as well include the fact that I think this was a poorly written movie. There were an incredible amount of unmotivated, unnecessary scenes and actions. I've read most of the comments on the message boards for this movie, and I feel like a lot of people are reaching very far to find reasons and explanations and metaphors. The comments make me think of "A Beautiful Mind". You could find metaphors and meaning and patterns in a pile of feces if you really want and you look really hard, but it's just a pile of feces.
First of all, I would like my $14.00 back. After watching what possibly could have been the most boring, drool-ridden spy movie of all time (The Good Shepherd), I read a review about Pan's Labyrinth and it's "fantasy wonderland". Wanting to make things up to my wife for last week, I told her of this magical adult fairy-tale film. I now regret not allowing my wife the time to research the ratings on this site. Here's an idea, if your going to have a labyrinth, HAVE A LABYRINTH!! I got the idea that old pops was an evil-doer (Thanks, W) within the first few SUBTITLES. That's right folks, still hearing it from the wife on that one! When we finally got to the underground fantasy I thought things were looking up, but it gets worse! There's a guy with no eyeballs and drenched in flour with grapes that have been down there for Lord knows how long but she eats them anyway! But wait! Back to the war, (Why? We still don't know or care at this point). Don't see it, the chick dies anyway.
This movie doesn't deserve my interest to write anything. I could say that the story of fantasy around the little girl is worth it but... but I cannot say what this really is. They try to bring back again the issue of the civil war of Spain. They put fiction there but it is only a distraction to say to the world we have lost the Spanish civil war against the national band and we want to win it back. Republicans are good the others are bad. How ashame I feel of this people whose pockets are full of money coming from subsidies from the government to let them spread THE RED propaganda. This is what is bringing Spain to poverty and split us in two. This is like whatever authoritarian regime where all the movies can be based on different genres but finally have to go the same political propagandist motto.


                
I have voted this 1 to reduce the average. A fair score is 4.Yup, don't eat anything, your life depends on it. So what happens? Well, she decides to go munch on a few forbidden snacks. I mean, really? Aren't we past this kind of bad writing by now? Most over-hyped film I have ever seen (I think). I am not going to bother reviewing this film properly because to do so would waste yet more of my time. This film is plodding, ridiculous, and lazily written.Some very good reviewers gave this film rave reviews. I thought, for once, I couldn't go wrong. Fat chance. If you like well written movies with well-rounded characters, and not just pretty visuals, make sure you get lost in a labyrinth as it might save you from this stinker.
I watched this thing a few hours ago and now i have a good ton of headache . Its totally depressing and sick . This is some piece of trash muddled into a fairy tale with some good elements of a country's period of war . Critics who have recently panned the Man of Steel for being humorless, i feel it would have sent them into trauma thats why they rated it so high (on RT and Metacritic). I feel performance is quite good but that doesn't account only . The muddled plot and so confused plot taken maybe from some old textbooks or what ,nothing makes sense. Fairy tail ain't dark and it felt even worse than snow white and the huntsman if i consider it a fairy tale. Sure this movie has heart and feelings but at the cost of sick story . Better avoid these if u are a cheerful person and don't like sad films and all. The end is so pathetic and universal . Go to hell Dell toro,rather watch some porn and be stress free
As I determined if I was going to see this film I watched the trailer, and it seemed very interesting in the realm of fantasy. Maybe a true tale of extraordinary imagination. But of course the trailer was watered down to trick suspected movie goers from the realization it was all in Spanish. If I wanted to see a Spanish film I'd go see a Spanish film, if I want to see a English film, I go and see an English film. When Mel Gibbson released The Passion of the Christ he made no attempted to cloud the fact it was in Aramaic. For me the excitement was in the revealing of the story to move me. Not to spend all day reading subtitles, It ruined it for me drastically.


                
