I had unsurmountable expectations for this one, and, alas, they remain unsurmounted. It didn't even come close. It is an entertaining film, but, as a whole, it feels half-baked. Near the end of the Spanish Civil War, a little girl, Ofelia, is taken with her pregnant mother to an old mill, where her new husband, a sadistic army captain, awaits. At the mill, she meets a fairy who leads her to a faun, who asks her to perform three tasks so she might take her place as princess of a magical kingdom. It's less a fantasy film than a fairy tale. In that way, I suppose I'm obliged to forgive that its fantasy world goes completely unrealized and remains paper thin throughout. Honestly, except for a couple of sequences, there really isn't a fantasy world. Most of the film takes place in the real world, where the Captain is trying to rid the area of some pesky rebels and Ofelia's mother is struggling to survive her difficult pregnancy. What is much harder to forgive, though, is that Guillermo del Toro extends the two-dimensionality to the Spanish Civil War setting. The Captain is a completely cartoonish bad guy, and the situation is seen completely in black and white. I mean, we're talking about a real conflict here where many people died. It's kind of insulting. If this were an American made film, people would be railing against it. It's also insulting to Spirit of the Beehive, on which del Toro has said he based the film. Where Spirit is a gentle yet effective study on the nature of human cruelty, Pan celebrates human cruelty with extremely violent sequences which are meant to be enjoyed as they are in action films (the director did, of course, previously make Blade II and Hellboy). Wow, it sounds like I hated this film! I didn't, really. I have some ideological problems with it, obviously, and I wish it were better than it is. But it is an enjoyable little horror/fantasy film. You could do better, but you could do worse, too.


                
First lets start with the 20 minute standing ovation this film supposedly got at Cannes. After watching the film I don't believe it. Someone must have exaggerated the length of time by at least 18 minutes. That or those apparently ecstatic people were drunk. Don't get me wrong this is a good film. But the praise this is getting from critics and people writing here is way over the top. I was fully expecting a work of real vision and/or originality but what I experienced was a film that borrows from other films and admittedly gels everything together into a cohesive and impressive whole. A lot of great films do the same but 'Pans Labrynth' has other faults that prevent it from being put in the same category as the truly great films. 'Pans Labrynth' at times is too predictable - a side effect from borrowing from other films - therefore some scenes feel clichéd. Also the tasks the girl has to complete in order to take her place as princess could have been more imaginatively realized. Finally the message/point/allegory of the film is trite and simplistic. Still worth watching but is this really one of the top 100 films of all time? Not even close...


                
One of the cardinal rules of any good fairy tale is that, no matter how fantastical it becomes, it must make sure to keep one foot firmly planted in reality so that the story can more easily connect with the audience. In the case of "Pan's Labyrinth," however, that foot may be so firmly planted in the real world that it actually prevents the movie from cutting loose and soaring into the stratosphere of imagination and enchantment in the way we wish it would.The movie takes place in 1944, five years after the end of the Spanish Civil War that has left Franco in power and bands of defeated Leftist rebels hiding out in the Iberian countryside. Eleven-year-old Ofelia arrives with her pregnant mother to the estate of Captain Vidal, a vicious fascist who, in a clever bit of fairy tale role reversal, plays the part of the evil stepfather of the story. As Vidal busies himself with hunting down the pesky Communist outcasts, Ofelia discovers herself drawn to a strange alternate universe, unbound by the laws of nature, which frequently opens up for her to enter and to which she alone seems privy.There's no denying that "Pan's Labyrinth" is an extremely well made movie, miles above the average American fantasy film in terms of both sophistication and vision. Director Guillermo del Toro has fashioned a dark, violent, exquisitely realized world filled with secret passageways and awe-inspiring creatures to which Ofelia periodically retreats in an attempt to escape the even more brutal life around her. Like Judy Garland in "The Wizard of Oz," the lovely Ivana Baquero is the perfect heroine for the tale: wide-eyed, curious and filled with an intense longing for a world better than the one that entraps her. The movie is a miracle of art direction, set design, makeup and special effects, and it boasts some of the most dramatic use of sound this side of "Das Boot." Yet, for all its good points, "Pan's Labyrinth" winds up disappointing us a bit in the end. For much of its running time, the movie seems to be operating in two largely different spheres - that of reality and that of fantasy - and having a hard time bringing the two together into a unified, coherent whole. It spends too much time chronicling the conflict between the fascist general and the rebels in the forest - which might be interesting in a different context and another movie - and not enough focusing on Ofelia's otherworldly adventures. Even though the emotional pull back to Kansas was never far from Dorothy's - and the audience's - consciousness, Baum knew enough not to spend too much actual time there. Del Toro, on the other hand, seems not to be able to yank himself from the scene, the result of which is that the fantasy world never exerts the magical force on us that it might have done had it been more thoroughly developed and taken a more center stage in the drama. The magical world in "Pan's Labyrinth" lacks the sort of densely plotted, compelling narrative one finds in the "Lord of the Rings" saga or "The Wizard of Oz." We don't get a clear picture of what the land itself is like, who its various inhabitants are, and what Ofelia's real role will be once she gets there.Thus, although the parts in "Pan's Labyrinth" are better than the whole, thanks to the quality of the film-making and of Baquero's performance, those parts are often indelible and unforgettable.


                
This is an oddly fascinating film, which drew me in, notwithstanding some strange bits--the rather unconvincing but artful faun, for example.The politics bothered me. The Franquistas are displayed as unremittingly evil caricatures, the guerrillas as noble peasant types. Anyone who reads the history of the Spanish Civil War objectively has to know that it wasn't that simple.We get a hint of that in the end when the guerrillas go around giving the coup de grace to the dying soldiers. This, however, is deemphasized, while the viciousness of the Captain and his men is graphically displayed.It's also odd that a film that sympathizes with an anti-religious politics resorts to a fantasy world of immortality. So much for dialectical materialism, I guess.
I believe Pan's Labyrinth to be misnamed. Although it is a clever title, and there is a faun and a labyrinth, the fantasy world is actually a very small part of the movie, which is mostly about a sadistic Fascist (Sergi Lopez, excellent as Captain Vidal)hunting partisans in the mountains of rural Spain during the second World War.To be sure, the main character initially seems to be the Captain's unattended step-daughter, Ofelia (Ivana Baquero). Ofelia and her mother have accompanied the Captain while Ofelia's mother is dealing with a difficult pregnancy. The woman is not important to the Captain, only his legacy is and he will risk the mother's life to obtain his heir. In the meantime Vidal is not above executing anyone who even seems to be remotely suspect of aiding his enemy. This is bad news for the house maid, Mercedes (Maribel Verdu, who is also excellent) and the local doctor, both of whom are covertly aiding the rebels.Ofelia seems to be dealing with this frightening situation by retreating into a fantasy world. A faun (Pan, played by Doug Jones) informs her that she is actually a lost princess from an underworld kingdom, and must pass several tests to prove her worthiness.Here is where the weakness of the film comes into play. Both the fantasy world and the real one Ofelia inhabits are well evoked, but director Del Toro does not devote enough time to the fantasy world to make it the main arc of the story. Instead most of the time and focus (at least two-thirds) are on the Captain, Mercedes and the Captain's hunt for the partisans and their conspirators. When Ofelia does enter the labyrinth her tasks are usually straightforward (getting a giant toad to swallow a magic stone, stealing from a monster) and seem a distraction from the real story of the sadistic captain and the brave housekeeper. In particular on one sojourn Ofelia disobeys the orders of the Faun and awakens a child-eating monster from which she has to flee. This is out of character for Ofelia, who is shown as being canny and smart until that moment, and the Faun's pronouncements following this seem perfunctory. In addition, the fantasy adventures do not seem to gibe in any logical way with the story - I did not see a connection between the giant toad or the pale man with the actions taking place in the film. If the fantasy world is supposed to be an allegory for the real world Ofelia inhabits, then the connections were too tenuous.Another fault I found with the film is that it takes the ambiguity away from the fantasy scenarios. Ordinarily in this type of story, the reality of the dreamscape remains in question, leaving the audience asking whether the character is actually experiencing the adventure or just imagining it. Here Del Toro removes the ambiguity - the dreamscape can only be real, or else the filmmaker is lying. I felt this was a cop out. If the girl is escaping her nightmarish reality by retreating into a fantasy world, then making the dream world real is unfair to the audience. What does it mean that this defenseless little girl can actually retreat into a fantasy world as a moral to the story? And if the opposite is true, that the fantasy world was just fantasy, then Del Toro creates too many contradictions - Ofelia uses tools and devices given to her by the faun to escape real world situations, and they are found by other characters.The last criticism is the actions of Mercedes when she gets a drop on Captain Vidal. (SPOILER ALERT) Mercedes is very aware of how sadistic and evil the Captain is. She has the gumption to stab him and has him helpless, so WHY DOESN"T SHE FINISH THE JOB? Her leaving him alive has both immediate and far-reaching complications for herself and Ofelia and left me gasping in disbelief. This leads to the trenchant finale, where Captain Vidal, who has been stabbed at least five times, pursues Ofelia into the labyrinth. I had questions about this as well. During this climax I doubted Vidal's ability to go anywhere due to the brutality of the stabbings, but here he is, pursuing the little girl with the baby. I also questioned his actions toward Ofelia. Although he is shown as evil, he is never shown as anything more than dismissive of Ofelia. I doubted that his intentions toward a little girl he could easily overpower would turn murderous.The ending is gripping and sad, but by this point too many contradictions had distracted me, and the explanation of the end once again made me feel the director was playing unfair games.This is a strong, evocative film. If it sounds as if I am picking nits, it is because there are too many inconsistencies, and a distracted storyline, to prevent me from calling it great. People will be talking about this movie a long time, and I urge you to see it.
Guillermo Del Toro's "Pan's Labyrinth" begins with a transfixing opening shot that completely transports you into a dark and mysterious world. The film has the look and tone of Del Toro's near-masterpiece "The Devil's Backbone." Whereas "The Devil's Backbone" was a ripping good yarn and old-fashioned ghost story where the haunting served as a metaphor for the fractured relationships of the people living in the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War, "Pan's Labyrinth" uses the same historical context to present a simplistic and damning Passion Play.Much like the similarly well made but questionable "Children of Men" this film presents us with an array of characters who are nothing more than archetypes pulled out of the decaying mythology of both Paganism and Christianity. Del Toro attempts some character development by assigning each person a single detail to give them depth (i.e. the Captain's father's watch, Mercedes' hiding of the knife in her apron, or Ofelia's love of books).Despite the lack of substance in the storyline, the film is not without its suspenseful and magical moments. Ofelia's escape from the horrifying "baby-eater" and Mercedes' escape from the Captain provide cracker-jack thrills and are expertly staged by the director. Del Toro masterfully handles the complex special effects, elaborate make-up and set designs, creating a hauntingly beautiful mise-en-scene that gives the viewer plenty of eye-candy without being overwhelming or reeking of hollow CGI design.Unfortunately the film, saturated in Catholic overtones, becomes rather predictable once Ofelia's imaginary friend Pan reveals a sinister nature behind his tasks for the young girl. Ironically, this film will probably appeal to the same people who found great comfort in Mel Gibson's odious "Passion of the Christ." Those who believe in redemption through torture and self-sacrifice will heavily identify with the archetypes on display here. Ultimately the film presents a sadistic task-master "god" whose sole design is to trick an innocent into sacrificing themselves for the "future" and gives us a notion of "heaven" that may only exist in the mind of a wildly imaginative young girl. A film (like Roman Polanski's "The Pianist") that presents the horrors of the real world as something for a person to survive and overcome speaks truer to the human condition than a film like "Pan's Labyrinth" that cloaks the real horrors of life in fantasy and myth and celebrates martyrdom over the innate will to survive. Del Toro dresses his falsity in beautiful garb, but the morality lurking beneath is rotten to the core.
I'm not that sensitive. I watch horror flicks in numbers, but I was really disgusted by those overly naturalistic scenes like one with hammering a nose into brain with 10 fast blows of a bottle in very color and detail. Isn't this too much? Why? Was it the only way to express an explicit brutality? Of course, not - check Shindler's List to compare the sense of proportion in both.At the same time ELDF is as naive as Snowflake with all those pans, and fairies. Yes, I've got that idea of paralleling, and contrasting the two dimensions. Bravo, huh, but so charmingly naive.I do believe that real talent doesn't need employing epatage and shock, and ELDF strengthened my beliefs once again. This energy could have been saved for elaborating on depth of characters and situations rather.Good points ahead. Except for brutality scenes and the toad the imagery was brilliant. That blind creature will stay in my imagination for long. I only wish they had advanced in that surrealistic path some more... Performance was fine, within 2D framework the actors had been given.Well, yes, this is a high class movie with lots of talent and imagination invested, but at the same time with heavy lack on depth and sense of proportion. I'm really looking forward to Del Toro impressing me in more positive way next time. Best regards.
Calling this movie awful would be a compliment. This is the WORST movie I have ever had the displeasure of seeing. Why exactly is it in the top 50?! It's too bad to be so bad it's good so why? Are we getting that starved for fantasy this drivel is in the top 250? First of all, why is called Pan's Labyrinth, or the Labyrinth of the Faun. There is NO LABYRINTH. None at all! This movie was marketed as a Fantasy movie. Where Exactly is the Fantasy part? The Faun? The little Girl? Or maybe it's the part where the General bashes the guys nose in, over and over again. I was so sickened by the gratuitous violence, I had to actually forward through most of the movie. If you want a two hour War Drama this movies for you, if you want a Fantasy movie steer clear of this one and watch Labyrinth, which by the way, contains a labyrinth.
This movie was an interesting experience. The camera-work is gorgeous, the effects very nice, good acting too. I mean it. But the movie has some REALLY serious flaws too, no question about it. A movie about fantasy in a way misses its point when it makes you think of computer animations and latex puppets. The story has to be grounded in primarily in the viewers *emotions* not in the senses that reaches ear and eye. In the first Star Wars movies the effects was great at the time but it was the saga, the tale that made one keep thinking about it for weeks after leaving the cinema. That wont happen with this film even if it is quite good. Visuals cant alone create that, and it shouldn't, a audience that confuse surface with deep, lay ground to an empty shallow and scary cultural scenario.Also and more importantly...the intensity of the depicted violence can never replace the overall intensity of the movie experience. I think everybody somewhere know that that is a very very cheap trick. Still the monkey in man begin to clap hands when seeing the violence in sin city or 300, just for the sake of violence. The problem with the visual torture in this movie was that it felt so unnecessary. Sometimes violence can improve a movie, like in Shindlers list, (but if that movie had been a gore-movie like "Passion of the Christ", it would have teased our disgust more than our hearts. The jackass guys can disgust us, but they cant touch our deeper feelings because that takes intelligence and very hard artistic work.) Maybe the whole point with the gore in this film was to make people like me complain about it. Of course it will work, the day it wont, the world will be even worse than now. I know people that has been tortured in war, and don't find the idea of people watch the fiction of that as nice entertainment while eating popcorn very inspiring, or even as a good cultural sign. It should be easy to make the tale more adult without just adding violence, i mean, why not more complexity or depth instead? The movie was a good one anyway, but it could have been a true masterpiece if it had touched us even deeper with its storyline. See it yourself and get your own opinion.I rate it 6.5 of 10.


                
7-7.5 out of 10I'll begin with the films most appealing portions, namely that it was beautifully shot, a technical master piece, casting was very strong and I thought the violence was well placed, although it could've been more sever. However the plot was a tremendous let down as I failed to find much meaning in it, after the film I was able to rationalize a few themes in the movie, yet they didn't seem to fit the actual film as well as they did the plot. The themes I felt that fit the plot were a critique of martyrdom, a fatal sense of self-created existence, and an analysis of trust. First the most prominent theme, at least in my eyes, that being the critique on martyrdom; I almost thought that theme was well portrayed as we find our heroine dying to save her little brother, and only being to accept this due to an imagined world. Thus illustrating that the only situation in which martyrdom is not only acceptable but even reasonable is when one has created one's self an imaginary world into which to retreat. Next we examine another aspect of her world, not so much it's qualities as a safe haven, but rather the dangers the world brings to reality. Ofelia's world often lets her escape the brutality of her world, yet it does nothing short of sabotaging her attempts to live, putting her at odds with both her mother and captain Vidal, first incurring her mother's disappointment at having not only been late but also having ruined her beautiful new dress, and later drawing the captain's wrath at having stolen his son. This world puts her life in danger numerous times and could be expanded to be understood as an attack on self delusion, furthermore this film shows how crippling self delusion can be to those around one as we see Mercedes completely destroyed over Ofelia's self inflicted death. Finally the commentary on trust, here two Ofelia's death is the ultimate statement and we see her mistrust of an imaginary being resulting in her unfortunate demise which seems to be directly attached with the idea that trust of beings that seem more qualified can often be faulty lest those being prove themselves trust worthy. Now I won't deny that the main villain, captain Vidal, is a total bamf, and he is a great villain however this creates a false image of the Franco regime as he is the clear bad guy and the rebels are clearly good, when in reality both sides were terrible. Franco's regime was a repulsive time in history, yet Franco was able to miraculously keep Spain out of WWII a truly overwhelming accomplishment, and his adversaries were equally as radical but to the other extreme, these communists were of the same brand that Orwell fought and that took control of Russia, a set of tyrannical beasts who valued no life and based their actions only the false notion that men were equal. Now the idea of equality is nice for kids but falls terribly short of reality, but that is for another argument, in Spain the reds were terribly authoritarian and were as, if not more, sadistic than Franco's fascists. In summary, gorgeous film that was very well shot and produced, yet the theme lacked any exceptional characteristics, i.e. cool to own but not really worth rating exceptionally highly.
del Toro interweaves the mundane and the magical in this account of a girl whose mother has married and been impregnated by a Fascist army captain during the Spanish civil war. The Captain has decided that the progeny will be a son, and that the son should be with the father. Therefore the heavily pregnant mother, with the daughter in tow, is carted into an army camp in the middle of the countryside deep within guerrilla territory. This gives the backdrop to the film, not only in terms of locale, but also the character played by Sergi López, whose portrayal of a cold blooded man with an appetite for gratuitous brutality is positively chilling.In this situation, the girl, Ofelia, becomes drawn into a parallel world, totally alien to the various domestic and military issues which envelop the camp, but which nevertheless has an impact on those close to her. As events spiral seemingly out of control in both arenas, Ofelia is faced with intractable choices in which principles in one world or the other will be compromised.While the inventiveness and poetry of the mystical aspect positively transports the viewer into a magical dimension, it has to be said that the 'normal' aspect is as harsh as can be and provides an uncomfortable juxtaposition, a bit like offsetting the Chronicles of Narnia against Apocalypse Now.At its core this film is about sacrifice. It's about just how much people will endure, what they will go through, what dangers they will face, in whatever world, to stand by their principles and those they love.


                
My Spanish teacher showed this in class, and it was at least more enjoyable than school. That makes it sound like I hated it, but I didn't. There was a lot of talent from multiple people displayed here as well as some good creative vision, but it just wasn't tied together well enough. It felt like somebody made a cake with some high-quality ingredients, but then nobody blended them.The concept of having Ofelia escape the unfriendly world that she is forced into through a fantasy world is good and interesting. As a kid who was into books, I was always hoping that some fantastic adventure would save me from my own dissatisfaction with reality. It made sense that Ofelia might imagine a fantasy world, if you want to interpret it that way. While I was watching it, I assumed that the fantasy world was real and didn't consider that it might be her imagination until reading it in another person's review. I think the reason I made that assumption was because I expected the two worlds to be connected somehow, but they aren't. This is an area where I got dissatisfied with the story. It's really two separate stories happening at the same time. They don't connect to each other in any meaningful way, but instead just happen side by side. Both of them were interesting and had some good scenes, but they didn't play off of each other enough IMO.The characters were also pretty good, but dissatisfying. Captain Vidal was quickly and effectively established as an unsavory person, but his unsavory actions felt believable and consistent. I don't think he has any strong beliefs that drive him to act the way he does, but he doesn't seem to feel regret or moral compunction for them either. Mercedes and the band of rebels are touched upon infrequently, and there are some good scenes and drama that arise from their conflict with the military unit stationed nearby. Ofelia doesn't have much development, but it's easy to put yourself in her shoes as she grapples with the challenges that arise in both of the worlds she is involved in. I thought more could have been done with the Faun. He didn't quite fit with the rest of the movie in the way that he hides the truth from Ofelia.Finally, the theme of courageous disobedience was inconsistent. I agree with the idea that we should not have our convictions shaken by what punishment may come of it, but it was another thing that I didn't even think of as central to the movie until I read it in a review. I don't want to write the movie off, because there were some solid scenes in it along with good writing and production design and acting. But now looking back at it, I'm left thinking "so what?" Overall Rating: 7.1/10.
I haven't liked a single Guillermo Del Toro film that I've seen. I didn't like Mimic, Blade II, or Hellboy. That's not all he's made, but that's three strikes. I felt like that would be the last of the Guillermo Del Toro films that I'd see, until Pan's Labyrinth comes along and gets tremendous praise. I thought, well it actually looks good, and I'm sure every director, even the lesser ones, has his day, and so I decided to see it. I saw it, and I was disappointed.The movie has atmosphere, which I always like. I like how the film never leaves the Spanish cabin and the woods that surround it. And I also enjoyed the magical creatures, the good ones and the bad ones, when they were actually shown. The problem with the movie is that it's so uneven that you come in not really fully knowing what to expect and then somehow leave with the feeling that you haven't gotten what you expected.The film takes place during the Spanish Revolution, and attempts to center around one little girl's adventure into a world of fairies, gods, and heavenly creatures, the Revolution being the antagonist that may keep her from reaching the etherial life as the princess of this world. This is hardly effective because the movie is 80% Revolution and 20% fantasy. The audience is subjected to waiting through scenes, even violent and action-packed ones, instead of enjoying them. This is not because these scenes are badly done or boring, but because we didn't come to see a movie about the Spanish Revolution and the evil of the little girl's warlord father. We came to see a fantasy. The scenes of fantasy are very enjoyable, but in all, they probably add up to about a half hour. The remaining hour and a half is lost focus.Pan's Labyrinth is uneven in many other ways, too. For instance, it's a fantasy about a little girl, but it's rated R. The film is advertised like any other fantasy film, much less a fantasy film about a little girl, and there's nothing R-rated about it. So when we see that R rating, what are we to expect? Right up until the second I sat down in the theater, I had no idea what I was seeing. All I knew was that it was called Pan's Labyrinth. And it's because the movie doesn't know what it is, what it's about, or who it's about. Is it a fantasy about a little girl, or is it a drama, or is it both, or is it one overlapping another? Is it about a fantasy world, or is it about the Spanish Revolution, or is it one overlapping another? Is it about the little girl or is it about her father?Maribel Verdu's performance is terrific, as is that of Sergi Lopez, Ivana Boquero, and Ariadna Gil, and the cinematography is beautiful, capturing the atmosphere I speak of, but they hardly effect one who is watching a completely unfocused story. I think that's the end of the line for Guillermo Del Toro in my book. I gave him one more big chance after three strikes, and he still couldn't quite cut it. Benicio Del Toro is a fine actor, but his brother should maybe work for a publishing company or something.


                
This is an ambitious movie. It yokes together two completely contrasting methods of story-telling, two totally different atmospheres. One is a very violent portrayal of a local battle between the two sides of the Spanish Civil War; the other is the imaginative response of a young girl to those same horrors, as she seeks not only refuge but also some kind of explanation in fantastic tales, in which she is cast in the principal role.The trouble is that the political/historical story is also, of course, a fiction, no matter how typical or based on real events it may or may not be. In its own way it is as much a tale as the dazzling fantasy that the director puts before us. Nevertheless we are invited to look upon the historical plot somewhat differently - not least because "real"characters often remind the young girl that she spends far too much time in the realm of childish stories, and that she should grow up and see the world as it is. The means by which this real Spain is conveyed to the audience is by a violence so spectacularly nasty that, hardened movie goer though I am, I could barely look at some of it. And yet in at least one of the fantasy sequences there is a grizzly horror that is also hard to look at. So there is a blurring, either deliberate or accidental - perhaps the fantasy world can be seen as the projection of the violence the young girl senses at first but then is increasingly part of. There is certainly a blurring of distinctions between the two worlds.This blurring is emphasised by two decisions. One is the portrayal of the principal male character, the fascist captain, as a vicious sadist, as immoral a villain as the giants or wolves of traditional fairy-tales,The other decision is the portrayal of his main antagonist, a brave freedom fighter, as his moral polar opposite, and who triumphs by means of a deus ex machina that seems quite as bizarre as Glinda the Good Witch turning up. And yet this world is supposed to be a real? Maybe the writer/director is making a point about what civil war is like. Maybe it's based on a real event that actually occurred: well, real events don't necessarily make good, believable fiction. Whatever the motivation for it, in the final analysis this blurring between the two stories weakens the story of the partisans. It makes them not quite believable, and therefore, for me, robs the daring end of the film of some power.All that said, the movie is amazing to look at, is very well acted, and, providing you've got the stomach for the more vicious stuff, worth seeing. It's definitely worth supporting a film like this that aims high, even if it doesn't quite get there.
The film had enough hype behind it that I settled in to watch it. In the first ten minutes I was considering watching an Agatha Christie mystery instead. At the end of fifteen minutes it had me and I couldn't get away.Ofelia, who should know better at fourteen, has childhood fantasies about fairies and fauns and monsters and magic cures. She lives in Spain in 1944. Her mother is having a troubled pregnancy and her stepfather is a sadistic murdering brute who represents General Franco. There a lot of special effects in the first ten minutes or so. A fairy visits her and beckons her into a labyrinth, at the bottom of which is a faun who gives her three scary tasks. She completes the first one okay -- feeding stones to a giant toad. She flunks the second, but, given a last chance, she succeeds at the third, which means giving her life for the life of her infant brother. She ascends into heaven and sitteth at the right hand of her long-gone real father, and the left hand of her newly deceased mother.What turned me off were those special effects. First of all, the fairy that visits her in her bedroom, the first time, is not my idea of a fairy. The fairy starts of fluttering around the room and making an ominous crackling sound. The first time Ofelia sees it, it looks like a cross between a stick insect and a praying mantis. I don't know if the producers intended it that way but the thing made my skin crawl. Ditto for the "faun." This is the least pettable faun in your collective unconscious. A stone statue creaks into life and turns into this hideous, demonic creature with monster ram horns, a thoroughly screwed up face, long pointy fingernails, hooves and whatnot. It speaks in a slow raspy voice that sounds as if it's lying with every phoneme. If that's the best fantasy she can come up with, she needs to get into Deepak Chopra or something. Gave me the willies.At that, it may be an improvement over the real world she lives in, a story that saves the film in my estimation. All these Spanish folks are just trying to get along, see, except for Franco's soldiers, of which Ofelia's stepfather is one. He has a nasty habit of going around shooting people, including, in the end, the young girl. He does it without passion, without remorse, even when the victims turn out to be innocent. Sometimes, I guess out of boredom, he allows a doomed prisoner to try brushing away the muzzle a few times before he finally pulls the trigger. On the other side are the communist peasants who live in the hills. They're the good guys and see to it that the stepfather pays for his sins.The special effects were overdone. It's as if they'd been designed by somebody on shrooms. Many of the fantasy creatures are covered with the glutinous substance that sticks to everything, and the sound people have made it sound as if someone is stirring a pot of molasses with a wooden spoon. It would have been a better film if the effects had been turned down a little bit. They seem intended to dazzle rather than convince, but the only people who will be dazzled would be children who haven't played video games or watched crummy monster movies. The effects are even overdone during the real-life story, as when the stepfather sews up his own slashed cheek. He didn't need to do that. First, he could have called the company medic who would have done a better job. Second, we've already witnessed this scene when Arnold Schwarzenegger plucks out his own eyeball in "The Terminator." It's not shocking. It's self indulgent.But, the CGI aside, it's an innovative movie. There have been other Spanish films about kids' fantasies ("The Spirit of the Hive") but this one is livelier and truly gripping. A person who has just been shot isn't yanked backwards like a marionette, the cliché treatment. He may hardly notice it at first, pause to remove his glasses, before slumping. The director will sometimes cut while a foreground object, such as a tree trunk, interrupts the flow of the images. And more than once there are other people witnessing a scene but they are hidden from us until someone waves aside the obscuring object, which may be an open umbrella. The shocks are effective and more subtle than anything in the fantasies. The movie really does resemble "The Wizard of Oz" played as tragedy. We even get a pair of Ofelia's red shoes. The ending, of course, is a cop out unless you can believe, as some do, that fantasy life continues after we expire. And the good peasants didn't win, as they seem to in the movie. Instead, Franco lived on to a ripe old age and the baton was passed to his son. The film will break your heart, but it's a nice fantasy.
My impression has been that this film is being marketed as some girl's fanciful creation of a fantasy world into which she retreats during a time of upheaval. Technically, that's probably true. But not the way Americans might expect it to be.If you expect to be drawn into Willie Wonka's chocolate factory for 90 minutes, you will be very disappointed. I would hazard that perhaps only about 30 minutes is spent in any sort of alternate reality. And that reality, while generally visually appealing, is actually much darker than Wonka's, for the most part.Don't get me wrong. I enjoyed this film considerably. But it's not "Chronicles of Narnia." There are rather graphic acts of violence, and the escape the girl finds in her alternate reality isn't exactly as rosy as you might expect. Every time you think maybe you should turn away from the screen in anticipation of what is about to happen, turn away, because that's exactly what is about to happen.The positive notes are not as readily digestible as they generally are in American movies. You have to be willing to accept that you have to work a little to find them.Finally, I would recommend this movie, but don't go if you're expecting something light or fanciful.Take care.


                
It turns out that the lascivious Greek half-goat deity plays only a minor role in this movie. The name, posters and trailers all underlined its fantasy part, but you'll mostly be disappointed if you expect something like the Lord of the rings trilogy. In fact, even with all these fantasy elements ripped off, it would still be a meaningful war drama.I'm not quite with the hype on this movie. I think an objective rating should be somewhere between 7 and 7.5, but definitely not the current 8.5 on IMDb. The good part is the vivid contrast between the cruel adult world and the fairy land which only exists for the innocent. The even better part is the ambiguous interpretations from various hints and charades masterfully intertwined together by the director. However the shortcoming comes directly from these same merits: the excessive violence and dark humanity make the fairy-tale elements seems superfluous for an adult watcher, while the allegorical cinematography is obviously too hard for the younger audience. There is some heavy debate going on about whether the fantasy world was real or the poor little girl just imagined it up. Real-fantasy supporters backed their theory up with otherwise-hard-to-explain details such as the restorative effect of the magical root, the escape of Ofelia from the guarded room to reach her brother, the oracular nature of the magic book, and the blossom as well as the narrator's lines at the final scene. On the other hand, day-dreaming theorists dismissed above claims as insubstantial, because if one can make up stuffs as large as a satyr's labyrinth, how difficult it could be to invent all these puny details?Such indeterminate nature leads me to think about another alternative. Namely, What if the fantasy is real, and the "real world" stuff is all from Ofelia's imagination? It's possible to put the whole story in a theory that Ofelia is indeed living in the fairy under-land, she imagined the life of mortals because she craved for it. The sole purpose she made up this detailed reality-tale is to impress herself. Well, I don't really meant to confuse things up, my point is that it is really hard to tell what is real or not from what you've been shown. Let me quote a reader's opinion on this issue: "We can debate this until the fairies fly home, but in the end one of the beauties of this film is its ambiguity. Guillermo has his own ideas about the reality/fantasy thing, but he has left the film open to interpretation. His own personal view is that it was real ... but he lets you all make up your own minds."Some final comments: Ivana Baquero is a true nymphet. With all the slenderness and feline beauty only found in girls just before adolescence, she is the crowned successor of the princesshood left vacant for more than a decade since Natalie Portman's unforgettable portrayal of Mathilda in Leon.


                
I saw this movie last week with my girlfriend. We are in the mid 20s age bracket and both enjoy thrillers, although I would classify this as more of a film-noireAfter that preface, let me say that I went into this movie with high expectations, having seen the hefty 8.5 score that it was given on this site. Well, the score was perhaps ballooned by the few scenes that are quite dramatic and vivid with the emotions that are going on and the violence. I didn't have any major qualms with the movie, although I surely would have liked to see the background developed more on the whole idea of just what the "underworld" is comprised of and what the heck the thing in the buffet room was all about.The gripes I DO have with the movie include Mercedes towards the end running into the woods after stabbing the captain SEVERAL times with the knife. She runs for maybe 15 seconds, the guards see her, jump on horses and follow her into the woods, yet she seemingly makes it hundreds of yards into the woods- far enough to be saved by the group of rebels that just happen to spring out when she's about to get captured after being surrounded by the guards.Secondly, the captain himself. After taking a severe stabbing, he is able to meander about the complex, stitch himself up and is seemingly in good health until poisoned by Ofelia. Lastly, I HATED the ending, far too predictable, if you didn't see that coming you should remember the whole "blood of the innocent" line that the faun tells Ofelia. Definitely not a bad movie, but it could have been so much better if the backgrounds were developed, and the last 2 tasks were a bit more encompassing. The whole ordeal with the "baby-eater monster" in the buffet hall was cool cinematically, but very poor telling the viewing just what the heck the monster's deal is. 7/10, a solid movie, worth seeing, but somewhat overrated. No super-strong acting performances, all the leads were solid, but no one was knock em dead outstanding.
Certainly in the tradition of del Toro's "The Devil's Backbone", but the fantasy elements are not as well integrated into the film's neo-realist drama. A beautiful young girl, Ofelia, superbly played by Ivana Baquero, is forced to live in a fascist compound in Northern Spain by her sick mother's new husband, Captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez), a sadistic egomaniac. After Ofelia releases a fairy from a statue, the fairy leads her to a stone labyrinth where she meets a creature who sends her on a short quest. As this story plays out, Captain Vidal's war with a bunch of freedom fighters is depicted. del Toro, who scripted, has plenty to say here, but his pacing is a little too languorous and his characters, with the exception of Ofelia and Maribel Verdu's Mercedes, are difficult to relate to. Gripes aside, this is still a worthy fantasy with elements of Clive Barker's "Nightbreed", "Hellraiser", and Jim Henson's "The Storyteller". The resolution, in which the fantasy elements and the bloody reality meet, fails to reconcile these polar opposites and the result is incongruity. The technical wizardry on display is impressive and the violence is extremely graphic at times. The cinematography, by del Toro regular Guillermo Navarro is stunning. An admirable achievement, but not without serious flaws.
I caught Guillermo del Toro's fairytale adventure last night and came away a little disappointed.Everything about the film oozed quality; great editing, solid acting all around, beautiful set and creature design, good sound and score. Just about all the ingredients necessary for a deliciously mature fairytale adventure.The mature tone and construction of the film were in stark contrast to the otherwise childish and one dimension story. Pan's Labyrinth is marketed as a "fairytale for adults" and while the production design, graphic violence and feel of the film are presented with an older audience in mind, the plot just does not deliver. It was a beautifully constructed film, but I doubt I will be able to recommend for anything other than its sensory appeal.


                
Violent and touching, mysterious and somber all at the same; Pan's Labyrinth is a mystical historical fairytale set in the heart of the Spanish civil war. The story follows a bright precocious girl and her mother who go to live with her new father, a brutal, unrelenting captain intent on conquering the republicans who are threatening the fascist front.The film is beautiful to watch. Crisply filmed and recorded, you can hear the ruffle of the army uniforms, the ambiance of the forest life and the creak of seasoned wood furniture. The Spanish woodlands and country and picturesque and really take you back to classic 1930s Spain.At times it is very violent and merciless demonstrating the regimes that people were under during this period in Spain's history. In fact the camera never shies away from these shocking scenes. The characters are very aware of what is happening around them and many of them become caught in a stalemate. Some try to struggle against the oppression - you can feel their burdens and distress - and win back their freedom The weathered art direction and evocative makeup is sensual and nostalgic. The colours are very dark browns, greens and blues which suit the macabre content and atmosphere of the film, but this also contrasts well with the labyrinth that Ofelia escapes into.The film is very ominous at times and more balanced towards telling the story of the war rather than this young girl. I felt the film was a bit lopsided towards the violence and politics and not wondrous enough in the element of fantasy. I would have liked to know more about Ofelia, and delve deeper into her fantasies. Ofelia is played with such charm, inquisitiveness, with intelligence and beauty that it she becomes irresistible to love. I was disappointed that her storyline was not made exploited more in the film as Ofelia's interpretation of the world around her would have made some for thrilling scenes.In addition, we do not see much of her fantasies and they do not push the film's plot greatly in any way. The film's editing was also a but choppy at times and there were some moments that seemed to lack energy or a spark, and I found myself hoping the plot would move along.In any case, this is fine film, held up by the wonderful set decoration, make-up and vivid recreation of evergreen civil war Spain. The score sustains the film's horror and hope, ravishingly composed by Javier Navarrete. Thanks to the likes of del Toro and Iñárritu, Mexican cinema has been deservedly celebrated with a rich narrative and fantastical cultural elements. These are stunning filmmakers. Don't miss your chance to see this one.P.S: This film has been nominated for an amazing 6 academy awards without being recognised in the major categories and as a foreign film. This is fantastic cinematic craft.


                
(There are really no spoilers below; I mention only what reviewers have already commented on.)Pan's Labyrinth" combines del Toro's two fascinations: fantasy a la "Hell Boy" and fascism a la 'The Devil's Backbone." He combines these two in such a way that they do not at all seem to be opposites. There is no chance for the ten year old girl, Ofelia, to escape into a fantasy world of fairies and magic to avoid the harshness of life with her stepfather, a fascist Captain, and her suffering, pregnant mother, not when the world of fantasy she finds in an ancient labyrinth near where she is staying is just as dark and fearsome for her. Thus we are only momentarily distracted from the horrors of the fascist world by the horrors of the fantasy world she finds. (Even Pan, the faun who makes Mr. Tumnus of "Narnia" fame look (as one reviewer said), like Woody Allen, is a scary figure, enormous, with horns that would unbalance any other decent antlered creature in a second and eyes that desperately need re-aligning by plastic surgery. And 'seeing' seems to be one of the themes here, for there is also the monster Ofelia encounters who is able to see only with the eyeballs in his hands--a new take on the ogre, as the paintings around him suggest. Yet what is the meaning to this theme of seeing?It's not that Ofelia needs to see or understand anything in particular. She is instinctively able to tell that her stepfather is a monster and that the housekeeper, Mercedes, is someone she can trust. Half the time, the viewer wonders if the things that Pan tells her to do are really just things that her instincts tell her to do, given full shape and voice. (Except for the business of the mandrake root. No child could come up with that idea. It's worth the price of admission to this film to see the mandrake sequences that leave you wondering what kind of odd, chthonic belief system it came out of.)What the 'seeing' image seems to relate to is our vision: of what fascism is really like. If all you know of it has been gained by studies of the Holocaust and images of Hitler shouting at massive crowds at Nurenberg, it is enlightening to see personal fascism, the kind where someone believes so strongly in a master race or simply a definite class system that he is willing to kill anyone he doesn't like, shows no pity, never sees his own flaws or mistakes, and is so brutal that he actually is scarier than the ogre with the eyeballs in his hands. Even scenes where he's shaving with an old, straight razor keep you on edge; you keep wondering if he'll slash out at someone, even though he's alone in such scenes, and I kept hoping his hand would slip and make him draw his own blood.Against such a back drop, Ofelia's tasks (hat she must accomplish before going back to a kingdom in the earth where she really is a princess) are just part of a cruel landscape. She is a plucky little heroine, like Alice, if one could imagine Alice returning from the rabbit hole frequently, only to meet monsters instead of a pretty British meadow and her nanny.I don't know if I can recommend this movie. At least twice, I had my eyes screwed tight and fingers in my ears and was doing a mental 'la la la' in attempts to not hear what was going on on the screen. The rest of the time I was clutching John's hand and he was clutching back. If you don't mind scenes of torture, or if you can simply refer to this as a horror film and forget the fantasy label, you might be able to see it and enjoy it the way you might 'enjoy' "Saw" or some other such horrific, bloody entertainment.


                
As a general rule I tend to steer clear of foreign language films, but critical acclaim of this movie tempted me into the theatre. I've got to say that I'm delighted about this because this is a delightful film.The film is set in the Spannish civil war as the fascist regime, brutally put down the resistance. The film is full of contradictions. At times it is brutal and shows sadistic graphic violence in a similar fashion to Schindlers List. At other times it is a fairy tale and similar to Edward Scissorhands. This comes together in a beautiful mix to make a mesmerising film and isn't it a shame that Hollywood can't make a few films like this rather than the latest instalment of a dated movie franchise.Don't let the subtitles put you off from seeing this film.


                
I don't really like scary films unless it is justified. Definitely not a kids film,but i bet some poor sap will think it is an get it on DVD for their kids (or download it ;)). When all said and done i liked it. Anything original is good,and the special affects were good and not over done for the sake of it. Sad and Happy ending. Probably means more to Spanish people like a film with Nazis in it mean more to??? well the rest of the world! No real message,just a good old goodie and bady movie(the baddest bady of all time,the step dad),with an ambiguous bady(the faun). Oh yeah there is a message. Don't let anyone stick a knife in your baby brother. You might not go to heaven.


                
