Few would dispute that 'Pan's Labyrinth' is one of the best foreign language films of the 2000s, but I would go one step further and argue that it's also one of the best modern day fantasy/adventure films in general. There aren't many films that manage to blur the lines between fantasy and reality as effectively as 'Pan's Labyrinth'. The effortless transition between the real world and the underworld and the way the two worlds are interlinked really is something special and I've never seen it done as well before.The combination of a convincing and easy to buy into storyline and the magical fantasy underworld works perfectly. The fact that both parts of the story could easily stand alone without the other, and yet go together seamlessly, is an indicator of just how good it is. The horror elements also bring something completely different and unexpected to the film, though they are tastefully added and never overdone. Overall, a wonderful film and one of the best fantasy/adventures of the 00s.


                
Guillermo Del Toro shows an incredible amount of passion for his job. In interviews, in festivals, it is undeniable that this man adores making films, from one end of the creative process to another, and has tremendous energy and honesty for the activity. Nevertheless, there is something that doesn't function in his films, and as heartbreaking as it is to see someone with ideas and talent fail, this film isn't an exception and has a few weak points as well as his other ones. For some reasons explained further, it isn't even a "true" fantasy film. I have to stress upon how wonderful and magnificent the imagery - not just of this film but of all his films - is. Man-like creatures, caves, labyrinths, statues, puzzles, everything that contributed over the years to make Del Toro's imagery makes him a very powerful visual director, which times like these are in desperate lack of. The visions he projects onto the screen make him no less than a visionary. The thing that fails to give his film(s) the grandeur they need, though, seems to be always the same element: character depth / psychological analysis of his characters / the way the characters and their personalities blend into the rest of the film. Maybe we can attribute it to Del Toro having more patience to polish the sequences with special effects than the ones with actors, but in particular in this film, the characters seem to have no depth at all, they are grounded to feel one emotion at a time. Ofelia in the film is shown owning and reading books, but her relation to these books, what they mean to her, what they bring her, this relation is never shown or explained, we have to go by a stereotype and "assume" for ourselves that she has a wild imagination. The mother of Ofelia is also a faulty character of the story, we the audience have to fill a gap, and imagine for ourselves why shy would be attracted by Vidal, what brings her to be forced to stay with a monster like Vidal as opposed to remaining a single mother, etc... Vidal himself is very quickly presented: we know his lineage was military and that his father let him have his watch... not much of an emotional background for a man who tortures and kills with no hesitation! We know nothing of Vidal as a child, we only have this one-dimension, Manichean character. The list goes on, and none of the characters - Mercedes and Pablo, the doctor, etc, are presented or explained to the viewer. The same could be said about the elements of the illusory world. Usually, though, fantasy/horror films don't need any explanations (see Edward Scissorhands, Alien, Legend...), but this one would need to have some, and this is probably due to the state of psychological confusion of the characters (or, should I say, their irrationality). Ofelia, throughout the film, seems to live in constant fear of the tyrant Vidal, yet finds enough time and solace to go on imaginary journeys at night, and light-heartedly do anything the faun asks her, without even questioning or wondering where it will lead her. Mercedes, when given the opportunity to gut Vidal and be finished with him, leaves him alive half-way. And the doctor itself, whose side on the events is never clear, never poisons Vidal or puts himself in the way when given opportunities. Is Guillermo Del Toro cold? We might wonder. He has absolutely no scruples when he tries to shock the audience with violence towards nice characters, with monsters, with blood. Yet when his overall goal is to make a fantasy film, he remains a little bit too polite and shy to really break into the genre. To me, a "real" fantasy film would have had the imaginary break in the "reality". Yet Vidal doesn't see the faun, the faun doesn't save anyone or scares Vidal. Reality remains reality and fantasy remains inside the heads. The imaginary world in itself seemed a bit poor because of that, because of the film not really being a fantasy film, keeping the fantasy inside the head of its protagonist and reducing the spectrum of illusions (which are never directly opposed to the "realist" world). Overall, the film shows great academicism, not just by politely keeping the imaginary and the reality separated, but also by the decisions of the film-makers (the editing is gentle when it should be a bit punchier, the camera moves are scarce, the music is incredibly lame and boring, the camera angles are overall inexistent, etc).I have no idea whether Del Toro will or will not provide better character depth and psychological progression in his next films, but it flaws the films he has made so far. Yes, there is a beautiful message, we've heard it before, of how monsters can be monsters on the inside and humans on the outside, while some monsters look like monsters and aren't all that bad after all. But until the characters and the story have a real depth and meaning to the audience, none of all the fantasy, violence or special effects will mean anything. The blunt reality as it is shown here, carries so much depression in it that the message of poetic escapism doesn't function in the end. The task is difficult to propel kids in wartime eras, it is even more difficult when fantasy takes part in it. Del Toro's next films will, hopefully, dig deeper into its characters.
Set in the not so tranquil Spanish woodlands of aftermath Spanish Civil War , where a small band of anti-fascism rebels are hiding out. Ofelia's love of fairy tales is obvious from the beginning of The Pan's labyrinth . When a widow marries an authoritarian Francoist captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez), her daughter goes to a countryside mansion . This is where Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her pregnant mother (Ariadna Gil) have come to live, in the company of the violent , brutal Capitán , Ofelia's new stepfather and soon to be father of her half-brother. The captain and his troops must fight Republican guerrillas of the hills and woods, that Ofelia finds her release and distraction of the new world order and its warring factions and delves into the older, mysterious and enchanting world of fairies , faun's and giant frogs . Ofelia becomes friend of the servant Mercedes (magnificent Maribel Verdu), who is the sister of one of the rebels and actually is giving support to the bunch . Ofelia takes refuge in a labyrinth , she finds in the grounds of his home, and in reveries involving Pan (Doug Jones, it took five hours to get into The Pale Man costume , once he was in it, he had to look out the nose holes to see where he was going) , who set three tasks she must overcome to take place as princess of a magical kingdom and in order to obtain immortality according to the legend . Meantime , resistance fighters plot their strategies in the nearest forest battling fascist troops .This is a gorgeous , charming , graphic and deadly fairy tale . An exceptional picture for its inventive visuals , imagination and fantasy ; inspired partly by Goya's ¨Black Paintings¨ , including fantastic sequences parallel the reality . Sensational acting by Sergi Lopez as a cruel , unforgiving and totalitarian idealist Capitán Vidal . Versatile Sergi steals the spectacle as the monstrously sadistic officer bringing real menace to what might have been an absurd caricature . Wonderful and imaginative visual effects by DDT and magnificent special effects by Reyes Abades . The faun's legs were not computer-generated , Guillermo del Toro created a special system in which the actor's legs puppeteer the faun's fake ones , the actor's legs were later digitally removed . Impressive production design by Eugenio Caballero and rousing set design by Pilar Revuelta . The ruined town seen during the opening sequence of the film is the old town of Belchite Zaragoza, in Aragón, which was also used by Terry Gilliam for ¨Adventures barón Munchausen¨, the town was destroyed during the Spanish Civil War and never rebuilt. Sensitive as well as imaginative musical score by Javier Navarrete . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Guillermo Navarro , Del Toro's usual .The motion picture was splendidly directed by Guillermo del Toro who even gave up his entire salary , including back-end points, to see this film become realized . In 2007, this film became one of the few fantasy films ever nominated in the Best Foreign Language Film category at the Oscars . The film was hailed by critics and audiences alike, and del Toro decided to give Hollywood another try . Its fantastic assurance confirms Del Toro as one of contemporary cinema's most rewarding purveyors of fantasy such as demonstrated in his first big break ¨Cronos¨, and followed by ¨Hellboy¨, ¨Blade II¨ , ¨Mimic¨ ,¨The devil's backbone¨ and many others .


                
PAN'S LABYRINTH is a strange hybrid film. For long stretches we are in Spain during World War II. And when that violent world becomes too stressful, we accompany Ofelia, a 12-year-old girl, into a fairy tale land. The fantasy lasts for one scene, and we find ourselves back to Spain again.The real monster in this film, is human: Ofelia's stepfather, General Vidal. He demands complete obedience from everyone under his command. It is this unwavering, unilateral stance which filmmaker Del Toro attacks at every chance. Del Toro believes imagination nurtures one's spiritual being. If we do not develop imagination, and think for ourselves, we become mindless. And only the mindless follow all orders, no matter how inhumane, without thought.The World War II Spain segments are a bit too polished to feel legitimately 'in period.' The uniforms look brand new; there's no wear to them. The lack of depth to these violence-prone characters reminded me of Sergio Leone's "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly." Each person is either good, or bad, or good pretending to be bad. And to make things interesting: everyone has an individual quirk.The fantasy sections, while very enchanting, and inventive, are nearly free of any real tension. The Pale Man segment is creepy, but - for me - General Vidal politely making a request is ten times scarier.The make-up, animatronics, and CGI work in this film are amazing. There's a palpable reality to these creatures. Details like Pan's twitching ears made it easier for me to believe in the fantasy than in the 'historical period' scenes. The life-like flight movements of the fairies are captivating enough to make FX modeler Ray Harryhausen jealous.Nice movie. But, realize that PAN'S LABYRINTH is about finding the strength and courage to rally against inflexible authority. It's about this little girl, Ofelia, coping with a rough life in 1944 Spain. The fantasy elements serve as sorbet between courses of a larger meal. It cleanses your pallet and keeps you optimistic even during the darkest of times. Imagination becomes salvation.
This is a really good movie. The acting is good and the story is really good...the special effects are amazing and it's just really well done...There is some violence, but nothing extreme. I don't want to give away the story because it's good and original and I don't want to ruin the movie for anyone, but I will say that it is in Spanish and when I saw it there were English subtitles, in case anyone was wondering. Also, this film is good because it has not only lots of special effects and a fantasy feel, but because it shows the reality of what happened in Spain before...Very well combined... I would really recommend going to see this movie when it comes out in theaters!!


                
If there is one thing I can guarantee with this review it's that you will not see another movie like Pan's Labyrinth the rest of the year. In English or in Spanish.With its dark imagines, brutal violence and terrifying fantasy creatures, I challenge you to find a film on par with Guillermo del Toro's vision of a young girl in Spain circa 1944 who endures the growing pains of a new family while imagining a world where creatures that would give Stephen King nightmares surround her and coax her into various tasks of passage.Pan's Labyrinth is a movie almost too complex to explain. There are two tributaries of plot. One involves the real world where Ofelia (Ivana Baquero) and her pregnant mother travel to their new home amidst the violence of the Post-war Fascist repression. While adapting to new father whose penchant for sadism is wiggle-in-your-theatre-seat cruel, young Ofelia takes comfort in her mother's arms. But when her mother has complications with her pregnancy, Ofelia quickly finds retreat with the unusual characters including nymphs and fairies that lead her on three tasks that suggest the offer of reclaiming a throne.The second story surrounds this journey into fantasy and I have yet to find the words two hours after the screening to describe the various characters that include a huge toad with a secret key hidden inside its belly and a creature that eats young children and has eyes on the palm of its hands.Creepy stuff. Think Big Fish is written by Clive Barker.Writer and director Guillermo del Toro (The Devil's Backbone, Hellboy) spins a whimsical story that is as engrossing as it is repulsive. The war scenes are brutally realistic with bullets not being spared for the long suffering, and a torture scene that includes utensils marked for your father's toolbox gave me the heebie jeebies a la Hostel. Guillermo is able to walk a thin line with confidence and with this entry, he secures his spot as one of the most interesting directors working in the mainstream today.Pan's Labyrinth received a 22 minute ovation when appearing at the Cannes Film Festival in 2006. I can't in good conscious share the same enthusiasm. But on the other hand I can't deny that this was an incredible spectacle that definitely deserves multiple viewings to fully appreciate the beauty amongst the violence and the creativity of the storytelling among the dark corners where creatures lurk and adventures await.www.robertsreviews.com
Guillermo Del Toro is Mexican. I clarify this because I know it, and I assured the fact to a friend who watched "El laberinto del fauno" with me; but when the movie began with a Spanish accent, I doubted. And it's because Del Toro is obsessed with the Spanish Civil War, and we the adventures of little children in the midst of this important historical event (watch "El espinazo del Diablo"); but all of this comes from his obsession with fairy tales, those that are only for children.But look at what he does: he invents the most infantile story of all, in a film that's everything except infantile. This is a double-edged sword; in fact, Del Toro is a double-edged sword himself. His obsessions come from when he was little, when he imagined creatures and monsters as part of his daily reality. He also has a photographic memory; these are all things that can as positive as they can be negative, and it is evidenced in his way of making cinema.The man knows a lot about cinema: he has experimented with cameras since his teenage years; he studied make-up<U+0085>This plays against him too, mostly in "El laberinto del fauno", which is one of the most technically perfect movies I've seen in my whole life. The impressive sound edition becomes present from the first minute; the images are exaggeratedly beautiful; the music is perfect, but only because it is directly connected to the plot.All the particularities that can be found in this film's characters come straight from Del Toro; who wrote the screenplay of his fable himself. It is an enchanting script that commences with the telling of a simple fairy tale, revealing a main fact of the story immediately. We should remember something so fundamental, but this immersing quality of the script makes us forget. And it's not a complex screenplay, because it has its predictable points; but as we get lost in a world where reality and fantasy become one, we stop caring.Reality can be so strong that sometimes we choose to escape. The images of this film are very strong, therefore the main character, Ivana, finds a magical world that keeps her constantly away from what's happening around her. And the point is not to ask ourselves if this 'magical world' is real, trying to analyze every moment to put them together and see if they fit. That's unimportant, because in this story there's nothing to resolve<U+0085>But there's a lot to understand.And I think that to really understand "El laberinto del fauno", you hace to understand its director. Del Toro's ability to bring incredible creations (from the same 'faun' to a monster with eyes in its hands) to us reflects the power of his imagination; maybe his only neutral quality. I think I'll never completely understand Del Toro, but I assume that his imagination is what makes him attractive to the people who work with him; and consequently makes them follow him anywhere.In this aspect, "El laberinto del fauno" stands close to "Letters From Iwo Jima"; because just like Clint Eastwood in that film, Del Toro is an example of how crucial and predominant is the influence of the director in a cinematographic piece. "El laberinto<U+0085>" is excessively long, but nobody cared; the actors become insignificant, as if the characters had taken over them (and not the other way round as it should be)<U+0085>Everything seems to be part of a bigger unit: Guillermo Del Toro's vision.


                
It's been over 24 hours since I saw Pan's Labyrinth at the local Googleplex. I'm still not sure if I liked it or not. I'm giving it a good grade (8 out of 10) because it is wonderfully shot, and has great art direction, cinematography, and set design. It's also very well acted and directed, and it's not pretentious or overbearing or simplistic or goofy.I guess it just didn't connect with me, like it's apparently connected with thousands and thousands of true fans. I'll try to describe the reasons why in a couple of paragraphs, but I doubt they'll be able to capture my antipathy properly.First, this isn't really an "adult fantasy film" as some have ascribed. It really is about kids, namely a girl who's stuck in a horrible position (forced to live with the cruel captain who married her mother). The film shows how kids in terrible situations can often mentally retreat into various fantasies, in this case a realm of fauns and fairies. So why did they give it an "R" rating and market it to adults? They should have cut down the violence a bit (it's not gratuitous, the extra notch of "R" rated violence doesn't markedly propel the plot) and gone for a PG-13 rating. This way, it would have been actually directed at kids (albeit older ones).As a reference point, consider what Stephen Spielberg did with his classic "Empire of the Sun." That, too, is a story about a kid caught in terrible circumstances (namely imprisonment in Japanese-held China during WWII). That was a PG-13 film, and shot through the eyes of the child, instead of through the eyes of the adults around the child. Something about "Pan's Labyrinth" doesn't ring true because of this. We're seeing a young girl's fantasies, but we are constantly torn back to an adult viewpoint. As a result, we never see this young girl grow and understand (and the evolution of a character is a prime force in cinema). If the director had kept us looking through her eyes, our sympathy for the character would be larger.I think that last paragraph was quite convoluted, so I'll try to re-phrase the main problem of this film. "Pan's Labyrinth" does not maintain the cohesive point of view throughout the film. Is this film about a bad world shown through the eyes of a child, or is it a film about the fantasies of a child shown through the lens of the real world? It's this lack of viewpoint cohesion that leaves me cold.8 out of 10.


                
Don't get muddled up. This is not a movie in which a cute American girl dances with she-man David Bowie and makes pals with huge cuddly toys. No, this is one of those eviler fairy tales with baby-eating monsters and bloody carnage. The kind of stuff that Hellboy director Guillermo Del Toro is best at.Ofelia and her mother move from the city to a large mansion in a rural area of 1944 Spain. Mother has remarried, since the death of her dad, to the cruel and wicked Captain Vidal. A man who only wants her for her womb and unborn child, with no interest in Ofelia at all. Vidal and his men use the mansion as a base to fight against the Republican rebels.Not the best of environments for an 11-year-old to be in, Ofelia stumbles upon the Labyrinth of Fauno (Pan, the Goat God, has nothing to do with this film, so I don't understand the English title) in the expansive mansion garden. Deep inside she finds Fauno, a sort of...well he's a mix of a lot of things. Imagine Darkness from Legend crossed with Mr. Tumnus, The Predator and Davy Jones. Fauno tells her that she is really the Princess of some Magical Kingdom. Her father, the King has been searching for her and has opened many portals to Earth. Fauno believes she is the one and tests her by ordering the completion of 3 bizarre tasks.The real world around Ofelia crumbles as Captain Vidal goes psycho, brutally murdering and torturing almost anyone he can. The rebels close in and her mother becomes very sick. Preferring Fauno's ghoulish tasks to witness murder on a daily basis, Ofelia becomes increasingly involved in her enigmatic Labyrinth world.In this respect it is very much like Catherine Storr's novel Marianne Dreams (and then the movie Paperhouse by Bernard Rose). Even Javier Navarrete's wonderful score sometimes reminded me of Hans Zimmer's score for Paperhouse. Definitely a CD I will have to get when it comes out! Despite the adult rating I would still take kids to see this. And by that I mean intelligent kids who are not addicted to Playstation and who don't mind subtitles. With so many crappy kids movies featuring talking animals a horror/drama shot from the point of view of an 11-year-old girl may just be the perfect cure.


                
Many films portray characters' fight against war and violence. Characters use different ways to stand up against the terror and hopelessness that violence brings. For example, Guido battles the Nazi terror with his humour in "Life is Beautiful." Wladyslaw Szpilman fights the same regime with his determination to survive in "The Pianist." In "El Laberinto del Fauno," Ofelia's weapon is innocence. She is so determined not to shed innocent blood for her own gain. She maintains her purity when she is put to the final test late in the film.The film is appropriately dark and violent (hence not for everyone). It depicts the violence, cruelty, and hopelessness of the human world. The underworld is always dark but it is where Ofelia finds her true identity and personality. Her journey, however, is not smooth. If Ofelia passes all three tasks without obstacle, this film becomes mundane. Her failure in the second task highlight that our lives are prone to temptation and doubts. Steps of faith are not always easy to take.Del Toro's ability to closely and smoothly weave the fantasy and reality world impress me. We tend to think that the two worlds are far apart and drastically different. "El Laberinto del Fauno", however, depicts violence both in the human and fantasy realms. In the human world, Captain Vidal and his Fascist troops try to weed out the rebels. In the fantasy world, monsters like toads and ogres wreak havoc to trees and children.Ofelia maintains her integrity and innocence till the end. However, I wonder what source of hope can other people find. Ofelia has a predestined identity that other people do not. Pedro, Mercedes, and others must find ways to secure peace and hope. Unfortunately, Del Toro does not discuss how their conquests unfold. Ofelia's journey is so private and unique that others cannot share. Such is the reason for the 8/10.The score draws me in. It gives me a sense of mystery that I am ready to journey with Ofelia, looking for the peace and hope that we long for. I listen to the entire soundtrack in the official site and it is amazing.


                
Pan's Labyrinth is a Mexican film in Spanish with English subtitles. The film is set in the 1940's in Spain and is about a young girl named Ofelia who comes with her mother to live with her evil stepfather who is an army general during the end of World War 2. To escape the sadness and evil around her, Ofelia discovers a labyrinth in the back of the house and meets a creature who resembles a faun who tells her that she is a princess and must complete several tasks to come back to her kingdom. Ofelia does these tasks and is taken away into strange new worlds and are introduced to several unique creatures. In the real world Ofelia's mother is pregnant and with her evil and overbearing stepfather things are getting a lot worse and seeing as the film is set in the mid 40's during a fascist Spain there is a lot of violence and evil going on around her and sometimes in order to escape that Ofelia will have to go back inside the imaginary world to complete her tasks in order to be somewhere safer even though danger lurks in the fantasy worlds as well. Winner of over 22 awards so far, Pan's Labyrinth has good direction, a good script, good performances by the entire cast, good original music, good cinematography, good film editing, good production design and good makeup. Before I state what I liked about the film I would like to get the fact that although this is a fantasy film and looks like it would be great for children that it is probably not suitable for them receiving an R rating in the states for graphic violence and language, so parents please be advised. Getting that out of the way I must say that I really enjoyed this film. When Ofelia is in the fantasy worlds they are full of beauty and are gorgeous looking and at the same time they are often wonderfully grotesque and weird, so the look and effects of this film are fantastic. The imagination behind writer/director Guillermo del Toro is amazing and he has created a wonderful blend of fantasy and real life horror that balances out well and plays perfectly. When in the real world everything is dark, dreary and depressing looking, but while in the fantasy land everything is usually bright and more cheerful. This film plays out like a perfect fairy tale with dark elements, a hero, a villain and lots of weird stuff in between to keep us amazed and to capture our interest. The film is very dark, but anyone who has read fairy tales will be able to tell you that most of them are and it suit's the film and it's style very well. This is a gorgeous looking, creative, interesting and very well done film that is one of the best films of the year and I'm glad there is finally a fantasy film out there for adults to enjoy. I really enjoy fantasy films, but the majority of the recent stuff out there like Lord Of The Rings or Harry Potter isn't really my style, so I'm happy to say that this film certainly filled the bill and I was very impressed by the end of it. For those who are into fantasy and don't mind that the film is dark then you are in for a great story and a wonderful world of surprise that the filmmaker captures for you. I hope this film continues to do well and I hope the fact that it is subtitled does not hold people back from seeing it because it really is an amazing film and meant to be seen.


                
There is no one more creative than a child in the dark. As children, almost all of us were overcome by the most macabre leaps of the imagination once our parents had left us alone in our beds, vulnerable and scared. Suddenly every sound was a death threat, every shifting beam from the street transformed into the glare of a burglar's flashlight. Logic was swiftly made malleable; the most bizarre events could be thrown together by youthful paranoia to explain the circumstances by which a mummy could be lurking in the closet, a decaying skeleton under the bed. It was all terrifying, and for a child whose mind was still unadulterated by reason, it was all very real. Guillermo del Toro's new film "Pan's Labyrinth" is one of the best movies to come along in a while for many reasons, but it is most unique in the way it has perfectly captured the terrors of childhood, both real and imaginary. "Pan", like del Toro's previous gem "The Devil's Backbone", takes place against the backdrop of 1930's Spain during the country's civil war between Fascists and Soviets that had torn it apart, The main storyline revolves around Ofelia, played by a luminescent Ivana Baquero, a young girl who has retreated into novels and fairy tales to escape the harsh realities of her life. Her mother, a widow, is heavily pregnant with the child of Capitán Vidal, the deliciously malignant Sergi López, a fascist officer stationed at a dilapidated mill deep in the Soviet occupied Spanish forests. At Vidal's insistence Ofelia and her mother move there, a difficult journey and a heavy blow to the health of the weakened pregnant woman. Ofelia soon finds that she is anything but alone at the mill. Woken in the night by a noisy but amiable praying mantis, she follows the bug to a nearby labyrinth. At the maze's center she meets a faun, who soon sets her off on a series of tasks in order to escape the nightmares of her life. The quest she begins soon after is populated by creatures so freakish, so bizarre and yet simultaneously so familiar that only the mind of a child could have created them. The faun is a duplicitous, creaking old goat whose every movement is echoed by the sound of a branch breaking in the dark or the creak of a door in the night. A monstrous toad living in the bottom of an old oak encapsulates everything that is so paradoxically intriguing and repulsive about amphibians to little boys. The Pale Man, a cannibalistic monstrosity of skin and sinew, is lifted straight from Goya's painting of Saturn devouring his children, another work of art created in a mind tortured by the cruelty of the Spanish Civil War. Del Toro's monsters embody everything that is terrifying to children, brought to life so well that they are almost intolerable even in maturity. This is not a film for the squeamish, filled as it is with images of both horrific fantasy and blood which is all too real. Most of this blood is spilt by Capitán Vidal, whose tyranny is the focus of the film's other plot line. His dogged pursuit of the Communist forces is hampered by a rebellious but motherly housekeeper, played in a remarkable transformation by Maribel Verdú, the sexy older woman from "Y tu mamá también". Grimly set on the eradication and cleansing of Spain, his character gives the film important historical context, foreshadowing the beginning of Europe's own waking nightmare. Del Toro is thankfully not blunt enough to make the two plot lines parallel, instead allowing the audience to draw connections without hitting them over the head with them. About to lose her mother in childbirth, surrounded by death and the burgeoning forces of fascism, Ofelia's innocence brings into stark relief the fallen world of adults which lies around her. Del Toro has created a film which rings true because of the purity of it's' core, just a sad little girl whose dreams are being corrupted by the cruelty of her world. To bring the brutality of that world to us del Toro has resurrected our childhood nightmares, and they are more harrowing than we can ever remember.


                
Guillermo Del Toro's Pan's Labyrinth has been called a fairy tale, but it is one without the color, warmth, or wonder we normally associate with films of this type. Rather, it owes more to the Latin genre of magic realism, as it reflects the grim fantasies of a young child caught in the middle of a brutal conflict and her desperate longing for a world without pain. Set in Spain after Franco had emerged victorious in the Spanish Civil War, Nationalist troops and die hard resistance fighters continue the struggle in the Spanish countryside. As the film opens, Carmen (Ariadna Gil) and her daughter Ofelia, brilliantly performed by Ivana Baquero, are traveling to join Carmen's new husband, Falangist Captain Vidal (Sergei Lopez) in his military headquarters.Ofelia, a bright, imaginative girl of ten, carries with her books of fairy tales. Her father, a tailor, died a few years ago in the war, and her mother is pregnant with the baby the Captain believes will be his son. When they stop to rest, the little girl meets a buzzing dragonfly and believes it to be a fairy welcoming her to a magic realm. In a voice-over, we hear the story of an underground country where "there are no lies and no pain", a metaphor perhaps for the thousands of Franco resisters who were forced to go underground. In this country, a young princess named Moanna is mourned after she leaves the realm to explore life on Earth and is blinded by the sun and dies. Her father, the King of the Underworld, however, has never given up hope that the princess will one day return in another incarnation.When Ofelia reaches the mill which has been converted into a military headquarters, she discovers an ancient stone labyrinth near her new home and meets seven-foot tall Pan, a half-man half-goat "faun", (Doug Jones) who tells her that she is the princess who everyone in his kingdom has longed for. To return to her true home and be reunited with her father, however, she must complete three arduous tasks, revealed to her by touching the blank pages of large notebook. These include encountering a huge toad in the roots of an old fig tree and retrieving a key from his stomach, and searching for a dagger in a room guarded by another gruesome creature, the Pale Man, whose eyeballs are in the palm of his hands. The room is filled with delectable treats but Ofelia is sworn not to eat them.The film shifts seamlessly between fantasy sequences and the armed conflict. Vidal is depicted as a soldier who takes pleasure in killing. In one scene, he sadistically beats a peasant to death with a bottle, suspecting him of being a rebel. His cruelty is not limited to rebels, however. When Carmen becomes sick during her difficult pregnancy, the girl hears her stepfather tell the doctor that if it comes to a choice between saving the mother or saving the baby, he wants him to save the baby. Amidst all the darkness, Ofelia develops a warm relationship with the housekeeper, Mercedes (Maribel Verdu), whom she later discovers sneaks out at night to bring messages, food, and medical supplies to the rebels. The Captain is merciless when he discovers Mercedes' "treason" as well as that of Dr. Ferreiro (Alex Angulo) who refuses to obey Vidal's orders.As the world around her grows darker and her mother becomes sicker, Ofelia further retreats into her dream world. Soon she must make the most difficult choice any person can be asked to make. Pan's Labyrinth is a strong and heartfelt film but it is a mostly gloomy affair and I yearned for some light and warmth to pervade the darkness, but the film does not go there except for a few brief moments. Del Toro's work, however, is not about metaphysics or spirituality. It is a personal film about memory and, as both Ofelia and Vidal remember their fathers, del Toro wants the world to remember the sadistic nature of the Franco regime, the courage of those who stood up to its brutality, and the innocence his country lost forever.


                
I'm not quite sure what to make of this.Is it a happy ending, or a sad ending? Is one more real than the other, and if we accept that it is simply because it seems obvious, is it necessarily more important than the other? In a sense, it's the happy ending that Ofelia strives for that brings about the unhappy version of events, and in the end the two coincide.I guess I'm still somewhat confused and trying to make sense of the senseless, and in some ways maybe that just means that I got the whole point of the movie. It's politically charged yet poetic, senselessly violent as it is fantastic and as inspiring at is depressing.I'd expect that many people would walk out of a cinema with similarly mixed feelings - I didn't know whether to smile or to cry. Much of the audience I sat with dealt with some of the more gruesome moments with a form of collective comic relief - where humour inappropriately surfaces to confront harsh realities that we prefer to deny: "they're not really going to make us watch that, are they?"; followed by, "can i look now? is it over yet?".This is definitely not for children, although I doubt it would exceed an M (15+) rating in this country. Only things like sex and drugs seem to qualify for that. If the language and violence were toned down then you might be able to pretend that there were something in it for both adults and children, but that's clearly not the intention here and I think best avoided.Instead, the fantasy world of Ofelia becomes almost as relevant, almost as real as the world of the adult characters, and it's the parallel course of the two and their eventual interjoining that leads to the inevitable conclusion of this story.So I guess I could sit here and think about this in terms of a portrayal of the evils of fascism - in context. I could think about this in terms of an artwork - a traditionally surreal and complex way of telling a story that's set in a particular place in history. But I think I'll choose to look at this as a way of experiencing a story from two different points of view: the harsh actuality of the adult world with all its nasty and cruel realities (just as Ofelia's mother points out to her), contrasted with the coping mechanisms and "innocence" - verging on denial - of Ofelia's own journey through the events that take place...Having said that, it's hard to give one more weight than the other. Who's really in denial? So I leave the theatre not quite knowing what to think, how to feel or what to do next.Cool.P.S. There are plenty of bombs and action scenes for the rest of you.
I have always loved this movie. I was a young girl when I first watched it and I fell in love with the fairy tale aspect and as I have gotten older I have fallen in love with the effects and conflict of it. The story line is interesting and keeps you guessing to see if the girl is in fact the princess. This story of love really feels authentic and wonderful, mostly because it is a story about love of family. You can honestly appreciate the way the story is framed in warn torn Spain and how that creates a different level of drama and sometimes confusion. It is an interesting blend of fantasy, war, and horror. I have seen this movie probably 30 times and it never fails to make me cry at the end from sadness and joy.
Even though I'm one of the absolute few horror freaks out there who thinks the films of Guillermo Del Toro are vastly overrated (or at least over-hyped), deep down I was somewhat confident that "Pan's Labyrinth" would rapidly become his ultimate masterwork. All of his previous genre efforts contain ingenious fantasy elements and genuinely macabre undertones (especially "Cronos" and "The Devil's Backbone") but the screenplays always were unexciting - on the verge of dull, even - and eventually only depended on Del Toro's directorial style & craftsmanship. The aforementioned titles, and to a certain degree "Blade II" and "Mimic" as well, are enchanting to look at but the stories ultimately failed to impress me. A simple glimpse at the poster art and synopsis of "Pan's Labyrinth" already indicated it would be a world of difference! It seems as if Del Toro single-handedly revives the formula of legitimate fairy-tales and passionately reverts to all its old-fashioned and uncanny characteristics, like ominous & grotesque landscapes, youthful heroines, monsters and fairies, violence and very disturbing scenery. Tim Burton is another very gifted filmmaker in the field of adult fairy-tales, but even his films eventually tend to get sentimental and overly joyful, whereas "Pan's Labyrinth" admirably sustains a dark and harrowing atmosphere throughout. And it becomes even more praiseworthy, because Del Toro also managed to successfully blend the fantasy-atmosphere with actual black pages in our history books; more particularly the fascist political situation in Spain near the end of WWII. The film opens with an introduction of a young princess who lost her immortality because she got curious and left her father's magical kingdom in order to explore the rest of the world. Her spirit still floats around though, eagerly looking out to get into the body of a young girl who's courageous and strong enough to fulfill three ordeals that'll bring her back to her father. The fantastic dreamy tone of the intro brutally gets interrupted with images of a young girl and her pregnant mother traveling to the domain of her stepfather, who's an incredibly relentless, sadistic and power-mad army captain under the reign of Franco. Whilst Ofelia enters the garden's labyrinth, where Pan the guardian informs here about her birthright, rebels and insiders fruitlessly attempt to bring down the Captain's dictatorship. Even though "Pan's Labyrinth" is a constantly eventful motion picture, it has to be said the opening 45 minutes (after the intro) are rather dull and disappointing. Ofelia's initial meetings with Pan as well as her first task to accomplish aren't convincing and lack the dark atmosphere the brief fairy-tale introduction promised us. Only after Ofelia's second ordeal <U+0096> a brief but wondrous confrontation with a malevolent creature with eyes in the palms of his hands <U+0096> and a baffling depiction of the Captain's evil persona (that man is totally emotion- and heartless!), the film becomes indescribably compelling and hauntingly unsettling. And particularly the climax, which features some unexpected and rarely-seen-before twists, is a powerful demonstration of versatile cinema. The cinematography, set pieces and wholesome of effects all look stunningly breathtaking and nobody can every claim the Oscars "Pan's Labyrinth" won in these categories are undeserved. It's a magnificent film to look at AND listen to as well, as the music (courtesy of Javier Navarette) is extremely enchanting. Watch it when you have the opportunity!


                
I always liked Guillermo del Toro's films;but on his most serious films(Chronos or The devil's backbone)I noticed that they need something else to be more than good movies of fantastic genre.Pan's labyrinth is another of his serious movies and something similar happened to me with this one:it is a good movie which lacks of that something that would make it excellent;here ''something'' is originality like his other serious movies.The best thing about Pan's labyrinth is that it shakes three parallel stories that they unite doing something credible.At one sight,the movie shows the familiar drama of the main girl,her mother and the mother's boyfriend;for other sight,the movie shows the horrors of the civil war and for other sight,the movie shows Pan's fantastic world.The performances are excellent,but the best ones are Sergi Lopez's,Maribel Verdú's and Ivana Baquero's.I liked this movie pretty much and I consider it very good;if it had been more original,it would have been better.Of the serious movies Del Toro made,this is my favorite movie.


                
I've given this film 8.10 for the powerful effect it has had on me.This film is amongst the most unpleasant, nasty, vicious and disturbing that I have seen.The violence portrayed outside of the girls imagination is the most graphic and realistic that I've seen and days after seeing the screening, it is still with me. And what occurs within her head is similarly unsettling.That said, the film is very captivating and i would recommend it to anyone who is neither of a nervous disposition nor has an overactive imagination.


                
PAN'S LABYRINTH was just about the most critically acclaimed release of 2006 . While it was better than most of the films nominated for the Best Picture Oscar - can anyone remember THE QUEEN or BABEL ? - it suffered badly from the hype and acclaim that surrounded it . Watching it not long after its release I did get a feeling of slight disappointment of " Is that it ? " . Sometimes it's best to let the passage of time elapse before you give your honest opinion on a movie Eight years after its release now seems like a long enough time to see if it's as good as it was made out There's no doubt PL is a strangely beautiful and haunting film . There is a major problem and that is that it never really escapes from the feel that it's two separate stories connected in a rather tenuous way . Ofelia lives in Franco's falangist , fascist Spain of 1944 and is made to live with her stepfather , the brutal sadistic Captain Vidal who holds the surrounding area in an iron fist . Ofelia , a child about to enter adolescence soon stumbles upon a strange underground kingdom populated by faries and demons and soon finds this magical kingdom can be every bit as cruel and oppressive as the war ridden and chaotic world of 1944 Time to be a little bit controversial and state despite the idiosyncratic visual magic that Del Toro brings to his films by the far the best aspect is the real life horrors inflicted upon the human population of a fascist country and the fantasy elements seem to be included as a sort of gimmick , almost as if Del Toro thought a period drama would have no market outside of Spain . Every time the action cut to the underground fantasy a voice inside my head - no doubt the director - kept saying " Please give me an Oscar for costume design , make up and visual effects por favor " . When you've got an evil piece of work like Captain Vidal murdering people who needs made up monsters ? If we're talking about Oscar nominations let's talk about Sergi Lopez as Vidal , or rather let's talk about one of the biggest Oscar snubs in history that's up there with Bruno Ganz in DER UNTERGANG . Seems if someone plays a murderous right winger this seems to alienate the award voters almost as if they're seen condoning mass murder . I'm of the view that a film is only as good as its villain and they don't much better than Vidal , a man who is more than happy to return to the family table after executing a couple of suspected rebels as if nothing out of the ordinary has happened . This reflects the Latin attitude of fascism . South American countries were notorious for this in the 1970s and 80s but even as recently as the 1970s Spain had a rather poor human rights record under Franco . Indeed I once worked with a Spanish waitress called Maria who told me her grandparents were murdered by Franco's regime . I never found out if it was because they were leftists or because they were descended from people who killed Jesus but it was a very poignant reminder that fascism in Europe didn't end with the defeats of Germany and Italy in 1945 As it stands PAN'S LABYRINTH is a strange but captivating movie . It's not quite a fairy tale and it's not quite a historical drama . It's contains wonderful performances and yet it's probably not the masterwork some people claim it to be . It never manages to overcome the inherent problem of being two stories trying and failing to gel together which means it's a good film but not a brilliant one


                
This movie is a good combination of fantastic and realistic events held at the same place!.The story is about Ofelia (Ivana Baquero), a little girl that lives in Spain in the end of the Spanish civil war, and how she travels with her pregnant mother Carmen (Ariadna Gil) to a rural place where his stepfather, Captain Vidal of the Spanish Army (Sergi Lopez) has his military operations. Ofelia, in the middle of this cruel war lives also a fantasy tale, where she has to demonstrate to a fawn in a labyrinth that she's actually a princess. Trough some tests that she has to face, and with the cruel events of the civil war, you'll find a good story and movie, really touching.In this film, with a really good script and direction, you will feel how close can be related the fantastic and the realistic events; with great photography, and really well obtained characters; Ivana Baquero does good, Ariadna Gil has also a great acting and Maribel Verdú as Mercedes, a housekeeper demonstrate why is a great actress, Doug Jones (as the fawn and the pale man) without having the Spanish as his natural language, is incredible and realistic under makeup!; but the one that really impressed me was Sergi Lopez, as one of the most sadistic, cold and evil characters that i have seen. The Pale Man also is a character worth to see, it's really impressive and scary!.8/10 for a good film, that can show you a fantastic world that coexists with our common world.


                
I finally caught up with El Laberinto del Fauno at a Barcelona cinema last night. A very fine work, successfully blending fantasy with brutal reality. In a nearby coffee house afterwards, you could tell who had just seen the film - they were were all waving their hands around in 'Pale Man' mode.I won't summarize the plot - plenty of others have done that - other than to say that some commentators are mistaken in thinking it was set in the Spanish Civil War.By 1944, when the film was set, the civil war had been over for five years, Franco's right-wing forces having succeeded in overthrowing Spain's democratic government.The film's background was the armed resistance that sprang up around the country as Franco's cruel regime cracked down with murderous savagery (well summed up in the film) on any form of dissent. Tens of thousands of Spaniards were tortured and murdered and the resistance continued until democracy was finally restored in late 1970s.


                
This film is really excellent... perhaps not absolutely everything I hope for in a film, or in a fantasy/faerie film, it's totally unique and certainly never dull. Part of me thinks that the violence in the film was too excessive, though it was not exploitative because it ties into the general themes of the film. But that part of me thinks that a truly great faerie tale can be scary but should be something that children could have access to.The performances are uniformly top notch. Ivana Baquero gives us one of the more emotionally real child performances we've seen in a long time, especially in the fantasy field. Sergi Lopez is strong as her fascist (and sadistic) step-father, Capitan Vidal. Maribel Verdu probably has the most to do in the film and she manages to do her acting in such a way that you can believe that she could possibly be overlooked initially, while what she shows you beneath the character's surface shows unsuspected strength. Doug Jones also puts in an impressive performance as Pan, conveying the menace and majesty of the faun.A few words on the theme of the film -- I think in a lot of ways it is about obedience. It's more complex than what appears at first. The contrast is there certainly between the captain, who is totally obsessed with discipline and order, and the child Ofelia who is very free spirited. When the doctor walks away after killing the prisoner, the captain asks him why he did not obey his order. The doctor says that he can't simply obey for the sake of obeying -- "only people like you can do that." If you think about the 3 challenges that Ofelia has to pass, in the first one she obeys the instructions of the faun and despite all of the horror of her situation, she easily escapes. In the second trial she is unable to obey the rules, incurring Pan's wrath because she ate of the food and she did not escape through the door. But in the final trial she is presented with a situation where to obey the rules or to obey Pan would be wrong, and she makes her own decision in favor of sparing an innocent life even at great costs to her own. This can be seen as a metaphor or analogy to encourage people not to obey dictators when they issue immoral rules, much as her stepfather the Captain would do. Her ascendance to the magical realm can be seen as a hopeful metaphor for what the human race itself can aspire to, if we begin to value the lives of innocents more than any other prize.I think the film doesn't really fail to do anything it attempts to do, but I wish that the film-makers had been able to fashion a convincing faerie tale like this in a way that would have, as I said above, been more accessible to younger viewers. For example I think Gilliam's "Time Bandits" or Burton's "Big Fish" presented some very adult ideas but did so in a way so that not only would the films themselves be suitable for somewhat younger audiences but those dark/adult themes would also be opened up for the young audience. Faerie tales can be used for many purposes, but rarely in the classic literature do we see them used simply for entertainment. Usually they are also cautionary tales with some symbolic resonance. Faerie tales were also a form of mythology, in the sense that they were used to explain the unexplainable. For example the English term "stroke" as in "she suffered a stroke" comes from the older term for "faerie struck" or struck down by fey influences beyond human understanding. What I think the film-makers in this case are doing, is presenting a kind of "instructional" faerie tale whose purpose is to "explain" the reasons for evil in this world, for the continued existence of fascism and the continued oppression of innocent people. I only wish that it could have been done in such a way that it would actually reach children and communicate these ideas to children because sadly by the time we reach adulthood it's already too late for many of us to escape the cycle of violence that the film presents.
...left this viewer sitting in quiet wonder. Auteur Guillermo del Toro, previously responsible for the immensely entertaining "Hellboy," and the at least visually remarkable "Blade II," along with a better than expected "Mimic" and cult favorite "Chronos," shows himself to be at the top of his form in this violently beautiful film. There's no question in my mind that I'll be looking forward to "Hellboy II," as well as "3993."Lensed with absolute mastery by Guillermo "Jackie Brown" Navarro, "El Laberinto del Fauno" (Pan's Labyrinth) is the story of a young Spanish girl on the cusp of adolescence, deeply immersed in the fantasy world of her own vivid imagination, who ventures into that fantasy world in reaction to the difficulties of life in war-torn fascist Spain in mid-1944. Whether that escape into magical realms is "real" or simply a product of her overwrought psyche dealing with the daily horrors of her situation is a question the audience must answer for itself; del Toro is careful not to make the decision himself, and the film is all the more powerful for it. The production design, art direction, costuming, make-up and sfx, the sound fx, the score; all are deliciously detailed and extravagantly perfect, even when they make the audience cringe with horror or repulsion. In truth, "El Laberinto del Fauno" is as close to a fully realized modern Grimm's Fairy Tale as one could hope.The acting is excellent all the way around. Relative newcomer Ivana Baquero is appealingly innocent and resourceful as Ofelia, a little girl caught up in the whirlwind of life's harsh realities. Seasoned veteran Maribel Verdú, an actress I am thrilled to have finally discovered, plays Ofelia's confidante with resolute grace and, as it turns out, revolutionary strength. I can only believe that she is well-respected in the Spanish-speaking acting community, and beloved by her audiences. Ariadna "Belle Époque" Gil is wan and sympathetic as Ofelia's doomed mother, and I trust is equally respected and loved.Wonderful as the women are, special deference must be paid to the incredible performances of Sergi López as the villainous Capitán Vidal (a man so cold-hearted that he can stitch up his own filleted cheek with barely a peep of the pain he dispenses so readily to his enemies), and the inestimably talented Doug "Hellboy" Jones in the dual roles of Pan and the Pale Man (his vocal readings as Pan are outstanding, absolutely awesome once you realize he doesn't speak Spanish) (3/10 edit: I was sorry to discover that his voice was dubbed over by another actor, though that hardly lessens his physical performance) "El Laberinto del Fauno" is, quite simply, remarkable and deliriously effective, and firmly cements del Toro's growing reputation as a director to watch closely. Be warned: this is not a movie for children. The violence is quite brutal and graphic (though never gratuitous), as it is in the best of fairy tales; lessons are not learned when artlessly censored. "El Laberinto del Fauno" speaks to the child within, but does so with the unswerving eyes of an adult. It will definitely be a keeper on DVD.
I don't understand the modern tendencies of impressing the viewer with straightforward violence. On the other hand this picture gives us a very good reason for all the blood shed in front of the audience. It's been some time since a character has given me such disgust as Capitan Vidal does. And if it hadn't been for the visual depiction of his horrific acts probably he would have remained anonymous among other bad guys. We have to admit that many of his actions are predictable and from the start you learn what to expect from him. What is great about him is the fact that he lacks all the drama that surrounds the bad characters in a classic Hollywood movie. If he has to torture someone or kill him, he just does it, he doesn't feel the need to explain himself or prepare the audience for the grand finale. This makes it very realistic and the tragedy is emphasized even more by this sadistic and cruel plain depiction.I admire directors, or scriptwriters, who have the courage to kill their main characters in order to sustain their ideas. During the final scenes, with Ofelia lying on the ground in Mercedes' arms, I was praying that "a miracle" doesn't happen. It was so obvious that the point of the movie was to show that innocence can be broken and that it doesn't survive in our cruel world. It isn't a land of faerie tales nor miracles and even the purest may fall victims.I'm still asking myself if this movie would have had the same effect on me had the language spoken been English. Although Pan was interpreted by an American actor I found all his lines magnificent. It really gave me the feeling that I had fallen back in times of magic and wizardry. Miss Baquero was incredible if we think that she is only twelve years old. Her character was strong and the chemistry between her and Mercedes, not to speak of the one with Pan, was great. You begin the movie by feeling sorry for this child, you go on by loving him and you end up hating the world.To summarize I must say that it is a great movie definitely worth seeing but I can't give it a maximum for two reasons. First of all the violence. Maybe I am too sensible or more fond of classic ways to describe violence, without showing it. Here it serves its purposes but the simplicity it brings takes away some of the hate you should feel for the character and brigs to surface disgust and fear. Maybe this is what Mr del Toro wanted us to feel, but it doesn't really cope with the main idea of evil defeating innocence. Secondly I have to say that he could have found a better ending. I loved the line "He won't even know your name" but why give hope after such terrible events? Evil has won, Ofelia is dead, that child is his and may as well inherit his habits so let Vidal live and warn the whole world of what may happen if we don't control our evil side.
Truly this is a fairy tale masterpiece. There is such strength here, such control, such artistic vision all topped off with a knack for story-telling that is so uncommon in this genre of film-making. This is the film we all wanted to see when we saw Burton's Big Fish or Chronicles of Narnia or Columbus's Harry Potter movies. Yes, this was a paint by numbers set like all those others, but no it didn't suffocate itself with the imagery. Anthony Lane once wrote in describing Star Wars -- also a failed fairy tale in a lot of respects -- that in Lucas's movies "style was strangled at birth by design". This is one of the first movies that doesn't fall prey to that. Pan's Labyrinth in the same league as Cuarón's Azkaban, though the world in Del Toro's movie is more ambitious.Pan's Labyrinth is the story of Ofelia, a young girl whose widowed mother marries an officer in Spanish dictator Franco's service. The officer is a sociopath and the skirmishes with the resistance are practically at her door when she discovers a world of magic nearby. She gets involved with extremely well-designed characters, and the plot splits into two related and complimentary stories. As each plot moves together the film comes to a fable-like conclusion. You are enraptured through.


                
