Dark and drawn out. Depressing. If you want to pound your soul with constant doomsday emotional abuse, this is for you. Feels like the entire series runs in slow-motion. Highly predictable. Over-acting and reacting. Unrealistic plot lines. Watched entire season one hoping for some cleverness or twists. Like fixed election results, I wouldn't be surprised if IMDB was hacked as there's no way an emotionally intelligent group of people would rate this show so highly.


                
Main plot without spoilers: During both seasons you will see June getting multiple chances to escape from Gilead (which it's something that she seeks desperately for). 
And that's it. You won't see more (probably she will finally be free in season 10 or so, you know how the business works), but in contrast with other soap operas, in which the viewer gets more entertaining from the side stories, THT only focuses on June's failed escape attempts and you will see the same over and over again (same gestures, same dialogues' essence, same characters, etc).It is so sad that a potentially good storyline gets overshadowed by screenwriters' lack of imagination and the fact that the series has to be profitable.Visually, the production is definitely good! So if you have a lot of time to waste... go for some episodes.
I really tried to like this series. Turned out it's really over rated and borderline boring. It takes 10 episodes to tell a story that could easily been told in 3. Everything has to be shown again, and again, and again. We know already that's everybody's suffering. We know that it's dreary, and dark, and that every woman that wears red is slaves. We don't need 10 hours to understand that. I have nothing against slow but when it's done just to be artsy and to fill out the programming time, it gets silly. How about some hope? How about some good plot twists, or at least some interesting things happening? Yes, I know you want to tell a story about religion, refugees, and what happens in a totalitarian state. But... doesn't everybody know that already. Don't you think the people who don't know would get it after... hmmm.... let's say Three hours? Do you really need to rub it in and press it down our throats? I don't get why this has got such a good Reviews. Is it just because it's PC?
Well, It's very boring and I mean how many slow Mo's does one episode need.
She takes her bonnet off...slow Mo
She goes up the stairs...slow Mo 
She goes down the stairs...slow Mo. If you enjoy a film where you have to turn the sound up really high just to hear them (they whisper ALOT) then turn it down quickly on the flashbacks (your neighbours will think world war 3 has started) then boy are you in for a treat!!! However not for me and think I prefer Puusssaaayyy in OITNB <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008A>


                
I refuse to waste anymore time on this show by writing a lengthy review. So I will accomplish what this show couldn't, brevity.


                
Boring, boring and more boring. Just saw the first episode. I felt like i was suffering more than the characters.


                
I've no religion myself but it still strikes me how the cowardly sentiments of this show take cheap pot shots at Christianity. It is not this religion that subjugated women nor would attempt to overthrow a democratically elected government. The writer(s) of this dystopian portrayal are clearly too cowardly to point the finger at religions that do in fact have these avowed intentions. Other than that it is a very slow moving, rather boring semi sci-fi tale set in a dystopian near future. No attempt is made to create a wider perspective of this world or display any outrage from other countries. I gather this is based on a popular book of which I had never heard so I hope the book was much better.


                
I fail to understand the enthusiasm for this series. What is the purpose in season 2 episode 2 to show a long-lasting sex scene (3 different positions...)? How stupid must the hero be in episod 3 to spend most of her time behind the window, while she should be hiding because the whole police is looking for her? Boring, stupid with false impressions of intellectualism.
The "Handmaid's Tale" is hilarious. It's not hilarious in a "Young Frankenstein" kind of way, it's hilarious in a "Russians hacked the election" kind of way. This show is just more evidence of how delusional liberals are. In this dystopian vision of America, liberals pretending to be "Christians" have taken over America and turned it into the totalitarian state that Obama came so close to creating. The "Christians" in this series aren't the founding father sort of Christians who gave the world the freest nation in the world, nope, these "Christians" hang gays, keep women barefoot and pregnant, and beat anyone who steps out line. It kind of reminds me of my church where we have public hangings of gays on Saturday nights at 7:00, followed by stoning of infidels at 8:00... said no Christian ever.In the latest episode one of the handmaids is taken in by a kind Muslim man and his wife. Of course he has to keep his Muslim faith secret so he doesn't get hanged like the gays. Isn't that just the way it is in the real world? In Christian nations, like America, Muslims are routinely burned alive in cages, beheaded in public and stoned to death while in Muslim nations, like Afghanistan, Christians are treated with the utmost respect. LOL. Just kidding. You'd have to be psychotic to think that's the way things are in the real world, but the brain dead liberals who wrote the scripts for this show believe that's the way things are in the real world. And wouldn't you naturally think that a Muslim man should be the hero when it comes to helping oppressed women? I mean it's not like women are beaten in public for showing their ankles in Muslim countries, or men have the allah ordained right to beat their wives senseless in Muslim countries, or women are arrested for adultery in Muslim countries for being raped, or women can't even drive cars in Muslim countries... oh wait, yes it is like that... never mind. Get a free 30 day subscription, so you don't have to pay for this crap fest, then binge watch it for a barrel full of laughs.


                
Well. The acting is great. The director did a great job. We see technical elements at their best...Unfortunately, the script is boring. Very similar to others we have seen before. There's nothing interesting about it. I wasted one hour when I could have been watching something more intriguing, original or at least with a few twists, something out of the ordinary, but no, just pure, lame events any young boy could come up with.Sorry for the ones who think this is "the best TV show ever". I'm not a hater. Just giving my humble opinion. If you don't agree, that's fine by me. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Plain and simple, this show's ugly.I don't understand why they give this show a 8.7 points to make me watch. I saw this rating and said to myself "I'm going to watch something great". What a disappointment. Worst show I have seen lately.


                
Made it through first season but was getting bored and frustrated towards the end...stupidly thought second season might add an exciting twist but instead just remains pathetically BORING!!! Loaded with utter nonsense with a brand of white sharia law that is completely unreasonable and unbelievable all the while ramming stupid Hollywood propaganda down the viewers throats. Boycott this complete steaming pile of codswallop whilst you've still got a brain - hell, watch anything else because these are not hours you're gonna get back. I'm blown away by idiotic reviews comparing it to GOT and other brilliant shows...WTF?!
Run!


                
Who knows how to analyze the current Western political context, realizes that we are much closer to a totalitarian anti-Christian regime than the one presented in this series. today, those who do not say their Amen to any politically correct policy, are persecuted mercilessly. who rule in the West are extreme feminist policies, LGBT, extreme vegans, etc.If this was about that, it can make you think.


                
Awful and boring beyond human comprehension. The pretentious eggplants fawning and salivating over this stultifying, boring dreck must be lonely beyond belief because they can't possibly have a spark of interesting conversation. I watched the tenth episode after the first to realize what I knew was going to happen. ABSOLUTELY NOTHING!!!! The season climaxes with Moss dropping a rock in slo mo defiance. WHOOOO!!!! Everybody is virtually the same after 10 episodes with a minor blip. Speaking of Moss; I'm going to boycott anything she's in because it tends to suck. Mad Men. Top of the Lake and now this. She is duller than dull. No likable characters ( they barely register a pulse ). Making Yvonne plain looking. Men are barely more than robotic animals ( you can't climax just pumping in and out unless you're an animal. ). Lifeless direction and stagnant scenes. Scenes that start nowhere and end nowhere. Another meaningless interracial family. These are some of the horrors inflicted upon us. The only thing they get right is that all religion is evil ( especially Christianity, which is the worst ). People championing this; please seek help.
I have seen 3 episodes and as of yet, 2 men have appeared. The rest of the cast is women. The plot is taking place in a the heart of USA not long after a terrorist attack eradicated the entire Congress. When martial law was initiated, new laws made the society return to 1660, women can't own anything, they can't vote and should be silent when men are present in the rool etc etc. Not surprisingly, the story is about rape and abuse of women in present looking - but future society - dominated by men. Although while nursing the LGBT society, the show does not deal with race problems whatsoever. I have to conclude this show is primarily targeting female audiences. The story is about women and their lesbian friends and is the sort of militant feminist hate-propaganda we should be aware of if we want our boys to have a place in this world at all. The show come disguised with elements of tension and very good acting, but I would NOT recommend it to anybody.


                
It is the slowest television show I've ever watched with no redeeming factors. A slow show can still be good, but NOT this one. I'm telling you - do not watch it will bore the crap out of you... Huge waste of time.


                
Some women are infertile. Some others aren't and are forced to have babies for them. And it's all a bit like a cult... Who cares... It's boring and the inner monologues are really annoying. The characters are mono dimensional and I don't care about them.I think I'll watch something else next week.


                
It was hard making it through a single episode. Seventy percent of the US is Christian, it is the height of offensive to film a rape scene to Onward Christian soldiers. If a show did that to any other group there would be an uproar, not applause. The story is insulting, ugly, and not based on a scrap of factual reality. Toxic nuclear waste? Poison chickens? It mixes extreme feminism and environmentalism with a not subtle bashing of religion and anything that leans even remotely right on the political spectrum. Historically speaking there was a time when a whole bunch of Christians got together and made a government and spoiler alert now we have universal human rights, Merica.
A bunch of angry women got together to express their hatred of men. So they wrote the script of this most overvalued TV series in cinematographic history. Of course it is a fantasy. However we've seen a lot of smart and entertaining fantasies. But this fantasy is pretty stupid. Consider the following. The series show the future of the United States where people lost their fertility. The special maids are sent to the ruling families to give them children. But the government jumps over its head to make a deal with Mexicans to <U+0085> sell them those rare fertile women. And while the US is a fascist country, Mexico remains the torch of freedom. Elizabeth Moss that plays the maid is very good in the episodes when she is a free woman. But as a maid she becomes pretentious and unconvincing. She acts like a doll in the hands of directors who wasted a quota of the close ups that would've been enough for a thousands of movies. And all this is slow, dull and just boring. The whole enterprise is a fiasco.
After seeing all the glowing reviews I decided to give this show a try. I enjoy dystopian future shows (like the INFINITELY SUPERIOR "Into the Badlands") and figured this would be up my alley. I should've known better than to trust the reviews here. This show, as the summary suggests, is as dull as day-old dishwater. While the show does do a very good job of getting you visually involved (the costumes and set pieces are excellent), I found myself literally laughing out loud when I saw people here praising the acting. Are you kidding me? These people act as if they're in one of M. Night Shyamalan's bad movies (as opposed to his good ones. Not trying to say all his movies are bad, but I digress). They sound as if they were forced by their teacher to read a section from a textbook in front of their high school class. I'll ignore the laughably ham-fisted leftist political commentary (laughable because everyone's trying to outdo the other with more pandering, self-indulgent, pretentious "entertainment"), mainly because I'm so used to seeing it that it's lost its effect on me. I could even tolerate it if the show were actually entertaining in some way. However, as it stands, this is one to avoid. You'd likely be more entertained and riveted by going to the beach and counting grains of sand.


                
No, but seriously I can tell you why I don't like it. Admittedly I watched only the first 15 minutes of the first episode then I couldn't go on. It didn't suck me in in any way nor was it particularly entertaining. It was so dreary and basically torture porn. The basic premise is some fundamentalist religious nut bars take over the country. So interesting! Who the hell cares? So they bring back the class system, make people kneel down a lot and generally treat people like crap, etc, etc. Oh my god! I'm so entertained. Can't wait for the next lashing or escape attempt. So gripping! Jesus Christ.


                
This was a complete and total waste of my time. I hated every minute I managed to sit through. Save yourself time and a stomach ache and skip this horrible series.


                
I had high hopes for this; however I spent eight episodes waiting for it to get good. It is was painfully slow with very little character development or plot. It would have been a much more interesting story if it had shown how the society came to be the way it was.It is clearly an important story, but it was delivered very poorly.


                
This show has zero redeeming qualities. Also the political bias from this show is actually based on the wrong party, only one seeks to control and dictate.Not the one depicted...


                
Why Make such rubbish it's neither real or possible yes it deals real issues but in a unreal world that could simply never exist. Watched the first episode a child of six could write better. Full of contradictions a man is accused of rape while institutionalised rape is practised by men on women. One of many nonsensical parts of the story I guess its supposed to be like that but in the end its a bore.


                
At first I was quite happy to see something new, different and out of the box. However there are a lot of problems with it.Negative:-Drenched with political motives. Now I do not mind a political reference here and there but this is just getting ridiculous. It is getting worse per episode that it even runs interference with the script. -Horrible script. Nuff said. -Actors are OK-esque but are seriously hampered with the vomit induced script ( very sad actually) -Cultural appropriation and using it as "true facts". -I could go on about the more technical issues ( like camera angles that are weird/wonky/not really working)but I will refrain from doing so.Positive: -The actors really try to make it work but when getting such a horribly written script, even a multiple Oscar winner can't save this..."TV series".Conclusion: If you really haven't anything else to do, are unemployed ( job hunting), are in hospital/etc, whatever you should check it out. Just a friendly advice: try to cancel out the "political rhetoric/propaganda" and it might climb up to a 2 or 3/10. However what i have seen and this is my opinion, it only deserves a 1/10


                
