The first season was significantly better than the second season. The first season moved at a faster pace and the story was more intresting. The second season is way way too slow. Also the plot lines that I found the most interesting were always cut short (s02e07 commander Cushing plot line only lasted half an episode), while the boringest plot lines are drawn out forever. Season 2 spent several episodes on Ofglen in the colonies which I found super boring. Also season 2 they just spend way too much time on some scenes were nothing happens (s02e07 they spent an entire scene with Olfred staring at a pen.) Some episodes of season 2 have been good but, then others barely anything happens. During season 2 I found myself doing other things checking my phone,cooking, etc and when I really like a show I'm glued to the screen. Season 2 just isn't as compelling as season 1. My advice to the writers is to spend more time exploring mayday and Nick's work as an eye. Olfred is the main character but, spending time watching her look at picture's of her child and her staring at a pen is just boring as hell.
The first season starts off slow and haunting, but extremely gripping and creepy. Also, the beginning of the second season starts off strong and it seems like things are going into motion big time. However, the second season turns very repetitive and unrealistic (in terms of characters and their motivations). At the end of the second they've recycled all their ideas and I'm left with annoyance, and I think I won't watch the third season. All in all, the show is extremely well produced and acting is great. The second season just ruined a lot for me.


                
Dictatorship.Series is all in all very good and interesting, worth watching it. Theme is, I'm afraid, near future. Plot is really ok. The only thing that bothers me during whole show, especially in season 2, is slowness. Too slow scenes, too slow characters' movements, everything is too slow and it can be very annoying. Because of that to me annoying slowness, my rate is 7/10.


                
The series takes place in a dystopian future. We get the basic framework at the beginning and then the numerous details are filled in throughout the series. At practically every reveal of how this world works, my wife and I were scratching our heads and going "THIS doesn't fit with what this society should be all about". The fault is in the faithfulness to the flawed source material, one which tells more about the author and feminist paranoia then about the direction society is heading. Only the most obvious and generic elements of the "cautionary" part seemed relevant.That said, the series is highly watchable and even compelling because it is good drama. The protagonist is given her due character development and Elizabeth Moss's performance knocks it out of the ballpark. We are occasionally involved with supporting characters like Nick and Serena, though they are not extraordinary. Minor characters get there place in the sun mainly by shock value.A striking feature is the masterful photography. Very expressive use of colors, creative camera angles and supberb use of foreground/background composition. The directing is uneven, as you would expect from a series with so many directors, but for the most part it delivers the emotional impact.You have to give up any hope of taking Margaret Wood's dystopia seriously, but that should not stop you for feeling a part of Offred's intense pathos.


                
I'm probably not the main target audience for this show so I'm not surprised that it gets higher ratings from other users. That being said, I still think it is very safe to say that entertainment value has dropped off considerably in season 2. In my case the show feels a little bit like watching someone who is preaching to the choir. And.. it is a depressing sermon even if there is truth in there. And sadly there are a lot of real world examples if we care to look. I just happen to be shallow sometimes and really want to be entertained.
Anyway, Elisabeth Moss is good in this (as she always is) but... I personally much preferred seeing her in "Top the Lake". If you want to see some fantastic female rage.. give THAT season 2 a try.


                
The first season this dystopic tale from Margaret Atwood expands the story from the novel and fleshes out a greater world for the tortured residents of Gilead. Offred (Elizabeth Moss) is held in captivity as a handmaid, forced to have intercourse with a religious leader known as the Commander (Joseph Fiennes) and his wife Serena Joy (Yvonne Strahovski). With more time, the show is able to show the conversion therapy and the life of a handmaid. Like the novel, Offred reflects back on the past and flashbacks show the steady reduction of rights. Offred tried to escape with her husband Luke (O-T Fagbenle) and daughter but they were caught at the border. Offred recalls the torturous teaching under Aunt Lydia (Ann Dowd). Offred is allowed to go out shopping with another handmaid Ofglen (Alexis Bledel) and the visit the wall where dissidents are hung. Ofglen reveals that she is part of a resistance but they must be careful of the Eyes, a group of secret spies who grab citizens of the street. Working for the Commander as a handyman and driver, Nick (Max Minghella) begins a sexual relationship with Offred at the behest of Serena Joy as it is implied that the Commander is sterile. Even a doctor offers to have sex with her though Offred refuses. Offred's friend from college Moira (Samira Wiley) was in the indoctrination with her but manages to escape.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Series is all in all very good and interesting , worth watching it. Theme is, I'm afraid, our near future. Plot is really ok. The only thing that bothers me during whole show, especially in season 2, is slowness. Too slow scenes, too slow characters' movements, everything is too slow and it can be very annoying. Because of that to me annoying slowness, my rate is 7/10.


                
I have waited for a show that would blow me off for a long time and this one did the trick. i love how the story is unfolded with every episode in a dark tone and the character build up is so fine. this has the potential to be the next big TV show after the likes of game of thrones.


                
I think the producers were too gutless to simply say that this is what happens when Sharia Law is the law. It's well on the way so buckle up people.


                
I loved season 1. I read some of the reviews, and it seems a lot of people missed the point. The symbolism and exaggerations are there for a purpose: it압 showing us our present and our past through a sharpened lense. 
Whether or not this story is literally plausible is beyond the point: This already happened! And this is happening, right now! 
I think it압 genius how this dystopia sheds light on our society압 long shadows. 
And to the christians who feel offended by the show...God. Don앖 take it personally, the religious practices could have any name. It just so happens that our society is BUILT on female-oppressing-discriminating and oppressive Christianity. It압 not even that long ago that women couldn앖 get an education or couldn앖 get a divorce. The trail of blood running from Christianity and the church runs through millennia. Read some history books, folks! Great acting, music, costume, scenography, cutting past/now. The rituals are haunting, but some of them also beautiful. season 2, not so much. It압 OK, but I don앖 know if the writers know where this is going, it압 not as tight as season1. I앐 worried that they make every tv show there is into something they can milk another season of, instead of creating a great story. Unfortunately, so many shows are killed this way. 
So yeah, season 2 is boring, except the last 5 minutes of every episode, so it keeps me coming back, ha ha. (and then the next episode is a total anti climax.)season 1 is 100% worth watching even when season 2 is derailed.


                
I do like this show. Its dark, twisted and a religious nightmare. The BIG ISSUE on the other hand Is that It's the human nature to struggle and to survive this twisted society, and yet no one put on a real fight. It's all about the women who like Lambs are lead to the slaughter, they all go along for very minor threats. In the first episode everyone should be fuckn clawing they Eyes out of that damn pope nanny . And no one tries to get hold of a gun?!? no one tries to kill those crazy new World order religious fanatics?? 
Th elead character is perhaps the most annoying one of the bunch. She hush her ways and is like a coward Little twat. 
I know they must be true to the novel, but cmon they allready made the adaptation more sexy, modern, scarier then the novel itself. And that leads us to the next problem. punk and 80s pop Anthems doesn't fit so good in the story. I know its trendy to put a modern twist to the old tales but it just becomes rather phony that ending each episode with a pop yawn you Heard 50 million times. just to fish younger audience. They should atleast show some women who put on a fight from the beginning, even if they fail.. its more realistic. cause no modern woman would fall that easily into their follly. This follows me through the whole show.. It's like.. oh i spit out a cookie, im rebellious.. if it was me in that situation i would strangle the housekeeper in her sleep. sneaking out at night with a kitchen knife or whatever. Everything is better then this oppressive god obeying Church nightmare. besides that. It's a great show
When I first started THT, the first season left me excited, not be able to wait for the next episode. It was such an interestingly portrayed story and the acting was wonderful. 2nd season? Not so much. Acting still good, but the episodes were much slower and boring. How many times do we have to see close ups of Offred's face for long shots? Like we get it. Definitely went downhill after the 2nd season. It all seemed forced. I will watch the 3rd season but I hope they wrap it up. It's not like Game of Thrones where it can go on for several years and never feel old. Handmaids Tail has one foot in the grave and the 3rd season I hope will be it's final push into the ground before the dirt goes over and covers the casket.


                
Is it interesting? Yes. 
Is it well produced? Yes. 
Is it slow? Pretty slow but intriguing. 
As to all the philosophers in this forum; oh brother. Too deep. 
Suspending disbelief is necessary to enjoy fiction. Especially about dystopian futures. Relax everyone, there is no way American society could possibly morph into anything remotely resembling this situation. They're (we're) too smitten with guns, pop culture self indulgence, fluff and celebrity worship to change in a narrow time frame as depicted. 
SJW's will see it one way, lefties, feminists, gays, multiculturals, trans whatever's all seem to have a finger in this one so to say I'm interested is about the sum of my feelings. Curiosity means I'll see it through (I'm at episode 5) but it's a bit "meh". Haven't read the book and not likely to. 
My rating is more a salute to the actors (excellent) and the production than any broader factors.


                
The storyline is intense and very well written,the acting is good. However, they use the Bible for evil which is very disturbing. They add stuff in there like they're quoting scripture but they aren't. Making the Bible seem harsh and cruel, omitting all of the love and grace which is 99% of the New Testement. What the characters are doing is not Christian in the least, not in the true sense. Making it look cold and twisted and cultish. Otherwise, great storyline.


                
How come only the commanders wives are unable to have children??
How come only the unfaithful and the "unchristian" women can bare children??
If there are "good Christian virtues" women who can get pregnant,like Eden,why aren't they the ones that bare a "good Christian baby" for the commanders?? 
If something effected the population targeting the reproductive system, how did it ""choose"" only the unvirtues women? Does inviorment effects or a virus are able,scientifically, to "choose" a victim according to their apparent Christian morales?!?!
The hole thing is an unexplained hole in the base of the story, totally ruining one of the best and and extremely well made TV shows...Very disappointing.
You can't argue with the power of the original story, and first series, but I'm not convinced subsequent series aren't an attempt to cash in on success. I started watching the second series but have actually stopped. That doesn't mean I don't miss some of the continuing powerful aspects - Elizabeth Moss is always intensely watch-able, and in the Commander and Aunt Lydia we have two of the most loathsome characters ever created on the small screen. Aunt Lydia is especially hard to forget. The most evil of women, the scriptwriters loved her character so much they made her appear in so many situations we start to lose track of likelihood. She is in many ways the embodiment in Gilead of the Daleks in Dr Who. She pops up in all sorts of totally implausible situations, looks almost quaint and cute at times, and then lets everyone see the coldness of her heart and the little alien mind within. She even moves a bit like a Dalek, and often carries a Dalek-like electrical prod.


                
I love dystopia. I really do, and I'm enjoying this series. I can't help but feel though there is this giant plot hole right in the middle, and it starts with the Republic of Gilead. These people are really weird. They're like a cult, yet the show never really explains how a crazy cult took over. Yes, this world has fertility and contamination problems, but hard times do not necessarily create huge cults.. 
In fact, most cults happen through brainwashing, but that's not what the flashbacks show. For instance, Nick decided to join the weird ones because he was having trouble finding a job. Really? The cult bigwigs decided to have the strange sex ceremony with their handmaids because they were afraid that it would upset their wives if they didn't include them? Are you serious? Unless you're a psychopath, it takes a lot to go in and kill unarmed people, hanging their bodies in a church. In the beginning, it shows Aunt Lydia brainwashing the handmaids, but in reality, she's doing a crappy job because I have yet to see a handmaid that truly embraces her lot in life, except maybe crazy Janine.Not to mention, you'd think that cult members would be a lot more fanatical then what is portrayed. I always think of cult members as having a devout religious fervor or an absolute total belief in their doctrine and leaders. After all, during the witch trials, huge swathes of people truly believed in witches. However, in the show, most of the characters don't appear to truly believe what they are saying. Maybe it's the actors, but because of this, the bad guys just seem like weird autocratic despots who murder, torture and subjugate their people like all dictators. Where's the outrage that started this cult mentality? The show mostly focuses on the suffering of the handmaids and doesn't really explain the shift in point of view. In fact, the show just takes it for granted that religious fundamentalists will automatically go out and slaughter people if contamination and fertility problems occur, and that all kinds of people will hop on board to support them. Seriously?I also keep thinking there should be a cult bigwig, like Jim Jones, Reverend Moon, or Big Brother. Don't cults need a savior? And who are all these men with guns who go around shooting and hanging people? Gilead is very well armed, but how did they get that way? I guess all these men are all supposed to be as stupid as Nick.In '1984,' Orwell showed how people could become brainwashed fanatics, and accept that 2+2=5. So far 'The Handmaid's Tale' has not shown this. Consequently, it doesn't really make sense and it fails to be a truly prophetic and thought provoking dystopia. I'm still enjoying it though. I'm one of those that usually gives a lot of leeway to television and movies as long as they're entertaining.


                
I loved the first season including the ending and for my money it could have stopped there.However, with the success of first season, I suppose it was a given that the series would continue beyond the book.Next season is still hauntingly beautiful and amazingly well acted, but the story is lacking it's core. We know that Gilead is pure evil and what it does to it inhabitants destructive, but there is a limit to how much of that you want on repeat. Season 2 has basicaly turned THT into a culture club version of "Walking Dead" with out the character development, the redeeming interpersonal bonds and the flickers of hope. Who wants to watch it ? Psychological flagellants ?


                
Okay, the acting and the screenplay and all the work done is impeccable. I watched it all in one day, it got me hooked but I was just waiting and waiting for some sort of good to come for this poor girl. Put through so much, I think it should have had 3 more episodes and got some revenge with the "eye" on her side with some sort of communication with her now found husband having some sort of army but in the end, it ends with her being thrown into a black van for most likely being punished for saying "no" to a ROCK THROWING EXECUTION.
I understand the business behind these shows. Stretch them out as long as viewership hold out.
One season would have been enough to interpret the novel.
Otherwise, it's well produced, acted and soundtrack is great.


                
