People aren't really falling for the negative reviews, right? As a dude who has watched it with his girlfriend, I need to agree that the negative reviews are ridiculous. I can imagine the same person thumbing down the real reviews. Lol. Pathetic.Mine is the only review you will need. j/kWatch it. That's it. Don't let some repressed and self-deluded person make your choices for you - they love that. Watch the first episode and decide for yourself. Do I believe it can happen? Maybe. Anything can happen. But the thing is, why are nutjobs taking it so serious if they don't think it could happen? If it's just a show with no basis in reality, why get all up in arms about it?I thought it was well done. It is entertaining and compelling. 8 out of 10 stars but my GF made me give it a 9. Heh. Joking aside, I'd recommend it.


                
Adapted from Margaret Atwood's novel by the same name, The Handmaid's Tale is a series of speculative fiction that shows what would happen if women's rights are taken away. A religious cult seizes the US government through a fake terrorist attack and holds power. In a world where most of the women are sterile, they take the fertile ones and assign them to be "handmaids" to provide children for the upper-class, using The Old Testament as their ultimatum. These handmaids are concubines—brainwashed, tortured, and led to believe that they have no other purpose but to serve as the child's vessel for the Commanders and their wives. First off, the storytelling is fantastic. It adapts the book very faithfully for about the first three episodes, and goes off tangent in some just to explore other character's subplots and possible narratives. The main focus of the story is the protagonist, Offred, but not only does the show give an interesting character study on the handmaid's rights and feminism, but it also exhibits the perspective of the so-called "antagonists"—the Commanders, their wives, and the other religious fanatics who shaped the world—and why they believe what they believe. The acting is undoubtedly great. Elizabeth Moss is the symbol of hope in this otherwise failing world, and she has a couple of outstanding performances in some of the episodes. Other honorable mentions are Madeline Brewer (Janine) who gives an impeccable amount of sympathy and empathy to her character, and Yvonne Strahovsky (Serena Joy) who for me is the most interesting character in the show because she's the grayest; others may see her as wholly evil but dig a little deep into her character and she turns into one of the most complex personalities I have seen in TV. The pacing is done well for the first four to five episodes, gets a little bit rocky in the sixth to eighth ones, but brings it back up again with the final two (and in my opinion) best episodes in the show. It does get tied up in some fillers and red herrings, and I believe that that one episode where it focused on an entirely different subplot for the whole of the hour is unnecessary, but on the moments where the show shines, it shines indeed. I love how the series uses a science fiction concept (industrial pollution leading to infertility) and translates that into a message about mankind (rights and feminism). I appreciated how it didn't need to use fast-paced action and loud and expensive CGI to tell its story. It only needed a realistic concept, a decently written script, a great score, and of course, fantastic performances. Among the episodes of the first season, my personal favorites were Offred (1.1), The Bridge (1.9), and Night (1.10). The Handmaid's Tale is brilliant. I was apprehensive at first, but the adaptation from page- to-screen is done well, adhering to the main plot with some minor changes to address some of the more ambiguous subplots in the book. The production is excellent, the muted red of the dress symbolizing the subtle but rising theme of feminism throughout the entire series. This show surpassed my expectations and the release is very timely and relevant. Entertaining and compelling, but terrifying at the same time. A dystopian future that has traces of the historical past. The Handmaid's Tale is not a show to pass on.


                
So for all those saying this couldn't happen here. Do you remember the puritan witch hunts of the 1600's? Your racism is showing if you come up with a criticism that there are too many interracial couples in the show.The good of the show: Sorry the show does not just show white men as bad. Some women in the show are equally as bad. Hell , l even the Mexican ambassador turns out to be a non-sympathetic figure because she is more interested in bringing handmaiden to Mexico. There are a good number of black men "the eye" soldiers as well. The acting is very good. You can tell these girls remember a time before the takeover. You can tell the religious group is desperately trying to make their lifestyle the new normal. the bad: Some minor criticisms must be said. If Offred suspected Nick of being a plant, why would she agree to have an affair with him especially after the first sex act with Nick being forced on her. I get that she is kinda doing it as a "fuck you" to Fred, and partially playing the men against each other, but i still think she would resist the temptation.
Looking over the reviews, it is clear who is leaving the 1 and 2 Star ratings. People who feel personally offended because the subject matter deals with religion - extremism, to be exact.Looking back at history, there is ample proof that religious extremism caused a lot of harm and spread fear through society. From the crusades to the Salem witch hunts. And yes, women were the ones most badly affected.Rather than watching this as a "could never happen", watch it as a cautionary TALE. It's fiction.If you're into organized religion, you'll probably hate this show. I suggest you don't watch it. If you're open-minded and have an attention span better than a 3 year old, this show might intrigue you. It did intrigue me. Yes, it starts slow but a couple of episodes in, the story unfolds. It starts in a middle, they'll fill you in on what happened prior. Patience, grasshopper. :)Excellent performance by all.


                
The Handmaid's Tale (2017):While I finished watching first two episodes of the Handmaid's Tale,I immediately searched the creator of this show but when I found out that this series is based on the book that was published back in 1985 novel and that too written by a female author Margaret Atwood,I remained awestruck.The dystopian tale of Offred and her female handmaid compatriots-forced by their own government to serve as incubators for the upper ranks of a new, religiously radicalized post-America unable to conceive-is rife with social commentary that is even more prescient in 2017 than it was in 1985, the year it was published.Plot:The Handmaid's Tale is the story of life in the dystopia of Gilead, a totalitarian society in what was formerly the United States. Facing environmental disasters and a plunging birthrate, Gilead is ruled by a twisted fundamentalism in its militarized "return to traditional values." As one of the few remaining fertile women, Offred (Elisabeth Moss) is a Handmaid in the Commander's household, one of the caste of women forced into sexual servitude as a last desperate attempt to repopulate the world. In this terrifying society, Offred must navigate between Commanders, their cruel Wives, domestic Marthas, and her fellow Handmaids--where anyone could be a spy for Gilead--all with one goal: to survive and find the daughter that was taken from her.My Review:"Ordinary is just what you're used to," an imperious taskmistress tells her charges in the first episode of Hulu's The Handmaid's Tale, which premieres April 26. "This may not seem ordinary to you right now, but after a time, it will. This will become ordinary."When it comes to content,The Handmaid's Tale is one of the most string contender I had ever seen in both film and TV.This series is is so realistically relevant to current social issues and even when the series is released after 10 years from now,it will still feel equally relevant.The Handmaid's Tale is even hard to watch few times as its violence is so gritty.Handmaid's themes - the cruelty and illiberal thinking of organized religion, the ease by which open democracies slip into authoritarianism as a result of misogyny - may well find an eager new audience.There are lot of powerful scenes in the series which really brings out the most revolting ideas from everyone. On a narrative level, "Handmaid" is at times at its most innovative when it's tracking characters who otherwise might have been lost, exploring in more detail just all of the factors which led to the fall of America and the rise of Gilead.On that latter score, in fact, the show makes full use of this opportunity to heighten the nature of the fertility crisis which, we discover, was instrumental in the political crisis which created this world. The haunting shots of empty maternity wards communicates so much about how possible this world could be, thanks to that sort of terror.Every detail of The Handmaid's Tale, from the distinctive costuming of the maids - massive hoods that shield their faces, making engagement with the world limited - to the supporting performances, hits exactly the right note.Elisabeth Moss's performance is one of the most powerful performances I have seen.Yvonne as Serena also stole the show with amazing performance.This is one of the rare shows where every actor deserves applause and even awards too.Visually too,The Handmaid's Tale is surprisingly brilliant.Cinematography is haunting at its best and bacground score is menacing.So,The Handmaid's Tale is one of the most affecting socially relevant TV Series of all time where aspect of the series deserves applause.My Rating 8.75/10


                
Some people might say this is just a show, its fiction, it can't possibly happen in real world..... But for me it felt like I'm watching the history channel of the last 40 years of my country after the revolution of 1979... Treating women as the second class citizen and denying their every rights... Publicly announcing that women are only good for making babies and nothing else... Public hanging ,public whiping, stoning women, cutting body parts(hand, feet, tongue, eyes, nose ...)torturing and killing anyone who tries to fight back raping prisoners(men, women, virgin...)this is not just a show, this is my past and present...
This series is magnificent. You can feel the energy of the environment. You can feel the passion & pain, the doubt & fear, the bravery & suffering of the characters. It's scary to think of something such as this occurring & also shows how much we have progressed as a society, especially woman. This series is what feminists fought to change, not today's BS about how there isnt a womans man mixed football team - these woman fought for real issues. I couldn't fathom having to live the lives of the woman in the past who had to endure a society as portrayed in this series. It's truly quite terrifying to think about. I love this series because it evokes emotions. It makes you love & hate characters, it makes you hopeful that they can overcome & survive the tragedy they're enduring. It's honestly excellent.


                
Frankly, I understand why people reviewing this timely and well-crafted series want to point out we are a long way from Gilead. It seems important to assert that we do not and would not want to live there. But I think it is just as important to note that in several significant ways things are moving in that direction. How fast and how permanently is open for discussion, but here are some changes over the last few months that match with aspects of "The Handmaid's Tale":TODAY: The Secretary of Education is in favor of voucher programs that will send taxpayer dollars to support Christian schools. GILEAD: Gilead's slogan is "God is a National Resource" and the schools are run by the theocracy.TODAY: As states begin to defund Planned Parenthood, and Republican legislators seek to replace Obamacare with a tax credit scheme that would exclude citizens of states like California and New York where insurers are required to provide abortion coverage in certain situations. These measures will decrease access to contraception and hollow out women's rights as defined by Roe v. Wade. GILEAD: Women's reproductive choices are completely controlled by the state. TODAY: Climate science is removed from policy-making, and the EPA is run by a person who routinely let industry write environmental regulations. GILEAD: Ofglen was a scientist whose prior employment would have gotten her sent to the colonies, if she was not fertile. TODAY: The presidential cabinet has more white men than that of any of the previous five presidents, including Reagan. GILEAD: Women were forced out of the workforce, and then barred from owning property.True, there is still a long way to go to get to Gilead, but "The Handmaid's Tale" is speculative fiction. The point is not that we should feel good we are better than Gilead, but rather we should be asking why are we moving in that direction?
I congratulate Atwood and the producers for getting this show on TV when it is so obviously about Islam. This show is set in a fictional Christian theocracy when it could be honestly set in modern day Saudi Arabia, Iran, Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan (the list goes on), each an Islamic nation.Where in the world do women have so few "rights"? Where in the world do women all dress the same with a head covering? Where in the world do they execute homosexuals? Where in the world do they still stone people to death?
Also, where in the world are women treated like little more than baby factories?
You guessed it!I'm guessing that the tiring liberal agenda of making white conservative Christian males the big bad guys was a leading factor in making this show. Perhaps this shows many parallels with Islam was coincidental.
In the not too distant future environmental changes have caused a massive drop in human fertility and chaos that lead to the fall of the United States and its replacement by the theocratic nation of Gilead. In this country woman are third class citizens and those who are still fertile are forced to bear the children of the ruling elite; these are the handmaids. One such handmaid is Offred; literally 'Of Fred' as she must work with Commander Fred Waterford, one of the architects of Gilead. Offred was previously June Osborne; when the United States fell she tried to escape to Canada with her husband and daughter but they were caught; she is then trained as a handmaid, her daughter given to another family and she assumes her husband is killed. Over the course of the series she starts playing Scrabble with the commander, something both of them know is illegal as women are forbidden from reading<U+0085> this doesn't mean she is well treated it is just that he doesn't seem to think the rules apply to him. Offred also learns that there are those who oppose the system; something that is very dangerous in a state where nobody really knows who can be trusted.This first season impressively introduces us to Offred and her life as a handmaid and the dystopian nation of Gilead. While it isn't very likely that the United States would collapse it is shown in a way that feels frighteningly plausible. It is helped by the fact that this near future doesn't really look any different other than the way people dress and the sinister black vans that the security forces drive. The way people dress gives the series a very distinctive look; most notably the red gowns and white hoods worn by the handmaids. The story can certainly looked at as a feminist tract but it can just as easily be considered as a warning against totalitarianism; women are definitely treated terribly in Gilead and we see this world through Offred's experiences but it is also clear that not all men have a great life there<U+0085> you certainly don't need to be a 'card carrying feminist' to really enjoy the series. The cast does a great job; Elisabeth Moss is brilliant in the roll of Offred, managing to display her emotion with the subtlety of a look. Joseph Fiennes impresses as Commander Waterford; a character who is sometimes sympathetic and at others menacing. Other notable performances come from Yvonne Strahovski as the Commander's wife, Max Minghella as his driver and Ann Dowd as 'Aunt' Lydia, the woman responsible for the Handmaid's preparation and supervision. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to fans of the genre; I can't wait for season two!
I was so looking forward for season 2 , but I m sorry I cannot stomach this much sadism and cruelty anymore. We are surrounded by horrific tragedies everyday that I find it too much to watch this kind of torture anymore. Pity because season 1 was amazing.


                
I didn't actually know there was a book or books until i read some of the previous reviews. I love this show, i was hesitant at first because of the religious aspect as i am athiest but now im totally in love with it. This isn't a review i just wanted to say that it's awesome and everyone should watch it. Nick is soooooooooo fine. UGH.


                
I read the book written by Margaret Atwood back in high school, and it was such a life-changing book. When I saw that Hulu was making a series on this, I fan-girled so hard! This series so far has captured my attention and stunned me. I am impressed with how close to the book it follows, and I am excited to see how they present the symbolism that was written into the book, into the series.No spoilers, but this is going to have you sitting at the edge of your seat, waiting for the next twist and turn. Though I already knew the story, I was still at the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next, and I couldn't stop watching. I binged the first 3 episodes in the same day because I couldn't get enough.Breath-taking camera work and WONDERFUL acting. The role of a Handmaid in the Republic of Gilead is extremely difficult, and the actresses that play a handmaid all do very well!IMPRESSIVE!!!!!


                
I'm seeing a lot of concerns if this is a feminist series but rest your mind. This is not a show about feminism, it is about human rights, and civil liberties. It's about what might happen when we take for granted everything western society has conquered since The Enlightenment. It's about what we would face if we let unreasonable fear and mythological beliefs control our minds. This is not a horror show, but it is a horror show. The reason is due the fact everything we're watching on the screen is happening around the world, so it isn't an impossible future (and that is very scary).The show depicts a society that has changed, but just a little. Changed just enough where those we know that would want everybody to return to some sort of Dark Ages has assumed control.Stop reading and go watch it now!


                
Some people might call it slow at times, but I feel like every moment is important and I am constantly waiting to see what happens next. I was drawn in quickly. The acting is brilliant. The concept new and different. You learn more as each episode comes on as to what has happened in the past to lead to this life. I can't wait for the next season to see what happens next!


                
I have big time watching this show, but it is not harmless, I did have a full night of nightmare, living through this dystopian society a full live action survival in a regime of lies and terror, tends to make me think of North Korea and some China Regime before the 80's..Actors are brilliant, and production a bit too clean for me, but amazing. I read some reviews, few where negative, without real explanations, the parallel between Isis and this aftermath Christian society, is not relevant, Christians in centuries used to harass, kill and rule minds and bodies by terror. I tend to think, this regime there is not christians (they destroy churches) but a wicked derivation of faith by the Book, which is the main problem that most religion are facing.


                
So, I started this show without knowing anything of it, aside it was a dystopical story. This is the most impactful TV series I have ever watched. And I think this is not so much because of the story itself (I've seen more tragic stories before), but it's because of the beautiful direction, montage, and choice of music, that makes this series stand out from most dramatic TV series and movies. It is really something breathtaking. So if you're into this kind of thing, you won't regret it. It's a very impactful and dramatic series. And you'll want to keep watching it, too! There are little to none boring moments, and basically 70% of it are very impactful and tragic moments, and that's a percentage I've rarely seen in something.Overall, it's an excellent show. Go watch it.Now, for the elephant in the room: so I've read some reviews before making mine, and a lot of people tend to politicize the show, and honestly it is getting pretty ridiculous. Honestly, I don't believe something like this could happen (in North America and Europe at least), I'm more for a Brave New World type of dystopian future. Anyway, even if you want to extrapolate a political discussion from the show, you should always be able to enjoy the show regardless. That's what I think at least.


                
I have been an IMDB member for some time but this is my first review. I enjoy this show so much, that I just had to say my piece. Though the show itself is great, I have to say it's Elisabeth Moss that really makes it. I enjoyed her in Mad Men and even more in Top of the Lake, but in this series, she is incredible. She says so much without saying a word; you feel as though you are going through this ordeal with her. I looked at many of the other reviews, especially the negative ones, before writing this. This show is not for everyone, but I was surprised at how many people gave poor reviews with the statement that the show was "unrealistic". Really?? It's television, of course it's unrealistic. Who wants to watch real life? The point of watching movies and series is to get away from the real world and momentarily be pulled into another reality. That being said, I think this show is very original and I got pulled in from episode 1. I was so looking forward to season 2 and after watching the premier, I am not disappointed. Thank you to everyone who creates this show but especially to the performance of Elisabeth Moss. Also, kudos to Alexis Bledel, I couldn't see you as anyone but Rory Gilmore, until now.


                
Motherhood is the purest gift, now corrupted by modern sins. It's not often when we came across a story which delivers such level of facts that we were forced to question our own morality. The Handmaid's Tale is a dystopian novel by Canadian author Margaret Atwood. Watching this you can't help but wonder that it's portrait on a woman's perspective. Think of it this way, a woman gives birth to someone else's child, someone she loves and dear. For nine months she takes<U+200B> care of his child and went through extreme pain. But if that someone is who she never met and had to obey in a life-threatening situation. Think about the psychological trauma she must have felt. This story has that kind of horrifying atmosphere.Women world is itself pretty scary, as their weapons are words. They strikes psychologically. To them giving birth to another life is a blessing, but when that power was taken from them, they felt envy towards those who can (here referred as the Handmaid). So they divided the society in two groups and became the power. They treated the handmaids as their slaves. Cruel as it is, I must say I felt like, no matter how much evil they can be it's them who were hurt the most. Their present twisted minds are the product of their long suffering. P.s these are not spoilers, just the way I felt.Watching the first three episodes I'm very impressed and am looking forward to how it goes.


                
I've read a few reviews about how this is timely because of what is happening in America. This is accurate, but it wasn't my first thought.I'm a "student" of North Korea, in the sense that I'm a layperson who has become rather well read on the subject. If you want to understand how the average person in North Korea lives and feels, watch this show. The public executions, the heavily patrolled borders, the ritualized public and private behavior, the rigid hierarchy, and the utter lack of free speech come to mind. It's important to draw this type of analogy, because it's easy to look at this show and think of how utterly impossible it would be in modern times. 25 Million people in North Korea are dealing with this type of evil totalitarianism, and it is arguably worse than the Handmaid's Tale.This is a dark show, with heavy emotional content. If you want something to escape and forget about your life, this probably isn't it. In the first episode, I felt things that hit me harder than I anticipated, and it didn't let up. I imagine that for most of my fellow women, this show will be difficult to watch at times.Let's get to the review though: -The cinematography is beautiful. It manages a surreal, ghostly type of feel. It is very distinct, and the look of the show complements the story perfectly. -The writing is nothing short of perfect. In addition to the social issues this show addresses, the writers have a great deal of skill with the simple craft of writing. This is not true of the majority of shows. For example, "Dear White People" deals with issues of prejudice and oppression, but the writers haven't mastered the basics.What does this mean in practice? The Handmaid's Tale featured a simple game of Scrabble between Offred/June and the Commander. Instead of being boring, I was literally on the edge of my seat, because the scene was fraught with tension, suspense, and mystery.None of the characters are all bad. There are countless moments of compassion for Serena Joy, Offred/June's (arguably main) opponent. Even though I hate her for tormenting Offred/June, I understand her plight. She helped create a movement that ended up harming her, and she's terribly conflicted about that.I'm surprised at how nuanced the Commander is, and I love what they do with his character. He's kind to Offred/June. He enjoys her company. Obviously, he's one of the chief antagonists of the show, because he is actively oppressing people.But I think this is deeper than that. This show explores, quite effectively, the harmful impact that sexism has on women, and men too.Even Aunt Lydia has moments of caring for some of the girls.The point is, they could have created one dimensional villains and left it at that. Instead, they chose to humanize the villains, and the conflict is riveting.


                
In the 1980s, author Margaret Atwood was dismayed by contemporary events including environmental pollution, anti-feminist backlash, and a rise in religious extremism. She chose to pen a cautionary tale. In what Atwood describes as "speculative fiction," we read the unfinished memoir of Offred, a woman from the future who has lived through the overthrow of the American government by extremists, and was thereafter condemned to life as a handmaid. That is, a walking uterus to carry the fetuses of high-ranking Gilead (as the country is now known) officials who have been rendered infertile by chemical pollution.The story was begging to be revived, and Hulu could not have chosen a better year. Most of the issues Atwood addressed are as timely in the late 2010s as ever. The transition from book to screen is also ripe with opportunities. Namely, Atwood's book provides a glimpse into Gilead, but a lot of questions are left unanswered. With ample time and a solid budget, the actors and behind-the-scenes talent expand on the novel beautifully. We see minor characters turn into powerful and memorable ones. Others are modernized, such as Yvonne Strahovski's Serena Joy. Described as an aged former televangelist in the book, Strahovski's Serena is more akin to a modern conservative media personality, a woman who helped build the movement that created Gilead, only to wind up imprisoned by it. She is also aged down to play more as a foil to our main character. A minor character known only as "Ofglen" in the book is given a full character arc. Ann Dowd as Aunt Lydia has an expanded role, and possibly the best in the series. She makes utmost cruelty sound rational and exudes empathy while doing terrible things. She is not a cliche "manipulator" but rather seems to have bought into the regime entirely.The first season is a close adaptation. Some events are moved around and tweaked slightly to better suit the narrative, but they are almost all intact. The show beautifully sets up the world of Gilead, its abuses and absurdities, and introduces us to a memorable cast of characters. The narrative structure of the book is largely nonlinear, and the TV series streamlines it a bit but keeps the reliance on flashbacks. For this reason, viewers unfamiliar with the novel might be confused, especially initially. The show does not hold our hands and tell us how the country got into this state. It throws us right in, and then it gradually unveils via flashbacks the characters living their normal lives and ignoring all the political turmoil. "It can't really be happening," "This could never happen here," "It must only be temporary," they all think. They don't try to escape until it's too late. That's the crux of the cautionary tale, as true in the '80s as it is now. Would you not think the same?The second season is almost entirely the work of the show's writers (only the flashbacks to Offred's mother are from the book). There are a few more missteps here; it especially suffers from a poor beginning, as if the writers didn't know what to do with the cliffhanger that ended the first season. Some of the characterization also becomes a bit questionable, as one character in particular ricochets back and forth between kind and pure evil every other episode. There are complex characters, and then there are characters whose personalities seem to change as the plot demands it, and a couple characters were suffering from that in season two. That being said, a new plot thread takes root by the midway point and gains a lot of momentum that results in the season being a powerful and worthwhile one. Season two is about motherhood, and about what it's like for women to be reduced to their reproductive value. It's about what it's like to be a woman and realize you must raise a daughter in that kind of world.The show has its weaknesses, including reliance on shock factor. Some sequences are straight-up torture porn, the opener of season two being the worst example. By its nature the show also requires Offred remain in the regime, and the writers of course want to keep all our main characters in the show too, so every time it seems like there's going to be a shake-up, the next episode seems to open with Offred back in the same house, with the same people. It's like treading water and gets frustrating after a while. In the book, Offred is not supposed to be a rebellious or exceptional person, just a woman thrust into horrible circumstances trying to survive. In the TV series she takes on a more cliche rebel's spirit, and the plot moves in that direction as well. It's fun to watch but also, well, cliche. There are also some rather drawn out flashbacks and sex scenes.All in all, The Handmaid's Tale is a well-acted, well-produced cultural touchstone. The show explores the rise of extremism in society and the role of complacency and denial. It explores not religion, as commonly stated, but rather the misuse of religion to justify wickedness. It explores what it means to be a woman. It's not a happy story, but it has moments of catharsis. It's well worth a watch.


                
Obviously I have prefaced this with the word read. I bought this book, and that would be the book written by Ms Atwood, for my seventeen year old daughter only a few months ago. Who knew, its now transcribed to digital media. And so it should be.Not quite like the book but close. The Black and Jewish questions for example were not addressed by the producers, which is a shame as it further cemented the casual bigotry within the Christian dystopian universe of the book.This is a political polemic written in 1985 by a woman who had her finger on a very specific pulse. She predicted an imagined future within a Christian society that is demonstrably, and indeed tragically, evident within some Muslim societies today, as it was of course back then. So this is a mirror, a juxtaposition.I am not going to wax lyrical on the merits of cinematography, as others have already done so. What I am going to say is that as an educator this effort is worthy of compulsory viewing for young women. Some men will not like it. Many Christians will not like it, nor should they.This production is an exceptionally good peace of work by the production crew and actors but most of all by the writers. Remarkable, awesome work, and thank you.As a footnote and having now watched episode ten in the first series I really, really like the negative reviews. The illiteracy, the frequent politically biased and often misogynistic sexism, the quiet apologists and, indeed in some cases, the overt Christian bigotry prevalent in so many negative reviews is just wonderful. If you doubt the veracity of Atwood's principle supposition then the negative reviews are also a must read, and if you do, pause and think again. I have no doubt that many of these negative reviewers would feel quite at home in Gilead.


                
I'm not a fan of TV series as I hate having to wait until the following week for a continuation (as I usually forget details of the previous episode), but this show is very easy to follow and keeps you wanting more!This is a great genre and done very well with great casting, directing and amazing cinematography! If you have been considering watching this, don't wait any longer!I would have given it 10/10 if the pace was a little faster, but still a well deserved 9/10 from me!


                
There are plenty of plot summaries in other reviews so I won't bother repeating. This series is so clever, so well acted and filmed that even when a scene freezes or goes into slow motion all the expressions captured are honest, true and heart-rending.Anything with the great Ann Dowd is always worth watching just for her performance alone. All of the leads are believable. I could not fault any of the performances and would give it a 10 but for a small amount of sagging in the latter episodes when large chunks of the action take place outside Offred's community. It is valuable to see just what is happening in the outside world, and to those who, after a lot of bravery and persistence, eventually find themselves back there, but inevitably some momentum was lost.Bravo to all concerned. I look forward to the second series.


                
What a brilliant yet tough and disturbing glimpse of a future that could very well be happening, and maybe that makes it even more disturbing. It's dystopian but very close to reality.I mean the movie from 1990 was alright, but this show tops it in every aspect. Elisabeth Moss is brilliant, the production value is immense (did not expect that), everything is top-notch! That is one TV show you can't and shouldn't miss. I don't know what else to say, expect it had such an impact on me, like i said, disturbing, tough and brilliant, and everyone should watch it!


                
