I can imagine some pretty bad endings. The "alternate ending" to Army of Darkness, for example, was terrible. End of Evangelion has that beat hands down. It was worse than Knights. It was worse than Beastmaster II. It was so bad, I just wanted to turn it off, but I watched the whole thing just to see if it would get better. It didn't.I loved Neon Genesis Evangelion the series. It was great - second only to Bubblegum Crisis, in fact. But I just can't forgive such a horrible ending. It was just really, really bad! I can recommend this film only so you can have closure and stop wondering what happens to all the characters.


                
If you liked this "movie" you probably are enjoying the emperor's new clothes as well. I was waiting for the moment when the animation would switch to actual film. Oh look there's an audience, and a crowded street. And an audience again, blurred to protect the ashamed, I assume. If you hated the last two episodes this "movie" doubles down on that trippy psychological lame excuse for controversy. The overt religious anarchy animation in "Pink Floyd's The Wall" was more palatable. I could have taken that Eva ending mess and edited it down to something watchable. I'm embarrassed for those giving this "movie" high ratings. Would love to see your top 10 list. Wow. Shocking waste of time.


                
The actual anime Neon Genesis Evangelion was chock full of problems. Budgeting, animation, writing and progression to name a few.But this movie was an attempt at one final trip through the mad world of this show. One final attempt at giving what was supposed to be an explanation to the chaos.In that regards this movie was both a catastrophic failure and a glorious victory. This movie was as true to the anime as possible. It began virtually before the infamous last two episodes. It carries the massive flaws of the anime such as the plot threads and te characters. Along with increasingly abstract use of art. The animation scenes were all wonderfully drawn and done. It was a real spectacle.Imploring techniques such as real life footage intermingled with the madness. The music is so emotional tuned it is astounding. From the unfitting cheerful music when people are screaming. To the piano keys playing in those lonely scenes.It gave the best explanation to the psychological problems of Shinji in such a relatively clear way with a monologue which cleverly took the approach not to show shinji during those times. It was as if Shinji would have been speaking out to the audience or actually occupying his cerebrum.Unfortunately the film goes sour with all the problems the series faced and some quite new to the film.One is the infamous Shinji/Asuka hospital scene. It is an example of a near out of character inappropriate moment. Shinji has never even looked at lad mags and was crowded with very open attractive females he never saw much interest in, found himself overcome over a comatose comrade. I mean there is a time and place.A lot of other characters don't really get the good send of at all. They abruptly end up deceased without a chance to express sentiments other than the ones out of the anime. Its as bad as x-men 3. It gets worse by the fact their deaths are unrequited later on such as Shinji failing to get his act together.The selfish and ridiculous problems get over exaggerated as to become amusing to think this is what humans are capable of. Shinji whines and is willing to die for NOTHING. Despite the fact everyone who ever tried to care for him or he has known is dying. His father distanced himself because he is schizoid. Yeah nice save there. A father who puts his only son through the horrors of piloting a robot against monsters and their is no concern. Or the fact he cares more for Rei. I find it impossible to believe that humans could ever be this selfish, pitiful, immoral and near worse than evil.Rei exists in this film as massive fan service. She exists as a magic genie let out of the bottle to grant wishes to Shinji.Asuka is the only character to actually get better but her triumphant glory is cut short. All the characters pretty much get worse or are no better than they started.Christian, Jewdaism, Kabbala are all used is a most nonsensical idealogical fashion simply because the Japanese think their alien and really don't care or respect them. The spectacle of the film is ultimately a hollow one where symbolism loses all meaning in its increasingly derivative use.But what makes this movie truly bad is the fact nothing really gets resolved. At the end of everything the characters have experienced with world changing consequences along with deep introspective looks, they are still the same. It gives no clear answer for how to deal with any of these issues.How disgusting indeed.
