Finally, after long last, I have managed to watch the End of Evangelion. It was worth any wait.  Those not familiar with the series will have no clue what's happening, so you should at least watch the first 24 episodes.  End of Eva takes place as an alternative to the last 25 and 26th episodes.  It may sound confusing, but trust me, if you just sit back and enjoy the ride, everything makes sense...even if not right away.The final Angel has been killed.  The 'hero' of the story, Shinji Ikari, now regrets doing it, as he was the only person who seemed to ever like him for who he was.  But there is no time to lament on personal demons, as the shadowy puppet masters in SEELE have set the final stage of their plan in motion.The dreaded Third Impact.  What's even more surprising is that the entire series shows one, giant plan to actually SPEED ALONG the Third Impact, as it could lead Humanity to it's next evolutionary step.  And so, Humanity will now rely on a weak savior who may or may not lead humanity to it's oblivion.  A hero who must first fight his own inner dragons, and come to terms with life, and love from himself and from others. As a response to the public outcry that the last 2 episodes were someone strange and had no "Mecha Combat", the End of Eva has enough of both combat, AND philosophical scenes.  A strange, but wonderful mix. 
Asuka's fight against 9 Evas is absolutely the most STUNNING visual fight sequence I have ever seen.  The energy and awesome scope of the battle is impossible to convey through words alone.Though Asuka's character is as flawed as Shinji's, she finds redemption in this movie.  Again, an amazing testimony of the Human Spirit and our will to live.  The emotional impact of this movie is also quite amazing.  It brings reality and the mind to question, and asks us if being individuals is better than being a whole.  Is life just a dream, and can we ever be Gods of our own Reality?  Those who have watched the last two episodes of the series will see instances where the movie and episodes combine and compliment each other. Finally, the animation is wonderful.  Creepy and breathtaking.  Powerfully deep, but also amazing on the physical conflict level as well.  This movie is EASILY a match for Akira and is an instant classic. 
Watch it with an open mind, and be prepared to be stunned. Be ready to question yourself.  Be ready to use your mind in ways you may have not before.  This is truly the End, and I wouldn't want it any other way.


                
I am at a loss for words to describe this work. It does for anime what Beethoven's 9th or Wagner's Ring cycle did for classical music. End of Evangelion combines intense action with emotional drama superbly. A number of scenes depicting graphic violence and sexual content will probably bother some viewers. These scenes, however, serve to underscore the themes of the movie for the most part.The animation is excellent and the music is great (and features a number of nice works by Bach) and the symbolism is truly rich and elaborate, involving many elements of Christianity and Judaism as the entire series is sort of a take on the Apocalypse. However, as many have already mentioned, watching the anime series before hand is necessary to even remotely understand what is going on.


                
Going into this movie I had just finished the EVA series and was mentally drained.The first part,Air,left me totally stunned visually and emotionally.All my favorite characters were dying!Than came End of EVA ............Shinji's scream epitomizes the entire movie.It delves into the deepest,darkest human emotion and experience.From the amazing choking scene to the heart drenching "Farewell mother" scene EoE is perfect.I rewatched Kaoru and Rei's speech 3 times in a row.And Yui's advice to Shinji left me in complete tears.As the credits rolled there I sat,tears strolling down my eyes,wide eyed,with my mouth wide open.People complain that it made no sense and they are right......to an extent.EoE makes you create your own movie.It is very mental as to what is happening.But what everyone (even Asuka) says to Shinji is so......deep and profound.....I will never see anything more meaningful,artistic,or emotional for as long as I live.
An epic series like Neon Genesis Evangelion comes to a close with the final installment, End of Evangelion. A masterpiece like Neon Genesis Evangelion should have an ending to live up to the show's greatness. End of Evangelion delivers and finally puts an end to the well told but complex story of Evangelion. With all the Angels defeated will SEELE be able to pull off its underlying ultimate plan? Will End of Evangelion bring the demise of the lovable characters of Evangelion? End of Evangelion starts off with the invasion of NERV as order by the secretive organization SEELE. SEELE is trying to seize EVA Unit 01 so they can start the Third Impact and realize their plans. The fate of mankind lies in Shinji Ikari who has psychologically given up at the start of the movie because of certain choices he makes. Meanwhile Asuka is being tormented because of her mother's death in the past.The movie has some of the best animating I have seen in an anime movie. The animation is fluid and smooth. It is very well done by I.G. Productions (who did Ghost in the Shell and FLCL) and GAINAX Studios. Although I am a fan of the original Japanese cast, the English dub of this movie is one of the best dubs I have ever heard in an anime movie. The sound quality is amazing on the DVD, boasting 5.1 Dolby Digital EX Surround Sound in both English and Japanese. The DVD also includes a bonus commentary track with the voice actors and actresses; led by the voice actress who does Rei's voice in the English dub. It offers a lot of insight into the movie.The story the movie follows is brilliant. Many fans of the series who were disappointed with the final two episodes of Evangelion; most think that End of Evangelion is an alternative ending. End of Evangelion tells the same story that episodes 25 and 26 but in the way the creators of the series originally wanted it. A great team like the one who made Evangelion would not change their artistic vision to meet the demands of lack luster fans. Director Hideaki Anno does an excellent in telling the story of the movie that puts Evangelion to a close.End of Evangelion only falls short in one aspect. Many fans of the movie find it confusing and do not get the full point of the movie. They are disappointed in End of Evangelion because they lack understanding of the story. But this is not End of Evangelion's fault. The movie does an excellent job of telling the story and any fan who wants insight into this movie should watch it with the commentary and read the synopsis. I rather not hand anyone the answers but let them take it upon themselves to go out to find them. Once fans understand everything that is happening in the movie, they will see why it is such a masterpiece.The movie End of Evangelion is one of the best movies ever created; it is second to none. The movie is excellent, the story development is incredible and the characters are brilliant. End of Evangelion is a true work of genius and deserves a perfect rating.


                
" How Disgusting" the last line of the movie may be in the minds of must viewers who see this film. This being an alternate ending to the post modern epic TV series Neon Genesis Evangelion. But although many viewers will probably leave either the theaters or their living room confused and dumbfounded this film is a great alternate conclusion to the TV series. The thing that makes this movie perfect is the fact that although one may not understand the details and significant plot points in the movie one can just marvel at the art direction and stunningly beautiful backgrounds present throughout the film. I myself am confused on some points of the film and the series but that does not harden my outlook on this film. Many hardcore fans have the luxury of understanding the plot and connecting the significance of each character to one another. I am glad that Anno gave us an ending that most fans agree is better than the TV ending. I think this film is a treat for all viewers and is one of the best anime movies i have ever seen. Even if one has not seen the anime TV series before, one can just marvel at the spectacular visuals displayed throughout the film and more importantly knowing the plot of the film is just a treat that adds to the films perfection. Overall even though this film leaves us a lot of questions the opportunity to find those answers makes this film and this film experience a reward for film watchers everywhere.Direction: 10/10 Art: 10/10 Acting: 10/10 Plot: 10/10 Sound: 10/10 Writing: 10/10 Overall: 10/10


                
A precaution one might want to take before viewing this is: if one HASN'T seen the series they are NOT going to get this. And even if one has seen the series they still might not get all of this, but that's the beauty of Anno's masterpiece Neon Genesis Evangelion: The End of Evangelion. This alternate ending to the series was released after fans complained about the series original ending. If you've seen the original ending you already know that the actual "ending" analyzes the characters Shinji, Rei, Asuka, and Misato. While episode 26 of the original series is a complete fixation on Shinji, everything that happens in that episode still happens to him in the last part of this. Only his decision reverses. This shows a much more dramatic and extended version of Episodes 25 and 26 however, and answers a lot of the questions that were left at the end of the series and does a great job generating new ones. If you're a fan of the original series then this is a must see because it's way better than the original ending.


                
Being a fan of both Evangelion and Anime in general, this movie was the best I've ever seen.  It takes the form of two episodes and serves as an alternate ending to the series.  Everything about this piece amazed me, from the brilliant animation, to the subtle and deep storyline, to the feeling of dramatic climax the series was building up to in the first place.  I have to say that Hideaki Anno managed to play my emotions like an instrument, and the effect is never lessened, no matter how many times I watch it.


                
Watching anime has always carried with it a social stigma: it is something for geeks, manchildren and perverts, not well-adjusted individuals. Of course there is the family-friendly, largely accepted anime of Hayao Miyazaki, and the teen-oriented action shows like Fullmetal Alchemist or Naruto, which are widely regarded as acceptable for the mainstream. But beyond that anime has a lot of unfortunate, 'problematic' tendencies. Anime idolizes cutesy and innocent girls in a sexual way, and in general treats women as sex objects, it has nonsensical, zany humor that seems infantile or incomprehensible to those encountering it for the first time, it is violent and graphic and often carries no 'message' for the audience, no lesson about inclusivity and solidarity. Anime fans also tend to get obsessed about anime. It seems to be addictive by its nature, drawing audiences in fantasy fulfillment and escapism, making them neglect 'real life' duties. Otaku culture is a big problem in Japan and is shunned by many anime creators, notably by Miyazaki himself.Which brings me to Neon Genesis Evangelion. Evangelion is often hailed as a deconstruction of the mecha anime genre, in this context meaning that it took a popular anime genre and did something different with it, examined how it worked and what made it tick, took it apart and assembled the parts into something new. Evangelion gained a rabid following and merchandise relating to the show is still super popular 20 years after it was on air. This is largely because the anime introduced popular female characters that otakus love to moon over: Rei and Asuka. Both of these characters, one mysterious and submissive and the other so-called 'tsundere' meaning she's willful and antagonistic but still in love with the protagonist, are endlessly copied in other anime. (Asuka's character is partly based on the title character in Nadia, an earlier anime by Hideaki Anno.) Neon Genesis Evangelion the TV show ran out of funds before its conclusion, forcing its creator Anno to come up with two ending episodes that infamously feature hardly any animation and are ambiguous and introspective. A few years later this feature film was produced to make up for the ending: The End of Evangelion. I expect that fans of the show were waiting for it excitedly - they were finally going to know for sure what actually happened to their beloved characters. But as the psychological and surrealistic undertones of the TV show hinted, this was a story that was less about the 'what actually happened' and more about the expectations of the audience, subversion of genre and introspection, and the feature movie The End of Evangelion was no exception.The End of Evangelion does tell the story - the literal story, not just what happened in protagonist Shinji's head. But the story might not be to the liking of fans. I don't know if Hideaki Anno purposefully wanted to insult his otaku audience and mock the entire anime culture, but it sure seems like it. The movie begins with Shinji masturbating to a comatose Asuka, a clear message on how disgusting it is to project sexual fantasies on a character that represents a vulnerable 14-year-old girl. The movie kills off every single one of the female characters that otakus love, and it does it in very frustrating ways. One survives a 12-against-1 battle only to find out that the enemies are actually undefeatable and the whole battle was a waste of time. She is eaten alive. One is blown to bits, another is shot offscreen, some are turned into orange jelly (though fans will be quick to point out that this represented only the death of their bodies, not their souls), and one grows into an alien giantess before decomposing and falling apart, her gargantuan pieces littering the landscape. And it also turns out that she was actually a clone of the protagonist's mother. (This we already knew from the TV show so it's not like we came into the movie expecting it to be another run-of-the-mill teen action adventure.) It is a brave endeavor, one that doesn't really care about what people think, concerned only with the vision of its creator. It's relentless, merciless and uncompromising. It makes no concessions - it doesn't even feature the iconic theme song of the TV show. And above all it is beautiful. It is animated smoothly, the giant robots move with the weight they deserve, the colors and compositions are expertly crafted and there are many images that will stay with you in your daydreams and nightmares and that you will come across on the Internet message boards several times. The voice actors do a chillingly good job - the shrieks are so horrible that I don't know if I ever heard anything as moving in any horror movie. I haven't seen the English dub so I can't comment on its quality.The End of Evangelion is a robot action movie, and a good one, and it is a psychological movie, and a horror movie, and a science fiction movie, but it is also more than that. It manages to also be a commentary on anime itself, the state of the industry and the culture surrounding it. But it is also a look into the mind of the individual. At its heart it concentrates on why people do these things, why we become obsessed, alienated, violent, and the answers are found in the mechanics of the mind, and The End of Evangelion shines a light into the dark reaches of the human psyche.
This is the official ending for the saga, meaning the last two episodes weren't after the mass disappointment from many of the fans of the NEON GENESIS EVANGELION TV series. This time, we now take-off where episode 24 left us, where we find Shinji in a traumatised state after killing the final Angel and Asuka in a coma. The soldiers of SEELE and the 9 new Eva units created by SEELE have been sent to attack NERV, whilst Gendou Ikari tries to bring Third Impact into the world with the help of Rei. Nothing is able to stop Third Impact, except for mankind's only hope, which is in the hands of the disturbed Shinji Ikari so he can bring an end to the destruction. Can Shinji save the world in the final battle of mankind or will the world be turned back to nothing? When I saw this, I was blown away. It was absolutely impossible for me to look away from the screen, even after sitting through the end credits, I was just sitting there with tears rolling down my cheeks and thinking of nothing, except for what I just saw. It was also really hard to put the DVD back in its case after finishing the NEON GENESIS EVANGELION saga with this film. It was so sad to see the series end like this, yet it was so good to see the series end like this. The soundtrack was even more haunting than any of the songs played in the TV series, especially songs like 'Komm, Susser Tod' and 'Thanatos - If I Can't be Yours'. The dialogue was excellent, including the conversations between Shinji and the people he cared for. The battle scene between Asuka and SEELE's 9 Eva units is very bloody but beautiful as well (sorry to sound like psycho). It was also really sad (for the EVANGELION fans that is) to see a lot of the characters who we got know and care for a long time in the TV series, see them for the last time on the screen.This film can really make you ask questions to yourself like 'will we be reborn after we die?', 'would everything be better if humanity ended and then reborn?', 'is destruction really a bad thing?' etc.NEON GENESIS EVANGELION: THE END OF EVANGELION is without a doubt, the deepest film I've ever seen and probably ever will see and thankfully there is not going to be a sequel to this film, and that's the way it should be.Thank you so much Hideaki Anno for giving us the proper end to this awesome saga.


                
WARNING: This is nothing but SPOILERS!!!!Anno had planned to made this untoppable ending from the very beginning, not because fans sent him death threats. In episode 25 of the series there are scences that forshadow exactly how misato and ritsko die in EoE. He had planned this from the beginning. why? b/c Anno is a genius.I actually liked the ending to the series more than the one in EoE. The series was a benevolent, happy, empowering ending, and EoE was just a depressing, hopeless and insane ending. What made the series ending so good was that it was a self-help guide to how to take control of your life and love yourself for who you are. Anno wanted to teach his audience that they could love themselves and be happy about their life no matter what. He gives step by step instructions and walks the audience through their own mind. That is why the last scence of the entire series ends with "Thanks to all the Children." The children are the audience that sat down and viewed the entire series and now understand how to be happy with their lives. Anno is helping people that might be depressed in their life to see that you are the one in control of your life and you can be happy if you will yourself to. Anno boosted the self-esteem and empowered every person who understood the ending to the series and thats why he thanks the "children" for attending his self-help video seminar. It was a terrific public service to teach people how to love themselves, and I personally think he should recieve the noble peace prize or at least some kind of award for all the lives he changed.EoE was very different than the series ending. There were similar psychological elements laced throughout the movie but on the whole the tone and atmosphere and underlining messages were completely different. Anno must have been going through some disturbing times in his life when he made this movie. Its so different from the series that it is hard to believe that it came from the same person. and that is what makes Anno a genius. He thinks outside the box.there is no box.11/10best movie/series/concept/anything ever.
Like all instant classics, End of Evangalion has aged well. One of the most impactful movies put before my eyes. Disturbing, nightmarish, haunting and beautifully poetic, End of Evangelion is the gold standard for how to end an Anime series. Hideaki Anno's masterpiece, and one of my all time favorite films. This sites 'Did you know?' section is absolute must for any fan, and reads more like an insiders look at Apocalypse Now or a Robert Altman film. Clearly a labor of love, far more than the sum of its parts - everyone involved clearly poured their life essence into their respective obligations.Understatement? To say this isn't for everyone! But those who make their way through the series, do their homework, and understand what this film fulfilled will be rewarded with emotions they didn't know they had. So good it hurts, and will indoctrinate one completely into the adult animated world that only can be accomplished by Japanese culture. Thank Goodness for Anime!Glad to revisit: 10 out of 10


                
Everyone has a film or television show they've seen which causes for them to curse at the screen, wishing that they could rank their favorite of films something higher than a ten, because it has such a godliness to it which makes it far greater than anything believable by man!'Neon Genesis Evangelion' (my respect for that name and it's franchise dose not change that it is a real mouthful); it is my favorite anime, and it is the only film and series where that all applies to me. It is my favorite television series and the film sequel of it, 'The End of Evangelion', is my favorite animated film. In a brief review of 'Akira' I had posted some time ago (under the different user name of Real77), I had written how I consider 'End of Evangelion' and 'Ghost in the Shell (the film)' the greatest of anime films; 'End of Eva' is my favorite of animated films, and that the movie has such a small rating (currently) on IMDb astounds me, though, I understand that, because anime is still obscure enough that such a movie like THIS can be overlooked, animated films (which are not 'End of Eva') from the United States (particularly) which are targeted for children and which will continue making the mainstream idea of animation something targeted towards children, will be the films with the better rankings. Why; because anime is so obscure and not known (as I had said), while 'WALL-E' is 'oh so cute' / 'so realistic and so three-dimensional' / 'so Pixar and so advertised well, and so not foreign.'. Not all anime films have been neglected by American critics and more mainstream audiences ('Spirited Away' was, indeed, a fantastic film, though it is far more a Disney film than 'End of Eva' and most anime series), but 'Spirited Away' is not my favorite animated film, though 'End of Eva' is not a perfect film in any sort of way. I'll try explaining the film without spoiling any of it. It is not a 'stand-alone film' and no person could appreciate the film unless they had seen the twenty-six episode series firstly. 'End of Eva' is as the title says; it serves as the show's closer and it depicts the end of the world, and then it depicts the rebirth of the human race. The film begins before when the series ends (the last two episodes of the series take place probably after the first scene where Shinji is featured and then throughout the first half until when Shinji regains his psyche). The rest of what happens after the first half is up to you for interpolation, humble viewer of the film (because this film is difficult to understand if you haven't the care to figure it out, though there is nothing too confusing in it to out-weird something like 2001's ending). As the title of my comment reads, the franchise is a psychodrama, where the central conflict of the story is about why Shinji pilots the Evangelion and not really about if he can pilot the thing or if he can defeat the Angels; the film's central conflict is of Shinji trying to understand what makes him happy and by what means he can achieve happiness.The artwork in the show was never amazing, though the film has a nice detail to it's art that the series lacked, because of budget-cuts. The score is fits well with everything going on about in the film ('Komm Susser Todd' is the most depressing and yet hopeful song I've heard in a long while) and the adding of classical pieces is a nice touch also.That this film has such a small ranking really amaze me, but you can change that members of IMDb. Watch the series and this film...please...because few films have had such an fullness and effect upon me as this movie. 10/10


                
This is the best anime movie i have ever watched. The series was also the same...just simply amazing. It's not only the best anime but also the best...thing! It's deep, thought provoking, philosophical, interesting and many other adjectives that add up to one comment..if you haven't watched NG Eva, you haven't watched anime. Or anything else for that matter. It is simply not meccha robots fighting angels and the teenage angst of 3, 14 year old kids..everyone seems to have problems and all of them cannot be solved easily...therefore you are forced to take a journey into the depths of the human mind realise that not everything is as simple as it seems...just watch it.


                
I can't even begin to imagine what it must have been like for a Japanese audience seeing this film for the first time on July 17, 1997; watching the opening shot of a piece of metal from an electric power pole falling into a lake, foreshadowing Instrumentality to the contrasting, yet coexisting red & white colored beach at the end of the film. The End of Evangelion is a one of a kind film experience unlike any other; it is a very experimental, unorthodox & challenging film that offers a satisfying finale to the beloved TV series. Almost twenty-two years have passed since the film's release, & EoE's themes provided some social commentary on the problems faced by Japanese society that are still relevant today; I'll elaborate in the fifth paragraph, but I'll give some context here. The 1990's was known as the Lost Generation of Japan: a time plagued by economic recession, severe unemployment, & uncertainty. This was when many youths started to give up on life and became shut ins (or hikikomori as the phenomenon is known in Japan). Those problems are just as serious today, as they were in the past; which are no longer limited to Japan. With the rise of the internet, social isolation is becoming more of a issue. It is a topic that transcends cultural and language barriers; meaning EoE's humanistic message can be appreciated by anyone in the world.This film is structured like two long episodes put together, which was intentional. Episodes 25 & 26 were originally supposed to be made in the way EoE was envisioned; the only reason the TV episodes were made the way they were was because of either one and/or all three significant factors: a budget shortage for the animation, censorship concerns, & a failure to reach production deadlines. So the TV episodes showed a subjective, surreal presentation of Third Impact & the last stage of the Human Instrumentality Project. After fans expressed their dissatisfaction for the original conclusion, combined with NGE's massive popularity in 1996; the show's sponsors were convinced to greenlight the films production. Hideaki Anno & his creative team at studio Gainax teamed up with Production I. G. to create the film that would deliver the end of Evangelion.Taking place shortly after Episode 24 of the series; the film begins with Shinji all alone & traumatized by the events of the show. Asuka is in a comatose state, while Rei uncovers the truth behind her creation. All of the Angels are defeated & commander Gendo Ikari possesses the key components to begin Instrumentality, with a goal that diverges from that of Seele. Desperate to prevent their plans from being sabotaged, Seele orders the Japanese Self Defense Force (JSDF) to lead a violent attack on Nerv headquarters; in order to execute the three Eva pilots & seize control of the Evangelion units to enact their version of the Human Instrumentality Project. Once Third Impact begins, the fate of humanity rests in the hands of Shinji Ikari to choose between the destruction or rebirth of the Human Race.The characterization has always been the core strength of Evangelion; voice actors Megumi Ogata, Megumi Hayashibara, Yuko Miyamura, Kotono Mitsuishi, Fumihiko Tachiki, Motomu Kiyokawa & several others deliver riveting performances. Shinji continues on from the series emotionally distraught and despondent over killing Kaworu. His friends Toji, Hikari, & Kensuke no longer live in New Tokyo 3 (most of the city was destroyed in episode 23), he's too afraid of facing Rei after learning the truth behind her existence, he's feels hurt by a cold indifference he perceives from Misato after Kaworu's death, his father has never really cared about him & Asuka is in a coma. Because of all those factors, Shinji virtually doesn't even have a support system, also his mission as an Eva pilot has been fulfilled and he's no longer of use to anyone; as a result, he has completely given up on life at this point. However, due to forces beyond his control & Rei making him the arbiter of Third Impact, Shinji not only makes the choice to allow humanity to continue to exist, he also finds value in himself and decides to make choices for himself & go on living in the hopes that he will find happiness one day. Asuka has withdrawn into herself more than Shinji has; she is unable to synchronize with her Eva, leaving her pride & sense of worth shattered. All of that changes when Asuka's mother reaches out to her from the core of Eva Unit 2 during the JSDF's assault on Nerv; this is an important step for Asuka, by not closing herself off, she finds newfound strength by reaching out to someone. She is still the same brash person from the series, but she is far more kind & accepting in the final scene of the film. After the death of the first two Rei clones, Rei III shows signs of exerting a strong sense of independence (shattering Gendo's glasses). At the beginning of episode 26, Rei absorbs the Adam embryo, and is assimilated by Lilith. She becomes the catalyst for Third Impact & chose Shinji to grant the wish of whether to accept or reject Instrumentality; all of this will end in her death, but she accepts this choice for the good of humanity. Even Gendo has a touching scene of redemption before Instrumentality is complete.There are several scenes throughout the film that strengthen the themes from the original series; the hospital scene at the beginning is one of the most disturbing exhibits of the damming, negative & gross effects isolation has on a person in all of film (considering the internet age we live in, this sense of isolation has only gotten worse; which is one of many reasons EoE is more relevant today, than it was in the past.), being up there with any scene in Stanley Kubrick's The Shining.
The scene prior to Instrumentality that recreates a similar scene that occurred in episode 15; Asuka confronts Shinji's weakness & insecurities, forcing him to realize the reality of the mistake he made at the beginning of the film, as well as his fears of being rejected & abandoned by other people, leading to Third Impact. Several scenes that occur during Third Impact: such as the stream of consciousness where audio conversations of rejection and romantic relationships ending are being played. The scenes of both empty and crowded movie theaters, crowded & active city streets, along with a shot of Kotono Mitsuishi, Yuko Miyamura, & Megumi Hayashibara are juxtaposed with Rei & Shinji's conversation about using fantasy to run away from reality that directly confronts the audience by holding a mirror right in front of them, providing them glimpses of reality that should be cherished & embraced, not as something to run away from. Rei & Shinji's conversation culminates in a optimistically, triumphant declaration of human individuality & relationships (thinking about this scene still makes me tear up.). The final scene of Shinji & Asuka on the beach together; alongside Private Joker from Full Metal Jacket, this minimalist scene of contrasting red & white colors is one of the most beautiful depictions (and more optimistic than FMJ) of the Jungian Duality of Man concept in all of cinema for conveying coexistence, no matter how fragile or difficult it may be.
All of the themes & social commentary from the series are carried over to the film: facing reality, anti-escapism, death & rebirth, identity, collectivism & individuality & isolation are examined & given a resolution by the film's conclusion. Which are reinforced by Anno's numerous symbols: electric power poles, water, birth related imagery, octagonal & hexagonal patterns, the colors red & white, trains and among others, all contribute to the themes of the film.Anno's style of filmmaking is at it's finest in EoE, utilizing a wide range of filmmaking techniques & visual styles. Everything from uncomfortable close ups & overhead shots to unconventional shot compositions & superimposed images are used to great effect; even text is shown on the screen (including flashing images of positive fan mail & one single death threat. Source: fan translation on EvaGeeks.). EoE also boasts some of the finest animation produced in any country; standout sequences include the JSDF strike on Nerv, Eva Unit 2's fight against the Mass Production Evangelion Units, & the Third Impact scene are some of the most striking and memorable moments in the whole film.I wanted to have my review posted before NGE & End of Eva was released on Netflix. To everyone who decided to read this, thank you all and congratulations. I will review all of the Rebuild films after the final one is released.
Symbolism, great plot and memorable scenes make The end of Evangelion the best movie based on a TV series. This movie is the continuation of the best anime of all time, Neon Genesis Evangelion, so if you haven't watched Neon Genesis, you shouldn't watch this movie, otherwise you will feel confused and the movie may feel pretentious.


                
Warning: spoilers in the second to last paragraph of this review the rest is spoiler free.In 1995 Neon Genesis Evangelion aired on television for the first time, and it immediately became one of the most popular animes of all time, As the the show went on it became more and more controversial with each passing episode, because the show started out as an action anime with a deep and complex plot, but towards the end the show started to become detached from reality and became a sort of surrealist existential show about what it means to exist. The shows massive change in style left many viewers unsatisfied with the ending, especially the last two episodes, which contain some of the most insane stuff you will ever see in your whole life. So in 1998 the directors of the show, Hideaki Anno and Kazuya Tsurumaki, released an alternate film ending for the show, and that Film was Neon Genesis Evangelion: The End of Evangelion.Before anyone asks, yes, you need to watch the anime before you can even think about trying to watch The End of Evangelion, and I know this is going to be a controversial statement, but the show is good enough that even if you didn't need to watch in preparation for The End of Evangelion, you should still watch it just because of how great it is, Neon Genesis Evangelion is one of the most creative and experimental shows of all time. The show/film is about an insecure Japanese teenager, Shinji, who is asked to become a pilot of a giant mech suit, when the city is acted by strange creatures nicknamed "angels." Shinji's distant father is the leader of the government operation know as NERV, which controls the Eva's, (or the giant mech suits). There are two other kids who also pilot Eva's, both of them girls, that Shinji has a hard time getting along with. As the show goes on it becomes clearer that it is not about some alien invasion, but a character study of Shinji, and more importantly about his purpose in this life. End of Evangelion, continues from where the third to last episode left off. (Well actually it's tough to tell if it's a continuation of the last two episodes or a complete replacement.) I should say that I'm not going to be talking about the plot of the film, because it would be impossible to do so without spoiling Neon Genesis Evangelion. But, in order to try and satisfy all of the shows fans, the film attempts to blend the insane, intense action of the first half of the show, with the surrealism of the second half of the show. Did I say attempts? I meant flawlessly, it flawlessly blends the action of the first half, with the surrealism of the second half.It's animation perfectly matches the story, insane, beautiful, layered, and unforgettable. There are so many memorable images from The End of Evangelion. The last time I saw a film that had so many creative visuals, would have probably been The Holy Mountain, or 2001: A Space Odyssey. Actually End of Evangelion shares a lot with both of those films, the one major difference would be that End of Evangelion focuses on a single boy, while those other films tell much more broader stories. Evangelion tells the story of Shinji his experiences, his struggles, his weaknesses, and most importantly his purpose. At the end of the day that really is what the Evangelion series is all about purpose. Shinji has been struggling with the reason for his existence ever since the beginning of the show. Before the show began he thought he had no purpose, but when he was recruited by NERV he suddenly had a purpose, so he then thinks that he exists solely to pilot the Eva, and without the Eva, there would be no need for him. This creates a sort of symbiotic relationship between Shinji and the Eva, (because the Eva needs him to pilot it after all). Warning next paragraph contains spoilers.The ending is one of the most heavily debated endings of all time, Shinji and Asuka are lying on a beach somewhere after they have separated from the rest of humanity. Shinji then sees Rei floating in the distance, Shinji tries to strangle Asuka, but eventually stops, Asuka then says them that changes depending on what version you saw, it could have been "How disgusting," or "what a disgustingfeeling," or "I feel sick," depending on which version you saw. The film then cuts to black and ends, leaving people everywhere trying to decipher the cryptic ending. Here's what I think happened, Shinji had separated from the rest of humanity, but after he did that he realized how much he missed everyone, symbolized by Rei appearance in the distance. Shinji longed to bewith someone else anyone else, even if it meant that he would be hurt, so Asuka appeared, (she was the one he really loved after all.) Shinji then tries to strangle her, because she hurt him. He then gives up because he never had the ability to kill humans. Think back to episode 18 where Shinji refuses to kill the infected Eva-03 unit because it might kill the pilot inside. Asuka then says her line, which basically just shows her complete disgust at how pathetic he is, remember how much Asuka hated Shinji self-loathing, how she made fun of him for always apologizing even when it wasn't his fault. Neon Genesis Evangelion: The End of Evangelion, is as beautiful as it is mysterious, the film is one of the ones that just causes your mouth to drop when you see it for the first time, and every time after that.9.8/10
This film has to be the greatest, scariest, deepest, and darkest film ever made. It was created as an alternate ending to the amazing anime series Neon Genesis Evangelion.The film is equal parts action, psychological bad trip, and eye candy. The fight with Unit 02 against the EVA series was mind-blowing, and I was literally cheering for Asuka to tear them to shreds. The imagery and symbolism were downright disturbing, and the ending was one of the most apocalyptic endings imaginable. After the film was over, I was sitting on the couch in a state of shock, and stayed that way for about 10 whole minutes.If you are a fan of anime, love Evangelion, and enjoy films like Akira, I implore that you buy this movie. They are making two more films about Evangelion, one animated and one live-action, but I'd be willing to bet everything I have ever known and loved that they will not upstage this masterpiece.
This film is absolutely wonderful, but I have to insist that you see the 26 episode Neon Genesis Evangelion series first. Of everyone I have spoken to that did not like this movie, all of them say that it didn't make any sense, and I later found out that they hadn't seen all of the show first. Seeing the show is essential, but it's worth it, both the show and the movie are fantastic!


                
Don't rent this movie, don't wait for it to pass on TV, BUY IT NOW! It is truly a masterpiece! You might not appreciate it at 100% or understand the genius of it the first time, but you might the second, third, fourth or fifth time? You will watch it on and on!


                
Seeing that you're on this IMDb page, you have likely either already seen this film or have just found out about it through its relation with the anime series, Neon Genesis Evangelion. That show carries a hugely polarizing reputation within the community, in no small part because of its last two episodes. NGE was a series that defied many viewers' expectations, with some claiming it to be an outright deconstruction of its genre. Finishing the story with bizarre, underwhelming animation and psychological evaluation of its characters that undercuts all narrative advancement, left almost everyone baffled. It seemed like something was missing. There had to be some kind of sequence that would re-contextualize the ending and Gainax was unable to animate it with the show's rapidly declining budget. So, naturally everyone was intrigued when they discovered this film, and believed that it would address all of those concerns. End of Evangelion is not for the faint of heart. It is not a conventional horror film per se, but it is filled some of the most grotesque and appalling visuals I have witnessed on screen, animation or otherwise. Everyone watches this movie for the first time expressed the same traumatized feelings that its characters. This film has no concern with easing the viewer into this nightmarish world. Just a few minutes in, you'll see one the movie's most deplorable acts, and it just never lets up. Yet for every gory action scene and sequences displaying the worst things humanity is capable of, there is a counter weight of hope and love for mankind that comes into focus after much examination of the film. It may seem that EoE relishes in a nihilistic worldview upon first viewing, but it all comes down to reconciling the difficulties of human emotional connection and companionship. There is phenomenal animation, directing, music, and editing that all feed in to the film's message. The Komm, süsser Tod scene has got to be the most emotional scene I've ever witnessed in film.If you have yet to watch this film, just make sure you have watched the Neon Genesis Evangelion TV anime beforehand. That certainly goes without saying, but otherwise this confusing film will be downright nonsensical. I would recommend watching this at night and not under the influence of anything. If you know someone who has already seen this, it would be a good idea to watch EoE with them so you can more easily unpack its narrative and themes. I like to inform people that I view this film as more of an extended ending to the show, rather than an alternative one. I and many others feel that even though the events appear completely different, the characters arrive at the same point as the show's ending.Of course, if you disliked NGE, then I would not recommend this film; it's not going to change your opinion in the slightest. For everyone who's interested, please give it a chance. You'll feel a pit in your stomach after your first viewing, but hopefully you can feel like that you have gained just a bit more insight into the story and themes. If that's true, don't hesitate to re-watch it. You'd be surprised how much this film gives you on repeat viewings.


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion is the greatest television show ever made, so it's only fitting that it's concluded by one of the greatest films ever made.The complex, intertwining character arcs of the original series collide in a beautiful, apocalyptic nightmare. A nightmare which visually conveys the internal conflict of our main protagonist, Shinji Ikari, in manner that is anything but clear at face value. With haunting imagery and piercing, impacting sound work, this film is a cinematic treat to behold. If you enjoy the weirder sides of films, then this is definitely for you.The lack of a succinct, storybook ending allows for a lot of analysis so even months (or years) later you'll still be thinking of it.I love it, and feel no review (especially one of this size) can do it justice. Watch it (after the show) and if it doesn't work for you, then that's fine. However, if it does, I can promise you it will become one of your favorite films of all time.
TIPS: watch this together with death and rebirth and episodes 25-26 of the series. By doing so, the best sci-fi experience/ masterpiece ever to achieved is here, and i doubt i will ever come across another experience that is as close to the scale as this one...no words could describe how unforgettable this (and the final moments in the series) managed to pull off so many intricate elements so beautifully. Some of the scenes are painfully breathtaking, epic and memorable. It is as heart-wrenching as it is as mind-wrenching. And these 2 movies with episodes 25-26 of the series really put me into deep thought of many things that we take for granted, while at the same time in awe of how cleverly it was created to relate to many hidden psyshological or philosophical issues. Some people despise anime for their 'ridiculous amount of philosophical thoughts' but it is shows like these that constantly make us think ahead , or looking back, challenging and reminding us of who we are and what values we should continue to uphold...


                
I am reviewing here the whole TV series plus this ending. Note: these are the actual final episodes of the TV series that should have been and the quality of the production is lower than those of a typical feature length animated film, such as those put out by Ghibli.So, well, lets see: This series is pretty much the most over the top / pretentious thing ever made. Specially this cinematic ending: It beats the Tree of Life in terms of pretentiousness as ending is pretty much the film the Tree of Life, plus giant robots and psychologically problematic characters. Watch it if you love over the top stuff, this makes other over-the-top stuff such as Akira look like Avatar.Also, Hideaki Anno appears to show his middle finger to the nerds who watched this film in the final 15-20 minutes he indeed says: stop watching TV and go live a little!I note that I gave The Tree of Life a rating of 1/10 while this would have a rating of 9/10. Why the massive difference? Well, for one thing, this film is a million times faster and lots of stuff happen during it, while in the Tree of Life, nothing happens. So it could hold my attention during its whole 82 minutes, where more stuff happens than in most 140 minute films. Highly recommended for the nerd inside you. : )


                
This movie is incredible because of the use of literary devices and how they shape the plot. This may be a problem because not everyone can understand how these devices are being used. However, when these devices are interpreted it's easy to realize that this movie was written by a professional. Shinji Ikari is the main character of this story. He is the main focus of the entire plot. He has psychological issues due to how he was raised and the time/place of his birth. An organization known as STEEL decided that humans cannot evolve anymore. They believe that the only solution is to change the way life exists. With that said, doesn't it seem like there is a connection between Shinji's problem and STEEL's solution? Shinji deems himself a worthless coward who does not know how to help himself. He has terrible social skills because of his inexperience and chronic fear of failing. When analyzing why STEEL wants to progress the evolution of humanity we can find answers. The main reason would be that humans are not perfect. Asuka, Shinji, and the rest of the HUMAN characters have problems. When proceeding through both movies we find that these life issues have negative affects on these characters though out their lives. There are not many high points in their day to day lives. From this we can see that this is happening to other humans. This is why STEEL decides to progress the evolution of mankind. They believe that reaching the end of evolution will bring complete happiness and end humanity's imperfections. This is what Japan is known for in writing. The Yin Yang symbol is used as a template for the bare bones of this plot. For those who don't know the meaning of this symbol, I will explain. It isn't as simple as good vs evil, but it's close. It means that good contains evil and evil contains good. Basically, good and evil are the same thing, but are different because of what they are. In short, opposition is caused by difference. STEEL is portrayed as evil in this movie because they are the ones who oppose Nerv. They invade Nerv and steal precious items such as certain Eva's. However, they have good intentions. They want to fix humanities' flaws. Shinji is the opposing force of STEEL. He is the light. However, evil lies within him to a certain extent. If you disagree, remember when he choked Asuka. Shinji Ikari represents the problem that STEEL is trying to fix with their plan. He is the one who has to pilot EVA UNIT 01 and keep the plan going for eternity. He also symbolizes humanities decision for STEEL's solution.When reality changes for Shinji, he experiences the alternate life that STEEL created. It is a world where everyone is at peace with one another. A world with where you are completely alone except for the physical representations of "The hope that humans may one day learn to understand and accept one another." and the words "I Love You,". The physical representations are Rei and Lilith. Shinji finds out that this world does not have any problems, because the AT field has been removed. The AT field is what separates humans from each other. So, when the AT field is removed, all humans are linked to one another and everyone is at peace. The AT field is the CAUSE of this opposition. It is the reason for wars and even something as small as an argument between two people. Let's refer back to the yin yang symbol. If you are wondering what this symbol has to do with this anime here it is. The removal of the AT field symbolizes the removal of the line that separates the yin yang symbol. The line that is straight down the middle. If that lines is removed on the symbol, then everything is blended together. EVERYTHING IS EXACTLY THE SAME. No one is different. There are zero problems and everything is as one. There is no good or bad. Remember when Shinji fought Lilith. Shinji asked Lilith why they had to fight and Lilith said that it was because they were different. Lilith is a different type of human. The yin yang symbol represents two opposing forces who are the same but different in some way. The AT field is what makes them different. Difference causes problems.Shinji is given the power to keep everything the same or make it different again. He decides to make things different again. The reason he does this is because he likes the opposition. Remember, Shinji hates himself and others. Shinji causes people pain because it's the only thing he knows how to do. Without the AT field he can't cause pain anymore, because everything is one. This is why he chokes Asuka at the end of the movie for a second time. This represents Shinji being HIMSELF. Shinji is being DIFFERENT. Shinji is being HUMAN.Shinji hated the way the world didn't change before the shift in reality and hated that he couldn't hate the new reality when he experienced it. So, he went back to the old reality. He missed the emotion that was HIM. This would be hatred. He had the ability to give up being himself. He didn't do it even though he hated himself, because he missed the the emotion of hatred. This is because it is what made him who he was and he realized that all he had was himself. Misato told him that all he had was himself before she died. She influenced him to make his own decisions and except being who he was.
As soon as I finished watching this masterpiece, I had to watch it again. Never before have I seen a film with such stunning (yet grotesque) imagery, deep philosophical meaning, and a well-executed story. It exceeds the quality of the best anime out there, such as Akira and Ghost in the Shell. It's better than most Hollywood movies, and even some Oscar winners. Unlike other anime, it doesn't use clichés of the genre. It acts like the Watchmen of anime; it takes typical anime characters and analyses them, and questions why they are that character. The characters are very well developed, and are all unique. It is certainly among the greatest films of all time.What's great about this film is that you can watch it time and time again and get a different interpretation each time. While some people say insist that the message not being clear is a weak point, it is, in reality, a good thing. The message shouldn't have to be straightforward; you should have to think about it. Even years from now, critics will still be analyzing this film.I must warn you though, even though it's a brilliant piece of art, you need to see the entire series of Neon Genesis Evangelion to understand this film. Hideaki Anno has created an excellent build-up to this film. However, if you're familiar with the series, or respect art in general and have seen the series, then I highly recommend you see this film. It would be a mistake not to.


                
