I'll put this as simply and as helpfully as possible for all the people who haven't seen this yet. Do you want to get depressed? If "yes", watch this movie, if "no", don't. That's it. The End of Evangelion is a quick fix of instant despair. I myself am in no particular hurry to start cutting my veins, hence the low score I'm giving this movie. It's ugly, depressing and way too long for the short story it tells.Now, Evangelion the series deteriorated pretty fast over the last few episodes, but nothing can ever prepare you for the tidal wave of misery that's "End of Evangelion". All the characters that were once even remotely cheerful and positive have now been turned into borderline insane freaks wallowing in despair, misery and sin. The awkward philosophy behind the movie doesn't help either. The point is that mankind has so many sins that it's better to scrap everything and accept the loving God who will make it all better (Jesus no doubt, with all the crosses that are being shoved in your face during the movie). What a positive picture, too bad it was all illustrated with the grace of a snuff film.Japan's suicide rate actually skyrocketed in 1997 after the movie was made, so I wouldn't be surprised if there was a link between the two. One IMDb user stated that after seeing this movie, his life was complete. For God's sake, man, don't do it! It's really odd that many people actually believe this movie is "deep" or "thought-provoking". There's really nothing thought-provoking about a painfully long spectacle of human downfall and suffering, sprinkled with pseudo-philosophical ramblings on the meaning of life. This is an actual quote from the film: "I still don't know where my happiness lies, I'll still think about why I'm here and whether or not it was good to come back, but that's just stating the obvious over and over. I am myself." Wow, deep. To sum up the actual story, everything basically revolves around the drama and tragedy of the main characters who are suffering from not being loved by anyone (except by God, of course). NERV is being attacked and Shinji has to decide whether he wants to help out or not. Brilliant. 2/10.


                
When I first starting NGE I was instantly hooked by the possibilities that this show presented. Giant robots fighting each other? Awesome! But as the series continued, things got worse. Much worse. The action scenes were replaced by long conversations about emotions, the feeling of excitement became like a distant memory. The plot became so caught up in its own meaningless definitions of mankind.And then came the ending of the show. If you're hoping that the movie might be different like I was, don't be fooled. The characters are still painful to watch, with Shinji whining more in this movie than in his whole career as 'teenager voted most likely to commit suicide by the end of the year'. I get that he's supposed to be this depressed kid, unsure whether he wants to save mankind or punish it. But please, give him one entertaining quality, like being really good at whistling. Something. Please.As for the other characters, Asuka is the only one I really enjoyed. Just like the rest of the movie, the animation is the only redeeming element. Her fight scene was animated beautifully, with matching violence and everything that I wanted from robots beating the life out of each other. So, if you're looking to become frustrated with a plot that tries much too hard at being deep, and characters that make you want to claw your eyes out, I'd definitely recommend this movie to you. Otherwise, stay far away from this movie.p.s: is the movie only getting such high ratings because of the giant, floating 'plot' points towards the end?
I had been looking forward to seeing this for a long time, ever since first viewing the series. I finally saw it last night--and I was extremely disappointed. The first half was all right, although some of the characters got really annoying (I'm looking at you, Shinji). At least we got some more answers and the plot seemed to be resolving itself.Then we got plunged into more of the same kind of crap that we had in episodes 25 and 26, which this was supposedly replacing. (Except this was actually worse because in addition to completely ignoring the plot and hitting us upside the head with a sledgehammer, it was preachy.) Look, if I had wanted that I would have just watched those episodes anyway.I've said it before and I'll say it again. Having a point is fine. Having a deep philosophical point is fine. In fact, it can be very good. But if you're using the plot to carry your point, you absolutely must wrap up the plot. End of Evangelion doesn't accomplish that; it just discards the plot when it's no longer of use.The rest of the series is great, though! My recommendation would be to watch episodes 1-24, and then rather than watching either the original ending or this one, just make up your own. It will be far more satisfying than watching either of the existing endings.Overall score: 2/10.


                
This movie is absolutely terrible, and don't be fooled, the animation isn't even a reason to see the movie. I assume if you are looking at this you either have seen Evangelion, a decent amount of it, or you are wondering if you should start with this movie. Neither of those people should watch this movie. I personal was a big fan of the show. for these reasons I like giant robots and gore, I like giant robots killing giant aliens and turning them into gore... these are things most EVA fans can agree on. If you've never seen the show you will be lost and disappointed. If you have you will probably notice re-used clips of animation from the television show, a more than usual amount of messed up stuff and a stupid giant Rei, that tries desperately to be deep and apocalyptic. On the bright side I did like the asuka fight which was really well animated and fit my expectations of gore and giant robots fighting. BTW... I am down for an argument because I know some fan-boys are going to try to cover up the fact that this movie was a giant flop. Please don't let this review turn you away from the show up to the episode shinji crushes Kawrou (Who is an ANGEL! not a person!) He is also a gay angel who makes Shinji gay lol.
Back in 1995, there was an anime show called, "Neon Genesis Evangelion". The show became a hit and they even did a movie which merged the last two episodes. I haven't watched the series but my friend kept telling me to watch this movie. I'm also not going to watch the show. So I watched the movie. This is one of the worst anime film's I've seen.I can tell you two reasons why I hated this movie: It was confusing. REALLY confusing.The character's were not great. Nor good.The only things I liked about this movie was the animation and the fight scenes.So overall, if you're a fan of the series, it's worth watching. For everyone else, no.I don't care if you guy's bash me for this. My friend kept telling me to watch this movie.


                
