I don't get those people who say this was a lousy ending to Evangelion. I think it was a perfect ending to it. If you've only seen the original 26 episodes of NGE, you -must- watch EoE. It can be watched as a replacement for episode 25/26 or you can watch it in addition to them. But whatever you do, don't ignore End of Evangelion, it would be a mistake!


                
OKay, I am an Asuka fan and I am here to complain about Asuka and how she got pushed to the sidelines. She is my favorite character and I don't like what they did to her. It was too torturous, they ruined her eye and her Eva REALLY BADLY and Shinji just got even more hateful by going crazy, crying, and even choking her at the end (gladly, she didn't die).I do not get the hype for this. The movie is boring. Asuka is what made the series better, I would've got bored and I did skip the episodes if she wasn't in them. So, I guess I do not get this movie or maybe I have to watch the series again.So, now we got to suffer an hour of Shinji's pansy butt. Like in the series, he did get more likable towards the end when we learn about his past. I did like Misato more, too. Rei had a more decent ark, but I don't like the end of the world thing at the end. No one else I really could care much for.This movie was just creepy and violent. I was thinking that this would be a great film but it was just very over-hyped. This movie just had me screaming at the computer through. The characters are quite different, Asuka is worrying about her mother and I was wondering if like I heard, it may be because her mother's soul was there or she was just relying on her to try her best to get through this hard battle but she had a really evil face on sometimes during the battle, I understand that this type of facial expression was new for its time but it still looked too evil. Misato seemed to have been in love with Shinji, she might've been this way in the series, too. And I don't understand Rei's arc of being above the world while it was destroyed.I also did not like the new facial expressions for Asuka representing the scenes in the anime like when she wakes Shinji up, she's now more scary and hateful than she was likable and funny.I also do not like the live-action combination in this, even though it did have a good message about reality in dreams.The jazzy song at the end of the first half was okay but it was smoother than Fly Me To The Moon.Gladly, it did not have Hikari in it but it still could do better than this.
I loved Eva episodes 1-24 But they just couldn't do it... they just couldn't create a normal action-orientated ending. The creators of this anime have something to say but they don't want to concisely, explicitly say it - they want to produce a big load of metaphors and hope to god that they make sense. Well, for me, they didn't.I'm really annoyed - there is about 30 mins of action in this movie which is suppose to replace episodes 25 and 26 of the series. If you've seen 'rebirth', rebirth becomes the first 20 minutes of 'end of evangelion'.If you're dying for some answers - this movie has most of them. It tries to pose some more questions about self perception, see if you can answer them :P


                
This was almost torture. How can one possibly watch 26 episodes of the main character doing the same thing over and over again, being in the same situation over and over again and then in the "extended cut, bonus ending/finale whatever" have him again be placed in the same exact situation only this time he has no impact on the story or outcome whatsoever. SEEL invade NERV to execute the EVA pilots and trigger the Third Impact to merge everyone in soup, or if you want to be as pretentious as the show then I guess you could say, merge every individual in a one whole being thus reaching the final evolutionary stage of mankind. So anyway, what does NERV do? They try to stop the invasion, they try to keep the pilots alive. Shinji is again the last line of defense in his EVA but as soon as he appears he is captured and does nothing of note. Some boring stuff happens and finally the SEEL have archived their endgoal, everyone is a soup, oh I mean primordial soup. So SEEL achieve their goal despite the pilot still being alive and the other 2 NERV EVAS being destroyed? What is the purpose of Shinji in this? There is none, had he died in the initial assault the result would have been the same, everyone is soup.
