I know its one of the major points of the series, Shinji is a <U+0091>normal' boy with severe emotional problems, but I after watching Death and Rebirth all I wanted to do was trap his head in a vice and thrash it with a golf club. He is, without a doubt, the single most annoying character I have ever witnessed. Obviously cowardice and several other character flaws are major plot points, but they were so overplayed it became stupid. Dragging a catatonic Shinji to pilot the EVA or his fit when he finally gets out there just made me angry.Having said that, though, there was more good than bad in EOE. The siege was terrific. There was a real tension when the HQ was being stormed. I loved Asuka's fight with the Production EVA's (although the constant references to her mother became a bit wearing). The conclusion was interesting if a little overwrought and it was, stylistically speaking, spectacular. If a little <U+0091>Battling Seizure Robots' at the end (the images flashed by so fast im surprised I didn't swallow my tongue)Really, my only major problems with EOE are my basic problems with the genre as a whole. The dialogue often has the subtlety of a sledgehammer and plot points are often unnecessarily laboured. Like I said, Asuka's <U+0091>Moootheeer, can you see me?!?!?!' was grateing and obvious and Gendo's obsession with his wife became a bit of a chore.Don't get me wrong, though. I am a huge fan of the genre. And this is a pretty good entry. It is spectacular, well animated and often thought provoking. I suspect a little of the impact is lost in viewing it from a Christian standpoint (being predominantly Buddhist, the vast array of Christian <U+0091>mythology' presented in the film would have been unfamiliar to Japanese audiences) but that's no big deal.


                
Let's be realistic: everyone says the series is great. I do too. And it is for real. Until the 20th episode, then there's a huge fall in the enjoyability. This movie works as a "Sorry, let's try again with the last part" and does a very great job to repair for the missing action of the last episodes (I mean 23/24, 25/26 aren't real "episodes".. they aren't real "anime" almost, even if this movie is intended as a replacement for the last two), yet the figure of Shinji gets thrown down even deeper in the chasm of depression, you can almost feel hatred for him during some sequences, you may even yell "C'mon move you spineless paranoyd!" to the screen.Misteries shown in the series unravel partially as you go on with the movie, good and bad things happen, yet this is a real surprise to discover.Sure, you need to watch it if you saw the whole series, you'd miss something oherwise. It's the only real "movie" of NG Evangelion, since the other two, "Death & Rebirth" and "Revival" add nothing new to series + EOE.The ending is in the Anno style: you may understand something, yet if you understood something else, it would be ok, since he didn't intend ONE meaning, just wanted to trouble your mind with endless possibilities of unraveling the plot.Gave it a 7, after all it left me a better memory of the series than what it would have been if I was left with the 25 and 26 eps.


                
The End of Evangelion is a film following the conclusion of episode 24 of Neon Genesis Evangelion the TV series. Directed by Hideaki Anno, this film shows the alternate conclusion of the series. This movie is split up into two episodes (episodes 25 and 26). The original ending to the TV series was peculiar to say the least. It was a bit awkward with its execution and wasn't really like the previous episodes making them highly unwanted among the community and also to the director, so Anno decided to finish the series with this film instead.This movie is truly a masterpiece in anime. The previous things that made the TV series, so great can be found within this film. The well written characters, the composition of shots, the soundtrack, and the visuals make this film a masterpiece in anime. The themes are the best parts about this film/TV series and gives light to the human condition.The only problem I have with this film is that if someone were to watch this without seeing the prior TV series they would have had barely any idea of what was happening. I recommend watching the entire series before coming to this movie (including the series' episodes 25 and 26).The Best Things about this Film is:
Stunning visualsNice animationFantastically written charactersGreat composition of shotsMarvelous soundtracksVery well implemented themesSuperb voice acting (Japanese VersionThe Worst Things about this Film is:
The Requirement to watch the TV series prior to film


                
From one perspective, a masterpiece of Anno's work, the feature length conclusion to the Evangelion saga in a red mist of robot battles, deep psychological disturbance and theological discussion.Unfortunately, it doesn't quite address any of these properly. Produced to answer the demands of fans dissatisfied with the existing conclusion to the TV series, which I enjoyed immensely, it should have answered the questions left unanswered in a striking display of animation.The theological discussion is rambly, introducing whole stretches of Bible characters and Trees of Life that frankly could have been done without. One thing I valued in the original was the ambiguity of how Instrumentality was achieved. Here, it's shoved in my face in a selection of imagery that poses more questions than it answers.In terms of exploring the psyche of Shinji, it goes into no more (explicable) detail than the TV series conclusion, instead just summarising. Not that its opening scene wasn't powerful and challenging cinema, silently achieving a level of mind exploration previously avoided by Anno.Robot battles? Only one, really, which is not, perhaps, what the fans wanted. While Asuka's choreographed Eva-bashing to Bach's Air on the G String (Air? yes, that's the subtitle of the first half of the film) is sublime, I in fact consider it inferior to the other two fantastic sequences Anno produced in the series. Namely, Asuka's Mind Invasion to Handel's Hallelujah Chorus and Kaworu's Adam Hunting to Beethoven's Ode to Joy.As a conclusion to the series, does it really work? In my opinion, not in fact. It produces a lot of excellent material for our viewing pleasure, but fails to match what it should have delivered. Most of the questions are not answered, too many more are posed. Its dark ending in the Shinji asphixiating those he feels threatened by before his troubled mind asphixiates him doesn't really explain Instrumentality as well as the beautiful freeform that was the original conclusion.If it is intended to supplant this existing conclusion, let it conclude, and not just wander tangentially into theological referencing. To claim conclusion by confusion holds no validity. In short, flawed brilliance. 7/10, Anno-san.


                
