Just watched this after not having watched any Evangelion material for many many years. The artwork for the new ending is brilliant. Supposedly it is a new ending from the TV series. I cant confirmed as i stopped watching the series before its conclusion. Watching this reminded me of why I stopped watching the series...basically I cannot stand the main character Shinji. I found and still find the character pathetic and absolutely disgusting. I could not find any attachment to him and so the story arch and the philosophy of the ending to me was a by product of the weak, spineless, pathetic Shinji as opposed to any philosophical message. However if you can bear with the character the movie is quite good.


                
... It All Comes Tumbling down, Tumbling Down, Tumbling Down...The lyrics of "Komm Susser Tod" at the key Complememntation scene pretty sums up the whole experience of watching this movie. The show's "hero" Ikari Shinji gets in a couple of days, the ultimate breakdown of the spirit any human will suffer in his lifetime. His mental state is so destroyed by the beginning of the movie that it goes beyond our comprehension. The sex-symbol status of Langley Asuka, Ayanami Rei and Katsuragi Misato turns on its head front the very first scene.The film is divided in two halves: Episode 25' (note the hyphen denoting that is a special/alternate episode) called "Air/Love is Destructive" and Episode 26', called "My Purest Heart to You/I Need You". Episode 25' is more visually literal, We see things in real-world perspective. Most of the second half of the movie (26') happens inside Shinji's head because he's the centerpiece for the Human Complementation Project, planned by the shadow group SEELE. Shinji's ego is further reduced to nothing as all his thoughts are scrambled together in confusion until he reaches "destrado" (the desire to destroy), the opposite of "libido" (the desire to create).By the end, one has achieved catharsis, You'll feel that you don't have it that bad in life, that these characters have suffered far more than you. THAT is a good movie, a movie that will leave you thinking.I recommend you watch at least the first 24 television episodes of Evangelion and I guarantee, if you don't close your mind, you'll like it.
I don't know how to describe it.... wow. The first time I saw The End Of Evangelion I was shocked. You have to watch it so many times to actually get what's happening. There's a part when Gendo's lips move but he doesn't say anything. You could probably just say that Anno wanted to confuse the viewers. People say that Gendo wasn't supposed to say anything in the first place but I think that's not true. And some people got confused and asked why Asuka was still alive at the end of the film. If you catch her character she is actually a really aggressive girl and won't stop until a job is done. I think that's probably what kept her alive. Her perseverance. Overall I think this film is a masterpiece and I don't think that there will be another one made like this. Although disturbing, it is also a very important part of the series. It takes the anime world to a whole new level and if you haven't seen it then I truly think you should.
This is a hit-or-miss affair. If you have seen the complete series, then this is a must. But keep in mind, and it's what everyone fails to realise, is that this is a retort from the original creator after desperate fans sent him death threats when the series finished in the most ridiculous fashion, due to lack of funds for the project. This was his way of just shaking them off.I watched the complete series and this and the last movie in an EVA marathon, and I was so emotionally drained by the end I didn't know where up was. It will play with your head and heart. A true and solid accomplishment.If you don't know what EVA is, stay the hell away and start from scratch! =)


                
If you have seen the TV series or Death&Rebirth you should definitely see this one. It explains lots of stuff that remained unclear in the previous episodes so now you can have a better picture of the story. Even so, some stuff still remains unexplained or rather vague. You really need to pay attention to all the small details, otherwise you won't understand too much. The story is good, as usual. This time is not so action focused as it was at the beginning of the series. Now it is exploring the history of NERV and its people, their dramas, their psychological problems. If you haven't seen the series you won't understand too much. So... before seeing this movie you should try them or the DVD with Death&Rebirth.Enjoy!


                
