A short transcript of my oral reaction to the opening of the second part of "The End of Evangelion":
"Uhm...? Uhm...? Uhm...? Uhm? Uhm!? UHM!? UHM!?!?!?"
Er, did... Did Lars von Trier write this? 'cause I feel like Lars von Trier wrote this. Did... Has anyone ever seen Hideaki Anno and von Trier in the same room?"The End of Evangelion" is a messed-up trainwreck of a masterpiece. It makes "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me" and "Sedmikrásky" look like rational slice-of-life dramas. It is utterly insane. But also quite brilliant. This film certainly isn't for everyone, but if you enjoy watching minds unravel in insanity on-screen then boy is this movie for you.
I give it 9 [Shinji's Crazed Screaming] out of 10


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion is the most legendary Anime Series of all time, but most of the Modern Anime vs. Classic Anime can be the best part in our culture. Let's talk about the Movie, It starts off when Shinji is emotionally stressed to help Asuka, but he ends up Masturbating when he was F*cked Up. No wonder about how they put effort with a huge studio in the 90's, If you like this Anime Series as a fan of myself, I recommend you to buy some of the DVD, and Blu-ray products on Amazon, or you can Torrent it legally, but they don't have episodes or movies in streaming services like: VRV, Hulu, Crunchyroll, and Amazon Video. Bootleg Streaming Services is free, but it contains adware, Popups and Anti-Virus warning notifications. The plot was about Destroying NERV Headquarters, and Shinji wasn't brave due to his Medication problems, Asuka try's to kill the Eva Series, but she ends up dying when her eyes was sliced apart, and his arm two. The things what Asuka, Misato, and Gendo are doing, was being an A-hole to Shinji. both Shinji and Asuka are only like 14 yrs old, If they attempted to pilot an EVA, it's like a kid with no Drivers Permit, but only 16 yr old teens can Drive as possible, but Piloting a robot or a plane is scary as hell towards Teenagers. The Ending had no credits, to be Continued just had Credits behind. Lilith gives birth to two children, Shinji is emotionally Depressed when he lost his Mother. The Universe turns to blood when Giant Rei was cut into her Throat, and her Body. In the episode of "I Need You" Shinji and Asuka are completely alive, but the billions of humans are all in heaven. Rei disappeared after the Last Impact, Shinji try's to strangled Asuka, but he gives up and Sobbed. so that was my thoughts of "End of Evangelion" whether you were both depressed or feeling better.This Anime deserves positive reviewsAnimation 10/10Art 10/10Background 8.82/10Plot 8.97/10Story 9.04/10Characters 7.91/10Sound 9.21/10Enjoyment 8.40/10Overall 9.43/10Was it worth your time, or money to watch this series? ehh... It's a bit okay, but everything about this Anime was seizure inducing, Bizarre, and Scary demons that are extremely weird and disturbing too. If you don't like the classic Evangelion Series filled with Depressed endings and Broken Heart scenes, I recommend you to watch the Rebuild Films or read the Manga with 14 volumes.


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion ended...somewhat abruptly, mainly due to budget issues and whatnot. The fans refused to see the series die into obscurity, and then came End of Evangelion, the TRUE end to the series. And what a way to end a series in epic fashion.The movie follows the plight of the Third Child, fourteen-year-old Shinji Ikari, after he kills the final Angel, and seemingly saves the world. However, with Rei Ayanami and Misato Katsuragi disturbing him, and Asuka Langley Sohryu being comatose in a hospital bed, Shinji's desperation drives him to think what he had done was unforgivable and irreconcilable. NERV, the organisation which was involved with the defeat of all of the Angels, falls under attack from human forces, who are after the Evangelions. Also, SEELE send down Mass Produced Evas from the skies to aid mankind's plight do destroy the Evas. Asuka, awake from her coma, is thrown into battle, but is impaled by the Lance of Longinus, which causes Asuka's Eva to cease functioning, go berserk, and become damaged beyond repair. Shinji arrives at the scene, to find Asuka's Eva pincushion, and screams in terror at the spectacle. The following segment shows EVA-01's - and Shinji's - rise to divinity, as Gendo Ikari and Rei Ayanami prepare for the beginning of the Third Impact. However, Rei refuses to begin such an event, and instead merges with Lilith, to create a Rei/Lilith fused Angel, which rises to the heavens and sucks away the collective souls of all of humanity. EVA-01 attempts to dispatch of Rei/Lilith, and succeeds, only to save a mankind which is no more. However, upon returning to the land and the primordial soup - the sea of LCL - sights Asuka's body, alive and barely conscious. Shinji attempts to kill Asuka, but cannot go through with it, with Asuka whispering "how disgusting".Some people may have been put off somewhat by the first scene, which involves Shinji entering Asuka's hospital room, attempting to wake her up, but being unable to do so. Shinji rolls her over, which removes a few cables from her body, and tears off part of her clothing, revealing her breasts. Shinji then proceeds to...ugh, why did I bring this up...he doesn't plug the cables back in, that's for sure, whatever side of the Freudian Scale you see it as. Let's say he...Lonely Island. Let's leave it at that and let your (grim) imagination do the rest.The animation is superb. Asuka's last stand against the Mass Production Evas is one of the best battles in anime history, and is one of the most inspiring things ever. Sure, it's violent as hell, but by jove, is it amazing to watch. And Shinji's scream after seeing Asuka's Eva impaled by the Lance of Longinus is the epitome of horror. Most anime can't compare to how amazingly animated the movie is.The music crosses over original soundtracks and existing classical music, such as Bach's 'Air on a G String' (amusingly enough, the first half of the movie's called 'Air'). The music fits with the situations almost perfectly, and the Evangelion franchise has one of the best soundtracks in all of anime. In fact, it's up there with Cowboy Bebop, it's so good.The movie doesn't feature a lot of swearing, but the 15 rating is from a couple of instances of the 'F' word, and a considerable amount of nudity, but all it usually is is female breasts. 14-year-old female breasts, but still...The Evangelion series is notorious for its confusing plot, and End of Evangelion makes it even more confusing for me. It's not possible to describe what goes on in terms of plot, mainly because I don't understand it so well, but it could also be because of how engrossed I am in everything else. But yeah, it's confusing, yet it's awesome.To sum up, End of Evangelion, whilst confusing, Freudian, and completely weird at times, is amazing beyond words, and is definitely worth a commendation. Many anime movies have tried to emulate End of Evangelion's success, with a few successes in their own rights. But End of Evangelion, without question, is in a league of its own.92%
This is the final movie which accomplishes the Neon Genesis Evangelion series.All 26 episodes are magnificent and mind-absorbing , though the true explanation of the plot is never revealed (at least not clearly).The film "Death & Rebirth" summarizes the first 24 episodes in an astounding way.And finally this movie comes to BLOW YOUR MIND AWAY!!!I must admit that i was a little disappointed by the first part of the film.Too violent and a slightly different style compared to the episodes.But the second part was ASTOUNDING!!! Highly theological, Deeply psychological (more than the two last episodes of the series) and Unbelievably philosophical!!!This movie really is a masterpiece of art/directing/animation. Full of surprises and unexpected scene sequences.Don't expect everything to be explained logically or clearly but prepare for a UNIQUE EXPERIENCE through Shinji's reality!!!Must-see for EVERY ANIME FAN!!!
The original series is the greatest thing ever in Anime, I am convinced. However, the first movie is a rehash of the series, followed by the first half of this film. If you want the full set, buy both movies, but if you just need the story, buy the series and this DVD.Still, easily the best series I've ever seen.


                
"Evangelion" was one of the best animated shows ever made, showing that the giant robot genre could be more than big machines fighting each other...Well, part of the series has those elements of shows as "Mazinger Z", but later in the series it grows into something more mature and complex, and more psychological and darker as well."The End of Evangelion" offers the same good elements of the original show, but it goes beyond the limits of the original series, something that makes this film a unique and disturbing (but good) experience.The animation was quite good.The visual mastery of the production is perfect! The juxtaposition between the Live scenes and the anime frames is both subtle and symbolic. The battle scene of Asuka's last stand against the mass produced Evas is unchallenged as the best battle scene in the entire series. Every frame of the Armageddon sequence is a piece of art."End of Evangelion" is brilliant. Especially the song juxtaposing the Third Impact, Come Sweet Death, exemplified the complex emotions of the human heart in ways that art and plot cannot. The music is mostly sad, morbid, or foreboding as expected in a end of the world scenario, but the best qualities of every song was complimented to enhance its effects on the whole story. It's truly a masterpiece


                
The alternate ending, which most speculate is the real ending is astonishing, and great, though it did leave room for more questions to be answered, and it seemed to be more on the psychological side of the story and goes very deep to that in the middle of it towards the very end, it did have good action in the beginning and a lot of gore, blood and violence, but I have to admit the middle part was interesting but there was little character development, and some scenes were unnecessary, I mean what was the relevance of the live action sequences and scenes which looked like letters? But still it was interesting and solid, and a great musical score and soundtrack, though the ending was vague. I know a lot of people didn't like the way the series ended, but I think it was okay, though someone told me that this is the real ending, and the last episode is more of an epilogue, not a climax, so I must this is a very promising film for the fans.


                
As someone who has never finished Neon Geon Evangelion, I found this to be amazing. I watched it in VR, which was beautiful, and a great choice.The story was a unique story that deals with the theme of depression and why we, as humans chose to live. I rate the story a 9/10.The art style is outstanding and was amazing. One of the main parts of a great film is the art style and presentation. A lot was put into the art, and a true artistic masterpiece came out.The sound was great, and it fitted to every scene. I have a ton of memorable voice acting scenes that leave a mark in my brain such as "nothing personal kid", along with the more thoughtful parts.The characters were really good but other than the main boy, in which they used to tell the story of love and depression, I didn't feel anything for the rest of them.I enjoyed the anime a ton, as it is filled with a ton of great artistic, stylistic, quotable, sound, and cinematic direction.Overall, I will have to give it a 9, as it was truly great. I don't think I will forget this anime, and nor should anyone else.
I found this review
Wow I knew that i had to watch this movie as soon as I was done watching the show. The show was good but then after episode 16 things became all physiological. There some good episodes like episode 18 and 19 which are some of my favourite episodes from the show but then theres other episodes like episode 16, 17 and 15 which are just kind of boring and when I saw them for the first time I just skipped other them. Those episodes were nothing compared to the episodes before episode 16. Well this movie is kind of like that. Its a film who's first half is action and the other half is a physiological trip. Kind of like the show in a nutshell condensed into 90 minutes.Now basically the film is kind of confusing the first time I watched I was just trying to remember everything they were saying in the first half of the movie like when Misato was talking about what really happened in third impact. I kind of got it, it was like writings notes down for a test. Then there was the second half of the movie and it was like trying to write down a years worth of what my english teacher is telling me, but I barely pay attention.The first half has an epic fight between Asuka and the Eva series, which is the last fight in the show and boy does things get bloody. I loved too watch it we haven't have a fight like this since episode 19 and Asuka is my favourite character so its a perfect match of what I like. To bad she died, but I knew it was going to happen, I just didn't know how it was going to happen.Then theres the second half of the movie and thats where i'm like. Ugh. Because I had no idea what the hell was going on in that half of the movie. I don't really know what to say theres some good animation which is very nice seeing how this is a movie the budget is bigger then what the show cost. The show cost 65,000 dollars per episode I heard. Then the tumbling down song played and thats the best part of this second half of the movie. And then every one turns into goo and everybody dies. And then theres the last and shortest part of the movie. Even before seeing this movie I knew what this scene was. Asuka and Shinji the last two things alive on earth are on the beach surrounded by the dead Eva series and giant reis head. I knew this from a episode form Steven Universe Kike's pizza delivery service where the end of the episode is a parody to the end of the movie. I was like whats next and then Shinji starts to strangle Asuka, he stops and Asuka says "How disgusting". And I was like Hah. And then it ended. I liked the movie a good send of to a great show that had a bad ending. I just wished Gurren Lagann did this instead of condensing the show into two, two hour long movies. But those were awesome too.I give it 9 out of 10. But only because the second half was just weird.
As someone who's read "Neon Genesis Evangelion" fanfiction as well as the entire manga it was only suiting that I watch this movie and love it. It's the best film I've seen for Giant Monster Month! The giant monsters aren't even that big of a focus, but I think this counts. I admitted to being very disgusted by the opening scene of this movie, but I won't go into detail. This had eight logos, more so than any other movie I've seen in my life! Please call Guinness World Records! Anyway, I loved this movie but I will admit it had its flaws. The ending was really too weird and made up too big a part of the movie. The villain should have had more screen time.Still, what's great is that this film works so hard to give all the characters their time to shine. Asuka is probably what made this movie for me as the scene where she fights off the Evas is one of the most awesome things I've ever seen in an anime. It's not really that much of a downer ending as many people claim. Rei says that people can still come back to life so it's not like the entire series was completely pointless. I don't know why Asuka appears at the end. Was she just one of the people who chose to come back to life? The animation is beautiful and it's as good of a giant monster movie as you could ask for. ***1/2
The End of Evangelion is the theatrical sequel to the TV series Neon Genesis Evangelion, however this is the second movie to be released after the shows airing. Death and Rebirth acted as a theatrical summary to the series and also strangely contained the first half of End of Evangelion(there's no need to watch Death and Rebirth). End of Evangelion carries the torch of the show in being messed up, but brilliant. This film is not for the squeamish, it has nudity, gore, and can leave you feeling insignificant. When I first watched this film I was convinced that it wasn't meant to be seen by mere human eyes. Anno's feverish dream of despair and destruction stands up still as one of the best anime films, if not one of the best films in general, even today.


                
The directors of 'End of Evangalion' not only invents a unique and rare conclusion to the evangalian series, but subtly depicts existentialism and the misunderstood juxtaposition of dream and reality, what is real and fake. It also deals with the perks and folly's of humanity whilst handling the extreme dramatization of romance, and tackles the strange entities and characters that dwindle through the imagination of the show. The director of the series has focused more on his interpretation of life and his experiences, rather than ending the series on a satisfactory note for viewers. In my opinion this film is more riveting than what fans of the show would have preferred. However, there is indubitable confusion through this film, you as the viewer watch in pure awe and absorb the unmistakably inspiring and slightly deranged messages contained within the story. The film cleverly sidetracks to tell the story of evangalians and approaches and accesses the issues of the human being.


                
OK , this movie takes place at the 25th and 26th episodes of the series Neon Genesis Evangelion. The series is an absolute masterpiece having mixed mecha fight (that personally i am not the biggest fun but this movie is not that much about mecha fighting than the mecha psycho-synthesis itself) and psychological drama where it explains every characters psychology and giving you questions for your own existence. Now for the movie...Its f*cking great!! Some people didn't like the ending of the series cause it lead them a lot of unanswered questions(original ep. 25- 26 ) but i find it as good as the movie. The movie first part is more of the action thing and "erasing" some characters. The second part is like the original ending of the series getting deeper in shinji psychology leading to a lot answered and yet for some unanswered questions. Now thats the biggest plus of the movie! It lets you to think and find the questions you really want to by yourself , it lets the fantasy and the crisis of the watcher to criticize himself and find answers not only about the movie but for his own self. This movie is a masterpiece and i highly recommend you to see it (but first you must see at least the 24 episodes of the series to understand whats going on or else you will be lost at the movie and probably won't enjoy it as much as you would if you have watched the series).
If you're an Evangelion fan, then not seeing this film at some point is out of the question.However, there are a lot of people who will go around talking about how Anno used Christian philosophy to make himself look cool. But then Sartre is guilty of the same thing, although perhaps to less of a degree. Besides that, people who say that are determined to damn it and are not looking at the real picture, which is made of the philosophies of Kierkegaard and Satre, Freudian psychoanalysis, and a simple story about a boy at odds with the world.This movie will not please you, though. It has a wide range of emotion, from elation to disgust, but not much of it is happy, and what is is quickly swallowed up by the darkness. However, it is a degree more understandable than the last two episodes of the series, and is also the true ending. Moreover, it is animated beautifully, making the series seem like nothing, and Shiro Sagisu does more excellent music work. My only beef is the difference in the voice actors---most notably, they replaced Kaworu and Fuyustki, and the new actors just aren't as good as the old ones. However, Shinji, Gendou, Misato, Asuka, Rei, and Ritsuko are all the same. The only one of the seven main characters they replaced is Kaji, and he only has a few lines.If you have not seen the television series, then I suggest you watch it before watching this. This movie only works if you have come to love the characters in their completely flawed and screwed up ways, and even Death and Rebirth isn't enough to adequately acquaint you with the series.A note that I feel I have to add: The last two episodes of the television series present the "Human Instrumentality Project", more accurately called the "Human Complementation Project" or "Third Impact". This movie also presents that cataclysmic event, although it seems quite different. In the series, it seems to simply be the end of the world, destroying peoples' bodies while their minds remain, a sort of chaining to the self as Kierkegaard describes in The Sickness Unto Death. However, in this movie, the Complementation Project seems to do something completely different---it merges the souls of all human beings into one perfect soul. This is based on some writing done by Hegel, who Kierkegaard, of course, had a problem with. Some have interpreted this as representing not only the historical conflict between Kierkegaard and Hegel but also the conflict between Hegel's absolute, large-scale philosophy and Kierkegaard's individual, personal philosophy.
This film is much more easy to digest than the original ending, but when you do wrap your mind around the concepts, you will be left shaken.The animation was a decimal from flawless, with the music associating a twisted relationship between happy and sad. Sheer genius! I could have have watched the ending scene forever, it's simple humanity was the most touching romance I've ever seen. If you find the director's meaning for the final line you will be blown away! I'm still disturbed, but in a happy way. How did Hideaki Anno think this stuff up? I have seen "ten" films but this is a true 11.


                
End of Evangelion is a true gem in the anime world which deserves the same honors as titles such as "Ninja Scroll", "Akira", and "Ghost in the Shell". The movie kicks off straight where episode 24 left off, as this is the alternate ending to the Neon Genesis Evangelion series. Comparing the original episodes 25/26 to this movie, I must say that Anno made a wise decision to give the fans what they wanted and create this alternate ending. The movie has everything you could want in Eva and depicts the internal struggles of the characters quite well. Everything from the series remains intact: huge robot battles, shocking and controversial imagery, and an exploration into the minds of the three young pilots. The only negative thing I would have to say about the movie itself is the inclusion or removal of some sound effects that don't quite fit. Also, the English cast is stellar in some parts and not so in others. A real downer is included on the DVD; the audio commentary. Amanda Winn Lee succeeds in acting like a complete fool while offering very little insight into the Eva experience (thank goodness the other two commentators picked up the slack). Otherwise, this is a highly recommended movie to watch after viewing the original series.


                
While the actual series seemed to end in a not so interesting way, Evangelion was still waiting for a real ending to its plot. Setting away the psychological ending seen in the series, that's exactly what you can hope to see in this movie, a real Evangelion ending.Finally, all the events seen in the series reach their most important point, with each of the characters having to face their own wars, this movie actually manages to keep the viewer watching the whole time.While most of the sequences are a lot more graphical and violent than older generation parents may be wanting their kids to see, they turn out being completely justified and fitting to the plot.In case you liked the series, you must see both of the movies in order to (finally) understand whole the plot. And trust me, you will like it!


                
Now, This was a very good ending to a very good anime series, But it was also confusing at some parts. I mean Shure this was a better ending than episodes 25-26. But no i'm serious, that movie was beautiful. it makes you stop and think about all sorts of things. When Misato died it was like some one had popped an emmotional bubble. Asuka and her: I can feel you Mama!!. So beautiful. The ending was a tad believable...Sinji would live. But and Adam and Eve Asuka SHinji thing? I was stunned. So...let us see what the Future of Evangelion holds. This movie had grade A animation and beautiful actors. Misato and SHinji's kiss was one of many touching things. That SEELE organization was pretty sneaky though. After you watch this movie you will (probably) feel depressed, as this movie had almost NO light points. But i'm not complaining.
I loved it. As a teenage angst factory ( my first time watching this was when I was 15) I grew to sympathize with the main character Shinji. I thought this was a great masterpiece in film and anime and it really is. I have shown it to dozens of people who agree that Anno, though trying to confuse people more just made it a lot better for others to understand. I loved it because of the underlying plot and the heavy focus on imagery and symbolism(this especially.) Great to see! But Don't see it unless you watch either Death and Rebirth or the whole series first. Otherwise it'll not only totally lose you, but it'll completely annihilate the episodes for you.


                
The ending doesn't make too much sense at first, but it's a great movie. Unlike the end of the series, the movie really wraps things up well. A bit disturbing in places, but definitely worth seeing. If you didn't think the end of the series wrapped things up well enough, see the movie. If you did, see it anyway.Not only does it have great action, it has some very philosophical points that really put it at a different level than a lot of other anime. One thing that didn't make too much sense was this: at the end of the series, Shinji's decided that his life is worth living and that he is more than just an Eva pilot. But at the beginning of the movie, he's back to his "I'm pathetic" self loathing state. I suspect that it's because the movie just completely ignores the last two episodes. I would suggest watching both. The end of the series is more uplifting (by far), but the movie ties up the plot.
First things first -Do Not watch this movie without at least seeing evangelion:Death and Rebirth (or better still the TV series itself)- Evangelion:The End of Evangelion is the cinematic finale to the outstanding TV series.With great character development, fantastic, brutal and touching action scenes, EoE is a must for fans of the series.The ending is probably one of the most fantastic ever animated, though it never gives you all the answers, it definitely ensures that it will stick in your mind for a very long time to come. A film that will definitely make you think.


                
The End of Evangelion, an alternate ending to the anime series Neon Genesis Evangelion may come across as pretentious, but it perfectly captures realistic emotions with symbolic ambiguity and philosophical themes. This anime is a deconstruction of the mecha genre. That is, tropes and clichés of that genre are taken apart. In the case of End of Evangelion or Neon Genesis Evangelion, unlike a typical protagonist in a mecha series, who is brave and willing to fight in any situation, Shinji, the protagonist of Neon Genesis Evangelion is wimpy and apathetic to his task, which is a realistic reaction of most teenagers faced with a similar situation. While some dislike the emotional realism and are just looking for a feel-good story, I enjoy it because it gives a better understanding of the genre as a whole. Most of the key scenes are purposely ambiguous and littered with symbolisms or hints that point to possible answers. Honestly, I'm not good at catching symbols and analyzing, but the part of the fun in watching Neon Genesis Evangelion is trying to reach a conclusion or researching what other viewers have concluded. The infamous last line of the movie can be interpreted as "I feel sick" or "how disgusting" because of the ambiguous nature of the language, and I have yet to see a logical conclusion or reach a conclusion myself. The philosophical themes add to the psychological nature of the story, which is quite open for interpretation. I see the series as an argument against hedonism, which is the philosophy that the goal in life is to maximize pleasure and minimize pain. However, we see that Shiji chooses a world where there are both happiness and suffering instead of a world with everlasting happiness. The question that this film answers is: "would we perceive a world where there are only endless 'ups' as real and fulfilling?" Perhaps this film reveals what true happiness is. The End of Evangelion may seem like a dime-a-dozen, action mecha anime at first, but that is just a facade. This series requires heavy thinking and the pursuit of truth, whatever that may be, if it exists at all.
This film is an impressive, impressive work that has just about everything that makes Evangelion a spectacular series, and then some.  Everything in the series has led up to this absolutely stirring climax.  You have the power of jaw dropping power of Third Impact.  You have twists and turns everywhere.  You got one of the best fight scenes ever animated.  And most of all, you have the culmination of the powerful psychological aspects of the program that have been Evangelion's hallmark.  All topped off with great classical music, great animation, and Anno's virtuoso directing in the vein of David Lynch.If there ever was _any_ doubt that Hideaki Anno is one of the best anime directors not named Miyazaki, this film removes it.


                
I loved the ending to the television series, even if was just a psychoanalysis of the main characters. But I find this ending is more satisfactory as we get to see exactly what the instrumentality project is and does. We also get to see great action and some mind bending sequences. This movie makes you think and question what humanity means to you. We also see the internal and external conflicts of the character get resolved (for the most part, it's still a long road ahead for Shinji). And for those who say this isn't a happy ending well it isn't for the most part, everyone dies. But if you listen to the ending dialogue from Shinji, Kaworu, and Rei it's saying that Shinji wants the world to remain as it is (in terms of people remaining separate entities because he misses his friends and that was one of Shinji's main struggles in the series, with dealing with other people. From Kaworu and Rei we hear that you have to find your own happiness in the world, and it doesn't just fall into your lap. And that is so true. So in a way it is a positive ending. I'll admit that this movie isn't for everyone but this is such a well done movie, and you should at least check it out, but not before you've watched the TV series. And if you watch the series and find you didn't like it, well then you know that this movie isn't for you.
