Most of 2016 was spent with nauseating, entitled Foolywood petri dishes telling us what we should think. Then we get Ashley Judd putting an exclamation mark on what is wrong in Foolywood. Why in the world would anyone spend one moment watching these two portrayals of an earlier era's spoiled and ungracious divas?


                
One and out. I really don't want to watch two dilettantes being bitchy with each other for a whole season. Not really funny and just slow going. I guess the acting was OK but I just don't know where the plot can go over a whole season. Too many other things that are more interesting to waste my time here. Maybe this should have just been a made-for-TV movie.


                
Sarandon and Lange are GREAT actresses; however, the acting is "off", the make-up is ABSOLUTELY horrible; and the story-line is COMPLETELY over rated. As a matter of fact, the acting and make-up are so horrible; that it was difficult to figure out what actress was playing what role. Sarandon and Lange are so great actresses; that trying to fit those two icons into such a MASSIVELY POORLY produced pilot, is no different than trying to squeeze two Rolls Royce's into the roof of one Volkswagon. WHAT A MISS and MESS!


                
I have to admit I was curious when I heard this was being filmed. Two incendiary legends attempting to resuscitate their careers at the expense of each other. Each wanted to be top dog and fought over every last detail.I never thought Sarandon was much of an actress and she proves me right this time around. Horrible. Ms. Davis must be turning over in her grave at the broad, campy version Sarandon presents. She shows no depth or understanding, it's all broad strokes punctuated with cigarette smoke. Her facial gymnastics are disturbing and distracting. And her speech pattern is over the top.Jessica Lange as Crawford shows a modicum of understanding her characters demons. Her Crawford illustrates Joan's sheer will and determination to still be relevant long after the glory that was Mildred Pierce.Neither character is likable and the mini series could have been o much better rather than the camp it is.


                
Whenever I want to watch television, I do it because I'm interested in the following content: the story, the acting and the characters. The show of Feud is simple: it chronicles the feud that went on between Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, with Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange in the titular roles. Now tell me, did Feud have any of it? NO! Because it was all based on a true story! Anyone who was alive back then could tell the story about what went down! Now, I wasn't looking forward to this series in the first place. One: I don't like Ryan Murphy or any of the atrocious crap that even gets the right to air on television. I don't get why American Horror Story, which has drained over the years since every season tears inspiration from the treasured classics. I kid you not, one episode of the second season ripped off of Shutter Island! The Normal Heart is basically a copy of Dallas Buyer's Club (which happens to be my favorite movie) and the People vs OJ Simpson only got attention because it forced the OJ Simpson case to be reopened. The acting in Feud is okay, not just okay but just not there. I like Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange. I just don't get why they and anyone who signed up to be in this horseradish. If I would say avoid Feud, I completely agree


                
