This anthology by Ryan Reynolds takes us behind the scenes of the making of the 1962 film, 'Whatever Happened to Baby Jane'. Starring two legendary actresses of the silver screen, Joan Crawford (Jessica Lange) and Bette Davis (Susan Sarandon), two woman who absolutely despised each other.With her career waning and no acting prospects coming her way, Crawford pitches a horror film to producer Robert Aldrich (Alfred Molina), that stars two female leads of an advanced age - suggesting herself as one and her rival Davis as the other. Aldrich presents the project to studio head Jack Warner (Stanley Tucci) who despises both Crawford and Davis, but after some pleading and financial incentives from Aldrich, agrees to take on the project. And immediately as filming begins, these two woman are at each other's throats.Other guest stars in this mini-series are Catherine Zeta-Jones as Olivia de Havilland, Kathy Bates as Joan Blondell, and Judy Davis as Hedda Hopper. Although we may have thought we already knew the whole story, it's stunning to see how these two woman really treated each other.
Ryan Murphy's latest creation takes on a classic Hollywood rivalry between to stars of the silver screen. Joan Crawford (Jessica Lange) and Bette Davis (Susan Sarandon) are cast alongside each other in the film Whatever Happened to Baby Jane directed by Robert Aldrich (Alfred Molina). As stars struggling to stay relevant in a male-dominated world, they make their demands and create a tense environment on set. Gossip columnist Hedda Hopper (Judy Davis) strives to find out all the juicy details of their conflict as she stokes the controversy and spreads the rumors. The ruthless and crude producer Jack Warner (Stanley Tucci) loathes the stars and treats them with utter contempt and total disrespect.The scheming continues throughout the production as both stars vie for the spotlight at the expense of the other, spreading increasingly vicious lies about each other. Witnessing this fight is Joan's servant Mamacita (Jackie Hoffman) who is cleverer than her position shows. She puts up with Joan's histrionics throughout must of the show but even she has her limits. As the film wraps, the women find it hard to field other offers as prestigious even though the film becomes a massive success at the box office. Davis is nominated for her role but Crawford schemes to have her revenge.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
