Full Metal Jacket is considered by many to be a great movie. I am not one of those many. In fact I believe quite the opposite. I think this film is not only terrible but repulsive in countless ways. It attempts to show the horrors of war but does nothing but trivialize them. Also what exactly is the message of this movie? That war is bad? Well if thats what the message it certainly isn't something new. Of course then this movie has to make up in what lacks in an original message with some sort of creativity and stylistic features. In this way the film fails horribly.The acting of many of the relatively unknown actors is at best average. No actor stands out except for that of Vincent D'Onorfio who makes his exit less than half way through the film. The directing and writing of the film is absolutely horrible with the first half of the film used as a build up to a flat second half. Its almost as if the film is actually two separate ones: an average one and a disgraceful one. In the basic training sequences which takes up most of the first half of the film comes off as more hilarious then a brutal depiction of man being forcibly turned into machine. In the 2nd half of the film many of the sets made it too obvious that it was exactly that; a set. They were unconvincing with a lack of a realistic touch and screen shots out of a TV movie.As the movie wore on the lack of attention to detail became quite apparent leaving much to be desired. The "tough" characters came off as cheesy as everything seemed to just collapse within itself. The dialog in the movie felt useless and inconsistent with what was happening with in the film. By the end I didn't even care what was taking place. There were no character motivations and scenes became very predictable. Compared to the many classics made about Vietnam this one doesn't even come close.


                
This movie has always been a real disappointment for me.  While its portrayal of the Marine training sequence is powerful and memorable, Kubrick continues to do a less-than inspiring portrayal of combat in Vietnam. Approaching the diaspora from a different angle than Stone, Kubrick hits upon some of the classic themes left (appropriately) untouched by Platoon. Yet, in some cases the ubiquitous slow-motion violence is needlessly gratuitous and the round-the-body one liner reflections and face-the-camera montage interviews are cheesy, if not reminiscent of other great 'camera-focused' escapades like Kevin Pollak's "Opposite Sex" and the recent "that 70s show".       Pop music is played too often as if FMJ begins to lean towards a self-indulgent glorification of the 60s, even in inappropriate and distracting places.  Who can forget Joker and his colleagues (the few bright spots of the film: character development), but the movie fails to depict the subject matter in a realistic or subdued matter when needed. 
     It seems as if to Kubrick, Vietnam is not a war where Americans were forever traumatized, but rather just another stage for pop culture to spotlight the trite 'duality of man' in an 'animal setting'.  I hated the movie.  This movie does little justice to the memory of those who were in Vietnam.  The movie immediately strays and wavers, becoming an uncomfortable hybrid between 'popular nostalgic war formula' and 'psychological thriller' and proceeds to do both very poorly.


                
FFS - Full Metal Jacket. Re-watching it because it's on teevee (can't even be bothered to steal it)I told myself to never watch a Kubrick twice, except for Strangelove. What a tedious repetitive prick. Every shot is a replay of 2001/Clockwork Orange.Want reality? Sam Peckinpah. Crap free grit you can smell.The clown is not an auteur, he is a technician. "Specialisation is for insects" - Robert Heinlein. He's a cockroach. No wonder Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise grovelled at his feet. They're imbeciles.Footnote: after the movie resumed after an ad break, I thought it was a mobile phone ad. Except it ran for more than 30 seconds. That's how good Kubrick actually is.


                
Oh, Kubrick, you and your big, fat, presumptuous, American EGO.The first half was excellent; the second a mess.Not as pretentious as "2001", but close.


                
