The first part of the movie entertained me. The instructor seemed quiet authentic, "Paulas" progression was a bit simplistic but interesting and the atmosphere of the boot camp kinda "caught" me. Then in Vietnam i began to wonder why I'm watching this and what it has to do with the first half of the movie. If it was Kubricks idea of showing you that you can only experience war, and not train it, he failed. He just began to bore the hell out of me. No matter how hard i tried i couldn't care about any character, all of them were unbelievable boring and plain. It didn't show me that Vietnam was hell either. Well not more or less hell than i could imagine any other war is. The End was lame and i began staring at the "elapsed time" counter several times. And why the hell is all this concrete burning????Now i have the feeling that, since FMJ was made in 1989, Kubrick was simply just too late with his Vietnam movie. And thanks to Platoon, Apocalypse now, Deer Hunter etc. everything there was to say has been said already. So Kubrick didn't know what to say and said nothing.I have to make a formal apology for my bad English. Hopefully it will become better by writing reviews.
"FMJ"'s reputation, combined with Kubrick's name, elevate the film far above its actual merits. Here are my specific criticisms: 1. The plot is simplistic and formulaic. #1: Basic training. #2: Suddenly in Vietnam and lulled into a false sense of security. #3: A heavy firefight for the denouement. And. That's. It. It feels as if Kubrick started with three sheets of paper, labeled the top of each with those three phases, and kept them hermetically separated. There's no sense of flow, of growth, of anything organic. So when separated buddies from basic training are reunited later in the film, their "hail fellow, well met!" shtick feels hollow and forced.2. Partly because of #1, many of the plot devices are utterly predictable. Private Pyle telegraphs his breakdown to us at least 10 minutes before it occurs. The hubris and languor of the cast, safe in their city quarters in Vietnam, take every opportunity to tell us how nothing bad could happen, because -- after all -- it's Tet, a national holiday. C'mon, Kubrick -- it's 20 years after the Tet Offensive. You can't expect us to NOT know what's coming, when you set it up like that. That day of doom, in which tens of thousands of Viet Cong and NVA troops launched surprise attacks that killed thousands of US soldiers, is rendered utterly devoid of suspense. Prefiguring sucks the air out of a film.3. Many of the scenes are as clumsy as anything one could ever see from a college Filmmaking 101 class. Case in point: After "Touchdown" and "Handjob's" bodies are brought back and the squad stands in a circle around them, the camera pans from one squad member's face to another for about 5 seconds each, while each says something utterly canned sounding: "You're going home now." "Semper Fi." "We're mean marines, sir." "Go easy, bros." "Better you than me." "Well, at least they died for a good cause." Who provided this dialogue (or more accurately, serial monologue) -- Joe's All-Purpose Elegies? 4. Most of the settings look contrived and "cinematic" rather than natural. In particular, the city scene in Vietnam with the prostitute and the scene where "Joker" and "Rafterman" are hurrying along a road, trying to find the location of the mass grave -- both are stuffed to the gills with "period stuff going on", but one definitely gets the sense that it's all part of an effort to give the effect, rather than being authentic. Other scenes, such as the firefight at the end, look like they were staged for live theater, with strategically-placed fires (what the hell was burning for hours in those concrete buildings?!), atmospheric smoke, fill lighting, etc.5. Many of the side characters are nothing more than caricatures. A prime example is "doorgunner", who is straight from central casting as "Gun-crazed Child-killer". What? Not convinced by watching him shoot fleeing peasants with his machine gun? Well, then he'll *tell* you that he's a gun-crazed child-killer as well. Just so there's no doubt. Thank you, Captain Obvious.6. Some of the plot turns and the way they're acted are laugh-out-loud ridiculous. For example, when "Touchdown" is hit by a mortar round, "Doc Jay" immediately starts giving him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and CPR. It's extremely unlikely that concussion from the mortar simply stopped Touchdown's heart, so neither treatment would do much good (and why doesn't Touchdown's chest move even a fraction of an inch when Doc Jay is pushing on it?) Another example is when "Rafterman" finally shoots the sniper with about a dozen rounds and she lies bleeding on the floor with the squad gathered around her. Not only is she still alive, she's saying something. What, you ask? She's _praying_, in Vietnamese. And not just praying, but mouthing the words and enunciating as clearly as possible, as if she has an audience to perform for. Finally, after the slowest death scene in history, she switches to English, saying "Shoot me!" about fifty times. And all the while, we're forced to put up with seeing "Joker's" tortured expression as he has to wrestle with what to do. Ain't war just HECK?! 7. The heavy-handed use of period songs isn't effective, it's annoying. Playing "Surfing Bird" at top volume doesn't add anything to the viewer's experience. Nor does "Wooly Bully" or "These Boots Were Made for Walking". This kind of gimmick is best left to middlebrow action flicks, not serious war films.8. Finally, a note to filmmakers: the use of voice-over from a character is very seldom effective and almost never necessary. When in doubt, leave it out.No American born before 1960 is ignorant of the fact that the war in Vietnam was a huge mistake, a tragicomedy of errors and a national disgrace, and that there were acts of bravery, naiveté and inhumanity in approximately equal amounts. We've all heard of Mai-Lai. We've all seen (the vastly better) "Apocalypse Now", made 8 years before FMJ, as well as "The Deer Hunter" and "Platoon", both of which also predated FMJ. And every American born too late to have witnessed the War firsthand, knows almost as much, since America has publicly excoriated itself for the past 4 decades over its involvement. The result is that FMJ breaks no new trails in terms of information or emotional content. We've been down those well-traveled roads already. In general, FMJ feels graceless, inauthentic, clumsy, ham-fisted and about as uncreative of a film as can be imagined. It's difficult to believe that it came from the same director as "2001: A Space Odyssey" or "Dr. Strangelove". How much of this is specifically Kubrick's fault is open to debate but as the film's auteur, the ultimate blame can only be his.
Kubrick is a director whose movies age very badly.Full Metal Jacket is no exception. I can see what he was trying to do, i think, with that awful drill instructor screaming out of the screen for far too long, and the gradual transformation of the 'gentle giant'. It was simply over done. Too much sonic assault makes for a physically uncomfortable movie. The drill instructor also didn't seem to be able to pull off his lines, either. It felt wooden, directed more to the audience rather than his trainees. Pyle's descent into overplayed madness was pointless, too. Was it simply to highlight the earlier point that marines make the best psycho murders, or did we need someone to shoot the shouty man after he'd harassed us for so long? At any rate, the actor playing Pyle couldn't quite carry it off - he was clearly acting and had no menace in him beyond his physical size. Given the superlative praise other reviewers have given this scene, it was very disappointing.The part set in Vietnam was not quite as bad. It relies on us having seen other Vietnam war films to work, though, specifically apocalypse now and platoon, far far better, more involving and more engaging movies. Perhaps we are supposed to make those links then feel clever for reading extra depth into a movie that says very little.the final scene, as the soldiers sing a song about mickey mouse seems like the point of the movie. An extended, over-laboured, comment on the mickey mouse nature of the Vietnam war, with the personal, human cost hammered into us at excessive volume before hand.In summary, a reasonably tedious movie, a nearly blank canvas for the viewer to project their own interpretation and feel clever. In typical Kubrick style, over-loud, relying on sonic assault to batter down the viewer's mind so that they are left unable to critically assess the disappointingly thin content.
VERY SLIGHT SPOILERS HERESorry, guys, to write that, but I just don't like this film. Not even a bit. It got the 3/10 from me just because I'm aware of the existence of Titanic.Many of you write this film is authentic, blablabla... I'm pretty sure none of you has ever been in a training camp or in a war (neither I have). So how do you know? Well, I know it wasn't authentic. Consider the scene with the trainee in the camp having hard time climbing over the hurdle. Well, a funny scene, wasn't it? Just like an one from Police Academy. (BTW, I prefer Police Academy to Full Meta Jacket, when I want to see a comedy.) All the jokes (or at least half of them) make this film sentimental and the "serious" war scenes pathetic. Oh, yes, the war scenes... I really liked the authenticity of burning concrete. Have you ever seen burning concrete with flames in equal distances from each other? If not, watch the film, this is your opportunity! But the scene which really got me was when the marines went to save their dying/dead friend, undergoing a certain death and violating the orders. Well, if this is how American soldiers behave, then there's no wonder they didn't win the Vietnam war.Some of you say the strength of this film is in describing the violence. Well, I felt completely untouched. I'm not an American spectator, crying when the marines lose their brother in the war. If you want to see violence that makes you want to vomit and have bad dreams, you should see "Salo" from Pasolini - film without a single drop of blood (as far as I remember).Alright, all in all I think this movie is far away from authenticity, it has been shot for the American (male) audience and I don't like it. The last remark - people write that Full Metal Jacket is an epic film. No, it isn't. Why should it be? If you want to see a great epic film from Kubrick, watch 2001: The Space Odyssey. This is a masterpiece. FMJ is crap.


                
I am not a big fan of war pics. But I do like some. This is not one of them. I am also  not a big fan of Stanley Kubrick movies. But I do have some favorites. Once again, this is not one of them. The movie starts out really well and I was beginning to think I might actually have a favorite Kubrick film. But I was wrong. Dead wrong. During the film I began to think about two other war movies. The Thin Red Line, and Saving Private Ryan. It reminds me of TTRL because it is so, so, so, very boring. It reminded me of Private Ryan because I needed to think of something else while watching this incredibly boring movie. I have had a "soon" to be Marine tell me that FMJ is the best war movie ever made. My friends and I brought him to go see Private Ryan and he said the invasion of Omaha beach was lame. He also said that FMJ was more gory and action packed than Private Ryan. Well now that I have finally seen the film I can judge better. This movie sucks and is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Long live Spielberg!!!!!!


                
I went into this movie with no expectations, I had never seen any other Kubrick films before and I never allow myself to condemn or praise a movie before I have seen the entire thing. I was disappointed. Many people who just want to see a war flick will complain because of its slow points or lack of epic battles. While there could have been more action in a Vietnam war movie I wasn't complaining about the action. My main issue was with the storyline, in that there wasn't one. This movie is simply a portrayal of the war crimes that took place during the Vietnam war. It is a jumbled collection of "Shock Shots" and Kubrick's personal beliefs about the war. I honestly believe that this film has such good reviews is due to the Kubrick bandwagon. Since watching FMJ I have seen several other Kubrick movies, (Clockwork Orange and Eyes Wide Shut included) and I honestly have no idea how Kubrick became successful. His movies have very weak story lines and average technical quality. Sorry to step on Kubrick fans' feet, but his work is nothing special.


                
This week I watched Full Metal Jacket (1987). Let me just start out by saying that I was not the biggest fan of this film and I am surprised that this is such an occult classic. I thought the storyline was kind of weird and directionless. I felt like I kept waiting for a climax that never came. I didn't care for the content of the film and I see why my ex was so obsessed with it. It seemed geared for someone like him -- not me. Being a military brat I get that this film is supposed to represent "how it really is" in the military, and I do think the film gave an accurate depiction in that regard. Who knows? Maybe that's why I didn't care to watch it. Most of the scenes I felt were drawn out for too long and Kubrick took advantage of the shoot up scenes to get a little extra gorey, which I also didn't care for. Some of the music seemed out of place -- and not in a good creative way, but in a weird I don't get it way. Traditional to Kubrick films the cinematography was an artistic manifestation of the internal turmoil of the scenes. The editing seemed to shift throughout the movie, which I also didn't care for stylistically. For most of the movie the editing was traditional cinematic, and about ¾ into the movie, the editing suddenly becomes "TV news style." Some people might be into that, but I thought it felt out of place, abrupt, and strange. Perhaps that was Kubrick's intent to make the viewer feel strange because he wanted us to feel that war is strange. I think that the film translated Kubrick's vision well. I believe that the point of the film is an anti-war message. I see a lot of undertones for this in the script. The film's plot seemed to be "real-life" war from the perspective a a journalist/soldier. And as for payoff? As I mentioned earlier about the editing, the pacing changed a few times in the film and was strange. There wasn't really a good payoff to this film in my opinion, but I think that's what Kubrick was going for.
