Strange, as I sat to watch Full Metal Jacket for the first time in years, what I remembered most was Lee Emery's Sgt Hartman's rantings and Vincent D'Onofrio. In fact, it was Vincent D'Onofrio's Pvt Lawrence, known as "Gomer Pyle" that made this Stanley Kubrick film, truly memorable. I'm noticing this more and more as I get older and revisit old films. The performances, certain performances, even in supporting roles allow a film to keep growing with the passing of time. Full Metal Jacket a shattering film or I should say, two shattering films. The first part, the training, the intro is a masterpiece practically impossible to match up, so, the second part doesn't match it. But, still. A film-experience. Vincent D'Onofrio's performance even more powerful now, 30 years later. Enormous! The British skies over Vietnam is another reminder than an artist's eye knows no boundaries.


                
Kubrick's films are generally more accessible and mainstream than he is often given credit for. As gritty and unflinching as his take on the Vietnam War is, this is for my money his most mainstream work. Kubrick gives us a "grunts-eye-view" of military training and combat in a war that was particularly unpopular and well documented. This was the first war to be fully televised on TV, and Kubrick pokes fun at the soldier's awareness of this, and of the dubious nature of the propaganda put out by the military's own front-line reporting. Here we get a world-wind tour speckled with dark humor (but never too much politics, a similar stance that benefited the recent "Jarhead," which owes a world of debt to this film), excellent use of pop music (who thought Kubrick could go all Scorcese on us), and brutal sequences of hard-edged violence.My one complaint is that Matthew Modine is extremely underwhelming in the lead role, but the rest of the ensemble is top notch. Lee Ermey is perfect as the sadistic but oddly sympathetic drill instructor who turns maggots into killing machines in boot camp, and Arliss Howard is especially good as the underwritten "Cowboy." Kubrick, always the master of his art, leaves us with some lasting images, most notably D'Onofrio's stare-down before blowing his brains out, which is mirrored later on by a young female Vietnamese sniper begging to be put out of her misery after being fatally wounded. Kubrick also closes the film with something he doesn't often do, a wink to the audience, as our grunts, now combat weary and barely alive, march to the theme of the "Mickey Mouse Club" showing that indoctrination started long before they were dehumanized in boot camp and rebuilt as "The Core." Semper Fi, indeed.
I give this a 9 because I saw this with my father, a Vietnam vet, who served in the Army. He was totally taken aback by this film as the sniper scenes really depicted his experience in Vietnam. To him, this film remains the most accurate portrayal of the city fighting and total fear such circumstances brought out in the soldiers. Also, the Matthew Modine character is very close to my father. He, too, served the press corps for the Army and like Modine, was embedded with several troops in combat situations. Stanley Kubrick was known a superb technician and perfectionist and this film is a great example of his brilliance. Additionally, the Marine bootcamp scenes are harrowing as well.
One of the greatest war movies ever, a statement very few will dispute. I will therefore not illustrate this point : thousands have done it before me, often brilliantly.I'd rather lay the stress on Kubrick's modernity in "Full Metal Jacket". Indeed the USA being once again at war, it is interesting to compare the way they wage war these days with the way they did back in the sixties. And the comparison is edifying. Just apply the following statements to Iraq and you will realize NOTHING HAS CHANGED : - the marines are trained to become killing machines without being taught minimum knowledge about the people they come to defend. - the boys know nothing about the Vietnamese and reason according to American standards : for instance "Cow-Boy" complains half-jokingly half-seriously that there are no horses in Vietnam. Another example is the soldiers singing the Mickey Mouse Club hymn after fighting, which strikes as particularly out of place. - they try in vain to impose democracy through gruesome violence and destruction. Such similarities abound and testify to the film's absolute - and unfortunate - modernity. I wish Kubrick was still with us. I also wish George Bush and his advisers had seen this masterpiece and - most of all - understood its message. They would have avoided another bloody war doomed to fail.


                
This is another Kubrick masterpiece that has pleased people all over the world. This time it is a different kind of a war based movie, and I have to say that it is one of the best if not the best war movie of all time. Many people write that the second half of the movie is bad, or even horrible. I agree that the first part of the movie is the best part, because it shows a completely new side of the lives of marines. No other movie has ever showed that base camp training episode as well as Kubrick does it. It is very psychological and painful to watch these men braking down and then rise as cold-blooded killers. No one shows that as well as "Gomer Pyle". As many others I think that the drill Sergeant gives this movie an extra spark with his comical lines and hard personality, he actually makes you laugh, and even so you really get to hate him. The second half is the actual battle in Vietnam. This is where the movie is more similar to other war movies, but yet it is unique. Kubrick is all over the place throughout the entire movie, the camera and sound effects along with the music keeps reminding us that this really is a Kubrick film. The second half is without doubt also amazing, because of the uncensored madness it makes you sick with sorrow and hate. The sniper scene is of course one of the strongest and most terrifying scenes of the second half. Also the interviewing part is a very good idea I think, Kubrick finds yet another way of showing the different mind states of these men. That makes the characters even more real and makes you even more sympathetic for them and their destinies. In every way a breathtaking movie from start to finish. Kubick uses all the methods of making a good war movie, and then some. Besides that the movie is filled with intelligent and poetic lines, beautiful details and symbols, and some of my all time favorite movie quotes. This movie leaves a stain and it will always be high on my personal list of movies. Watch it, enjoy it, watch it again and love it. 10/10


                
During the first part of this movie, set in a USMC training camp for the "phony tough and crazy brave", Gunnery Sergeant Hartman cites Lee Harvey Oswald as an exemplary US Marine marksman. The scene perfectly illustrates the total reversal of moral standards in modern warfare.Stanley Kubrick has done anti-war before. "Paths of Glory" was hardly a recruiting poster for the French army and "Full Metal Jacket" doesn't do much for the US Marine corps either. Based on ex-marine Gustav Hasford's book "The Short-timers" (which I recommend as a gripping read), "FMJ" concentrates on how ordinary American men were moulded into killers then sent to fight in a war that they never understood.Ignore the bad reviews for this film and ignore the good reviews as well. Watch it and make up your own mind. Love it or hate it, you'll definitely remember it for its depiction of human beings forced to take part in acts of pointless savagery. Many Vietnam war veterans still have to deal with the disparity between the conventional war that they were trained to fight, and the dirty guerrilla war that they actually fought in places like Hue City. No other film about Vietnam shows that disparity more clearly than "Full Metal Jacket".
After a several year absence, Stanley Kubrick returned to the screen with the hard-hitting "Full Metal Jacket", about an American platoon going to Vietnam. The movie wastes no time in getting down and dirty. Sgt. Hartman's (R. Lee Ermey) monologues haranguing the cadets are likely to knock the breath out of anyone. But that's only a preparation for what they experience once they reach Vietnam.If you've seen Kubrick's other movies, then you probably know that he pulls no punches. And believe you me, he doesn't here. We usually talk about the first and second parts of the movie, but one might say that even the second half has two halves: when they first arrive in Saigon (a safe, Americanized place), and when they actually go into battle (get ready for things to get ugly).All in all, maybe this isn't Kubrick's best movie, but definitely worth seeing. Matthew Modine is the nominal star, but there's also Adam Baldwin, Vincent D'Onofrio, Dorian Harewood, Arliss Howard, and some others. Just get ready to be blown away.


                
"Full Metal Jacket" follows a single Marine-nicknamed Joker(Mathew Modine)-through boot camp and a portion of his time in Vietnam. It is loosely based on the story 'Short Timers' by Gustav Hasford. It is directed by Stanley Kubrick, known for long, eccentric movies that weave surreal and super real characteristics blended together, creating nightmarish, hollow and disconcerting movies.The boot camp portion of this film is what most people remember. The drill instructor is played by R. Lee Emery, and it is one of the most terrifying, moving, funny and convincing performances in movie history. Virtually a non-stop rant from his first appearances to his last he electrifies the performances around him and puts the viewer in boot camp with the rest of the recruits. Vincent D'Onofrio does well as Private Pyle, overacting in only one scene-though it is a critical scene. Matthew Modine's performance is almost tertiary to Emery and D'Onofrio's performance. We do get see him develop a little, the positive characteristics that will make him strong in Vietnam.The second portion blends sixties rock n' roll and Vietnamese urban warfare to tremendous effect. The war effort is crumbling and Reporter Sgt Joker is sent to the front to support infantry and get stories for the "Stars and Stripes". There, Joker confronts the full effects of war on himself, friends and strangers. One is hard pressed to remember at points that it is just a movie, so comfortable and real are the actors in their surroundings. The Door Gunner ('ain't war hell?'), Animal Mother, 8-ball and Cowboy are consumed by their roles. It is definitely not a movie for those easily offended by language. As an anti-war movie, it seems to have exactly the opposite effect. Nonetheless, it is a powerful performance, with the entire cast making it greater than the sum of its parts. It is the finest Kubrick movie that I've seen(out of eight). I recommend it for anyone over the age of sixteen who enjoys action or war movies. I rate this movie at nine stars out of ten. It truly deserves to be an American classic.


                
War was the only subject really that Stanley Kubrick seemed to come back to over and over again. This film combines some of the satirical humor that made "Dr. Strangelove" such a classic with the brutally objective eye that he trained on war in "Paths of Glory." It's a story of the making of a killer, from boot-camp to the wrecked urban landscape of Vietnam. Matthew Modine plays the primary character, "Joker", and you'll also see Vincent D'Onofrio giving a wonderful performance as "Gomer Pile" and R. Lee Ermey perfectly cast as the hard-ass drill instructor.But it's not really a movie about individual people, it's a movie about the loss of identity and individuality in the context of indoctrination and life-or-death struggles. As in Kubrick's "2001", the characters are only a mechanism for the themes of the film. It is a deliberately anti-melodramatic film that seeks to create its own formula. Like "Barry Lyndon", its period recreations are incredibly faithful. The idea is more to transport you as the viewer into the environment, and not to allow us the easy separation between self and experience that a strong protagonist would have afforded us.The only real problem with the film is that there's no suitable ending, and what we do get by way of a conclusion is only a logical extension of the themes and doesn't really feel like it arises naturally from the material in any other way. I wish maybe something else could have been done to wrap it up, but I'm not sure what.Where other war films give us either heroism or villainy, this film is quite obviously about the "duality of man", a phrase that even finds its way into the script. It views the phenomenon of war as just that, a natural product of the collective human imagination that follows its own rhythm and rules. And if there was no war, then what place would there be in the world for all these warriors we create? Sgt. Hartmann (Ermey) practically praises Lee Harvey Oswald for his sniping prowess, and another officer later ponders, "when we rotate back to the States, we're gonna miss not having anyone worth shooting."
Unlike many other (Vietnam)war movies, the movie focuses in my opinion on the madness of man instead of the madness of war.The first half shows how the soldiers are being dehumanized during their military training by Gunnery Sergeant Hartman, a legendary and already classic role by R. Lee Ermey. The second half shows the madness of man in a war situation. Both of the halves are good and in a way can be seen as a movie alone but for some reason the two halves don't really flow into each other, which is my only real complaint I have about this fantastic and most certainly unique movie. Then the eternal question of which half is the better one? I'm one of the few who actually like the second half more as the first but that is just only personal and different for everyone.It's strange that the Vietnam battlefield looks more like a WWII European battlefield but I'm sure Kubrick had his reasons for it. Kubrick also manages to put many other weird and unique situations in the movie, which makes this movie truly an unusual viewing experience that shall leave quite an impression on you. Only a brilliant man such as Stanley Kubrick can come up with these kind of scene's.Despite the oddness level of the movie, the movie still manages to also impress the more casual viewer. The battle sequences are made with lot's of profession and with some beautiful cinematography and great use of music.The characters are good and typical Kubrick like. Many of the actors give the performance of their lives. Especially Vincent D'Onofrio who gained a record breaking 70 pounds for his role.Not the best Vietnam movie but certainly the most unique one. You'll love it long time.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
This is an awesome movie, I just saw it for the first time a few minutes ago, I rate it 9/10. The intensity and action just doesn't stop except for a few minutes as when Cowboy is struggling with Animal for a cease-fire ... The feature is visually stunning, nice scenery, a few "gooks" up-close and lots of weapons and war-torn buildings. There's a wide range of emotions except for romance, hurray for realism ! You can see tree facets of the war going from training and it's hardship to comfy position finished by smelling blood. It's odd that they chose Joker, a war correspondant (journalist), for a main character ; I guess they wanted to show the hardening of a pretty normal guy instead of just jumping in the action with a testosterone/adrenaline junkie lusting for a kill seen in countless movies, it's more human that way.


                
Believe it or not, this was considered a flop and a disappointment for Stanley Kubrick back in 1987. Many of his fans were expecting a war epic along the lines of Apocalypse Now. But the thing is, Kubrick already made his war epic, in Paths of Glory. Secondly, it's clear by watching the film that Kubrick's intention was not to talk about the politics of the war, or even stage big budgeted action sequences. His goal was to encapsulate the overall feeling many had about the Vietnam War on and off the battlefield. A pointless exercise of human slaughter. Vietnam, for many, was the definition of man's inhumanity to man. That is what Full Metal Jacket is truly about. The unforgettable first 45 minutes of the picture has us see the ways in which these soldiers are desensitized. The loud-mouthed, profane Sgt. Hartman humiliates the new recruits to their core and as a result, mentally destroys the most vulnerable of the recruits in Leonard "Private Pyle" Lawrence. Once we enter Vietnam, Kubrick shows us the casualties of war, and man's inability to show humility towards each other. In the end, Vietnam is a killing field and some of those fighting it ultimately enjoyed the killing. Full Metal Jacket doesn't resolve like a novel, nor do any of the characters receive any kind of redemption. You can say that it's in the tradition of all of Kubrick's films.


                
Wow. This movie is fantastic. Stanley Kubrick decided to separate his film in two parts, one part where we see the training of the soldiers and another where these same soldiers are in Vietnam for the war. From the beginning, the Sergeant Hartman announced the color, he managed to make laughter by humiliating and insulting his soldiers, he comes out incredible catchwords and remains funny, even at his death. However, he embodies the harshness of American training, not hesitating to punish all his men for the error of only one of them, but he don't forget to spare the one who had made the mistake, In order to this guy be hate by his mates. The second part of the film shows the horror of the Vietnam war through Joker, a war reporter whose job it is to hide the truth about the war from the Americans The same paradoxical man with a "Born to Kill" helmet but also a "Peace and Love" pine, showing the absurdity of this war. In the end, at the end of each of the two parts, goes wrong, showing the failure of the US Army. With this film, Stanley Kubrick demonstrates the absurdity of this Vietnam War where the United States destroyed men in a war lost on all fronts. For me, this movie is really not far to get a 10. The great art!
Warning--This movie is NOT for young kids or those who do not wish to see violence and adult content, as it's rather brutal and the language is pretty rough. Now I am not complaining about this, but this is clearly an adult film intended for adults. It's hard to really do this sort of film without making it this intense--just be forewarned. In addition, this is a very tense and unpleasant sort of film--be aware of this before watching.This film has a ton of reviews, so my summarizing the film or going into any sort of in-depth analysis is probably a giant waste of time. And, Bob the Moo has done such a good job of reviewing it, I say you just go read his! In brief, here's what I liked or at least respected in the film: It had a very gritty realism and managed to pull the viewer into it very, very well. The first portion (in boot camp) and the second portion (in Vietnam) were very different but both were very tense and compelling. While it wasn't pretty, it was well done.And, in brief, here's what I didn't like: The constant and clichéd use of rock and pop music. A few decades ago, this would have been innovative. Now, FULL METAL JACKET sounds an awful lot like GOOD MORNING Vietnam and APOCALYPSE NOW and other films. The constant blaring soundtrack was, I suppose, meant to be surreal and illustrate how ludicrous the war was. However, I just thought hearing "Surfin' Bird" was annoying and a cheap use of music. Apart from that, there isn't anything to say negative about the film.Is this the greatest anti-war film? No. Its message (like the war) was rather mixed at times and lacked the same impact of films like ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT or WESTFRONT 1918, but it sure did come close.


                
I had the pleasure of meeting "Gunny" Ermey at a Marine Corps Ball. The intensity that he brings to his character on screen was matched in real life. Though Drill Instructors are not allowed to cuss or hit recruits anymore the details of training that have been shown are a great reminder of what a person has signed up for.The Vietnam War description could hold true for many Marines, but in the end this is just a movie. As we watch Joker progress through his training into live combat we are reminded of how little we knew of Vietnam and what war is really like. The location that the movie was filmed, MCRD Parris Island is as advertised. The exception is that they finally demolished the old wooden WWII barracks that were used.I recommend this movie to anyone, but especially as a prerequisite for those choosing to join the ranks of the United States Marine Corps.Semper Fi!


                
According to my father who witnessed first hand the tragedies of the Vietnam War, this movie is realistic and somber. Entertaining and interesting as well. Classic one-liners, good acting and an emotionally gripping cast of characters, Full Metal Jacket will forever be a true depiction of the ghosts of the Vietnam War.


                
"Full Metal Jacket" (1987) is a war drama that accurately displays the hardship of the military, in this case the Marine Corps, during the Vietnam War. The film is through the perspective of Private Joker, played by Matthew Modine, as he navigates basic training and the war. The film is very versatile in that there is obvious drama, but there are moments of comic relief mostly to those who were in the military. I feel the point of this film was to shed light on the actualities of the military during training and war time, which have been improved since Vietnam. According to some veterans I have spoken with in my years, the nail was hit smack on the head.The director, Stanley Kubrick, paced this film perfectly. Even though the pacing was unable to keep my teenage son intrigued, knowing what happens in basic training and having done my time in a war, the pacing couldn't have been better. When the story is being told from the service members point of view, the pacing all revolves around how that member absorbs their surroundings. The payoff is unfortunate, but it is the truth of war. The loss of characters you get attached to during the film is a direct depiction of any war where friends and family are lost, but the end is just as heart warming as it is sad. This is a great film that I would recommend to anyone, especially those interested in the military.


                
A smart move from the legend that was Stanley Kubrick. We've all seen many war films, a genre that is well explored from a variety of different conflicts. Full Metal Jacket however chooses to go behind the scenes and focus on the training process that changes well intentioned men into trained lethal killers. You could easily split this in half and have two separate films, the first half being more psychologically charged whereas the latter showcasing the brutality of warfare. A ridiculously serious drill sergeant practically bullying a trainee marine so harshly that it slowly turns him into an unstable psychopath. That right there, was some really good psychology and made the film so much more interesting. Sure the Vietnam War scenes were depicted with a substantial amount of fire, blood and guns but it was the first half that really captivated me. Vincent D'Onofrio was the stand out for me, both convincing and expressive through his face. Matthew Modine was good, probably his best performance. Lee Ermey deserves recognition just for somehow managing to not lose his voice from all the shouting. Characterisation was present, perhaps not fully fleshed out as I would like but was just enough for me to care about them. Yet again though, it's the technical marvel that wins...Stanley Kubrick. His directing style is so damn flawless. The nice clean long takes, actors looking directly into the camera, slow motion deaths (particularly in the sniper shootout)...he is just phenomenal. Script was sharp as well. A great section of dialogue where our lead character wears a peace badge and a helmet that says "born to kill" for which he describes represents the duality of man. That really stuck with me. So whilst it might feel like two separate films (due to that ridiculously quick transition), it's hard not to appreciate everything that's shown to us. Another hit from Mr. Kubrick.


                
The most 're-watchable' movie that Kubrick ever made. It was also the least Kubrick-y movie that he made, in other words it does not have the signature color scenes, strange lighting, ultra odd characters or strange story twists.This movie made the career of Ron Ermey, he has so many on liner insults in this movie that you could fill a book with them. He fit the part so perfectly because he spent over 10 years in the Marine Corps. In fact this movie has been so watched that a true fan can mouth along with most of the insults. Ermey's part in this movie has made him immortal, he will be forever linked to this movie.The supporting cast was also excellent, this movie showed the rise of excellent actors such as Matthew Modine and especially Vincent D'Onofrio. D'Onofrio's part as Private Pyle should have won an Oscar, he nailed the part as a mentally challenged cadet that twisted to the dark side.This movie got snubbed at the Oscars, one factor could be that it was so dark and negative that many people were put off. Another thing was that 78 was the same year that The last emperor and Fatal attraction came out.The only reason this movie is not a perfect 10 is because of the non-climactic ending. I love Kubrick films but his endings have never been memorable, his films always peak at about 20min before the end of the film.My favorite line is "I do not discriminate...to me you are all equally worthless"


                
I just recently saw this awesome film....I wish I had seen it sooner! I hadn't ever seen full metal jacket until a few weeks ago but finally gave in and watched it. I had heard of it before. I am an incredible stupid *beep* for not watching it sooner. It is an incredibly powerful realistic look at enlisted military service. I think any young people should watch it before they consider enlisting. It gives a nice look at some of the military mindset. Better than Western Front, Platoon, and others. They realistically show that the military does train to kill. That is their job. Indecision and softness physically or mentally on the combat zone gets you killed. Teamwork is survival. Some people just don't make it. It also stars some of my favorite actors. Matthew Modine plays the military journalist lead. I like him on and off screen and most of his work. Vincent D'Norfrio gives one of his best performances. Of course I like most of his work too. Lee Ermy gets it spot on as the drill instructor. He's the real deal folks. Talking about his beloved core. Thats why I rate this movie as so way much higher than Platoon, Apcolypse, and their ilk. It is and feels way realer than them. One minor complaint I have with this movie is that they under represent the number of black marines serving in the unit/war as is usual Hollywood practice in movies and TV. That is why I gave it a nine instead of a ten.


                
Even if this had no opening credits, this would be immediately recognizable as Kubrick's work. All of his essential war film components are here, as self reference: the camera movement of "Paths of Glory", the 'fighting a square' and running the gauntlet from "Barry Lyndon". There is 'Rafterman' as the photographer (the camera operator) and 'Joker' as the writer. Modine is given the task of writing the story within the story as the character, and outside the story, narrating with retroactive knowledge.We love the beginning third for the spot-on performances of Ermey and D'Onofrio. But as with all of Kubrick's work, the plot and dialogue are really just secondary concerns. What makes this grip, unlike the works of many lesser filmmakers, is the supremacy of the camera. On the Island, the camera is on a dolly...disciplined, humiliated. In country, it is held-held, it marches, charges, crouches and hides. We get a lesson from the master in how to build story inertia through visual narrative inertia.And in the finale, the most striking feature here, the idea of the camera as rifle/rifle as camera duality. The camera literally becomes the sniper's weapon. And who ultimately puts a metaphorical end to the deadly vision? The photographer...then the writer dispatches it and the story with a prayer. Heavy duty stuff.


                
Watching this movie, try substituting the Vietnam era soldiers, with modern day weapons, vehicles and grunts and you get the War in Iraq! This movie was very entertaining and not like the other Vietnam movies of the time (Apocolipse Now comes to mind) where it is all dark and moody (thanks to the Doors music), but this one has humor to lighten the situation, but there is gore. It is war, duh! Also having draftees in a war situation vs. troops who volunteer for such an assignment really shows. Of course no one wants to be in a war, but if you have to be there, you have to have your head screwed on tight, but not too tight, or you snap. Excellent movie.


                
This is such an uncomfortable movie to watch. I understand what the Marines do. There is one lead fighting machine and they are it. I like to think that what is done is a lot more humane. I believe that one can be toughened without being dehumanized. The character of Pyle is singled out. It seems that if one wanted to terrorize a group of recruits, you don't just focus on the one weak link. This guy should have been shipped out. He was never going to make it. Some guys achieve strength through suffering. He continued to submit to the horrors of boot camp despite the over the top attacks on him. If I wanted to show a definition of sadism, I would use this movie. Now, I agree with a previous writer that in wartime, the carelessness of one man could cost the lives of others, and the sergeant was making a point. But was Pyle becoming a better soldier? Did he ever becomes a better soldier, or was his spirit broken almost from the beginning? There has to be something to be said for the endurance of this man and how long he lasts, even if he fails. The ending did not surprise me. I anticipated it.


                
Full Metal Jacket (1987) Matthew Modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, Adam Baldwin, Dorian Harewood.There is one scene in 'Full Metal Jacket' that I want to talk about first. It is the scene near the very beginning with Leonard Lawrence and Gunnery Sgt. Hartman. Lawrence thinks that Hartman is very funny, but as the film goes on, he starts to hate him more and more.'Full Metal Jacket' is really a different type of war film. It doesn't deal with war battles between Vietnam and America, but battles against ourselves. I don't mean like gun battles, I mean the way that we might feel when we see this film, we realize that we basically fought each other.Soldiers are trained by a mean drill instructor to begin killers, then you actually witness them doing it. The film is divided into two halves. The first half revolves mostly around Pvt. Joker, Pvt. Lawrence (Gomer Pyle), and Drill Instructor Hartman. The soldiers go through training at a South Carolina Marine Corps camp. Joker is the second leader in the group, and Pyle is ranked lower in the platoon because Hartman dislikes him and believes that he cannot do anything. Pyle doesn't have any friends on the squad and only is good at one thing, combat training.The second half is set in Vietnam. It revolves around Joker, Animal Mother, Eightball, and Cowboy, one of Joker's old buddies from training. They go off to fight as gunmen in the war, but also must save their fellow soldiers. Joker believes that war is a living hell, but at the same time, he believes that after fighting there will soon be peace.'Full Metal Jacket' probably isn't the best war film ever made, but it is a great film. It has a good story, another brilliant direction by Stanley Kubrick, and interesting characters. The acting in the movie is just almost perfect. Lee Ermey gives his best and very memorable performance as Sgt. Hartman, mostly because he was a drill instructor in real life. Modine and D'Onofrio were also very good. Dorian Harewood and Adam Baldwin deliver clever lines, and are interesting characters. There are much humor in the film, and it actually is funny. Some of Ermey's line are very clever. It's interesting how he they thought up all of his lines.At times, the film doesn't really fit together. It shows some unrelated material to the story. It loses its pace near the beginning of the second half, but recovers a little later in the movie. Joker's (Modine) narration throughout the movie goes no where. It's horribly told. I'm not saying that Modine was a bad actor, because he wasn't, but the narration sounds like he read it off of flashcards. The first scene that I mentioned really made feel bad for Pvt. Pyle, and it got worse later in the film. Pyle seems like he is Hartman's main victim, mostly because he seems worthless.'Full Metal Jacket' is a really good movie and almost a classic. I don't know how it could have been better, but it is fine the way it is. It is one of the best from Kubrick, and is underrated by some people, but is loved by others. Overall the first half is one of the most effective pieces of film I've ever seen, whereas the second is more or less just good. 4.5 out of 5 stars.


                
Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece of the dregs of warfare "Full Metal Jacket" is often thought of as two films. This is easy to understand when one considers the films rather unconventional structure. You see most commercials films (as apposed to say "art house" fare) are divided into three acts. In the first act the dramatic conflict is introduced, in act two the challenge of the conflict is met by the protagonist, and finally in act three the conflict is resolved. Not so in FMJ, for you see this film is two act that don't quit "jell" in such a nice and neat way. Act one depicts life in marine boot camp. This being the act that the film is most widely know for. The second act is where things stray from the norm. You see act two only contains two characters from act one. One being the narrator/ protagonist  the other a rather small secondary character. The acts don't flow together in the previously mentioned three act manor. In act one we see "Pile" mis-treated while "Joker" tries to help him conform to the marine ways. "Pile" goes on to commit a murder suicide by killing his drill instructor and subsequently himself. Then on to act two we see Joker is now "in-country" as a correspondent. The only real tie to the first act is when he runs across a buddy from boot camp.  Each act is treated like its only miniature movie. Act one being the most popular and two like a weird sequel. FMJ not only lacks a third act  but also cohesive dramatic conflict. In act one the conflict might be seen as boot camp life and the protagonist could be "Pile". But "Pile" is obviously not in act two. One might find traditional conflict in act two but they would be mistaken for there is none. So what is the point of all of this you might ask.. Well you see what most screenwriters and Hollywood filmmakers forget is that there is no cohesive dramatic conflict in life. In life as in FMJ S&^% happens and all we can do is react and observe. And that's exactly what Kubrick wants. He wants to show us something and upon seeing this he wants a reaction. So what is he showing us? In act one he is clearly showing us the dehumanizing nature of creating a "good marine". And no this is not just a fictional depiction. Its a lot closer to reality than you might realize. You see the actor portraying the drill segment Lee Ermey served in the Marine Corps for 30 months as a ....you guessed it drill instructor. Much of his now famous dialogue were his own words.  All you have to do is talk to a marine about FMJ and they will tell you that's how  it was. The question is how do you a an audience member react to this display. In act two we are given a more "traditional" war film. Though unlike most Vietnam films FMJ second act takes place in decaying urban sectors as apposed to the thick jungles of "Platoon" or "Apocalypse Now".  It doesn't try to get you into anyone's head. Show you how this experience is changing the character. Kubrick is more interested in the audience. In the "Vietnam the movie"  sequence soldiers are asked what they think about he war. There is none of your John Wayne hallmark patriotic propaganda."Do you think we waits gooks for freedom? This is a slaughter." -Animal Mother "I wanted to see Vietnam, the jewel of south East Asia. I wanted to meet interesting and stimulating  people of a ancient culture and kill them" -Joker FMJ is based on Gustav Hasford's novel "The Short Timers".  The book was a first for the for the marine and military war correspondent who served in the Vietnam war. Early versions of the novel were developed while Hasford was still serving in the war. Many of the novels central characters were named after pals he served with. Kubrick and Hasford had extensive phone conversations (Kubrick's often preferred manor of collaboration) over the script to what would eventually become Full Metal Jacket. A title Kubrick chose due to "The Short Timers" lack of mass popularity. Kubricks other collaborator was Michael Herr. Who has previously worked with Francis For Copola on the previously mentioned "Apocalypse Now" .


                
