Excuse me first The English is not my first language. The most over rated move ever . should be he's title Seven clowns and a hundred cowards. Most of the movie that among the 250 highest rating there is some exaggeration but this movie is more rating exaggerated at allI do not know what is the thing interesting in the Movie is it the first hundred minutes cent which is a just talk only or the last hundred minutes, which is a running here and there and whooping Why and Why so long. This Movie in every sense of the word is disappointing. If in less than one star has it deserves. Yes one thing The Japanese should not be proud of this movie. Pointless, Boring, Lengthy and Boring again This is the worst movie of all time


                
I got this film when it was still on #1 in the Top250 and thought "wow, this one's gonna be an awesome film" After about one hour of the film, i wondered if this film is ever gonna start with the plot. At hour two, is was really bored and fought sleep. And at the end, after the pretty pointless ending, i was really disappointed.I don't know how someone living in the 21st century can give this film more than 3 points. It's so damn boring! The story is pointless. And the acting: Every actor in a decent suburb playhouse can act like this (but surely won't, because it's way to stagy).Conclusion: Heavily overrated, save this three hours of your life. Now it's down from #1 to #11 ... and hopefully will continue to descend.


                
You are joking?? This is way overrated due to those who want to sound more clever and pretend they actually enjoy something that is ever so slow and long. In fact, this movie has lost any kind of interest. No it has not aged well at all!! Believe me, I like some black and white movies such as Charlie Chaplin's, or even that recent Pie (the number)one. The other day I watched King Kong, and however clumsy the special effects of the time were, it only gives a special dated kick to it (and some of the dinosaurs fight are quite surprisingly awesome as you get used to the general texture of the time.With this one you are just in for boredom and disappointment. It's almost silent for three and a half hours and the fights are theatrically overacted it is ridiculous. Sure this movie was something in 1954, before Star Wars, Aliens, Lord of the rings and Akira (among others), but I believe that to actually enjoy that one, you would need to be a historian of cinema, with a strong knowledge of everything that was happening surrounding the movie, which might provide you with a light that I haven't found.I don't see the point! There does seem to be a consensus that the age of a movie compensates for its shortcomings. I don't think so!! It certainly is part of the reason, but it doesn't make it less boring!So come on! A really great movie should stand the test of time! And that sure means that this one is crap.Equip yourself with popcorn and beer if you are to watch it anyway, it might keep you some company!


                
I rented the Seven Samurai with some friends.  We found it difficult to finish this stinker, and ended up goofing on it towards the end.  Where to start?  First, the movie was SLOW - was too slow - they had segments which took 20 minutes to show that required only 3. The acting was terrible.  The directing was terrible.  The sound quality was terrible.  The story line was a good one - they just didn't do a good job of turning it into a movie.


                
I gave this film a 1 out of 10 simply to try and lower it's over all rating on this site so other's don't make the same horrible mistake I did by renting this 'classic' based on the usually reliable rating system that the users of IMDB offer.The film is long, overacted, choppy, and in general of very poor quality. I am at a complete loss as to why this is on the top 250 nevermind in the top 10.Of all the wonderful films on the Top 250 of all time I can say to anyone out there - if you miss seeing this film you aren't missing much at all.


                
I needed to rate this one star to do my part in lowering the level. There is no way this is top 20 material. I understand where this movie belongs in film history. However, Citizen Kane is not in the top 20, and if that doesn't make it for historical significance, then nothing should. Let the movie stand for itself on all levels not it's impact on filmmaking. The movie is epic, in length. At just about thee and a half hours long with what I am sure is amazing Japanese dialogue but the subtitled translations are not very compelling. I fell asleep several times during this marathon of a movie. If I were to rate by historical significance though: 10


                
I loved The Magnificent Seven . And I read all about how Magnificent Seven was a remake of Seven Samurai . Fine , I said . I'll go rent Samurai . After all , everyone in the Universe seems to think this movie is the best thing ever .I came away with a feeling of disbelief . Am I so shallow I don't understand what a good movie is ? It's not just foreign films either . I actually like a few of them . All right , you got me . I hate most of them . City of Angels is much better than Wings of Desire . Cousins by far superior to Cousin , Cousine . And Point of No Return is a lot better than La Femme Nikita . So , a lot of people disagree with me . That's why these comments are subjective .Back to " Samurai " . One of the reasons for these comments is to give the potential viewer a chance to see what people thought of a movie before devoting your precious time renting it and watching it . The reason I'm giving Seven Samurai thumbs down is not some puerile glee at trashing something wonderful . It's my honest opinion that most normal English speaking people will find this movie overly long , dull , and just not up to the standards set by modern movie making . Maybe a Movie Museum would be interested in " Samurai " but not me . It's supposed to be the precursor of The Magnificent Seven but aside from the general idea of saving a village from bandits it bears little resemblance to it . Take my word for it . The reason it hasn't been checked out at the Video Store is because it sucks .
I am a huge fan of martial arts films and shows but, these have to be the most boring things I have ever seen. They take forever, the fight scenes are weak and it is not funny despite the lip sinks being off. I loved Kung Fu the series and movies and even liked the second version. I love Bruce Lee films and Steven Segal films as well but cannot fathom why these films are so popular. Give me Jackie Chan any day over this dribble. Why isn't Enter The Dragon up above these artsy pieces of garbage. Why not Pokeman for that instance at least there is some humor in that. I would rather watch Dragon Ball Z, Ghost in the Shell, Akira, The Fist of the North Star both versions, Blood Sport even Ultimate Fighting Championship six over this set of movies. I hated Karate Kid and feel that it is an insult to the martial arts but it still is better than this movie set. Have I made my point yet? I hope you never subject yourself to this dribble. Sincerely, Ceasarmoridon.
In my life, I have had the extreme misfortune to see some of the worst movies ever captured on film. I'm talking extreme bad, plot holes, no character development, nothing. Terrible movies which make you want to slowly pull your eyeballs out and tear your hair out of your head.None of them...NONE OF THEM....are nearly as terrible as this terrible piece of crap. THIS IS THE WORST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!! Whoever directed this abomination should be ashamed of himself and his family should hide in shame for the rest of their existence. For whatever reason the movie was rated this high, I'm not entirely sure. This is the first time that I feel I have seriously lost more than two hours of my life that I will never ever get back. As I lay on my death bed, thinking about how my life has been used, this terrible piece of crap will be my only regret in my life. I hate you movie!!! From the bottom of my cold, dark soul I hate you!!!!!!!! Take my advice, stay away from this abomination. STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE!!! For the love of God and all that is holy stay away. Most bad movies are at least kind enough to end after about an hour and a half. This movie will slowly drain your soul and life away over its completely unnecessary three and a half hour run time. I'm so angry at this movie!!!!!


                
