Okay, call me an ignorant, uncultured, short-attention-span Yank if you wish, but I found this movie drawn-out and difficult to follow. It was indeed masterful storytelling with great character development, but the movie seemed to take quite a long time to get going, and when it did it was not the cinematic juggernaut I was expecting. Perhaps my expectations were too high? I don't think so. As of this writing Seven Samurai is at #6 in the all-time greatest movies list (and the only foreign-born film in the top 20), so I've obviously missed something big.This was by no means a bad movie; it was in fact a very good movie. However, all the really excellent movies I've seen have one thing in common - they carry you away with them. You get so involved with the story and characters that you feel like you know them personally. I did not get that here. Instead I kept trying to figure out what was going on, and why people were dramatically wailing and rolling on the ground in reaction to situations that didn't seem to warrant it. Is there perhaps a cultural difference that I'm not linking into? Am I over-analyzing it? I fully expected to walk away from this film wide-eyed and and muttering 'Wow. Just<U+0085>.wow' over and over (as I have with so many other films on IMDb's top 100), but instead I'm left to ponder why I seem to be the only one who's not getting it. I'd watch it again, but 3-1/2 hours is a long time.


                
I'm going to start this off by saying I'm not a professional, so my understanding of camera work and cinematography is at layman's levels. However, I think this movie is somewhat overrated. The visuals are impressive and the movie has a more modern feel to it then other movies from the same time. I definitely think it's worthwhile seeing.But I don't agree that the characters are fleshed out. Perhaps a student of Asian history would find this movie fascinating, but if all sorts of important exchanges are happening under the surface, I missed most of them. I suppose it is too much to expect the director to spell out aspects of Japanese life and educate us, but without that, I found the characters stiff caricatures of little interest to me. Much the same as Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon (although the two movies are VERY different).The movie is simply far too long. While those visuals I mentioned are amazing, I think the editing is horrible. I enjoyed it up to the two hour mark but I knew I was running on empty after that. It suffers the from the same bloating that occurred in older American movies like Gone with the Wind. I know what you're thinking: He has no attention span and is amused by music videos from the MTV era. Well, I do tend to like shorter poems. Why? Brevity is a rare and powerful force. Things should be as long as they need to be. I have enjoyed longer features, and I'm a great fan of movies with slow, beautiful scenes. But this movie collapsed under its own weight.I know many people will disagree, and I might appear foolish to say this, but I don't think foreign films are necessarily better then Hollywood films. The pendulum seems to swing both ways when it comes to this matter, people defending foreign movies as vastly superior to "mainstream" movies, or running them down simply because they have to read subtitles and move outside their comfort zone. I don't think foreign status is enough to elevate this movie beyond the ranks of many other good adventure/action movies. With some prudent editing, script revision and greater depth in portrayal, it might even have been great.


                
In 16th century Japan, civil war has broken out and farm land is under siege by bandits. The farmer cries out: "Is there no god to protect us?" The farmer is born to suffer. Fed up, they seek advice from the old sage of the village, "grand dad," and he advises seeking help from samurai and gaining retaliation against the bandits.The samurai hired are men of a certain attainment of character, which is obvious, since the farmers have so little to offer as recompense. In spite of their faith in the samurai, the safety of the village women is suspect in the presence of these seven men. Traditionally, as warriors, they are rumored to enamor women, seduce them, and then leave.When the warriors come to town, they are introduced to the patriarch. One sneaks off to sound a false alarm of intrusion to expose the double sided agenda of the towns people. They want protection, but cannot entirely trust these men. Even as the samurai train the village men in the ways of warfare, there is an outburst from one farmer about the prevailing class differences between peasants and the seven who are of noble descent.Kikuchiyo, the one warrior of somewhat questionable motive (as evidenced by his flagrant disrespect toward others and disregard for the traditional somber wisdom a warrior must carry himself with, and lack of documentation attesting his pedigree nobility,) discovers the women the farmers have tried to hide. Eventually, all are preparing for war. Three bandits scouting the village are captured and the leader of samurai unsuccessfully tries to stop the villagers from torturing them, once again illustrating the sentiment for humanity that the samurai class was said to be lacking.Three samurai warriors and some farmers then case the bandits' camp, and Rikuchi (who has heretofore been tight lipped about his personal life) is discovered to have a spouse who is living with the villains. This foreshadows other emotional scars soon to be revealed. Kikuchiyo declares he is like the orphan baby he holds among the mill house ruins, a victim of the same criminal element when he was a child.He disguises himself as a bandit, infiltrates their forces and steals a weapon, just as another warrior did. But he is chastised for it, once again revealing the double standard between nobility and peasant class. Manjo, who's daughter, Shino has fallen in love with a warrior, insults them by disowning her once he discovers she has had relations with Katshuro, the youngest.Al last, the farmers and samurai win the battle. But in the end, "The winners are the farmers, not us." The samurai, who were historically denounced from noble class status, were exploited as a police force for the weak, bearing the prejudice from their own past abuses toward their society.Kurosawa's storyline is elemental. It is superficial and holding to only its essential dramatic elements without the depth and weight of symbolism he is known for in later films. Why? He makes room for developing the various and sundry political statements he only pointed at in Roshomon. The film is sociology (the caste of noblemen vs. peasants), feminism (a woman disguising herself as a male out of her father's false pride for her honor,) and cultural relativity (the good guys have some bad in them and the bad guys have some good,) all in one. The farmers are the victims and the samurai are the heroes at arm's length, until the heroes beat the villain. Then the farmers are the victors and the samurai are again set aside.It's pulp compared to Throne of Blood and Ran. I give it a 6.5
Seven Samurai is an over-hyped film that doesn't deserve to be in the top 10 IMDb movies. I'm astounded by the number of people voting 10 ?!That aside, I can certainly recommend it for viewers interested in historical battles, eastern culture and Hollywood free entertainment. I can't agree with other reviewers that it's an action movie, it's more of an adventure with action sequences.The strong points of the movie include great cinematography, good casting, nice locations. Everything looks authentic and real. The main story is interesting as well, although this brings me to the execution of the main idea, the biggest weakness of the movie: the script.In the script, logic is often sacrificed for style:not all samurai have convincing motivations for joining the quest (Gorobei and especially Kyuzo)the bandits should have withdrawn after incurring heavy casualties, but that of course doesn't make a great dramatic ending...none of the bandits kill anyone with a sword which is strange, but could be an underlying message ?too quick reload times for a medieval gunEditing issues:Gorobei's death isn't shownthe pacing is sometimes slow, many scenes could have been shortened, some cut (eg. farmer scenes in the town at the beginning, Shino-Katsushiro scenes)Technical issues:it is painfully obvious that no one is really ever stabbed or cutmost peasants wore headpieces instead of actually shavingMiscellaneous issues include occasional overacting, eastern-style juvenile attempts at humor (like in most kung fu films).All in all an enjoyable adventure that tries just a bit too hard to be an epic of some sorts.7/10
Seven Samurai has acquired a legendary reputation among moviegoers, and is routinely called one of the top films in cinema history. I certainly appreciated Seven Samurai, but I think the praise that has been lavished on it is overdone. Apart from some creaky sentimentality and a fairly urgent need for sharper editing, there is nothing specially wrong with the movie. It is a fine blend of drama and comedy with good performances all around and an engaging story, and well shot to boot. Mifune is quite hammy in this picture, though, and that does get annoying at times.Seven Samurai is not as good as Kurosawa's own Yojimbo, which is much tighter, much more restrained in its approach to sentiment and much funnier. Perhaps most importantly, Mifune is not a character actor in Yojimbo but rather a much more "natural" character with an intriguing blend of dignity and earthiness, greed and generosity.If you are craving a really good samurai movie by Kurosawa and can see only one, Yojimbo is the obvious choice over Seven Samurai.


                
This movie shows some of the best directing ever done, and is a historical masterpiece for that reason, and that reason alone.  Seven Samurai is not very relevant to the modern world, especially in America.  Very little is done to develop characters and themes.  At best, this is a simple story which was stretched out to 3 1/2 hours.  I do agree that the directing and cinematography were groundbreaking and very ahead of their time.  I'm sure that the dialogue lost quite a bit of meaning and complexity in translation.  The subtitles are written at an 8-year old's reading level, and do not do well in expressing emotion or meaning.  There are other cultural barriers which will prevent the average viewer from fully grasping the plot.  The characters are, at best, underdeveloped.  It is quite possible to go through the whole movie without even knowing the main characters' names, let alone the intricacies of their personality.  However, you will certainly see the influence this film had on today's directing.  Overall, I give it a 7/10...but I would probably give a better rating to the shortened version.


                
The story of the Seven Samurai is not a cliché but it is treading an existing type of movie, namely a type of movie in which the story builds to an important event. This event will test several characters, showing how they deal with the said event and with one another. Normally, the formula to such a movie requires the first 80% of the movie to be devoted to showing the backstory of each character who will be present for the final event. This is necessary because you have multiple characters and you need to understand the backstory of each of them as well as the relationships between them in order to understand and fully appreciate their behaviour during the final event. Seven Samurai gives a little bit of an introduction for each character, but not much. Not long after seeing this movie, I have completely forgotten 3 out of the 7 samurai. And I would only be able to describe the characters of 2 out of the 7 people, and only briefly. It is not a spoiler to say that some of the samurai are not going to make it out alive, but it's hard to care when the characters are so undeveloped.As for the acting in this movie, it is a matter of taste. The Japanese sometimes have a really expressive line delivery, which is most evident in anime production. This delivery is aided by the fact that the Japanese language, even when spoken at a conversational speed, can easily be made to sound more pressurised than Western languages, with a lot of harsh "zh" and "sh" mushed together for effect. And in addition to that, older movies in general seem to suffer from overenthusiastic acting - a leftover from the theatrical era when it was actually necessary due to the distance between the performers and the viewers. Perhaps as a result of all 3 of these factors, there is a lot of overacting in this film. Specifically, Toshiro Mifune's character was given artistic license to physical improvisation by the director and Toshiro ran with it all the way to cartoon-land. I felt a physical need to look away during some of the scenes because it just got too weird for me to handle. That is not to say that the acting is bad. It's great but very stylised.I read that the reason why Toshiro was given the liberty to go nuts is because the director was worried that the movie would otherwise be too quiet and boring. He was sort of right, because when you remove Toshiro's character and his contribution to the themes concerning the position and identity of the peasant class, the film is just a story about a few people coming together and then fighting off an attack. It moves slowly, at almost 3 hours long, and not all of the scenes feel necessary.The good part is that, despite of it all the shortcomings, the film remains entertaining. The scenes are shot with competence. I am just somewhat surprised to see all the overwhelmingly positive reactions to this film.


                
Now, I've heard that this is a great movie. However, the sheer not-goodness of the first half is very difficult to ignore. As great as the last half was, it does not justify the slow, slow, slow beginning. Maybe I'm missing something, maybe I just don't get Japanese humour, but as far as I can tell, the first half deserves a 2.Luckily for this film, there's the last half, the truly riveting conflict that seems to highlight the role of all seven samurai, as well as a few of the important peasants. While Misune's character was very... silly, the young samurai (Kambei?) adds much to the film. The last half of the movie, due to its complex conflict and character development, gets a 9.Overall a 7.


                
I really don't get why this film rates that high in the top 250. Based on other reviews, my expectations on seeing Seven Samurai were high. But I only found myself wondering why this should be the 'film of films'. On the contrary, I found it quite mediocre and was bored. People say, on appreciating it you should realize it's an old movie and that by means of the cinematic it was very revolutionary in its days. But why then is there a total lack of that approach with respect to other old movies? Why should I suddenly be so scrupulous on seeing The Seven Samurai? Because of its icon status? Well, I don't agree. Sure, I enjoyed the film, for me it had its good moments, but not more than an average other movie. In fact, most of the time I felt embarrassed to my wife, looking the film with me and to whom I had recommended it because of the lyric reviews. I expected something quite different. To me, it was boring, slow, often strange and, like I said, certainly not better than many other films I know. I'm puzzled why this film ranks so high in the top 250, immediately after Schindler's List. Probably I'm so blunt that all the greatness spotted by other people escapes to me.


                
Though I didn't like the whole story very much, there were still some parts that touched me: say, when we saw the old woman whined the bad deeds of the bandits; and the little love story between the veteran samurai and the young girl; then the man said that "to protect others can protect yourselves", though I don't quite grasped the meanings, I feel the saying is very touching, exposes the resolution of those samurais. The movie may also show some society things of the Japanese society at the time, but I didn't pay much attention.  As a foreigner, I only feel the Japanese-styled sayings and behaviors interesting.  And the Japanese music, played by a flute-thing, I feel it sounds like modem's singing.


                
You want Samurai? We've got seven of them and they're all recognisable and nuanced in their own memorable way. As a side-note, I literally just looked up what the plural of the word Samurai was because I just wasn't sure. The embarrassing thing is that I really should have been sure considering I spent three and a half hours watching a film whose title has the pluralised form of Samurai displayed for the world to see. Clearly, I am not an observant person.I am not opposed to films being long as long as all the scenes within them at least seem necessary to the plot and characters. When your film has a black screen that says, 'INTERMISSION' on it, it's safe to say that you are pushing it a little. With a run time of 206 minutes Kurosawa's epic lives up to that weighty noun. While I could criticise it for being over-bloated, almost all the scenes were necessary to making the film what it is.The film has three long phases. The first phase is the formation of the titular Samurai boy band of death in their quest to protect a village of farmers from a barrage of bandits. Each of the characters has ample screen time devoted to them (which considering the amount of time available to assign). They are all full to brim with character; an important trait when considering the film is pre-colour. With the power to use colour to immediately recognise the characters stolen from the film, it is forced to use physical mannerisms to show which character is which at a glance<U+0085> that and silly hairstyles.I have never really understood Japan to its full extent and hopefully never will. Throughout the film, the statuses, jobs and relationships of farmers and Samurai are given. It was made very clear exactly the context of these historical occupations and how they interact with one another. I always thought that Samurai were the knights of feudal Japan. It seems, however, that they are more akin to today's mercenaries. The way that the contextual statuses are woven within the film adds to how believable the film is. I was taken by how little these characters seemed like actors playing roles and rather actual Samurai.It is important to mention the runtime once more. I know I may be lingering slightly but so did the movie so take it up with Akira Kurosawa. I you were using this review as a recommendation and weren't expecting a gargantuan epic; I honestly couldn't recommend this film to you. While it was an enjoyable story, it is not a film that I will ever willingly return to. There are huge pacing issues making the film often drag a black and white cinematic parachute.I would recommend you watch this film once. Mainly so that you can show off that you watched a 3+ hour film that isn't any of the Hobbit films (this is a much better film than any of those). The characters are some of the best put on film in history and the story is dense with plot. However, it did very well to deter me from a second viewing.


                
OK so where do i start!...I know that this movie is praised by many as one of the greatest movies, and as far as Kurosawa's director skills,music and artistic talent this movie is brilliant...(remember this movie was filmed in 1954), but as far as acting this movie didn't quite deliver for me!...this movie is long 3 hours and 10 minutes and for at least half movie you start to notice that characters in this movie are alway running somewhere,yelling,crying and funny moving. The start of the movie is very good with nice ( creepy ) music in the background and barbarians who are approaching to the village and i also liked when people from the village go to the city to find the samurai's and then they test them!At the end this movie could be better in my book as far as acting but the great thing about this movie is crossway !


                
Just want to say i can't understand why seven samourai is ranked so high on the IMDB ranking. It's a good movie allright, but it's far from perfect: it's too long, sometimes boring, especially the first part of the movie before the farmers decide to hire samourai and also the search of the seven samourai is not great (at least not as good as in the magnificent seven). There aren't real samourai fight scenes in it, the bandits almost never appear in the movie and when they do appear they are so stupid they make the same mistake each attack...I think the magnificent seven is a better movie. John Sturges cut out the less good scenes from seven samourai, used the wonderful story and made a magnificent western.


                
Seven Samurai is a massive, ambitious and influential film that made many common plot elements today what they are. But, does that mean it's actually a great film? In my opinion, no, not so much. A decent one and an important one that everyone should watch but not necessarily a great one. The movie is long. Much too long in my opinion. It's three hours and twenty minutes about, and never does that time seem totally worth it. The characters aren't very compelling which makes me have trouble with actually getting attached to the story itself even if it is interesting. None of the characters for the most part go beyond a surface level of character development which leads me to not caring about a whole lot that is going on. That's not to say the movie is awful.The movie is ambitious and is incredible especially for it's release date, I'm sure almost nothing of it's kind existed beforehand. The movie is massive as I stated before and is filled with many action set pieces that still hold up fairly well today. It is a period piece as well, taking place in 1587 in the Warring States Period of Japan and seems to do a good job portraying samurai which are pretty much cool and interesting by default but that doesn't mean the characters themselves are good. A village of farmers goes to hire samurai to protect them from bandits, they hire a total of seven, if it wasn't obvious enough for the title. The plot is interesting and compelling but again, it doesn't really matter.I don't care about the people in the movie, at least for the most part. And that remains to be my biggest issue. A movie like this needs characters that I at least sort of care about. Probably one of my biggest comparisons to this movie is The Thin Red Line, a Terrence Malick movie which I really like Terrence Malick for the most part. It's a war movie that barely focuses on the characters so I don't really care about anything that is going on. I felt pretty much the same during this movie. Overall, Seven Samurai is still a very important film and a mildly interesting one but that doesn't mean it needs to be held as one of the greatest films of all time like it is, because frankly, it doesn't hold up as well as everyone thinks.


                
...his other work (Ikiru, Rashomon, etc), still this movie is loved by audiences since it is one of Kurosawa's films with a traditional Hollywood script.  Inspired by American westerns, it is only fitting that the film was later adapted several times to that setting. There's little depth in this movie, compared to Kurosawa's other pieces.  It is just pure entertainment, dealing briefly with issues such as honor, mismatched lovers and solidarity. The movie feels a little long nowadays, and it does take some time to get started.  But this setup pays off later on. Battle plans are explained before hand so the public can follow the action sequences in the same way a general can.  And once the battle begins, you won't be able to stop watching. Mifune steals the best, funniest and of the most memorable scenes in the movie, as an infiltrated soldier in enemy lines. The action is dramatic and the stunts are outstanding.  With hundreds of extras, great b&w photography and an impressive production, the movie takes on epic qualities that have little to envy to any Hollywood production.


                
Over-acting, exagerated expressions, long story... but there are some good points too, such as character development, and feeling-inducing scenes that brings the viewer into the movie, oblivious to the room's surroundings. The idea of poorness is really well illustrated...


                
Very long.  They could have cut out about 1.5 hours and the movie would have been just as effective.  It is an excellent portrayal of the harshness the Japanese people lived through for centuries.  This movie teaches lots of lessons, the most important being how strong a family and village bond can be.The entire country is in the middle of an economic catastrophe.  A small rice-farming village is constantly attacked by bandits who steal all their food and leave them to die.  In a final effort to save their village and their lives, they seek out samurai to protect them.  When they convince a samurai that their cause is worth fighting for, he assembles a team of warriors to plan a defense for the town against the bandits.Another DVD that seriously needs English dubbing.  Sub-titles give me headaches, especially when they go on for over three hours.  Great film though, even if you have to watch it over three sittings.


                
Shichinin no samurai is one of the most acclaimed films of all time, and it is not less because it has many qualities, but I found only a good movie, I still think Ran the best of Kurosawa, the film has a great makeup, scenes Very good fights, excellent dialogues, good script, a medium time, I found the film very long, and was very tiring in some moments, the direction of Kurosowa is excellent, the photography is beautiful, the soundtrack is very good, the cast Is good, all the actors are very competent, merit to the direction of Kurosawa that is the best thing of the film, Shichinin in the samurai is good, has an impeccable direction of Kurosawa that shows to be one of the best directors of history, and without doubt the Best Asian, and one of the most influential in the world, but I found it a bit tiring, but it is highly recommended for movie buffs. Note 7.8


                
I love the acting in this movie. Mostly it's really good. Even minor characters feel very much like a part of the universe they're in, almost as if Kurosawa just found a village and started shooting. At the same time, and this might be due to difference in cultures, all of the characters feel super real, because everyone is shouting all the time, they're always running, and they usually react as a group, moving together like it was all choreographed.It's also quite extraordinary how thorough this movie is leading you through the events in what is essentially a battlefield. It goes as far as having the characters literally ticking check boxes for each death. It shows you the plans before the action starts, and then have the characters actions show you how the plans are progressing. It's an impressive feat, considering it all feels natural. But still, had it been made today, I am sure the filmmaker would not have dared to risk boring the audience with the same attention being given to details. And while it is interesting to many to have the battle shown this way, I am sure a modern audience would prefer to just have it all happen, perhaps opting for montages instead. It's hard to say one is the better option over the other, but the way Kurosawa did it is not bad. It might just not be what modern audiences would prefer.Another odd bit, that have not aged that well, is that pretty much every comedic moment (in which the characters are laughing), it's almost always at the expense of someone. They're laughing at people in a way that today would probably not be that accepted.


                
People have described this movie as the one that changed all movies after it, or some variation of that. Since this is basically the oldest movie I've seen, I'm not sure I can agree with that, but you can somehow sense that it's ahead of its time. That said, it is also a film that can be prone to hype influence, where people feel like they should like the movie because it's considered a classic and they feel like there's something groundbreaking and spectacular about it that they're missing. I'll admit that I was a little disappointed in how Seven Samurai delivered on its hype, but after taking a step back I think I figured out why it's so highly regarded. It provided a framework for later movies in it's story and characters, and I think that's why it felt a little disappointing. The movie feels like it missed out on its potential because it has all the marks of a great film, but doesn't quite pull it off because as the model it doesn't have anything to model off of. The high ratings are kind of interesting because I would expect a movie like this that influences later greater works to be disregarded, but thankfully it isn't.The basic plot is simple enough and has lots of potential. Forty bandits try to raid a vulnerable farming village. The villagers turn to a local samurai, Kambei, who searches for six other samurai to help defend the villagers. I found the idea of having to recruiting samurai that would only fight for the sake of fighting interesting. The first hour (in the three hour version at least) consists of Kambei recruiting the other samurai, most notably his new apprentice Katsushiro, and the drunken pseudo samurai Kikuchiyo. The second hour involves some exposition of the samurai and preparations for the inevitable bandit attacks. Once everything is in place, the bandits and samurai have a number of skirmishes. There is an internal subplot with Katsushiro courting Shino against her father's wishes. The samurai end up having to worry about the villagers they are serving as much as the bandits they are fighting. The villagers fear for their safety and general livelihood, which they feel is threatened by the presence of the samurai.The three main protagonists are Kambei, Katsushiro, and Kikuchiyo. Kambei has relatively little personality and serves as the sage and leader of the samurai. Katsushiro asserts himself as Kambei's apprentice and constantly tries to prove to himself that he is worthy of his samurai title. Kikuchiyo has some depth but is mostly a comic relief character that sets himself apart by going his own eccentric way as the other samurai collaborate. The other characters consist of the lesser samurai and the more prominent farmers. The four main farmers are Mosuke, Manzo, Yohei, and Katsushiro's love interest Shino. Shino and her father are the only two of these that have any kind of depth, whereas the other two are just on screen a lot without being important in any scene. The other samurai are developed a little, probably not as much as they should have in this long of a movie. Heihachi has a slight fear of battle, Gorobei is the most cheerful of the samurai and ends up being a kind of second to Kambei, Kyuzo is the master swordsman, and Rikichi, I think, is the one who has a bandit wife.It's an old movie so there isn't any stunning action or anything like that. Same goes for the cinematography, camera-work, and other technical areas. I would recommend that you watch it if only to put a few more opinions out there. It's probably not going to be your favorite movie, especially since it drags at times and is in black and white. There's a little Japanese culture involved, so there might be a couple of things that don't make sense. There is a free 3 hour version on youtube, which is the one I watched, but be warned that the audio is about 20-30 seconds behind the visual. Still, that's probably your best option if you're hesitant to spend money on it. So is it over-hyped and overrated? Maybe, but it's still worth a try. Overall Rating: 7.3/10.


                
1st watched 6/21/2014 -- 7 out of 10 (Dir-Akira Kurosawa): Effective drama about a group of professional fighters(aka. Samurai) who are hired to fight and defend a small village from a group of bandits that have been terrorizing them for awhile. The Samurai(originally seven) teach the villagers more than they expect as well as providing them with a more promising . What makes this work is the storytelling and the relationships that occur between the villagers and the Samurai. The Samurai provide very elaborate defenses for the village and a scheme that works to allow them to handle the bandits. They also train the male villagers to be a part of the battle and get them to realize their potentials. The movie is slow in it's development and not really a hard core action movie like it is advertised but more of a story about how this community is established and how they interact. Yes -- there are battles(mostly in the last half of the movie) but the results are pretty inevitable because of the preparation. The villagers start out as meek, shallow people who allow others to stamp all over them -- but they are transformed by the Samurai before the end of the movie to a stronger group more equipped to handle life in general. There is a small romance thrown in involving one of the younger Samurai with a female villager but this is there primarily to show that the villager's original fear about the Samurai overwhelming their woman is not true. The Samurai are not paid for this endeavor -- they are basically given very meager room and board(which shows the character of those who were chosen). A young Toshiro Mifune was the only actor's name I recognized but I'm sure the whole cast is very well known in Japan due to the major hit this was when it came out. This classic film is definitely worth the viewing even at 3 and 1/2 hours.


                
This film needs to be seen, half way through it was going to be my absolute favourite of all time, but the trouble with long films is that the character and as many as there are in this (all great characters and actors) they start to dilute a bit (that is my only reason for such a low rating), but it was good, in any case I don't particularly like long films but- Im betting whom ever is reading this watch that film, they will certainly strike an argument with me about the rating I gave i. Great film truly would suggest to any one who can watch a subtitled films.5 STAR-OKAY FILM


                
The movie is great, as is its director. My assessment, however is equal to the number of samurai there are in it. Not that Kurosawa did not make a good movie - on the contrary, but the reputation of this is not enough to make it the best of all his other films.This is the oldest film in which I first saw the camera to shoot one shot going around in circles (probably put on a train on rails). The story, undoubtedly, is very interesting. These are still a bunch of samurai and social issues: who is a ruler - the strong or the weak? Of who think the strong ones - for themselves or for the others? What is the meaning of help, and so on and so forth.I'm a little critical of the finale of the film, which ended with a single line, immediately after a half-hour-long battle. This removed part of the pleasure to watch film of Kurosawa. Therefore conclude here. If you have the nerves to watch the three-hour, well-known film, then watch it!http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/


                
In feudal Japan, bandits threaten to raid a small village. The farmers resolve to try and find samurai to protect their crops and families. But how will they do this, and can they trust those hired to defend them ?Kurosawa is arguably the top director in all cinema, and this is perhaps his greatest film, although personally I like Yojimbo and Ran even more. It epitomises what makes many of his movies so powerful; it is a both a supremely entertaining story, full of action and humour, but at the same time a riveting, thought-provoking, intelligent drama on the most basic and profound level - life, death, love, honour and morality. So many films are either low-brow mass-market chores or high-brow pretentious bores, it's wonderful to see any movie which succeeds on all levels as both art and entertainment. The story is terrific and beautifully unveiled, the characters are vibrant and dynamic, giving us a choice of people to identify with; the noble and philosophical Kambei (Shimura), the idealistic but naive Katsushiro (Kimura), the noisy comic blowhard Kikuchiyo (Mifune), the quiet but lethal Kyuzo (Miyaguchi), even the short-tempered villager Rikichi (Tsuchiya), whose story is one of the most moving amongst a rich tapestry of overall tales woven skillfully together. All these performances are rich, funny and moving, but it's Mifune's showstopping tour-de-force which lingers most in the mind, full of sound and fury, heartbreaking honesty and great physical prowess. The scene where the weapons cache is found and he chastises the samurai for their bigoted moral superiority packs an incredible emotional punch and for my money is one of the most moving and touching moments in all cinema. The entire film though is packed with great scenes; the standoff with the robber in the barn, Kyuzo's duel, the arrival at the deserted village, the fire at the bandits' hideout, Kikuchiyo holding the baby next to the burning mill, the horses rearing and slipping in the mud, the tragic ending. It's simply outstanding visual storytelling from start to finish. Exceptionally well written by Kurosawa, Shinobu Hashimoto and Hideo Oguni. Remade very successfully by John Sturges in 1960 as The Magnificent Seven (which Kurosawa liked so much he gave Sturges a samurai sword), and its influence casts a huge shadow over hundreds of films, from Da Uomo A Uomo to Three Amigos. If you have any interest in the history of either Japanese cinema or action films generally, this is an absolutely unmissable classic by a master director at the height of his prowess.
this movie is timeless and stunning.one of the greatest movies ever made.it's very foreign film to me(i live in Estonia Easten Europe)Akira Kurosawa was the master of Japanese movies and always will be.it was voted onto Sight & Sound's list of the ten greatest films of all time in 1982 and 1992.movie starts a village of Japanese farmers are under attack by bandits.the story is very famous.culture are without a doubt foreign to people who live in America and Europe.village people asks samurai's to help them because bandits are cruel.so they ask protection from bandits. so i recommend it watch it.9.1/10 worth to watch it. maybe some people don't like it because it's a little bit strange but it's anyway masterpiece.


                
