''Shichinin no samurai '' more well known as ''The Seven samurai''is another of Kurosawa's masterpieces, and the most popular movie from the director of all times. It's not a coincidence that this movie has such a high ranking in IMDb's votes, being the 7th movie in the Rank. From the actors who play the samurai of this movie, we see notably Toshirô Mifune again,one of the most famous actors from Japan that is many of Kurosawa's classics. Full of innovations for the time the movie was made, like the slow motion for dramatic flair, the reluctant hero and some determined scenes, this movie is considered to be the first action movie already produced.A small village is constantly being attacked by some dangerous bandits, who are always devastating the homes of the locals. Seeing that they cannot live in this way, the villagers decide to hire samurais to protect and fight for them. All the samurais hired have meals as payments,since they were not in their best and the villagers cannot offer much. We see during the movie the samurais teaching the villagers how to defend themselves and also awesome battles, the best being the last one, when a huge amount of bandits come to destroy the village.
My public library system has been bolstering its collection of 'classic' movies on DVD, and viewing this one is part of my quest to see all the 'great' movies on lists like the AFI Top 100. 'Seven Samurai' is not on the AFI list, but is #1 on many lists of foreign films. So it was with great anticipation that I set aside 3.5 hours on this rainy Thursday, fighting off a sinus cold, to see it. I did, and while I consider it a very fine movie in some respects, in others I found it to be quite ordinary and slow. Maybe part of it is a cultural thing. The movie is very long in part to accommodate character development, and to tell the story in three parts -- finding the Samurai to protect the defenseless farming village, planning the defense and training villagers, then the actual battles. The 17th century Japanese samurai culture is so far removed from what interests me, I had some difficulty being attentive for 3.5 hours.  Plus, while I can enjoy some B&W movies, an epic one like this just suffers so much. Many times it was hard to tell the villagers from the samurai from the enemies, especially in dark scenes. To me 'Seven Samurai' appears to be given far too much reverence by fans of 'classic' movies.The critic Berardinelli has a very nice review of the entire movie, however I don't share his high rating of it.


                
A very enjoyable film, and as you probably know, the basis for The Magnificent Seven.  The film is well-done and addresses class issues as well as the idea of justice.  My only complaints (and the only reasons I did not give it a 9), and they are small, are that the characters' motivations were not explored as much as I would have liked and the strategy of the Seven for defending the village should have been more in depth because strategy is an aspect dwelt upon early in the film in several other instances.  Still, give this film its due:  it set the stage for many following (and sadly, lesser) American Westerns as well as Japanese films.  I own it, but if you are not a "film buff" I suggest renting it and then deciding if you should own it. It is long and unless you're really into the film it will seem to move somewhat slowly.


                
This is my first Kurosawa film. I've been meaning to watch this for a decade, and finally got around to it. I was not disappointed. The seven Samurai were all unique individuals and easy to empathize with. The former farmer Samurai was particularly memorable - he was a complex character, who on the surface was aggressive, brutish and selfish but still capable of bravery and sacrifice. I look forward to viewing more Kurosawa movies in the future.


                
In the final sequence, four samurai were killed, buried over a hill, and three remaining samurai stood beside their graves; after all, the peasants worked and sang, this is a beautiful and meaningful mussien:
-The presence of the samurai alongside the graves of his friends reminds us of the memory of the struggle or pleasure of the struggle.
-The distance between the samurai and the peasants is the destruction of the memory of myths in the minds of the villagers, and the most beautiful of the unlucky love of the "Katsushiro" and "Shino" are the defining isolation of these people. "Kambei" confesses the bitter truth:
"We lost again ... the winners are the villagers, not us."
When some lowly farmers in 16th century feudal Japan decide to protect their tiny village from bandits they set out to find some samurais that can help them. They set out for four and are convinced that they need at least seven. With nothing to offer but rice and a place to sleep they needed to find samurais that were willing to fight for the sake of fighting or fight for the honorable cause of helping the little guy.This movie was incredibly long but marvelous. At roughly three and a half hours it is long enough for two movies. Even as good as it was I needed three intermissions to finish it. This is not to say that the movie was boring I just needed a break. The performances were good as far as I could tell being an American judging Japanese actors. Who doesn't like a tale of self-sacrifice to help the downtrodden?


                
If you're a fan of action movies, then you owe Seven Samurai a debt of gratitude. This film set in motion storylines, scenes and even shots that are commonly used in movies today. It's a beautiful film with wonderful performances, but be advised, it's also very long and drawn-out.


                
Shichinin No SamuraiThe choreography of all the action based sequences are dreadful and well shot, as it keeps it grounded and says a lot about the execution of the feature through it and also the plausible work that went behind the camera for it. Ticking for around 200 minutes, it never feels overstretched, but is elaborated in detail; the difference that the makers are aware of and keeps it separate throughout the course of it. It is rich on technical aspects like sound effects, choreography and production design. Akira Kurosawa; the screenwriter and director, has done an excellent on executing the anticipated vision, and also keeping the tone of the feature alive for such a long period, takes a lot skill and passion towards the project to pull it off. Each individual character in here is allotted a specific track to portray which they do hold on to tightly. There is a lot of concrete material which never gets overstuffed, as the makers take their time whilst holding few tactics to keep the audience on the edge of the seat and engaged through the process. Shichinin No Samurai is an emblem of unity that shines unflinchingly that is at best a classic culmination of all genres and at worst an action packed feature; both the side, it's a win-win.


                
Many film historians point towards Seven samurai as the genesis of the great western and inspiration of countess story line and plot reinventions. That's great, but watching other "firsts", such as Citizen Kane, have failed to create that sense of disbelief that allows one to lose themselves in the experience. Not so with Akira Kurasawa's Seven Samurai.Each character has their own personality allowing the details of their emotions infiltrate the experience. This is not a WWII soldier story when everyone and then some die for their country,. This is not war time... or is it? That's the point of teh film that there is no end to transgressions against humanity and doing the right thing is both honorable and hard. I see some overplayed parts by the villagers and wonder if the Japanese audiences thought them more funny or silly, or simply disposed of them as the weak link of the movie, as I did. That is in contrast to the faceless enemy of the bandits, portrayed as poachers with swords... Can you imagine working so hard for so little and having it stolen without protection? You can feel for these farmers as if they were somewhere out in the American West, one of our own.... yes, the story is quite sympathetic.But movie is about our crew of seven and their joining to defend a defenseless group by means of preparedness that is more military strategy than you would have expected. I loved this aspect of the film the best, but would have felt rushed if we didn't know our group and who they were there to protect. This artifact of cine-history remains a masterpiece!


                
So whats all the hype about this movie? I've watched literally thousands of movies in my life and decided to see this one. Well, in 2008 its dated and very quaint. There are two impressive things about the movie that today's audiences will appreciate. 1) The use of camera close-ups on faces to accentuate plot points and tense scenes. 2) The use of camera to film action sequences in the last 30 minutes of the movie. Those are the best things in the movie and were revolutionary in its time. So for historical purposes, one can argue that this was important. However, these two novel techniques don't overshadow the fact that the movie is slow in its pacing, runs much too long with quite a few irrelevant scenes (the girl-boy in the woods scenes are out of place). In fact, another problem with this movie, is that for western audiences much of the context surrounding the life of the samurai and Japanese life are simply absent. Without any historical knowledge one is left w/many questions about the actions of the characters in the movie and the motives behind them. In short, it is a good movie that you should watch once for its historical significance, but there is not much that you can take away from it (as a modern viewer). There are too many action movies that have come along that are much better filmed and more captivating than this movie. Like a one-shot wonder resting on his laurels, this movie keeps getting more famous as the years go by for some novel features that it introduced. Although captivating for its time, by today's standards this piece of cinema is simply good but not great.


                
There is a nuanced feeling between a new release could score an 8/10 (say THE DARK KINGHT RISE 2012) and a classic acquire the same rank, (but if divided more precisely, which I feel compulsory to do but in lack of a potential spur to re-set my entire rating system. TDKR is around 7.8-8.2 while SEVEN SAMURAI is surely wavering around 8.2-8.5). SEVEN SAMURAI, an esteemed masterpiece from the reasonably most eminent auteur, Akira Kurosawa, not only from Japan, but the wholesale film history as well, why my belated first- viewing has a tad underwhelming collision, notably juxtaposed with another Akira's chef- d'oeuvre RASHOMON (1950, 9/10), which had been my one and only entrance before SEVEN SAMURAI, this action saga of seven samurai trains local village farmers and fights against bandits has a thrilling in-depth character-building deployment and the action sequences are cutting-edge of its time. And seminally a full-flown censure upon class discrimination could reverberate till today although we are miles away from the feudal era. Against a 207 minutes running time, surprisingly I still cannot distinctively tell each samurai from their appearances and 4 of them all died from muskets is a grave ridicule of the deprivation-ridden samurai social stratum, nothing is remotely close to any dueling-style combat which I prefigured during the much-hyped final showdown. But the camera-work from Asaichi Nakai is a first-class roller-coaster ride since the fight kicks off, leaving a woeful curtain call of four disturbing graves standing under the background which potently ends the film in a provoking manner. The cast are excellent by and large, with Shimura gives a composed and sage leadership with his empathetic charisma, Mifune, on the other hand, is more rely on his own panache to contradict his identity dilemma (from a farmer-born orphan to an unclassified samurai-wannabe). Several supporting roles are also glistening, Bokuzen Hidari's chicken and wordless farmer who finally delivered his only line during his last breath is striking deep in my mind. Miyaguchi's superbly practiced swordsman also exemplifies the most orthodox samurai image, they are all among the marrow of my first viewing. The sway of the Harakiri spirit is ubiquitous, particularly among the ill-fated bandits, which occasions some random thoughts such as instead of executing themselves on the ultimate suicidal march, they could have retreated and recruited more people and then plotted their revenge which makes for a more common sense instead of being dragged from the horsed and slaughtered one by one by the samurai-farmer coalition. The storyline-setting seems to choose an easier way out and avoids undermining the film's integrity and leaving an edgy unfinished business, nevertheless is this some overt contrivance which plain suffices to facilitate the film which should be at least pointed out? Or maybe I should watch more Japanese films to digest their ethos and frame of minds?


                
Akira Kurosawa's "Seven Samurai" is generally regarded as one of the crown jewels of world cinema. This epic (3½ hour) film tells the story of a group of samurai recruited by poor farmers in order to defend their village against a group of bandits. Seven accept the challenge, despite the promise of hard times and little reward.Despite being over three hours in length, there isn't a wasted moment in the film. We're introduced to the bandit threat in the opening scene and the buildup to their return is filled with character development. By the time the conflict starts resulting in casualties, we've grown attached to these characters and hate to see them go. And once the real action finally does start, it's unrelenting.The cast is well assembled and includes Japanese film legends Toshirô Mifune & Takashi Shimura. While I found Mifune's portrayal of the brash Kikuchiyo to be a bit over-the-top there's no denying that he has tremendous screen presence. Shimura's performance is much more subdued as he provides an ideal personification of samurai values. Other standouts include Seiji Miyaguchi as master swordsman Kyûzô, Yoshio Tsuchiya as defiant villager Rikichi and Isao Kimura as the young and inexperienced Katsushirô.The direction by Kurosawa is uniformly well handled whether in the heat of battle or in a more peaceful moment (though I can't say I cared for his use of slow motion). The film also boasts some nice cinematography which makes the most of costumes & sets that convincingly establish the period setting. Meanwhile, the music of Fumio Hayasaka sets the right tone throughout.In the end, I would have rated this movie a bit higher except that I grew up with the Western remake "The Magnificent Seven" and it remains one of my absolute favourite movies of all time. So, for me at least, while the original is a top notch movie, I can't help but compare it to the slightly superior (in my mind) remake. Of course, this preference may or may not be completely objective.


                
"Seven Samurai" is a good entertaining movie. The plot is engaging although the film is overly long. Removing a half an hour would not hurt the movie.The infallibility of the head samurai distracted from the sense of suspense as the outcome was never in doubt. Fortunately for the villagers, the bandits never thought of using fire to attack the wooden village.As the bandits' point of view was never presented, it was difficult to understanding why they continued their attack despite their rapidly diminishing numbers. When they were only down to a handful left, it would have been interesting to hear why they wanted to continue their death ride.The sub-titles and black and white photography are only slightly distracting. However the overacting and exaggerated facial makeup gave me the impression that I was watching a silent movie from the twenties.In short, this film is good but not best one ever made and certainly it's not without flaws.
I had delayed watching this movie for ages because of its length, gave it a shot and watched it. After watching the first 2 mins, I was glued to the screen. There wasnt a minute where I felt like the screenplay was boring and what not and thats saying something for a 3.5hr movie.


                
We pass the great religions, it corroborates the story through the centuries, and claims the human consciousness at each moment in history when a people are being subjugated and injustice abounds everywhere, the community is entitled to overthrow the tyrant, if this is the way it can, for all, regain their dignity. The insurrection is unfailing and natural response to abuse insatiable. The man assumes and takes up the same nature as man surpasses his relationship with her, then, the balance point should be maintained, and when someone is exceeded, you will always receive the necessary request for temperance."Seven Samurai" is a painstaking recreation of the process and impetuous that is happening in a class struggle. It reports on the events that initiate the usurpation of some over others, denounced the economic, social and emotional iniquity and then describes in detail how a people prepared, tired, to overthrow the enemy ... and always the universe will create the conditions for this to happen.In a magnificent setting, impeccably photographed, and an acting presence that gives an accurate account of the most varied personalities of any people, a flood of feelings, strong relationships and principles applied in all its dimensions, spring from this very interesting film has left a deep impression. The story could be divided into three parts: 1.Conflict and recruitment. 2. Preparation for the defense and 3. The battle. The first two are my master, full of inner strength and exulting in the art of defense, not for nothing, is now legendary. But in honor of objectivity, I confess that I am attracted little long battles. All this part of me is excessive, cartoonish overloaded with cameras fast (taken seriously), with more than a loose plane sustained more by affection than by the road as effectively within the context... and thus, the climax loses weight and hardly recovered in the reflexive closure, with undeniable wit, Kurosawa gives us. I conclude by celebrating the powerful histrionics of the great Toshiro Mifune, who, as Kikushio, builds an endearing character.And I recognize Takashi Shimura, the master samurai Shinata, who fills the film human commitment and dignity at all costs. Notable.


                
Watching the much discussed, and heralded Kurosawa epic "The Seven Samurai", a feeling of sadness came over me.  How could a film considered to be the best, bore me--a self proclaimed movie buff--so much. I tried to figure this out as I thought back over the film.  I realized that the film's biggest fault is it's epic length.  Were "The Seven Samurai" better paced, and edited for time.  This film lover--me--could see, and stomach the high praises handed to this film.  But as it stands now, the films strong beginning, and superbly directed finale are ultimately bogged down by it's lethargic middle.Rating Given (8 out of 10)Capsule Review: Brilliant film brought down by lethargic, and sleep inducing middle.


                
This movie is such an endearing classic.  Great story line, lots of fighting, and acting that appears both serious and comic to the Western viewer.  I have watched this half a dozen times.  The only gripe I have is the cut (3 hours) is too long.  A few scenes could have been shortened to shave off at least 30 minutes.


                
This Japanese samurai film from Akira Kurosawa sets up a classic action template that would inspire everything from THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN to THE SEVEN MAGNIFICENT GLADIATORS and utilises the style of camera-work and direction that would inspire Hollywood movies till this day. Be warned, at three hours and ten minutes, this is a leisurely-paced film that takes its time to get to know the leading characters, and many fans of the type of slickly-edited, no-attention-span blockbusters that are made these days will find themselves struggling to sit through the film in one go. However, perseverance is worthwhile, because SEVEN SAMURAI is a very well made film despite the low budget. The direction and camera-work, as mentioned previously, are spot on and Kurosawa reveals himself at home both in the crisply-shot action sequences and the character-fuelled drama.Another big plus for the film is the cast, all of whom really add to the movie experience as a whole. Best of all is Takashi Shimura as Shimada, the chief samurai; taciturn yet friendly, strong yet understanding, he gives an outstanding performance. Shimada's character is off-set by Toshiro Mifune's Kikuchiyo, who has more of a scene-stealing part as a farmer's-son-turned-samurai; Mifune brings vitality and humour to the movie and, while I'm sure his gurning and frenzied comedy will not be to all tastes, he certainly ups the excitement and fun of the film whenever he's around. The supporting characters are also great, especially the stern Kyuzo and the youngster of the seven, Katsushiro.The plot is simple yet is strong enough to have been rehashed countless times. Elements of battle tactics and warfare are used sparingly but effectively, and the emotional punch is there; at the closing scenes, I felt like crying right along with Katsushiro, due to all the unnecessary bloodshed and killing that immediately preceded that moment. SEVEN SAMURAI is best experienced by watching it appreciatively; of course it looks dated nowadays, and many of the plot elements have become clichéd. Appreciating what it did to cinema in 1954, though, reveals what a strong, expertly-made and influential movie it really is.
The long and the short of it is this is a movie for the ages. Anyone who call themselves a cinephile ought to have watched this perforce. Gonna hit the high spots only 'cause boy do I despise those who in their review sum up the book's plot. If I need a synopsis I'll read the synopsis, people. First order of business- the length. I, personally , find the movie a trifle overly lengthy- 2h30 would've been perfect, the way I see it, and 1/3 of the movie was - let's call a spade a spade, shall we? - superfluous. Nothing really much happens in the movie. Everybody knows it all boils down to seven samurai endeavoring to put themselves out for a village of farmers, so we might just as well cut to the chase. If it were a Hollywood movie the same content would have to be fit in half the length of this one or less, namely 1h30, 1h45. This isn't to say that you shall squander time watching this one. But the action is indeed rather slow-paced, anyhow. Again, I'm not gonna make any bones about it- I take it that what accounts for the relative renown of the movie is the fact that it's a portrayal of a world ever so unknown to the European or American people -which makes it all the more glamorous. It outstrips in frankly no way whatever numerous American movies-apart for the setting. The setting metamorphosed an average-goodish movie in an exceptional one.But leaving off slinging mud at it, I must say one's gotta hand it to "seven samurai". When you get right down to it, its success is, plain as day, underlain by its setting- the Samurai's Japan beset by war and its corollaries- famine,poverty, death. That said, the movie does a jaw-dropping job at portraying the times. I don't want to downplay the acting of of the cast either as they are, if anything, first-rate actors and I watched them with great relish. A one-of-a-kind film. Literally.


                
(Minor spoilers also for "Barry Lydon", "The Duellists" and "The Count of Monte Cristo (2002)")The acting is dramatic. Emotions are radiant in body language, facial expressions and speech. While this might bother any fan of realism, the very same fan would, if able to see past this discover a film filled with moments that feel very genuine.My example of this would be the duel between the old wise one and a younger prideful man. The frustration and fear within the young one is heard in his voice and shown in his body language. The tension is held high and explosive movement betray desperation. I felt as trapped as the prideful one watching it. I want to compare it to other sword fights I've seen I remember three at the moment. Namely the debt duel in Barry Lydon, The one by the four legged house in The Duellists and The ending fencing of The Count of Monte Cristo. Right of the bat I don't prefer the camera work in Count and Lydon where one is closer and one is further away utilizing cuts to be able to show what happens. In Samurai not in clear contrast the camera is off at the side while still with sometimes only the one of them in view. but at the time it's not important. The real battle was fought inside the mind of the prideful warrior and after it was lost followed only our lesson. So it wasn't a grasp for air thrill as the Duellists one with sword waving, but it was more dramatic, it had more doom in it.The movie drew me in and kept me immersed the whole time. Everything from environment to extras to plot CONVINCED me like few movies have before that I was witnessing something unfold for real and not just a stale script brought to necrotic life by awkward gimmicks. Seven Samurai is a great movie.
Seven Samurai is a Japanese historical drama from 1954. It was written and directed by Akira Kurosawa (Yojimbo, Rashomon, Ran). It was also written by Shinobu Hashimoto (Rashomon, Ikiru, Throne of Blood) and Hideo Oguni (Ran, Tora! Tora! Tora!, Ikiru). It stars Takashi Shimura (Ikiru, Rashomon, Throne of Blood), Toshirô Mifune (Rashomon, Yojimbo, Throne of Blood) and Isao Kimura (High and Low, Ikiru, Stray Dog). Seven Samurai is about the samurai (Takashi Shimura, Toshirô Mifune, Isao Kimura) hired to protect a small village from oncoming raiders and how they prepare the town and ultimately fight for it.Akira Kurosawa is one of the most famous of all foreign directors for a reason. He has a way of composing his shots that is like no other. Every image in this film is a painting. His ability to truly put you in 16th century Japan is far superior to the Hollywood directors attempting to make an epic period piece. Watch this film if you want to see what Japan used to not only be like but felt like.I feel if Takashi Shimura wasn't Japanese but American and had the same amount of talent he would be spoken in the same breath as Jimmy Stewart, Paul Newman and many other incredible 50's actors. It's a shame he isn't that recognized because his talent is incredible. I don't speak Japanese but this man transcends language. In this film, you believe every aspect about him and all of his small mannerisms. He truly feels like a real person.Why I do think this is a really good film and everybody should watch it, I feel as if it is slightly overrated. Many filmmakers declare this as one of the best films of all time, I wouldn't consider it in the top 50. It is a bit too long (3 and a half hours), and could definitely use some cutting. This doesn't mean it is necessarily boring and maybe I just don't fully understand it and will take a few more viewings to understand. However I do still highly admire this film and you should spend a day and watch it.


                
This is a pretty good movie, but not the best ever, as so many seem to think. What struck me, were the many deviations from samurai culture, something Japanese audiences would be extremely cognizant of, since this culture was only finally crushed in the war ending just nine years before this film. One was at the beginning, when Kambei 1)shaved his topknot to pass as a priest, and 2) did so to save a non-samurai child from a kidnapper. A samurai would have little, if any, concern for such a child. Also Kikuchiyu passing himself as samurai when not born into it. Samurai was a hereditary caste and it would be unthinkable for any Japanese to claim a status he was not entitled to. Also, even the main plot about defending the farming village from bandits. I realize these men were ronin, meaning samurai not in service to a particular liege lord, but even so all of these things would have been dishonorable, and samurai would rather die than behave as such. Kurosawa had to be acutely aware of these things, so it was obviously deliberate. It likely had to do with Japanese politics and mores of the time, which escapes me as a Westerner.


                
Seven Samurai is one of the most widely acclaimed films of all time. This film comes up time and again on numerous great films lists of critics as well as fans. Seven Samurai has had a monumental impact in the action film genre, it was a film way ahead of its time and it has since been remade (The Magnificent Seven) and the concept of a group of heroes coming together to fight against the common enemy has also subsequently been replicated time and again.Seven Samurai might bluntly be an action film, but the underlying themes of the film I believe are poverty and class distinction. The poverty of the poor farmers is an indictment of how people can reach rock bottom and how helpless the poor can be under the reigns of toothless rulers and governments. They are forced to take a stand. This film also talks about class distinction in society. The farmers and the samurai belong to different classes of society and although they are forced to fight together, there are some farmers who just can't accept this merger. Kurosawa also makes a touching statement about how the samurai were slowly being sidelined in society and how they were gradually losing importance after the civil wars in Japan. Kurosawa through a monologue actually conveys that the animosity between the farmers and the samurai existed due to the faults of both parties thus showing how no one party can be blamed for it. The ending to the film has a touch of melancholy to it, due to the fact, that even after all the effort, the end result didn't thematically achieve what it was supposed to.Technically, the film is a masterpiece. I just couldn't believe the quality of the action scenes from a film made in 1954. The set pieces, the camera movements, the choreography of the fighting seemed so brutally convincing and realistic. These sequences are fascinatingly directed. There are some reservations that I have for this film. They are regarding the acting. The acting at times is too over the top by Mifune and some others. The film is also not as layered and deep thematically as Kurosawa's other efforts as far as I am concerned. The cinematography is breathtaking with absolutely haunting stills and picturesque shots. I still think that Seven Samurai is one of the most important films of all time in the course of the evolution of action films and cinema as a whole from a technical standpoint. But thematically I like Rashomon, High & Low and Ikiru more,


                
I saw that this movie is at 20th rank in IMDb top 250 so i watched it and it was an amazing experience. This movie runs for almost 3 and a half hours and never bores you. It goes on with a regular pace entirely but is interesting through out. The characters make you laugh, they make you cry. It contains every element of emotion a film can have. I like that in the movie, even if it contains samurais and all, still it is not like those unrealistic movies where there is a hero who saves the day at the end, but it contains skillful planning and team work.Seven Samurai inspires and entertains at the same time. Everyone should watch this film at least once. And not to forget the direction was fantastic. Looking forward to see some other movies by the director.


                
As a critically acclaimed Kurosawa movie, this social drama circa 1587 Japan is a vivid example of why the classic are for an eternity. Starting from culture to detailed emotions, the movie captures and delivers each of its set with precision. The characters have been well chosen to manifest traits such as wisdom, panic, foolishness, desperation, humor, love, longing and rebellion during times of war. Although quite long- close to three and half hours- compared to modern movies, Seven Samurai doesn't fail to arrest my attention for the whole time.The plot centers around a quiet village, abode to farmers vulnerable to bandit attacks. The consistent threat upon their annual harvest finally provokes them to seek external ally in form of Samurais although they had little to offer in return. It is a fresh change from movies in the western setting where the peasants' life is very much different from those in an eastern setting.


                
