Suits, an obvious emergence in television set around two super-brained lawyers who get away with the stunts they pull only because the script allows it. The writing of this crap is so unbelievably juvenile and ushered in, I'm really surprised anyone can watch more than 4 episodes of this. Every episode is an exact copy of the previous one, with different client names and situations. Every slick rebuke that is uttered by either one of the main characters is so unbelievably set up, they might have read them off a menu.Everything about this series feels fake and concocted. The high score this series gets from its audience either gives testament to the lousy offerings at this moment or the lack of taste of the general public.


                
Sure, the genius who got kicked out for taking a test for someone else could never find another law school that could ever accept him. Ever. Uh huh.And sure, first-year lawyers within a firm are always trying to undermine one of their own - how else to be competitive?But then, we've always got the parents to come along and admonish the kids to get back to work: "Jerry, have you got that Loughton case ready?" And like the kid caught with his hand in the cookie jar, Jerry stops smiling and scurries back to his desk.And everyone spends a huge amount of time out-snarking the next guy. After all, how are you going to make the day go by without a few awkwardly-veiled threats, criticisms, and more than a little boasting? Even mommy has to threaten to fire someone for underperformance at least once each episode.Snark passes for wit; undercutting another passes for work; winning at all cost passes for contributing to the firm; and unrealistic interaction passes for drama.


                
When I watched the first season, I was so impressed and excited at the same time, because I thought I stumbled upon a classic series, but, boy was I wrong. The first season is amazing, the second one doesn't upset you, but from the third season, everything becomes boring. More and more people know about Mike's secrets and everything supposedly becomes okay when Mike is back to the firm. The show talks a lot about "real world", but fails to make itself connect to one after the first two seasons.The fourth season is not good, but it's not bad either. You could watch it, and not kill yourself, but from the fifth season I am not sure. One thing I really LOVE about the show is the characterization. The characters are some of the best in the TV industry. But, the whole plot and the stories with the same old antagonists and motives are really boring. I think the show should have ended in season 2, or 3, because after that it's just not the Suits that everyone loves anymore.
Suits started out as a very credible show. Always homing in on an awkward case with the intricacies of defending their client. Thrown in was the interactions between the characters. So far so good. Then came this final series. What a joke! Do the producers actually think that this is entertaining us? The whole premise is about showing facial expressions along with slow hush hush speech. It's shocking. This final episode of Mike going to jail is more like a Laurel and Hardy offering. Add to this the dress sense of the boss of this huge law firm and I can't help howling with laughter. Forget our marriage, forget what the gangsters will do to me in prison, I have to go to jail in order to be true to Harvey said Mike to his Bride to be or not to be. See you in two years when I get out. Hopefully this show has run it's course and we will not be confronted with this drivel again.
Non-existing plot is the first thing that you will notice about this fake, concocted and fast paced show that is filled with over acting and unrealistic events.This is a show that the actors made just so they can wear a suit. Awful waste of time. I gave this show the benefit of the doubt by watching the first season and was absolutely disappointed by the end of it. The lead character doesn't have a clue as to what he's doing. His "enemies" are dumber than he is but apparently they are all very cunning and bold because they are wearing suits and are dragging they feet on New York sidewalks. I wouldn't be surprised if the good reviews posted here for this were from the cast members and producers. Not recommended.


                
This is ridiculous. After seeing the three first episodes I was watching this show for how depressingly bad it was. The show is all about who is the biggest prick and cockiest jerk. There is literally almost the same plot in every episode. And the plot is pretty bad, the acting is crap, the script is toilet paper. Nevertheless, the show gets 8.8 in rating. So, is this show better than Homeland, Walking Dead and Modern family? And almost as good as Game of thrones, Dexter and Breaking Bad? I mean WHAT THE FUC!?This a human tragedy...-Stayzor's out


                
The foundation of Suits was the friendship between Mike and Harvey. Once Mike is gone, the show lost its spirit. Suits was all about how friends stand for each other, sacrifice everything if they have to along the way regardless of the consequences.Mike's pro bono cases would warm our hearts and make us remember that not everything is about money and we would side with Mike while he beat the bad guys to get justice for the poor and in need.Rachel would make Mike remember about ethics and moral code to keep Mike in check. Their relationship would melt our hearts and cause us envy about what they have together as a couple.I understand that Meghan (Rachel) became a member of Royal family therefore had to quit acting, but the producers should have found a way to keep Mike.With Mike and Rachel gone, Donna's stupid "I am the smartest" parade became really boring and quite annoying. I'm kind of tired seeing her stupid face every other scene and her sticking her illiterate nose into everything was one of the pet peeves that made me lose interest in this show.It was cool in the beginning to have a character like Donna that knows someone like Harvey inside out, but once she became know it all it made the character ridiculous and not believable.Louis does a great job in acting and his comedic performance with Sheila and doctor Lipschtick is the only glue that's holding this show together.Samanta is a one dimensional cookie cutter character and Kathrene Heigl is definitely a wrong cast. I burst into tears every time I see her 50 pounds head with fully botoxed face walking around like a sheman mimicless.Show runners should definitely tone down Donna and bring more interesting characters in if they want to save this show. Otherwise, with uninteresting characters like Samanta and Alex, this show will most likely be canceled end of season 8.


                
Oh My God (pronounced 'Janice in Friends'way) The viewers never seize to amaze me. Not in a Michael Jordan way. In a negative way. Trailers shout wildly proud that some brain dead entertainment site calls it 'wildy good' and '32 million viewers cant be wrong'. Really? They can't? Why not? People used to think the sun revolves around the earth. And earth is flat. More than 32 million people thought that. And they were all wrong. So saying 32 million people follow it in this case just means mental illness has taken over obesitas as the nr.1 disease. Doesn't prove AT ALL that those people are right. And this shows gets a 9? A 9!?! In that case the fart I just released upon this world should get an Oscar. At least that didn't bother anyone. Well, my dog is used to it.. Suits is a soap. And not even a good one. ALL pose, looks, the story is completely enslaved by the incomprehensible need to make sturdy looks in the distance after any news hit the characters possible, no substance whatsoever, not troubled by any need to make anything remotely realistic, and even in the need to seek cheap sensation it crushingly fails. This show is quite appalling and I feel sorry for whoever enjoys this. Such mental poverty you must live in then. Suits should come with a warning label. It may kill your brain cells. No, it WILL.


                
It's time to pull the plug on this show. This series started out as a 10 in season one and has progressively declined. Season 8 has taken this show into the dumps and has joined the generic cheesy TV drama set up by disconnected talentless writers. It's time for this show retire indefinitely. It's such a shame that they took a perfect formula and destroyed it. They should have followed the cardinal rule "if it isn't broke, don't fix it"Suits will soon join the TV Show graveyard!


                
I and many of my colleagues are avid fans of Suits. With Gina Torres,Gabriel Macht, Meghan Markle, Patrick Adams and Rick Hoffman, it was all interesting and lively. Then it became more of a Susan Rafferty show demonstrating how super smart she was and slapping any man just because she believes she is a goddess and always right. 
As the show progresses, it became clear that this legal drama show is not based on truth or even partial truth about real lawyers but fantasies. Poor legal depictions, stupid courtroom antics and faked showdowns of the lawyers makes this tv show more unbelievable. 
What started as an easy to watch and exciting lawyer drama tv show has turned for the worse in 2018.


                
This was a good show a few years ago. I never post reviews, but based on this season, I had to review this. The writing is ridiculous....it is now a joke. They must be purposely sabotaging the series.


                
Every show now is 75% of characters apologizing for stiffing each other. It has become a joke, time to pull the plug. The plots are non plots, the lawyers spend more time arguing with each other than doing any law work, do they ever go to court. Louis really has become a parody it's no longer funny. Deep 6 this crap.
Was once well scripted, now it's awful. Trite and not believable plots are the new norm. Comic relief is juvenile. Katherine Heigl needs a new wardrobe. Every outfit they pour her into is unflattering.


                
What a deaster sea8 with Katherine Heigl - no thx - 
hole first episode of sea8 is like this: fighting - arguing, yelling, in a loop - 
it wil go down faster than the titanic -hopefullywtf: with the middlefinger - yeah what a great nivaou it got with heigl blaah


                
Please kill the samantha Character, it is frustrating and chnage thw whole plot


                
This has become a farce, pathetic storyline derived by fifth rate actors.They are all dead and they don't realise it.


                
What happened? It used to be such a watchable series; Not this one. I don't know how it's possible to go to the dogs from one season to another other than there was a change of writers, or directors. Complete disappointment!


                
From terrible acting, to unconvincing stories, to lines so embarrassingly lame that I cringe at hearing them, to aimless plots, there is absolutely nothing even tolerable about this insult to intelligence, taste and acting. One of the leads is supposed to be a hardcore, emotionless lawyer but comes across as a brat in daddy's clothes; another is supposed to be a savant punk but comes across as a chess club nerd; the styling is a poor man's copy of Mad Men, only all wrong; the female roles are filled with faceless, characterless clones who all behave exactly the same. The shameless audacity of comparing the two male aspiring L.A.waiters to Clooney and Damon (when in reality those were Clooney and Pitt, just to show what idiots work on Suits) is one of the funniest ads on TV, though. Watching an episode will lower your IQ by 5 points; avoid at any cost.


                
This series has gone from brilliant to completely terrible and has been so for the last 3 seasons atleast. Finish it already.. or atleast readjust ratings so other poor viewers aren't deluded!


                
Ok, so suits had me in Season 1 - original, exciting, funny and engaging. Somewhere in Season 2 though, it hit me how there were so many things wrong with the whole concept of this series, and I think the producers caught on to that as well and eventually worked their way out this whole mess that was Mike's storyline. But this came at a heavy price... and in the process, the series just kept on recycling unnecessary friction between characters to keep the show alive. Has anyone noticed how empty the "Suits" offices have become? Well, so have the plotlines... It's like a reality TV show, with a slightly bigger budget. No wonder everyone loves it so much. I think that after "The Good Wife" and "The Good Fight", the bar has been set sky high for any series involving lawyers.


                
I am a big fan of Suits, but unfortunately since the departure of Patrick Adams and Meghan Markle the scripts have gone downhill at a rapid pace.
It's now just another humdrum show about legal eagles fighting.


                
Seriously I don't miss Megan's Char a BIT! Not a TINY BIT! But Patrick char I miss it a lot! The bromance was everything in this series. The teamwork etc. But without mike it is not going to work for to long!! Bring him back fast! DO SOMETHING FFS! Bring back Patrick/MIKE!
I see that there is going to be a ninth season, why?It was on it's knees in season 7, the only believable character was Mike Ross, his departure should have indicated to the production team that it's time was up.I just watched season 8 episode 11 and it was so bland that I have forgotten it already.
How did this show end up with such a high rating? I started watching Suits because of the hype and the high ratings but after watching the first two episodes I honestly do not understand what the hype is about. I have watched The Good Wife before and I absolutely loved that series. I decided to give Suits a shot after finishing The Good Wife but it was a complete waste of my time. This series is absolute garbage. No other legal drama will ever be able to top The Good Wife but this doesn't even come close. It doesn't deserve an 8.6 rating. The main character (Harvey) is narcissistic, arrogant and annoying. The storyline is unrealistic. Why would a top legal firm hire someone without a law degree? Do not waste your time on this show.


                
Show's description reads: 'On the run from a drug deal gone bad, Mike Ross, a brilliant college-dropout, finds himself a job working with Harvey Specter, one of New York City's best lawyers.' The 'brilliant college-dropout' pill is hard to swallow. No guy in their right mind would leave a college education because it was not financially viable, especially in this day and age where so many people are willing to help. This is not how people work in America, they overcome their shortcomings and work to get out of bad situations, not give up on their dreams. Also, How stupid do the writers think lawyers are? If they knew anything about the law firms and how they actually operate, this show would be over in 2 episodes. Mike would have his secret revealed and Harvey would face the consequence. A world class lawyer would have recognized Mike's incompetence in 2 minutes(Just like Harvey did in 1st episode), would have done a background check, and the show would have been over. But I guess it's Hollywood and they live in their fantasy bubble, so let them run it, I'm not watching.


                
