I watch a fair amount of TV and think that I have fairly selective tastes in shows, but Suits was one of my favorite recently produced shows. The first season was bold, smart, and very polished. This is one show that definitely deserves HD. Harvey Specter was by far one of the best fictional lawyers out there. One of the best parts of the show was the focus on the "case of the week" idea, and all the clever dialog and intricate legal drama that came with it. The third episode with the boardroom battle over control of the car company was a kind of 'everyday-epic.' Another highlight was the inclusion of three very smart female characters: Donna, Rachel, and Jessica. Most notably, the primary characters had a powerful and flawless way about them that justified their "it's not about caring its about winning" attitude.Sadly, the subsequent seasons have quickly degenerated. The smart female characters were transformed into gossipy shrews who now appear on screen just to spark inter-office drama and occasionally look good. Gone is the intricate legal maneuvering (ie crown jewel defense), replaced only with on-screen commentary on supposedly brilliant off-screen meetings or court appearances we never get to see. The witty banter has been dulled by a sheer lack of originality, such that the characters seemingly make the exact same jokes, only with different pop culture references. Worst of all, the writers (who must be high off the first season's success or the weed they purchased with the money from it) have turned all the powerful characters (Harvey, Jessica... etc) into flawed shells of former characters hardly fit for big firm life. This done of course to pander to the "average viewer" who tunes in to follow the lawyer version of days of our lives with pretty girls lusting after handsome men. Based on the level infighting in the firm, its a wonder how they log any billable hours at all. The only saving grace of Season 2 was Louis Litt's mostly solid character development.The end of the second season allowed the show to reach a new low by introducing a British takeover of the firm with a host of odd new British characters (ie Louis's big eared British counterpart) thrust into the show just for simplistic comical value, which I'm sure a select group of slack-jawed simple viewers might thoroughly enjoy.I write this review in the hope that some executive, writer or actor on the show might happen upon it, realize that their show is rapidly in decline and right the ship before even loyal viewers like myself simply tune out all together. The show achieved a lot in Season 1, but much of the acclaim was lost by way of lazy writing and lack of imagination.Lastly, its a law show, you'd think they would cover the legal side a bit more than as a basis for Donna to bang a Brit or Rachel's dad to meet Mike.UPDATE: This show has devolved to nothing more that a nicely filmed soap opera that has little connection to legal reality nor to intelligent discourse of any kind. I just removed it from my DVR.
Suits is about a lawyer Harvey Specter, the best closer in New York who gets an apprentice, Mike Ross, a kid so intelligent who remembers not only everything, but also seems to understand everything.So far so good.But that's where the interesting part ends. The rest of the whole show is about cocky, faceless robots who want to be the the biggest smart-ass in the room. Even that is not so bad, but the quality of the dialogs are of a 14 year old. The show lacks humor. Of an adult that is. The show misses also excitement, because really everything is predictable. Every episode is almost the same, just the topic is slightly different, and different clients.Don't see it. I did, but found myself staring at my phone or the newspaper most of the time. "I am missing something. It has an 8.8. That's higher than Boardwalk Empire. Which is a good series." But no I wasn't missing something. It's bad.


                
When one thinks that he has seen it all in American TV, Suits comes into your screen. If you thought that you had enough of wise guys, self-pretentious empty characters, imbecilic screen-play and high society pseudo-morality, you were very wrong. Suits delivers all that and more of handsome men and gorgeous women, entangled in a mock- scenario of a low-life hyper-prodigy chap with no degree, but superhuman cognitive powers, that reaches the top in the flick of an eye, and stays there effortlessly and with plenty of ... style (at least the type of cheap style envisaged by the show's creators). Stay away, and you will not cry for the lost time. Life is too short to waste it in something like Suits.


                
This show started AMAZING! Great premise, great characters, great story.Then it seems like writers didnt have any other ideas.
In the last seasons its like recycle the same things over and over and over again.Where are the new ideas? New stories? And now killing mike is like a whole new series. Nothing resembles the S1 anymore.
My friend just put it on... I couldn't see it from where I was standing but on hearing some rock song playing while some opening bedroom action was about to happen, made me think, "contrived mindless lyrics over the top of some tired riff regurgitated trying to be hip". But the reality is that this program is dismissed by those occupying that rare level of intellect, who are socially ahead of the general rabble, aloof as required but still able to communicate with others if required. The conceited attempt of all that this program tries to conjure up fails. Why? Because the writers cant create the correct ambiance, atmosphere,subtleties, nuances and everything else that goes into making the very very limited great shows there have been (like BB). Why can't the writers of Suit do this? Well it's because they are just like that unsophisticated rabble that rave about it. Statistically if you want: Not the bottom 25% of the populace. It's the lower/middle/middle- upper group making up the bulk of mindless Suit lovers. Then after that there's the upper (where these stupid writers and creators think they inhabit). Because being at that level, they will never be enlightened there is another movement above that. That is the top most 5% -that group I alluded to above. Yes I know what you the reader is thinking... what implausible rubbish. But you would. You resemble those who dismissed for 150 years of there being another very secret calculation to quantum probability that theory amplitudes well beyond the sub atomic level now bringing finality to life as it is now, exposing further origin revelations and later what will happen -all of a sudden. In all the billions of universes. All at the same time. Now, in the future and simultaneously in the PAST!


                
Warning: spoilers.Overall, season 5 was a letdown. The second half with Mike Ross' will he-won't he I would rate with 1. It only proves that you can have photographic memory and be a retard.Someone as intelligent as Ross is supposed to be would know his only chance was to fight till the end. Or, as he already did in another season stop working as a lawyer and do something else such as finance.There is absolutely no logic in not waiting for the verdict and taking a guilty plea at the last moment. He had to know the consequences is all the procedures he touched would be tainted and opened to lawsuits, destroying the firm and its partners .THe hundreds of back and force in the last episodes are as tiring for the viewers as they are illogical and senseless.As senseless as letting down everybody 5 minutes before the wedding after having spent days lobbying everybody into attending.Frankly, this makes Ross more antipathetic than ever, and I couldn't care less what happens next.I'll try to keep the fond memories of season 1 instead.


                
The two male leads are worlds apart. Both in terms of the story and as actors. Gabriel Macht is quite polished as Harvey Specter, the tough lawyer with a soft side. But, Patrick J Adams just doesn't really fit as his young protégé, Mike. Someone like a Penn Badgley would be more believable in the role. Regardless, the Mike character just doesn't work. While the cases and legal aspects of the show are entertaining (more of the pro bono stuff from the first season would make it even better), the character development and overall believability, aren't. We're supposed to see Harvey as tough but moral - yet he's committing fraud by hiring Mike. It's the underlying premise of the show, but it's implausibility never leaves your mind and you never really lose yourself in the show. Apart from Jessica (and possibly Katrina), who is outstanding, the female leads are boring. With most of the romantic relationships also taking away from the show. Especially Mike and Rachel. I can't help thinking the show would work better without Mike and Rachel altogether. The legal drama of the show is great and some of the characters are fantastic (Harvey, Jessica and Lewis). But you just cannot escape the flawed premise of the show, or its annoying characters (Mike, Rachel, to a lesser extent Donna).
I'm still wallowing the fact that Mike Ross, who is the MC and where the plot most of the series revolved around to, is already not part the show anymore. I still don't get it. If you lose the MC then what result do they expect? I havent watch any episode of this season because it hurts my eyes and heart.
Now that Mike Ross is gone so is the show. He was what it was all about. Now every episode is the same, lawyers trying to screw each other. Now Louis Litt is the managing partner. It's no longer salvageable.
When I started watching the series, I enjoyed the tv show a lot together with my family.
But the last season without Meghan and Patrick was seriously bad to watch with so many repeated reactions and endings which all seemed so predictably familiar as if the writers ran out of ideas.
As someone who work in the legal sector, I find Suits has become absurd and seem to be encouraging corruption by repeating to everyone to stay calm as we are a family and must believed in the philosophy no matter what. It does not reflect reality at all. In fact it seemed to have lost its original sparkle with its incessant politically correct scripts rammed down.


                
It used to be very entertaining an intelligent show and now it is a very bad soap opera.


                
Season 8 is a big disappointment. It is either too personal when it is about Luis or too legal when it is about everything else. Stories and plot is a total disaster. I never thought it will look this bad after Rachel and Mike left, but it does. Simply, season 8 is the biggest disappointment ever. I always thought suits was the best TV show ever, unluckily, season 8 ruined the whole experience. Looking for another interesting show now.
A friend of mine is a fan of this show, and encouraged me to binge watch it. The first season the show was intelligent, and interesting. The second season wasn't as good as the first, but was enough to keep going. It all went downhill from there. The writing became more and more sloppy, and the characters became less and less likeable with time, instead of showing any actual growth. The most recent season of the show? Don't even bother.I honestly think they were deliberately trying to kill this show season by season. It's stylized to be like a "Mad Men" type of show, but on "Mad Men" the characters (mostly) evolved with time. Here, the majority regress until they seem like cardboard cutouts, instead of actual characters. Louis and Donna are the only decent characters, the rest are throwaways- and I like Gina Torres! I blame the writers. I think they got lazy after the first two seasons.
