I am writing this review while the series is on its fourth season, so I will try to avoid very specific spoilers for those who are about to giving it a chance. Even so, I have to refer to the development of plot lines, so if you are a beginner, perhaps it is better to stop reading.Suits' Pilot was frankly very engaging and interesting in terms of characters and situations, bringing a new turn on "another lawyers' series". I loved it instantly. It was frivolous but witty and sassy, the dynamics between Mike and Harvey was magnetic, the production was elegant, and the constant threat of revealing a serious secret was a compelling argument to keep watching a show. It also had humor and certain characters (like Donna or Louis) added enriching details.The series had a bright first season, in which Mike's ordeals and his master-disciple relationship with Harvey were at the center of the plot, and Mike's exceptional gift with memory played a fundamental part in the development of the plot line, justifying why the cheating was sustainable and why he could actually be an asset at the lawyers firm.Suits maintained interest and quality in the second season, with other characters gradually becoming stronger and widening the plot.But starting from the third season I started to observe a gradual decline in the plot line, and the exhaustion became conspicuous in the present, fourth season, the weakest of all so far, to the point that is has now, really, become "yet another lawyers' show".Mike's exceptional abilities have completely disappeared from the action in seasons three and four, and now he has become a bland character with nothing standing him above any other ambitious young executive. Jessica's new romantic interest is utterly unbelievable and it has negatively weighed in the show. Louis has been portrayed as a clown in seasons 3 and 4, and instead of being funny, he has become anti-climactic and unbelievable. Donna's place as Harvey's "counsellor" has been overextended and her "knowing things in advance" is, in my opinion, overused as a clisé.In short, the series had something different at the start, and it has veered into the road of losing its original allure and interest in a very noticeable way.PD: Jessica's amazing wardrobe, though, is always a pleasure to appreciate. And yes, as others have remarked, all the female characters seem to be cut with a same stereotyped template.
I used to love this show a lot. First two seasons were really brilliant and fun to watch. With the season 3 they started to lose their edge on this matter. It is really getting harder to watch season 4 for me. Let me be specific why I started to dislike this show. About 7 out of 10 scenes end with somebody yelling at someone or giving them a life lesson with a sassy attitude. So my recipe for this show to turn things upside, they should cut down on drama asap.Another thing I don't like is about the characters. They played on Louis Litt a lot (because it was easy to sell) and he is really not a part of the show. They should keep him as he was in season 1. Now it seems they can't manage to connect him to the plot well.


                
SUITS does not carry the genuineness of DEXTER neither does it care about being technically beautiful like Breaking Bad, it doesn't carry the speed of Sherlock nor does it have the tension of Game of Thrones. It is like the Fast and Furious version of TV. It has all the elements of a commercial crowd puller. The beautiful people, the conventional twists and oodles of style.Everybody here seems to be very strongly connected or how else can you explain the cryptic dialogues that they keep mouthing with the best of figures of speech and yet have the listener decoded in no time (and so many times it's without dialogues too!). The characters are badly etched, or very conventionally drawn. Everybody's got a story to feel sad about and express when the chips are down. Mike is a savant whose co-incidence of getting a job in Pearson Hardman is near to impossible, Harvey has the typical hero quality of being the mysterious successful man that all women desire, Louis and Donna are both slapstick talkers while Rachel is the diva who dresses as if she wanted her hips to be measured with her skirts on. There is no subtlety in the way the plot is brought is on screen, though the politics of the office can get engaging at times and the drama may keep you stuck. But when it screams so loud with clichés, one can't look the other way and like it even when they want to.


                
Plot lines tend to be a little repetitive and if I hear the word "goddamn" again I may quit watching completely. Other than that it's not too bad.


                
I stumbled upon Suits through a web advertisement of all places (first time I've actually read one and had it do anything but annoy me). But it caught my attention enough to stream the pilot and be interested enough that I'm now half way through the second season. Realistic? No. Entertaining? Extremely! I know the premise is ridiculous, but the show is just fun. A combination of funny, drama, satirical, and I don't even like Harvey but it's just fun to watch regardless of the extreme personalities and unrealistic stories. But part of what I like is it doesn't pretend to be realistic, it just entertains. Could turn bad at any point because things are loosely bound together but I doubt it as that is part of its appeal. New, only 20 shows in so only so much has happened, but I like it so far and it makes me smile, laugh and entertains!The risk of rating a show that is still in production is of course the change that is going to end it. While Suits hasn't been cancelled as of this date, I feel it coming. While my review was fine based on being in Season 3 the story definitely loses a lot of its likability in the seasons after. I still think it is a good show, just having more to rate it on I have to lower my rating for the same reason I originally gave it a 9. By season 5 the entertainment value is in decline as my expectation is that there will be no season 6. But most shows lose something towards the end (not all, example Breaking Bad), but most. I'm struggling to care at this point and actually hope there is no season 6 so there is no attempt to revive ratings at the cost of quality. It was good for the duration it was good, time to call it and wrap it up at this point. I'm sure I'll watch it again, but the first 4 seasons will be the reason why.


                
Let me start off with the bottom line: I enjoyed the first couple of episodes and intend to stick around for more, on the hope that the good will be retained and the bad ironed out.Having said that, it doesn't feel to me like any originality or creativity played a part in the creation of this series. One can almost hear the executives deciding on it: "People like 'House'. We want something like 'House'. But we can't do it as a medical show and we certainly can't do it as a cop show. Any other ideas?" "How about as a lawyer show? We'll have a brilliant civil-law closer take Hugh Laurie's role, and we'll find someone like Masters to play second fiddle." "We can't just copy the character of Masters. It needs to be made larger, taken to extremes. How about a Will Hunting type?" "Yeah, great, and let's throw in a dash of Mentalist into the mix and we have ourselves a show!" etc.It's formula. It's formula beginning to end. The thing is, like store-bought cake, even though formula will never be sublime, it can, when ingredients are applied discriminatingly, be quite palatable and even enjoyable.HOWEVER: Though the lead actors are all doing a fine job, in the pilot the smaller parts (particularly the client and witness) are horribly acted. The character of Louis is a caricature and just doesn't work for me. It makes the whole story lose believability. The script overflows with House-like snappy comebacks that are fun to watch, but these do not cover up the basic facts that: a. The dramatic situations are contrived and the legalese is completely unrealistic. b. The script is awfully repetitive. I find it appalling that even after just two episodes the writers are so low on ideas. c. The "Eureka!" moment came about half an hour after I figured it out on my own. d. Some of the dialogue is just so fake and cliché I found it grating and painful.So, really, now it's just a question of whether the series will be able to outgrow its growing pains and mature into something better than formula. The good actors are there (including Gabriel Macht in the lead, sporting a hauntingly young-Sean-Connery-like appearance). The good premise is there. The fun-to-watch back-and-forth is there. The twists are there. The classy-looking locations are there. The engaging music is there.Now, all that's missing is a few good writers. Absolutely necessary qualifications: 1. Caring about the subject matter. 2. Ability to write natural-sounding dialogue, when snappiness isn't the objective. 3. Original ideas. 4. Basic knowledge of how civil law works.I wish this show all the best. I really want it to succeed. There is so little to watch on TV these days that is worth opening the telly for. Here, if nothing else, there is potential.


                
The show was pretty nice in the beginning. It was witty, and most importantly the first episode was lengthy. It had time to progress through a story.The show quickly drops off in quality when they episodes become shorter. Every actor noticeably talks at breakneck speed without allowing space between lines. Conversations are so forced and unrealistic that it seems stupid. There is no room for them to breathe. There are exceptions to this. Sometimes there are scenes where the pacing is more normal, but in the majority I notice unrealistically sped up pacing that leaves the plot weak. There is no time to connect. The story just breezes by you as fast as it possibly can, which is not how law and storytelling should work.


                
The season is a brilliant piece of production however it slacks down without Mike Ross and rachal . Mike can come back after rachal either goes away to her mother for pregnancy or she dies in a car crash which makes Mike want to go back to the firm and do even a
more daring cases ....


                
This, is a great show. I love it. It has great actors and interesting writing. Until season 5. Season 5 kicked off to an interesting start with a new 'bad guy' but it turns out it's the joker returns with the batman revenge squad. Don't get me wrong I love the actors who play the joker and the riddler. But this is watching season 2 and 3 all over again.The plot devices to make mike question his relationship commitment comes from the actor's real life beyond gorgeous fiancée so it makes it humorous but it is so out of place what she tells him to do. Then trev counselling mike is on soap opera level writing I just can't watch the show any more. Season 5 is a remix of every season jumbled into 1. It feels like a great big long finale and I'd like to think that this is how they put it to rest because to continue on regurgitating the same situations over and over is so played.


                
The show is ultimately about family, whereas the members of the firm grow more and more together as a family.
The early seasons are definately stronger as over time more and more people know about Mike's secret and it becomes less and less believable. The show also gets more tense as in every episode either Mike's secret is about to be exposed or the firm is in danger. whereas in the beginning characters visit each other only on occasion at home, it becomes a normal occurrance in later seasons. Similarly, characters scream at each other in almost every scene.I think the main characters are all very interesting and the main reason for ticking with the show. Howver, the show does not succeed in keeping up the tension from the first seasons.


                
This is just going to be a quick one, but so far I've got to season 6 episode 10 of the show, watching it non-stop and I think it should have just stopped there. That was the perfect ending for me. Still, it has been a brilliant show and I look forward to seeing where it goes. My only real issue comes with how some of it can be slightly repetitive, particularly towards the beginning of the show with the '1 case per episode' formula, but it was still new then and so it is more excusable there anyway, and as it has progressed much larger and long spanning arcs have been created.


                
I really enjoyed this programme until the the attempt to demonize the nurses unions, then I realised the US and UK are very different countries. The sub-plots were more memorable than the main activities and characters who were portrayed as unlikable turned out to be more human than the 'heroes'. On reflection the moral subtext was wholly unpleasant, i.e. the legal systems underpinning corporate America are built on elitism and prejudice and peopled by liars and one dimensional. The system and characters are brilliantly portrayed by the actors. Drug dealers, cheat their way into positions of power, fraudsters are promoted - every case the main character worked on would be considered illegal and cost the public purse billions. Once that is understood believability goes out of the window.
An entire law firm upside down. Everyone seems to be losing it – their cool and their jackets. Something's amiss. Apparently a deal has gone astray or someone used a short sleeve shirt with a tie. It was chaos. From that scenario emerges the smirking Harvey Specter, solving the apparent crisis effortlessly and, above all, stylishly. That's Harvey, but we eventually learn that there's not all that is to him.Bored out of his mind, since it is not that interesting to be the best at what you do, he is presented with the opportunity to hire a guy who might spice things up. Michael is a man on a mission. The mission is delivering a boatload of weed, and he fails it remarkably, letting it spill all over the floor in an accidental job interview – this scene is as unexplainable as unconceivable. But we buy it because it's fun.Harvey goes ahead and hires the young mnemonist humorous drug courier as a lawyer with no qualifications (with Community, this makes for the second premiering TV show with a degreeless attorney).From then on, the show is all about Michael and his professional/personal dramas plus Harvey and his demonstration of coolness/personal growth.Michael always wanted to be an attorney but somehow something got in the way. He is troubled by his one-time drug endeavour and his latent feelings for his best friend's girlfriend. Further down the line, this love triangle gets one angle shorter, which is promptly replaced. Nothing new here, cliché after cliché.Continue reading here: wp.me/p26fjD-1Y


                
As far as i'm concerned the show started out wonderfully and got worse until , by Episode 4 , the show was on it's way out. I see 'viewers' loved it as it went along but i contend 'Suits' lost many folks as the show progressed. I just noticed there's not a scene where alcohol isn't portrayed to accompany any major success or situation of value etc. But, mostly , watching the 'dramaesque' samo samo got too tiring. I could tell what Mike and Rachel were going to do before the show started. The emotions that bounced between them was almost not tolerable becoming 'trite'. The series just ran out of steam , ran out of good writing. The acting was fine from beginning to end and i loved 'Harvey' who stayed the course. Louis was wonderful , Donna , Jessica. I got to love em all. And, enjoyed the situations and wonderful actors that came and went. But, the 'soap opera' jazz got too heavy as plot and writing got weaker. Harvey is to Law as House is to medicine. But, this show petered out in it's insistence to over work Mike and Rachel and , even , Donna's character. The alcohol thing is just a 'little thing' but it's not. Good show though.


                
Good acting
Poor costume design
Poor hair
Writing mostly good, but a tad glib with repetitive phrasing


                
I'm almost finished watching the end of the second season on Netflix. It's fascinating in many ways, but the overall tone of the interaction among characters is akin to watching gladiators on steroids duke it out under high-stakes conflict. You won't learn much about the legal profession here. Go to see Law and Order or any other legal procedural drama series for that. But if you want to sit back and relax WHILE there's an overabundance of adrenaline running through you, this is a series to watch. Even the female characters must get testosterone injections. Its' Conan the Barbarian against Xena Princess Warrior in tailored suits. I wonder how some of the egos can get though doorways. If the world were really like this, we would be nuclear ash before we were half-way through Season 1. Have fun. Bring popcorn.


                
I've quite enjoyed the Ross & Rachel thing. But I'm not sorry it's ending. If I hear that quote one more time I'm going to hire Harvey Spectre to sue for copywriting Friends...


                
The last few seasons had been going down hill fast. The whole gloom and doom overhanging dynamic was played out. What should've been the end of the show (Mike's departure) has seemingly been its biggest saving grace. The departures left room for characters like Samantha Wheeler to enter and captivate the audience's attention yet again. Robert might not be able to fill Jessica's shoes, but Samantha sure can.


                
