Who ever heard of an epic science fiction film? Especially in the 1920s? Sure, some science fiction movies are huge today, such as George Lucas' latest goofy Star Wars movie, but in 1926, Fritz Lang came out with a brilliant film about what the future would be like if people went on living the way they were living back then. And sure enough, we went right ahead living the way we were living, the population got bigger and more crowded, and now modern society is not a whole lot different from what was presented in Metropolis. The story is about a young rich kid without a care in the world who becomes concerned about the way that society (Metropolis) was run by his father, John Frederson, the master of Metropolis. He lives in a <U+0091>Pleasure Garden' high above the level of the workers', and he worries about what would happen if the huge number of workers were to turn against his father, given the terrible conditions under which they live and work. Some of the best scenes in the film take place in the underground mines, showing the workers portrayed as little more than components on a gigantic, sinister looking machine. The scene where the machine overheated even contained some impressive stunts, as well as interesting cinematography as the machine transforms into a giant devil-looking monster.  After countless workers are consumed by it (no wonder this was Hitler's favorite film), they are immediately replaced by other workers, who go right to the same spots that the previous men left and resume their robotic movements. If some of these scenes, men can be seen being carried away on stretchers after having been injured, and the rest of the workers keep right on working, hardly even noticing.The way that the workers are portrayed as lifeless machines is one of the more potent elements of this film, as well as the most revealing about the directors intentions. When his son complains about the tragic things that go on in the mines, Frederson replies that such accidents are unavoidable, but his son still insists that they deserve credit for building the city. This is the kind of content that foreshadows some serious mutiny, and at the same time it shows what may very well happen when large groups of people feel mistreated. `Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups' is a saying that doesn't necessarily only apply to stupid people, as Metropolis suggests. Fritz Lang brilliantly portrays this very complex story with extremely limited dialogue, and the result is still compelling today. The special effects in this film are decades ahead of its time <U+0096> it even resembles The Fifth Element in many ways (except that the two films can hardly be compared) <U+0096> and the acting and especially the elaborately created sets are stunning to say the least. An excellent film, Metropolis is one of the few that should never be forgotten.


                
I doubt that I'd ever seen anything resembling a "complete" version of METROPOLIS before, though certain of its scenes were familiar to me, if only as used and abused in such films as Diane Keaton's HEAVEN (1987).  In any case, whatever I had seen before had nothing like the clarity and beauty of the Kino restoration.  I expected to be distracted by the restoration's technique of concise written descriptions of missing sequences, but the narrative coherence that these provided was definitely worth it.  As "exaggerated" as the style of acting seems by contemporary standards, some performances, such as the Master of the city, are amazingly nuanced and layered, and Brigitte Helm is stunning as both Maria and her evil clone. The meticulous design of the film, the unerring camera placement and Lang's muscular choreography of the crowd scenes are breathtaking. I'd thought of METROPOLIS as a curiosity ("important" = "dull") but now I've come to appreciate it as the seminal work it has always been.


                
In the future, the society of Metropolis is divided in two social classes: the workers, who live in the underground below the machines level, and the dominant classes that lives on the surface. The workers are controlled by their leader Maria (Brigitte Helm), who wants to find a mediator between the upper class lords and the workers, since she believes that a heart would be necessary between brains and muscles. Maria meets Freder Fredersen (Gustav Fröhlich), the son of the Lord of Metropolis Johhan Fredersen (Alfred Abel), in a meeting of the workers, and they fall in love for each other. Meanwhile, Johhan decides that the workers are no longer necessary for Metropolis, and uses a robot pretending to be Maria to promote a revolution of the working class and eliminate them."Metropolis" is a fantastic futuristic view of the fight of classes. When "Metropolis" was shot, it was a romantic revolutionary period of mankind history, with socialist movements around the world. Fritz Lang directed and wrote the screenplay of this masterpiece certainly inspired in this historical moment and defending a position of agreement and understanding between both sides, showing that they need each other. I wonder how this great director was able to produce such special effects in 1927, with very primitive cameras and equipment. The city of Metropolis is visibly inspired in New York. The performance of Brigitte Helm is stunning in her double role, and this movie is mandatory for any person that says that like cinema as an art. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Metropolis"Note: On 05 March 2019, I saw this film again on Blu-Ray.


                
I was shocked to find myself riveted to this movie. This is without a doubt the best sci-fi movie I've ever seen! Let me explain my position. We have all seen modern sci-fi movies, and argued over which is the best ever made, but those film makers have high speed film and computers. Imagine trying to make a movie today with only the tools available to Fritz Lang in 1925, and even if you used a modern camcorder it would be nigh impossible! This is a must see for all persons interested in the history of film, as well as just good fun for everyone. The social metaphores as well as the religious and philosophical double meanings are a sight to behold.


                
This must be one of the greatest movies of all time. I found myself almost in a state of shock during the whole movie. Everything was perfect. The story was great, the filming was pure genius and the effects directly from another dimension.I don't think any movie after this one have gotten so much out of the available effects of the time as this one. Nowadays they have super computers generating special effects. Sure they look good, but it's no big deal making them. Back in 1926 computers weren't even invented yet, all effects had to be done by hand or in simple editing. And when you take a look at all the thins that have been done in this movie, it's impossible not to get impressed. Huge buildings, explosions, flooding, picture phones (however did he come up with the very idea?), transformation sequences, robots and so on. No movie has ever pulled the limits of special effects as much as this one. Star Wars and Jurassic Park are also known as limit pullers in special effects, but they don't even come close.Then you have the filming. Everything is perfect. The use of body language is tremendous, the light setting perfect, everything well timed and perfectly captured by the camera. I've never been witness to such a treat in filming other places.And the story!!! Perfect in every detail. Intriguing, exciting and thrilling with lots of religious undertones and tyranic leaders. No wonder Hitler liked this movie...I don't know how the original music of the film was, but the new music for the restored 139 minute version I saw was really good and moodseting.All in all. This is one of the most perfect movies of all time, and it deserves anything it can get. Never has a 10/10 been as secure as for this movie...


                
'Metropolis' is my all-time favourite movie, so I've saved this for the last review that I plan to write for this wonderful website IMDb. I've enjoyed sharing my experiences of the movies I've seen, but now I'm moving on to other passions.Although written by Fritz Lang's wife Thea von Harbou, 'Metropolis' was originally Lang's idea: he was inspired by the sight of New York's skyscrapers when he sailed to America in 1925. During his American trip, he visited the set of 'The Phantom of the Opera' and met Lon Chaney! Too bad the encounter wasn't filmed.Despite its epic power, 'Metropolis' makes very little sense. The two major male characters are a father and son named Freder and Fredersen, so why is the one named Freder*sen* the father (not son) of the one cried Freder? Why does the master of Metropolis deliberately connive to destroy the city that he built? Why is Rotwang's crude little cottage the only pre-Fredersen building that wasn't demolished during the construction of this city? (Von Harbou's very long and unwieldy novelisation of her script establishes this fact but never explains it.) How and why did Rotwang's high-tech laboratory manage to get constructed BENEATH that cottage without disturbing it?For modern viewers, some of the plot's incoherence can be blamed on missing footage, particularly in American prints. The distributors for this film's original Stateside release commissioned playwright Channing Pollock to translate the German titles. A major subplot of the backstory features a deceased woman named Hel, who was married to Rotwang but left him to marry Fredersen and give birth to Freder. This unseen woman's name could not easily be changed for the American version, due to a couple of shots of her memorial, engraved with the Teutonic name HEL. Apparently, Pollock feared that American viewers would be offended by this word's similarity to 'Hell', so he simply excised the entire subplot from this long movie.The real-life drama on the set of 'Metropolis' must've been quite interesting in itself. Mad scientist Rotwang (alias Doctor Strangeglove) is played by actor Rudolf Klein-Rogge, who had been married to scenarist von Harbou before she left him to marry Fritz Lang, the mastermind of this film. In 'Metropolis', Rotwang's wife left him to marry the master of Metropolis. I'd love to know how Klein-Rogge felt about the fact that his real-life marital (and sexual) situation was the inspiration for key plot elements of this movie ... and I wonder how Klein-Rogge felt about knowing that the entire cast and crew knew this as well.Most astonishing about this gargantuan production is the fact that nearly all of 'Metropolis' was actually built to scale, with just a couple of miniatures.Trivia tidbit: actress Brigitte Helm was cast in the dual female role largely because she was flat-chested, and therefore she could easily fit inside the mechanical suit for the Robotrix. A more busty actress would have suffered constant discomfort inside those galvanised bosoms of the metal costume. I learnt this more than 20 years ago from an eldery Austrian stagehand who worked on the film.For all its flaws, 'Metropolis' will always be my favourite movie. I've enjoyed writing all these reviews for IMDb. The joy of posting my reviews on this site has brought me many friendships and a few enemies. Well, you can't win 'em all.Nitrate film stock doesn't last forever, and all good things come to a happy ending. This is my last review here. I'll keep watching movies, but other passions are important to me as well. Thank you, IMDb, and thank you to everyone who has read my reviews. I will happily rate 'Metropolis' a full 10 out of 10.


                
This review contains Spoilers. But since the story is by far the least reason to watch Metropolis, feel free to still read it, even if you haven't watched it yet.Metropolis is a film that was far ahead of it's time. It influenced a great lot of science-fiction films, and how The Blade Runner, Batman or Dark City would look like if there wasn't Metropolis - who knows. Even The Matrix Reloaded is heavily inspired by this classic that is as old as my grandmother. Now what is it all about? About Freder, the son of the head of the city of Metropolis, a Christ-like figure who falls in love with the preacher of the working class, a saintlike woman who happens to be named Maria. When a robot who is modeled to look like Maria makes the workers almost extinguish their city and their children, Maria and Freder save the children, and in the end Freder makes his father and the workers cooperate for a brighter future.Sounds silly to you? Yes, and that's exactly what the story is: silly. That's also the reason why, still today, Metropolis isn't accepted as the masterpiece it is by a few film buffs. But these people don't understand one thing: A good film does more than only tell a story. A film can be great even without a story at all, and a silly story combined with amazing visuals can make you forget all the other weaknesses a film has. And wow, what amazing images Metropolis offers. What an art direction! What wonderful special effects! And remember, as I already said, this film is as old as my grandmother! Just have a look at the workers. They hardly ever seem to be individuals. In the mass scenes they look like one big creature moving forward or backwards. When they are working they look more like machines than like human beings, whereas the machines resemble monsters more than they do technical devices (best seen in the moments when Freder hallucinates and sees the big machine as a worker-eating Moloch). We also see a worker (and later, Freder) work on a machine that looks like a clock with 100 blinking light bulbs, doing some that looks as exhausting as it looks senseless. Or think of Rotwang, the mad inventor who lives in a little hut that looks in this film like it was from another world. He has a black prosthesis for his right hand (it's not a coincidence that Stanley Kubrick gave his mad scientist/inventor Dr. Strangelove a prosthesis for his right hand, too). He builds the robot that he makes to look like Maria, and that transformation scene is one of the most magnificent scenes ever and looks more convincing than some scenes of modern sci-fi flicks. I also have to mention Brigitte Helm, who plays Maria and the robot - and the look in her eyes would already be enough to tell which of her characters is on screen at the moment. If something like awards already would have been given in the 1920s, she sure would have walked home with quite a bunch of them. And just look at her sexy dance! It is just as memorable as the shot of the many eyes watching her dance - or the many faces watching her preach just a few minutes later. Metropolis is a film no sci-fi-fan should miss. I had the good luck that my first viewing of Metropolis one year ago was in a cinema (when it was a re-released after its restoration). I can only recommend you to watch it in a cinema if you have the possibility to, as Metropolis is, just as 2001 - A Space Odyssey one of those rare films that are masterpieces on your TV set, but a revelation on the big screen.
This truly is a classic masterpiece and honestly one of the best movies ever made. The story is brilliant and the visuals amazing.I have seen the German 147 minutes version of the movie, without subtitles. Yes it's a long watch but it's worth every second of it. Basically only reason why the movie is so long is because they need about ten hand gestures to speak one sentence. It's kind of dreadful to look at first but once you're used to it, it shouldn't trouble you anymore.In many ways this movie can be regarded as the "Blade Runner" of the '20's. "Metropolis" is set in a futuristic world that has a same kind of atmosphere as in "Blade Runner". The mix of '20's cars and propeller-planes with futuristic machines, highways, buildings and androids is very unusual but an absolutely awesome thing to look at. The movie was ahead of its time and in some ways also prophetic.The story is absolutely the best thing of the movie. Also the way the story is told and directed by Fritz Lang deserves credit. The story is tense and has quite some symbolism, layers and storyline's but remains always easy to follow. The ending is truly spectacular and tense. The way how spectacular and tense the ending and the entire movie in general was, really surprised me in a positive way.The sets are obviously fake and miniatures at times but they still manage to convince and impress. Further more the movie is filled with some fantastic and very convincing early special effects.Man who also deserves credit is Alfred Abel. Wow, what a great actor he was in this movie.An absolute must see and one of the best movies of all time.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Fritz Lang was constantly experimenting with ways to tell stories by way of the visual medium, and his 1927 opus Metropolis is the cream of the crop of examples of this. Perhaps it was seeing the film in the greatest possible format (a fully restored print on the KINO DVD, filled with inter-titles to keep the story complete) that had me appreciate it more, but even if I had seen the film on a scratchy print or with not very appropriate music (i.e. Giorgio Moroder's experimental cut), it would still be affecting. At the core of the story, Lang and his collaborator Thea von Harbou, the sides of good vs. evil, or at least the complete lack of understanding of the powerful over the weak, is set up so strongly that even when it has it's fairy-tale type of heaviness to it, it doesn't seem to feel compromised in strength or relevance for adults. This is the kind of film that should work for anyone, young and old, as it deals with universal themes (i.e. "The mediator between Head and Hands must be the Heart!")The story leaves room for the visual style to come through- Freder is the son of a kind of Imperial man over the workers who die for the machines of Metropolis, Joh Frederson. He feels the sorrow and pain of the people, and goes down to their level to be one of them. He falls in love with the most compassionate and angelic of women, Maria (played by the beautiful Brigitte Helm, in multiple roles she plays without a fault), who succumbs to capture after the jealously of Freder's father. Enter the robot, a marvel of a mad scientist, who gets transposed from Maria, and becomes the havoc-wrecker of the part of Metropolis. I won't reveal too much of the story, except to mention that as a foreshadowing for Freder for the last act, as he wakes up in one scene the Book of Revelations sits in his lap.Amidst in all of this, Metropolis is a masterpiece of visual effects, camera-tricks, and of course editing (if I wouldn't quite rank Metropolis in my all-time top ten favorites, I would rank it in terms of the editing and pacing Lang uses, which is apparent even in a permanently truncated version). It starts off with the image of the machine transposed over steam, and then soon moves to a vision of a city that was not far off from how it is in present day (cars moving on roads built to the sky, airplanes flying every-which way, and mammoth skyscrapers built in extravagant ways. But it's not just the use of the models, or the sets, or the backdrops, or even the use of space and atmosphere in most of Lang's shots (which are all spectacular), it's also the use of light that really caught my attention throughout the film. One thing I remember still days after seeing the film is the use of one spotlight on the character of Maria in a suspense scene (it also appears in other scenes I think). It's little things like that which make as big an impact as the montages, the super-impositions of faces and eyes in the dream-like shots.And, of course, Lang's greatest innovation with the film is that in telling a futuristic story, he goes beyond his time period in stylizing. As I mentioned with the pacing being unique, it was surprising (though maybe not as much from seeing his classic M) that many of the suspense sequences, mob scenes/riots, chases, I knew that this is the same kind of styling that's used today for many of the most modern of science-fiction/action films. In its own way, much like Stanley Kubrick's 2001 Space Oddysey, it breaks the mold of conventional forms of storytelling, while not completely abandoning the storytelling form. Although Metropolis has a checkered history of being cut down by countries, and it hasn't been seen in its full form in almost eighty years, what remains doesn't seem at all dated or crude. Quite the opposite, its visual expressiveness, its use of time and character and action, and its deliberate pacing, makes it ahead of its time and influential, and at the same time keeping itself unique. It's a tale we're all familiar with, being the tale of love and compassion coming into play in an industrial, cruel world- which I'm sure was even more relevant to post WW1 Germany at the time- filmed with a mix of over-the-top melodrama, mega-budget set-pieces, and designs that confound the senses. Add the appropriate music, and you've got a classic fantasy. A tremendous film to see two, three, a dozen times over- though some of those too impatient for films without spoken words (or by the operatic dramatic side of it all) may become disappointed or frustrated.


                
For many years the initially flopped and consequently butchered "Metropolis" Fritz Lang made in the mid twenties of the past century could be appreciated at least for its qualities as the indispensable science-fiction trailblazer in motion picture history. What was severely lacking from the plot however finally emerged on screen again after the famous Buenos Aires reel find which brought a quarter of what was missing from the film back from the dead. With the new painstaking 2010 restoration effort also came a grandiose symphony orchestra studio recording of the original Gottfried Huppertz score - and the results make movie buffs prone to be blown away, and this time for real.The technical brilliance and visual lavishness of Fritz Lang's oeuvre was always undisputed already at its time and only matched by fellow German Murnau's ingenious approaches on film-making. There's so much and dense imagery that generations of future filmmakers would draw from this newly emerging archetype. Among the unforgettable scenes are the giant heart machine which turns into a moloch in one of the hero's visions, the Babel tower teeming with utopian life, the enormous sets, elevators and masses and masses of enslaved and rebellious people, the staggering creation of the first robot, all set against the dominant dichotomy between - literally - those living above and those dying below. There are echoes of communism here, of nazi ideology, of the dangers and abysses of industrialization, technology, and there are also glimpses of humanity. Not perfect in all its components, the film nevertheless has everything pioneering in it - and more. Fritz Lang, while having some reservations himself referred to the picture as a "signpost for new destinations", and that's exactly what it became now that we can look at the great sci-fi pictures of the past century. In them and through them "Metropolis" still lives, and once we revisit the original again we might yet be surprised that it, miraculously, still points ahead.


                
In 2026 Metropolis is run by the wealthy industrialists who have enslaved the working class in an underground world. When Joh Frederson's (Abel) son Freder (Fröhlich) is lured into the worker's world, he witnesses a horrible accident and begins to have a crisis of conscience. Now he's decided to trade places with one of the workers to better understand their plight. This decision leads to a bigger crisis when he falls in love with a prophetess (Helm) who threatens everything his father has worked for. As his father seeks to destroy the young woman and the people who have followed her, he also threatens the existence of all the working people in Metropolis.Metropolis is a visually stunning film. Fritz Lang (M) essentially created the science-fiction film genre when he co-wrote and directed this epic film. The movie was produced in Germany at cost of five million Reichsmarks, making it the most expensive movie produced up to that point. The result is a large-scale epic that tells a tale of a futuristic world ruined by industry. This would also be a major building block for Lang, a director who made the transition to American films under his contract with MGM.The acting in a silent film is all about body language and facial expressions. This movie displays great acting by all of the people involved. It definitely has a melodramatic feel, but that's something common to most silent films. Brigitte Helm (L'argent), Alfred Abel (Phantom), and Gustav Fröhlich (Asphalt) do a great job as the three main characters. Lang also worked well with the massive number of extras that included over five hundred children.Classic movies are often lost due to age and damage. The film wasn't made to last for 100 years, and unfortunately this has cost us many of the classic films of the early years of movie making. Thankfully, this movie was saved through hard work and a lot of luck. Most recently a copy of this film was located in Argentina and allowed restoration work to be done that brought back a lot of missing footage.If you're a fan of classic movies and you haven't seen this one, I think it's a must-see movie. This puts early innovation on display as Lang stretched the technology and the art of cinema to the breaking point. This isn't a short movie or an easy one to watch. I would recommend this for people who want to see some of the best early feature film-making. I give this one 5 out of 5 stars.


                
I recently experienced the divine pleasure of watching the restored print of this film, on the big screen.  It is simply without equal.The imagery is beautiful.  The choice of actors is spot-on.  The production design, the cinematography... all spectacular, even by today's standards. To be able to tell a story without relying on dialogue is something truly magnificent indeed... you don't believe that, try watching MTV for any music video with a story to it.  And if you manage to find one, it's still only 4 minutes long.This is Lang's masterpiece, I think I even like it better than "M," which is also, by the way, flawless.  For me, it still tells the story of the society in which I live, even 75 years after its first release.Hopefully, we can all learn something from Lang's vision.  Hopefully, this film will never be forgotten again.  11/10, really.


                
This will be the first non-American film that I have posted a comment about!! "Metropolis" is an all time classic which induces creative imagery and a dehumanizing montage of robotics into an eerie genre of sensationalism!! This dismal drama is accompanied with lingering classical music theatrics!! The finalization with what we associate with the effervescence of the human spirit has assertively besieged all of society, and heartfelt emotions have become reduced to the precarious improvements of biological progress!! This German film which was made in 1927, perpetuated the trepidations of many people who feared the social pitfalls of mankind!! On the horizon for Germany, was the ubiquitous monster of triple digit inflation, hence, it would stand to reason that they would just engage in a pejorative dissertation concerning the total demise of man's world altogether.. Start with the fact, that in this computerized citadel of negative Utopia, the prevailing moral debasement which afflicted everyone, merely compounded man's insatiable lust!! The perplexities of day to day living evoked a desensitizing callousness with Homo Sapien interaction!! Such cynical speculation delves into a rudimentary exploitation of fear, this is so often times an effective tool for preying on the skepticism of human nature!! I thought this film had a particularly astute message concerning the demise of the individual's resolve and resilience!! "Metropolis" was a major indictment of our yearning as a society to unabashedly categorize individuals, stigmatize them, and label them as uniform vermin meat!! This disconcerting generalization of the human race ultimately makes the population very uncivilized!! As a result, all of them would functionally cease and desist as people, and become nothing significantly more than generic chattel!! It is man's greatest fear that women will seek vengeance on man, because women perceive men to be the creatures who relegated them to the plight of submissive automatons!! So what if the shoe were put on the other foot? This would be an in-veritable misogynist's's nightmare!! This movie is an utterly scathing jeremiad against our society's hegemony!! I felt that "Metroplois" was very well made, and it was WAY!! ahead of it's time!! Given that this film was made in 1927, the cinematography was spectacular!! "Metropolis" "Battleship Potemkin" and "Intolerance" are considered to be the three best silent pictures ever made!! I thought "Metropolis" was an absolutely fantastic film!! See this film as an uplifting outlet for intellectual intrigue!!


                
I have just recently looked at a pristine DVD remastered version of Metropolis from F. Lang. Without doubt, Mr Lang is one of the greatest directors ever. But also, what a team he had: what entrepreneurship, what wizardry and what imagination. However the plot may be a little simple, the way the film is filmed, directed, acted, edited is splendid. Furthermore, I thought the film music one of the best "classical" film music I have ever listened to: richness of themes, various leitmotives and a sense of drama that is exhilarating. Finaly, this film is still so potent in it's modernity. Just look how masses can be driven to their one end - even forgetting their children! Just look our the spy is everywhere: big brother is watching. Just look how the few rule the mass. Just look how religion can be so strong and powerful. And is man really man or machine? And it's not hollow or vain to believe that love can transcend anything as the mediator. I just loved it and recommend it to anyone, especially those who think that cinema is just SFX or Computer Programms. Refreshingly modern! Gave it 10!


                
I am so happy that I saw this film again recently on Turner Classic Movies. I first saw it many years ago on a cheap public domain videotape and I was not that impressed by the film. The print was of dubious quality and the story itself not overly impressive. BUT, when TCM released a newly restored version, the print was nearly pristine, the new orchestra music was fantastic and actually fit the film and, more importantly, the film was significantly longer--by about 20 minutes! It seems that over the years, so much of this film was cut here and there and the film degraded so much, that anyone watching these inferior versions is strongly recommended to see it again in its better form. Now this better form isn't 100% perfect, as there were a few tiny places where they had to insert stills to complete the scenes (a practice becoming more and more common with restored silent films and even some sound ones like LOST HORIZON).The story, now that I see it in its original form, isn't really just a sci-fi movie per se--and that is what elevates it to greatness. Instead, it's a wonderful allegory about alienation and modern society. It's talk of unions and revolution was very potent stuff in its day and considering what was going on in Germany at the time, the over-blown sci-fi aspect of the film ignores the struggle between Communism and a Fascism. Superb direction, sets and a grandeur few films of the day can come close to equaling. An absolute must-see.


                
"Metropolis" is one of the very very few of silent movies which still finds an audience,which means a lot.But which version?The problem is that we will never be able to see "Metropolis" as Lang has conceived it. I saw the movie for the first time in 1968,and I remember a scene in which Maria, Rotwang's prisoner,is released by Joh Fredersen.In the versions displayed in the nineties,this scene seems to have vanished in the air.The running time is never the same,some more recent versions include hints at Rotwang's love for Freder Fredersen's mother Hel.But this character,Hel ,never appears in the restored versions:only photographs show this subplot,actually very important:before we thought that Rotwang urges his robot to destruct the machines because ...because..he was crazy:that did not satisfy us.In Thea Von Harbou's original screenplay,he did it out of jealousy,because he used to love his master's wife.For Fredersen ,the robot is first a way to replace working men,tireless slaves ;then,when it takes Maria's face,and the men go crazy and violent,it allows the boss to use violence and repression against them.In Metropolis ,two worlds coexist:the subterranean one,where human beings are in bondage (see Maria's hints at the Bible),the Yoshiwara,the Rich's paradise.Is it really a paradise anyway?It leaves a bitter taste in the mouth ,this paradise for the elite(remember Maria showing it to a group of children)Joh Fredersen,a member of the privileged understands his happiness is a fake one,when he sees first the young girl,then the terrifying underworld,this subcity where the poor sweat ,suffer and die for the sake of an idle aristocracy.The screen play has been often criticized because of its naive political ideology:Heart must be the mediator of work and capital.It has not worn well admittedly,but outside this moral,everything is great,as impressive today as it was in 1927!Do you think that,say,"close encounters of the third kinds" will stand the test of time as good as Lang's magnum opus,and remain a classic in 2050?Dubious isn't it?The architectural genius of the German Master explodes everywhere,his masterful using of the crowds leaves us in rapture,his dreamlike sequence is at least 20 or 30 years ahead of its time.The characters (Fredersen father and son,Rotwang and Maria) are convincing and the plot is more complex that it seems to be .(the flaws are caused by missing parts of the movie,as I said before)Fritz Lang said:"I do not like Metropolis,its conclusion is wrong.I did not accept it even when I was making the movie"A black legend surrounds "Metropolis":Hitler enjoyed it and asked Lang to become the "official" director of the Third Reich;he refused,left Germany and it was Leni Riefenstahl who filmed such nazi manifestos as "Triumph des Willems".Besides,Hitler might have thought of concentration camps because of "Metropolis".Even more bewildering:building in Mauthausen a huge stair,the prisoners said:"it looks like "Metropolis""Metropolis is a must,see it at any cost!


                
In the futuristic city of Metropolis, wealthy residents live a bright easy life up in the sunshine while the poor suffer down below maintaining the machinery. The workers live in a deep underground city. Freder Fredersen is one of the privileged who live in luxury above. His father Joh Fredersen is the founder of Metropolis. Beautiful Maria leads a group of children up to the surface and is quickly sent back. Freder tries to follow but discovers the horrific working conditions. He goes to the Tower of Babel to speak to his father but he is unmoved. Freder switches place with one of the workers. Joh comes to see old fellow inventor Rotwang to find him still obsessing about their mutual love of Hel, Freder's dead mother. Rotwang has created a robot with a devious plan. There are mysterious maps that have been discovered among the workers. Freder is invited to listen to Maria as she retells the story of Babel and the need for a heart to mediate between the hands and the head. The crowd is restless for change. Freder wants to be the mediator. Joh and Rotwang followed the maps to the meeting. Joh tells Rotwang to make the robot into Maria to sow discontent with her followers. Rotwang has a different idea to destroy the city.This is the height of silent era movie-making. The story is fairly simple. The characters are clear cut icons of good and evil. The acting is definitely silent era. The images are ahead of its time. The fact that they are still influencing films of today says it all. This film will always be one of the cornerstones of silent movie-making.


                
Lang gives a dark and terrifying vision of the future that is full of great effects and peer spectacle, great acting and everything that makes a movie great. I enjoyed it when I first watched it and I still enjoy it today. If there was no Metropolis then there would be no Blade Runner or Star Wars. So we all have to thank Metropolis for everything it has done for us. I say you get the Complete Metropolis from Kino International. It will blow you away and the film will make more sense. I recommend to Science-fiction fans or just movie fans in general. It is one Heck of a ride filled with pure entertainment. Some people may dismiss the movie because of the whole point of it being in black in white and silent but that will you use inner imagination to break the silence and fill in the colors. I say you check it out for entertainment. Peace out.


                
Fritz Lang's masterpiece, Metropolis, filmed way back in the late Silent Movie days, was ahead of its time in many ways: scale, direction, storyline, special effects, symbolism, and geometric and shadowed sets. The plot involves a futuristic society of haves, who live above ground ("The Head"), and the have-nots ("The Hands"), who populate the world below. The haves, of course, are the plutocrats and city planners who call all of the shots. In their Utopia, they enjoy the sunshine and modern means of transportation to their stadiums and gardens and skyscrapers. The haves are generally oblivious to the have-nots, who inhabit the never-world. The have-nots, locked in their Dystopia, are equally unaware of the world above. Like drones, they have numbers for names, work hard and run the many machines that keep the society functioning. Or do the machines run the workers? Early in the film, our hero has a vision; a burned-out machine turns into a fearsome devourer monster Moloch. (Note that Moloch was the ancient Phoenician pagan god to whom the Canaanites and Carthaginians sacrificed their children.) What really had happened was that there was injury and death from an industrial accident (A machine had overpowered a worker.) Anyway, observe those machinery control dials and arrows, and how the robotic workers try to manipulate them to and fro. The work clocks show ten hours only – not 12 – and certainly not for the benefit of the workers. Note their demoralized, mechanized movements during the shift changes.One day Freder Fredersen, our hero, spots a pretty young woman, Maria, and a large group of children, who have abruptly appeared above ground via a modern elevator. Observing the haves in a garden, Maria declares to the children that "These are your brothers." Very soon she is escorted back into the elevator and returns below ground. Maria espouses the need for a "Heart" the join "The Head" with "The Hands." She predicts that a "mediator" will soon come. In seeing and in being infatuated with Maria, Freder – who enjoys his life and amenities above ground – goes below to follow Maria and thus becomes aware of the Dystopian world. Horrified, he returns above and confronts his father, Joh Fredersen, the founder and controller of Metropolis. Obviously the father, acting like a dictator, wants to keep things going as they have been. Conversely the son wants to improve the lot of the workers, perhaps even be the Heart that can join the Head with the Hands. A complication is the malevolent inventor C. A. Rotwang, ostensibly working for Joh, but who plays the upcoming revolution for his own agenda. He has never forgotten that a long-lost love (Hel) chose Joh Fredersen over himself. She had later died in giving birth to Freder, Joh's biological son. Note Rotwang's crooked house (for a crooked mind), marked with a satanic pentagram over the door and equipped with a Frankenstein-type of laboratory. Rotwang is building a robot that will look exactly like Maria, not Hel as he initially tells Joh. Note Rotwang's right hand (suggestive of Dr. Strangelove nearly four decades later?). But any disruption, any machinery shut-down, will destroy Metropolis. Meanwhile the saintly Maria holds meetings in catacombs below ground, with a background of crosses and candles (obviously reminiscent of the Catholic Christians meeting below ground in ancient Rome). There is praying and kneeling, and many biblical inferences. They include allusion to the Tower of Babel, Anti-Christ, Hell, and to the Apocalypse (the woman in Revelation who rides the beast of seven heads and ten horns). In the movie the monster symbolizes the seven deadly sins, not any particular government or political entity or religion. Of course the robot (the false woman) rides the Beast in the movie.By now you have the gist of the storyline, and there is no need to go into any more plot giveaways in the second part of the movie. But when one realizes that the Nazis are only a half-dozen years from power, one might say that Lang was a prognosticator. By the way, note the architecture and geometric-shaped furniture. Do see this film, which is on Leonard Maltin's Top 100 listing (listed by him as must-see films of the 20th century). Metropolis is one of 12 Silents that Maltin selected. Also, there is a Silent Movie website (The Top 100 Silent Era Films) that lists Metropolis as the #2 silent movie of all time, behind The General and ahead of Sunrise. But you absolutely must see the restored version of 2010, which, while not perfect – there are several scratchy scenes – contains nearly the whole movie as envisioned by Lang.
This is Fritz Lang's silent masterpiece & still worth viewing today. It is really an amazing silent film & a true Science Fiction masterpiece that has influenced many modern filmmakers and not just the Science Fiction ones.It has become somewhat known that while Lang worked on producing this miracle, one of his students was Alfred Hitchcock. Hitch learned well from his teacher because you see Lang's silent influence in a majority of his films. The technique of telling a story with pictures was never done better than this film. Hitchcock at his most brilliant would later do the same thing in his action-suspense films. When you understand this & watch Hitchcocks films again, you realize just what I mean.An amazing testament to Lang's talent is the fact that the rest of the cast in this movie could have been anyone and it didn't really matter. The ultimate film maker made this film, and influenced the rest of film history through the rest of the 20th century & even now some into the 21st.


                
'Metropolis' is absolutely one of the greatest films ever made. Fritz Lang's vision of an apocalyptic future, is one of the best examples of cinematic art in existence. Time has done nothing to reduce the film's impact. It is probably the most electrifying film to date.The story is set in 2026, in a time where society has split into two classes. The workers, who simply exist below ground level, keeping the city functioning, and the rulers of the city and the upper-class citizens who live in luxury above. The ruler's son, Freder, while indulging at the 'Club of the Sons', is curious when a woman from down below visits, surrounded by a group of young boys. It is at this moment that Freder is moved to visit the worker's environment. He tells his father of the distress that he finds and eventually becomes part of a rebellion that will finally unite both classes.What Fritz Lang created in 1926 is truly incredible. It is mind-boggling at how modern it still is. And as far as art is concerned, this is a film that is bursting at the seams. It is however, ridiculous that the film was labelled as a flop on its release. It is even more outrageous that a good chunk of footage from the original print of the film is now irretrievably lost because the film was re-edited. Although it has been restored as much as possible, it is such a shame that it is incomplete.'Metropolis' is a film that has made more sense and has become more understood as time has passed. It is now greatly praised and has rightly been given the honour as the greatest German film from the silent era.


                
Metropolis is so gigantic and important a picture that its impact and genius can't be exaggerated. However, almost from the day filming was completed it has been subject to butchery. As a result, chunks of Fritz Lang's original vision have been lost forever, and the film exists in numerous dodgy, splotchy prints, hacked up and misedited, cut down and supplied with musical soundtracks that range from the completely inappropriate to wonderful modern techno-rock things which, nice though they are, are not what Lang had in mind.Kino came out with a DVD just a few years ago that is a fantastic attempt to restore Lang's original. I am NOT shilling for Kino -- you don't have to buy it, as there are plenty of sources for super-cheap rentals, or you can borrow it from some libraries (or friends!) for free. The point is, if you intend to see this movie, and even if you have seen a videotape version of it before, see this latest version: the picture is super-clear and the lighting restored; every bit of Lang's film that survives is included; Lang's original title cards are restored; the bits that have been lost forever are discreetly replaced with a title card to summarize the action that you should be seeing, in a way that completely unobtrusively, but helpfully, clarifies the film; and the soundtrack is the restored musical score.If your only experience of this movie has been a rocked-up modern club-kid version, or a creaky, shadowy poor print on video with a single cheery piano tune incessantly repeated as the score, see this latest restoration. It will become clear to you what all the excitement and angst was about back in Lang's day.


                
I first saw this in a science fiction class in college. It was an actual movie in class. Wow! I had read about Fritz Lange and his contributions to the cinema and I had seen still pictures from this film. I was astonished that it had been made in 1927. The special effects, particularly those within the city, are amazing. The basic premise, the haves and the have nots works very well. Lange turned his people into machines and had them toil darkly for little, reducing them to automatons. This is remindful of "The City in the Clouds," a Star Trek episode where those in power can't fathom what the enslaved miners must do every day. Of course it's about collectivism and socialism and all those other -isms. It's also about people and how they come to see themselves as oppressors. The fun-loving lifestyle is set in the middle of the poverty and pain of those who have nothing. There are wonderful expressions in close ups of faces, both expressing their misery and being empathetic toward it. The film gathers momentum toward revolution. It's the age old story. It's presented in a masterful way. Perhaps this is the best of all the silent films because of its content and its political implications. I wonder what the capitalists of the early 20th century thought of the movie.


                
Metropolis (1927) Directed by Fritz Lang.One could say that Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" has been cut up and re-edited so many times that the whole point of the original view would be ruined. I have seen three versions of the film: The Kino DVD version, the Hollywood Classics version, and the horribly butchered Giorgio Moroder and 80's rock soundtrack version. While watching the Hollywood Classics version (my first viewing), I was still affected in the end. After seeing the Kino version, I loved it even more. But after making an awful decision by buying the Moroder version for a cheap price, I wonder, why? The color version, re-editing, cutting scenes, and 80's rock soundtrack COMPLETELY kills the vision of Fritz Lang's original classic. It is silly, confusing and nearly unwatchable.The story of "Metropolis" is legendary. Metropolis is a dark city in which the population is divided into two. The thinkers, the rulers and the rich of the city, who live in the buildings above. And the workers, the poor and the slaves, who work their whole life underground for the city. When one of the "thinkers" witnesses a fatal accident underground, he is horrified by the situation. In seeing this, he joins the beautiful Maria, leader of the workers, in an apocalyptic revolt against the thinkers.What makes "Metropolis" such a classic is because of it's influence on other films, such as "Dark City", "Blade Runner", "The Matrix", and even the background story of "The Terminator". It was also the first film to show a truly nightmarish look at a futuristic society. With the terms of originality, films usually don't get much better than this. In the end, I do believe that "Metropolis" is not only the greatest film from the 20's decade, but also my the greatest Science Fiction film in my opinion. 5 stars out of 5.


                
If you've seen Metropolis before, you only thought you saw it. The newly restored "Complete" Metropolis is, for today's viewers, entirely new and a masterpiece. It's not just the 30 minutes of lost footage discovered in Argentina (although this includes wonderful scenes -- mad inventor Rotwang's shrine to Hel, the woman he loved, the harrowing details of how Freder and Josaphat rescue the children of the workers from the flood, how the angry crowd chases the real Maria and winds up catching the false one, and many, many more).But perhaps more important is that the discovery of an unbutchered print of Metropolis enabled the restorers to reorganize the existing footage and fill in formerly incomprehensible gaps in the plot, so for the first time we have the film with scenes and titles in their original order. The special effects of Metropolis were always dazzling, but the plot never entirely made sense. Now it does, and the imagery is more spectacular than ever.The missing reels of Greed may never be found, the original ending of The Magnificent Ambersons may be lost forever, but -- against unbelievable odds -- we now have back the Metropolis that the first audiences saw in 1927 and no one ever saw again. Until now.
