Goebbels had lousy taste in films.This is routinely cited as a big important film, and if reduced to iconic images, it probably is. But as something I had to sit through, it was torture.The acting is hopeless unless you're a fan of the "act with your eyes" school of the overly dramatic. The music was standard orchestra fare with no defining theme. Just the same kind of boring old crap you'd hear on early Looney Tunes. But the biggest offense is the plot.Workers rise up against the industrialists and in order to really drive their point home--abandon their children and then flood (?) their part of the city. Brilliant. Why flood? Who the hell knows. Looked cool I guess and the lame cardboard city models would have gone up too fast if they'd used fire. None of the action is remotely logical. Like Maria showing up with all those dirty school children in the middle of some "Club of the Sons" sex party. Huh? Or Fredersen's plan to send a robot chick to foment rebellion among his workers instead of, you know, getting rid of their leader (Maria) and arresting the other ringleaders. Said robot chick is apparently whipping up the workers into a froth by day and stripping at some swanky club by night. Which has the result of turning the industrialists against each other (in some of the silliest fistfights ever put on film) which advances Federsen's plan how again? The storyline is absurd and used to drive set pieces, nothing else. 90mins, 124mins, 153mins, doesn't matter. There is no length that would fix the dimwitted writing (courtesy of Lang's wife who went on to join the Nazi Party in 1933). Like so many of today's bloated FX extravaganzas, Metropolis has nothing to say, no story to tell, no reason to be remembered beyond the classic images. So don't go in expecting a narrative masterpiece.
The print illustrated here is neither fish nor foul. It is neither the original 153-minute version of "Metropolis" released in 1927, nor the 210-minute version unearthed in Buenos Aires in 2008, nor apparently any other version described in the Wikipedia article on the film. Coming in at just under two hours, a number of the original subplots have thankfully been omitted. The musical accompaniment here works well enough, but it is by Serge Prokofiev instead of by the rather less well known Gottfried Huppertz, who composed the original soundtrack. Regardless of what version we have here, the plot is -- let's admit it, shall we? -- an embarrassing muddle. Lang himself disparaged his own film. It can hardly be a positive recommendation that Goebbels loved it when it was released and that the Nazis later co-opted the theme of the workers' struggle against the ruling class spun out in this simple morality play. The acting has all the subtlety of an 1870 melodrama or grand opera by Meyerbeer, but if you hunger to watch a female android perform the hootchy cootchy at the front of a worker's uprising, well, you've come to the right place. Except for a pioneering use of models, the production values of this film appear to have progressed little beyond what D.W. Griffith accomplished a decade earlier in "The Birth of a Nation" and "Broken Blossoms." And the vision of the future seen in "Metropolis" and so beloved by sci-fi enthusiasts? It may be prescient for its reliance on Bauhaus and art deco design, but it is pretty much hopeless for everything else. The airplanes, automobiles, formal dress, and dance styles of 2026 are all straight from the 1920's. Chemistry and electric generators, just beginning to give way to physics, electronics, and biotech in the 1920's, are seen as still governing science and industry a century later. Finally, the quality of the "Restored Authorized Edition" seen here is poor. It should be 16mm film, but when viewed on a computer it lacks clarity and definition. Every film lover should see the classic silent films at least once. It's part of a general education. I'm just not sure that every film lover needs to see this version of "Metropolis" right now.


                
The movie was a waste of two and half hours. The acting was terrible, the film was too long, and the story was not original. American film editors had the right idea to shorten the film to an hour and a half when it first screened in the States. They cut out some key scenes due to the Hay's censors, but they could have left those key scenes in about the robot and still shorten the film. The plot was not strong enough to captivate the audience for that long. The plot love triangle plot and the ideal of Utopia are so over done. The only thing that was semi entertaining was science fiction aspect of the film. The underground subspecies of humans working in unison in the hidden factor city and the look of the city above made the movie slightly bearable to watch. The thing that made the film a deal breaker was the female lead. Her acting was horrific. German Expression from of acting was jerky and over exaggerated, but she took to an extreme. Even when Brigitte Helm was the sweet angelic Maria she didn't portray compassion and honesty. The only thing that she did well was make all the characters she portrayed different so the audience could distinguish between them. The final scene the completely destroyed the film was lustful dance sequence when the inventor first debuted the robot Maria. The whole scene was the represented the seven deadly sins, but it was entirely too long. The entire scene consented of the men's reactions to her dancing. The whole film focused entirely too much on character reactions. Someone would say something and the camera would immediately have a close up person's face they were speaking to. The director didn't leave anything for the audience to interpret for themselves.
For its time if you think of the things it's talking about the movie is great. But around a hour in the film takes a bit of a surprising turn and it lost me unfortunately


                
I saw the extended version, where newfound bits of very grainy footage are inserted into the fine print version most are familiar with. I'm told by those who have seen both it helps to make a film that wasn't always easy to follow, easy to follow. And it's true, I had no difficulty following the story, but so incredibly long winded was it that I felt it was at least half an hour too long, which is the approximate amount of time the new footage accounts for - so my advice would definitely be to see the shorter version, no matter what confusion it brings.Brigitte Helm gives a quality performance, the visuals are of course stunning and creative, while the metaphor of people carrying out remedial, hard working jobs in order to serve the wealthy elite who rule them is very apt still to this day. Countering that, the politics are really thin, the plot is silly, crudely constructed, and with the cheesiest of endings. Even director Fritz Lang didn't like it, which is saying something.


                
I know this is a classic, and I appreciate what an effort this was in 1927. But watching it now is only for its historical value. We have come a long way in movie making, and this was one of the first baby steps. As entertainment this film is pretty bad, like a Plan 9 from Outer Space bad. I watched it on Netflix and the print quality was very poor. I am not a fan of silent films, the overly dramatic acting is painful. I will admit that it must have blown away audiences in 1927, but this is not 1927. And now I remember why I do not submit comments to IMDb, the ridiculous 10 line requirement drives me nuts! I'm sorry, I can't drag my review out to that many lines.


                
