Fritz Lang's Metropolis is the first true masterpiece of science fiction in film. You can see it's influence in films such as Star Wars, The Matrix, Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, Blade Runner, and countless others. Despite the fact that parts of the film are no longer available, the efforts to reconstruct the original film from its remains are valiant enough to provide enough to make the story clear. The special effects were far ahead of their time and the set designs were, in some cases, phenomenal. I can see where some people may not enjoy this movie. It is hard for some to really appreciate a movie that is 77 years old, because a lot has happened in film since then. Yet, if you look at the basic elements of this movie - its story, characters, artwork, cinematography, etc., I believe this movie has just as much to offer now as it must have in the late 1920's. Also, take into consideration the asthetics of German expressionist film when viewing this. The performances and set designs are going to be over the top. That was part of the style. Metropolis may not be for everyone, but, for those willing to read between the lines, this film still has a lot to offer!


                
Fritz Lang's groundbreaking landmark remains one of the biggest mysteries in the world of cinema. How can a movie that'll soon turn 80 years old still look so disturbingly futuristic?? The screenplay by Thea Von Harbou is still very haunting and courageously assails social issues that are of all ages. The world has been divided into two main categories: thinkers & workers! If you belong to the first category, you can lead a life of luxury above ground but if you're a worker, your life isn't worth a penny, and you're doomed to perilous labor underground. The further expansions and intrigues in the screenplay are too astonishing to spoil, so I strongly advise that you check out the film yourself. It's essential viewing, anyway! "Metropolis" is a very demanding film-experience and definitely not always entertaining. But, as it is often the case with silent-cinema classics, the respect and admiration you'll develop during watching it will widely excel the enjoyment-aspect. Fritz' brutal visual style still looks innovative and few directors since were able to re-create a similarly nightmarish composition of horizontal and vertical lines. Many supposedly 'restored' versions have been released over the years (in 1984 and 2002, for example) but the 1926-version is still the finest in my opinion, even though that one already isn't as detailed and punctual as Lang intended it. "Metropolis" perhaps is THE most important and influential movie ever made. "2001: A Space Odyssey", "Star Wars" and "Blade Runner" owe their existence (or at least their power) to it.


                
"There can be no understanding between the hands and the brain unless the heart acts as mediator." This is the predominant theme of "Metropolis", and director Fritz Lang finds numerous ways to say and visualize his message during the course of the film. The movie relies on repeated visual imagery to make it's point, and does so effectively even if tedious at times. Particularly effective is the representation of the worker society as an almost single living unit, moving trance like to their appointed time and task. The use of a "ten hour" clock in the workers' chamber constantly draws our attention, as does the hangdog posture of the individual slaves who grind out their workday as if in a daze.Amid this rabble, worker Maria (Brigitte Helm) is the inspirational voice of the workers, offering hope for a brighter future by a mediator yet to appear. However the Master of Metropolis John Frederson (Alfred Abel) sees in her a way to quell the underlying frustration of the workers, commissioning his scientist Rotwang to create a robot Maria to plant discord among the workers. Rotwang's laboratory would have done Frankenstein proud, and the creation of the robot is a marvel of cinematic imagery. The robot Maria's "belly dance" transforms into a scene of such raw energy and sexual awareness that it awakens the statues of the Seven Deadly Sins, one of the master strokes of this expressionist film.So much imagery in fact is layered into "Metropolis" that it's safe to say that repeat viewings will lead to even more interpretations of it's vision, and not simply for it's denunciation of a class society. Both timely and timeless, the film captures a dynamism that inspires passion even after nearly eighty years following it's original release.
OK, first of all. I'm not some kind of action-junkie who thinks that the Rambo-trilogy is the best movies of all time. I am a person who think that other silents like Nosferatu and The Battleship Potemkin are entertaining.Although I loved the previous movies referred to, I thought this was one of the most dull movies ever. As entertainment this movie can't go very far. On a scale rating it's abilities to entertain, it gets a 2/10 from me.As a milestone in the history of movies, it goes all the way to the top. The special effects were great to have been made almost 80 years ago. The editing was great. It must have been one of the most expensive movie made to that date. On the scale of how important a chapter in the cinematic history this is, I will rate it a 10/10. That means a total 6/10. This also means that you should rather check out really good silents like Chaplin's Modern Times, Eisenstein's The Battleship Potemkin and Murnau's Nosferatu.


                
How weird is to watch and analyze now a movie that was made 80 years ago. I think the best way to describe it is a movie that proves arts evolve to evoke the same feelings about the same problems. People haven't evolved since 100 or 1000 or 10000 years ago, they just evolved new special effects.Metropolis shows a world separated in two great social classes: the thinkers and the workers. Of course, the thinkers don't think nearly as much as they should while the workers do some thinking from time to time. This leads to a conflict in the end of the movie that ends making the point of the movie: you need to guide your actions with responsibility, not only thought or brawn. A powerful idea not only then, when capitalism was showing its ugly side to the world, but also now and in any human epoch.The film looks stunning for that era. Metropolis itself looks like the grandfather of the Total Recall 2070, Blade Runner and Batman cities. The aerial vehicles that move people look like very old The Fifth Element or Star Wars air cars. The script has the corporate villain, the idealistic youth, the mad scientist, all elements copied in movies again and again since then on.I don't think it was particularly entertaining. It is so old (and being black and white and with no sound makes it really hard to watch) that it doesn't really appeal to you the way modern films do. But if you are a movie buff, one that needs to know where it all started from, you just have to see Metropolis, the granddaddy of all cinematography now.


                
I recognize the jumbo epic quality of Fritz Lang's movie. It's full of social comment, action, drama, and thoroughly gripping. It's a little like H. G. Wells' "The Time Machine", only without the Time Traveler and more of a simulacrum of certain dystopias that, as I write, we're constantly being warned of. Artistically, cripes, there is a single high-angle shot of Maria struggling to activate the flood alarm in order to save the workers from drowning. A hundred children in rags come running out of nooks and crannies and surround Maria's pedestal with their arms outstretched, begging for salvation. It out-does all of Busby Berkely's unfolding chrysanthemums and kaleidoscopic flower petals put together.The first time I saw it -- in its abbreviated form, I guess -- was in a college auditorium a generation or two ago. It gave me a rush. I've just finished watching it on Turner Movie Classics in its longer, restored form and kept nodding off.I'm trying to figure out why I hard such a hard time keeping awake. I mean, is it the movie or my atrophying brain. I think it's what's called a "dysfunction." You know, if you sit down at a keyboard and it's too high for you to reach comfortably, it's not your fault. Neither is it the keyboard's fault. The two things just don't match up.The new version of the silent film is almost three hours long and, though the film contains as much drama as before, it takes a certain amount of mental stamina to watch a three-hour movie, especially with subtitles. I don't mind subtitles. It's just that if you leave the room or even look away from the screen for a minute you're liable to lose some important information about the plot or characters. There is no audio to cue you in when something is happening or being said.The musical score, by the way, is splendid. It shares the film's epicness. And I don't know if Gustav Frohlich is handsome or not, though he has a great name. (I'd like to see Gustav Frohlich pitted mano a mano against Max Schreck.) But Brigitte Helm is attractive in a 1920s way, and there are a couple of scenes involving "the False Maria" that are rather sexy.It's impossible to predict how someone else might respond to "Metropolis." It would all depend on a complex of variables involving the viewer's state and the circumstances, but none of them would suggest that the film is anything other than thoughtful and well executed. It's a Monumental Picture indeed. Yet I kept falling asleep and wonder if the modern brain isn't more attuned to short silent movies rather than long ones.
I love silent films and remember seeing a clip of Metropolis in my film appreciation class, I was so excited to pick a five dollar copy of this film from Best Buy and I was just amazed at how disturbing this movie was for not only it's time, but today. Today, 2006, times are just like this movie's plot, everyone is getting so lazy due to technology's quick advancements, that they'll do anything just so they have to work less.This movie is about a boss who is upset with the way his workers are always tired and have to go home. When he brings up to another worker that he has created the perfect worker, a robot who will never get tired, hungry, or have to go home to a family. But soon the worker has a fantasy, or as I'd say a very horrific nightmare, that the robots will turn against these humans and take over the world! Yeah, silent films have always been overacted and very cheesy to look at, but it's amazing to me to see what the times were like and what the mood was. The reason why Metropolis is so well loved and respected is not only because of the mood it captured, but how amazingly psychic it was, I think since the time that electricity was discovered, we've all feared how far we could go with technology, and Metropolis is a haunting picture that captures it so well.8/10


                
Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" was the first film I ever rented from Netflix. The (then) two-hour German expressionist science fiction masterpiece carried an immediate appeal for me I know not many will share. Nevertheless, I was excited at the prospect of seeing the film again, and on the big screen this summer, now 'complete' with 25 minutes of newly integrated footage uncovered in Buenos Aires in 2008.Other than that the experience was marred by a crummy digital projection, the new cut of the film is nothing short of revelatory for fans and cinephiles. The restored scenes, which were cut in 1927 following early criticism, expand the scope and breadth of the narrative, rounding out a much more human film.It's a shame so little could be done to spruce up the supplemental material. I was initially put off by just how starkly it contrasted with the clean, relatively well-preserved 35mm whole; the 16mm additions are matted along the top and left of the frame, and are so scratched that the scenes appear to exist amidst an omnipresent rainstorm. But bad as they look, their benefit to the film is undeniable. My only real objection to their inclusion is in two to three second insert or reaction shots, where splicing in the new content seems more distracting than it is productive. Largely, however, the aesthetic unpleasantries are worth the emotional payoff of a more satisfying story.The other issue is that "Metropolis" was already a long film, and one that isn't always easy to appreciate in a modern context. Fortunately, its narrative backbone is a simple but timeless 'workers vs. social elite' fable, and the sincere, if unchallenging, plot makes plenty of room for contemplation. It's easy to just slip into Lang's world, and though the pacing and running-time hardly render it accessible, what's really incredible about the film is how well its visuals still hold up.The towering, angular cityscapes, oppressive walls of machinery, and the now iconic "machine man" are stylistic triumphs that look great today and have had obvious influence on more recent science fiction/fantasy classics, from the dark metropolis of Ridley Scott's "Blade Runner" to character design for "Star Wars." The fact that it was even possible in 1927 is as incredible as Kubrick's half-centennial "Space Odyssey" was for 1968. Maybe more so.It's rare and awesome that a piece of art is as ahead of its time as "2001" or "Metropolis" were. Fritz Lang's film may not be a 2010 audience-pleaser, but in its flawless realization of its world, it's every bit on par with something like "Inception." Lang's vision of the future is in many ways still our own, which helps account for its long shelf life. The forward-thinking design and fantastic visuals make it easy to forget that it saw release twenty years before Isaac Asimov published his compilation, "I, Robot.""The Complete Metropolis," though not completely complete, is absolutely the best way to see the film. Despite the fact that certain scenes are still (and likely always will be) missing, this is the closest its come to a definitive version. Those with a vested interest in the history of film, particularly science-fiction film, absolutely need to seek it out if they haven't already —The new cut is even worth reanalysis for those underwhelmed by the previously available version. It's a real treasure, however, for longtime fans, who'll be glad to hear the 25 extra minutes, while not pretty, substantially benefit the story. For the first time, "Metropolis" really breathes.However, if my unfortunate theater presentation has taught me anything, it's that Kino's home video release later this year will be the real attraction. I'll be picking up the blu-ray come November, no rental required.


                
Don't get me wrong. I do LIKE this film. I just don't LOVE it. I would never argue with its importance; it's just that I think that it doesn't rank as one of the greatest films ever made. There are at least a dozen silent feature films that I like more, including, but not limited to, The Passion of Joan of Arc (Carl Dreyer, 1928), Batteship Potemkin (Sergei Eisenstein, 1925), Sherlock Jr. (Buster Keaton, 1924), Modern Times (Charlie Chaplin, 1936), Safety Last (Harold Lloyd, 1923), Nanook of the North (Robert Flaherty, 1922), Our Hospitality (Keaton, 1923), and City Lights (Chaplin, 1931).
The maxim to which I refer is this: "Between the head and hands there must be a heart" (or something to that effect). In the film, Joh Frederson is figuratively the head, Grot the hands, and Freder the heart. In analogizing the film itself with that image, I would count the film's metaphoric and symbolic aspects as the head, its technical aspects the hands. The heart should be the relationship between Freder and Maria. Unfortunately, that whole piece of the film just doesn't work very well. It comes off as merely mechanical.What is left is still amazing. Hardly any film has matched its stunning sets. A few of the set pieces rank as some of the best ever created, for example, Moloch devouring the workers, Freder working the arms of the clock, the Tower of Babel story, the transformation of Rotwang's robot, Mecha-Maria's erotic dance, and a few others. However, there are a lot of segments that move as slow as molasses. There are a lot of scenes where characters stare at each other for so long that it proceeds to become silly.In fact, it can be generally silly. A lot of people were laughing at somewhat inappropriate moments at the screening that I attended tonight. It is very dated, as you probably would expect a silent sci-fi movie to be. I wonder, though, if this is a German phenomenon. All silent films are dated up to a point, but a lot are very enjoyable still in a way different than sound films. The three German UFA silents I've seen, Metropolis, The Last Man, and Nosferatu (the latter two both directed by the famed F.W. Murnau) all seem more dated than usual to me. I know all three of those films have a lot of fans, but they all seem stale to me.Tonight I saw the film in a theater with live music - a great experience if you've never had the chance to do it. The version was a brand new reconstruction which ran at 157 minutes. 157!?!?!?The version that I own is only 120, and I get kind of bored during it. Fortunately, with the live piano music, as opposed to the usual, torturous sythesizer which accompanies most versions of the film on video, it was much easier to endure. Although I haven't seen the 120 minute version for about two years, I can speculate as to what was added in this version. Rotwang's character seemed to be expanded - I had always seen him simply as a mad scientist without any real character. Here, I believe that more of a motive has been supplied. The worker whom Freder substitutes at the clock-like work station, worker 11811, has more of a story, though a lot of its elements have been lost and were told through intertitles. There was also a lot more concerning "the thin man," a spy whom Joh Frederson orders to follow his son. There must have been more, but I don't really feel like watching my VHS tape of it right now. This was the third silent film I ever saw, the first I ever owned, and my rank has always been 8/10, regardless of the version.


                
There's no other movie quite like this old classic, which has many memorable images and a distinctive way of telling its story.  The plot is rather outlandish at times, and many interesting or significant details are never explained, but the forcefulness of the rest of the production more than makes up for it.  Once you are drawn into the world of the film, the combination of impressive visuals and strange story makes for a uniquely satisfying movie.The combination of expressionism and science fiction works well, creating the very interesting setting of "Metropolis" and an assortment of characters ranging from sympathetic to bizarre.  It often leaves you wanting to know even more about the background of all this, but there is already more than enough to take up a couple of hours of screen time.  You could also spend a long time analyzing the symbolism and themes, and while some of the more obvious themes may be a little less topical today, it's still a thought-provoking collection of ideas.Anyone who enjoys silent films should make sure to see this sometime.  It's also worth watching as one of the icons of classic cinema that has had its influence on later film-makers.


                
Lang's Metropolis, is truly a masterpiece. If you can only give its makers the credit for what they achieved in the era of no CGI or any other modern tech. The sets are huge, the screenplay is good, sometimes really good, the story is engaging, except that this movie doesn't make sense, if we watch it in the era of modern cinema. The normal movie goers, I rather say the people who go to movies, just for fun will not take it. YES, it is outdated, but that doesn't make it bad. The Meta critic rating of above 9 shows that. I rate it at 8 for its pure genius and heart, but it doesn't fit today's cinema and funny thing is that no one has told us to fit it either. I went through many reviews, including that of Sir Roger Ebert. Every one has high praises for the movie, but I personally feel that there were many other greater and better movies than Metropolis at that time. Some of them are "M" , "City Lights" , "Modern Times", "The General" that don't have time or era boundary as this movie has. They still are fresh and every normal person can enjoy them. I rate METROPOLIS at 8, but only for what it meant at that time and its message. No wonder if anyone will fall asleep in their sofa now a days.


                
For years now, I was very excited to see this movie, but somehow never got around to it .  When I heard of the Munich museum of cinema restoration efforts of Enno Patalas and that the film was to play at the Montreal World Film Festival of 2001, I could not prolong anymore the viewing of this sci-fi classic.  That night, there were technical problems and the projection was delayed past eleven o'clock.  Being very tired, and knowing that it was going to be an old, silent and slow-paced movie, I greatly feared that all my waiting would have been in vain.  I feared, that in the dark theater, I was going to sleep like a baby...Well, I didn't.Firstly, the music played live by three musicians that came especially from Germany was extraordinary.  It was fresh, captivating and entertaining.  It kept me riveted to the seat and fitted perfectly- no actually it enhanced greatly- the film.  The musicians received a standing ovation with cause.Secondly, the silent acting was necessarily over the top, but very powerful and engaging.  I never thought the wink of a robot could have that effect on me.Thirdly, the visual aspects of the movie were not only ahead of its time, it was in some instance better than what we see 74 years later.  Not because of the special effect, although they were very good, but because of the creative spark behind them.  Lang makes us see dreams like never before. The dance of the "skeleton with a sickle" (I will say no name)is a prime example. His visual collage of moving eyes and sexually tense robot dance are hypnotically riveting.  Hitchcock's later attempt at free visual expression (as in Vertigo) greatly lacked this ability to grasp the spectator and swirl him into the movie.  Even the remarkable breakthroughs of Stanley Kubric in `2001: a space odyssey ` are not up to part with Lang's visual wizardry.  As for current director's, they can also watch and learn. Lang's portrayal of crowds, either as ordinate drones or anarchist hoards is also singular in its mastery.  This is what impressed me the most with this spectacular work, straight out of the archives of history.The story, although containing some good scientific elements and trying to examine social and philosophical structures, is not as remarkable.  The pace is slow (which is not always bad, but which does not help much here) and the dramatization typical of older productions reminds us of why this type of languorous "Greece tragedy" scenes were replaced by the sharper, subtler, fined-tuned storytelling of today. Characters are a bit on the one to two-dimensional side.  Moral and religious implications are a bit heavy and unrevealing to my liking.All in all, this is an incredible film.  Pioneer, daring and exceptional for its period, it passed the test of time, to stand as a very very good production that lead the way for films to come.  Certain aspects became dated, but at the core, you can appreciate an artistic jewel of a rare kind. Although, apprehensive in the first 20 minutes, once I got accustomed to the silent acting/intertitle thing, I was in for a treat.  I didn't sleep and I didn't regret anything. Be open-minded and be ready to be thrown into this dark world of Metropolis. Enjoy.


                
Beautiful, thoughtful, artful, a rare experience... These are just some of the words to describe Fritz Lang's classic of the silent era... It's deals with so much, freedom, equilibrium, science and cultural growth... So much that is relevant to today. It's one of the greatest gestures of cinema of all time; the vision of the future of Metropolis is a vision of now, (these are all things Spielberg was striving for in A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001))... But Lang does it so much better, there's no forced sentimental message in this film, this is poetic picture, a film that will always get better with age... a classic that more people need to experience.


                
Whenever people are asked what they consider to be revolutionary and historically significant in terms of classic cinema, one answer that frequently comes up is Metropolis, and it's not hard to see why. In addition to being a very impressive technical achievement for its time, the film is well known as the very first feature-length sci fi film. While it wasn't met with a very warm reception upon its release (not to mention having been cut since then), it has made a massive impact over the decades for its biting allegory and themes of purity mixed in with knowledge and strength.Set in a futuristic urban dystopia, high class city planner Joh Fredersen lives in the Tower of Babel around the prestigious city, which is atop its underground equivalent filled with workers who manage the machinery that support it. The actual story revolves around Joh's son Freder and the holy figure Maria trying to overcome the major split between the two parts. Director Fritz Lang and writer Thea von Harbou develop the film's plot through world building, as it's made clear from the start that the workers of the surface-level power plant toil with the equipment tirelessly year by year. Satirically, the workers are the clocks controlled by the ringleader Frederson. In a way, the film lets the viewers think about the societal differences between individuals and power without spoon-feeding the message as much as showcasing it through distinctive nations.Admittedly, the film doesn't really develop the characters outside of their basic tropes and goals, but they're by no means bad. If anything, they're meant more to guide the events of the different classes throughout the story's progression. Freder knows all the wrong doings of tampering with technology, therefore he wishes there to be a proper balance between the thinkers and the builders, hence why he adores Maria so much. Speaking of Maria, she is the saintly guide to the workers looking for hope, but her purity comes at a price of the mad scientist Rotwag who builds a robot to replicate his loved one Hel (who ended up becoming Freder's mother). Without spoiling much, let's just say that what he does to Maria really causes the film to get suspenseful. The remaining cast are mainly easily manipulated individuals looking for the right voice to lead them.But of course, the feature's visual style is timelessly breathtaking. Most of the special effects were huge innovations at a time of severe technological limitations, and some even work as substance depending on some given scenes (like the mythos behind the Tower of Babel). Many of the contraptions and backdrops have clearly inspired the likes of Blade Runner, Futurama and even Batman over the years, mainly through the gothic architect and abstract landscapes. Admittedly, a lot of the acting is really over the top by today's standards, but that's more attributed to the dynamic gestural performances commonplace back in the day. That, and many scenes do kind of drag on a bit for their own good. However, the narrative and message are meant to be told through these elaborate sets and melodramatic performances to gain the necessary emotional resonance for such an ambitious project like this.In conclusion, Metropolis is a prime example of how something can stand the test of time through technical brilliance and emotional resonance based on a political allegory. It's funny how Fritz Lang believed this film to be the prediction of how the future would be perceived back in the 1920s, because it's not too far off from today. Technology is a great usage and all, but all the amazing knowledge and manual labor in the world are nothing without the necessary negotiating in case one spirals out of control, something that many corporations these days fail to realize. If you are yet to check this film out, definitely feel free to do so to remind yourself how important it is to maintain order around advanced infrastructure.


                
Metropolis was a science fiction film made before Star Wars, Star Trek, the moon landing, and even before classic staples like Flash Gordon and Dick Tracy. It's one of the first science fiction films ever made and it marks the beginning of a trend of using the sci-fi genre as a medium for social commentary. Metropolis is set in a futuristic city of the same name as the film. In this city there is a significant divide between the working and upper class. The working class labors endlessly underground, keeping the flourishing city above ground running for all the prosperous and wealthy. These two factions of society see themselves being forced closer when the son of the city's mastermind falls in love with a prophet like woman of the working class. This societal unrest leads to chaos and Metropolis begins to fall apart. The film is ripe with socio-political commentary and all takes place in an immaculate setting that absolutely mystifies.Metropolis is a fascinating film to watch, thinking about it in relation to its time period. The film displays incredibly groundbreaking originality and this film deserves all the credit it gets in setting up the genre of science fiction for the years to come. It is much like Fritz Lang's film he made four years after Metropolis called M. M was the first serial killer film ever made and will always be the root of the lengths at which the genre has traveled since. Metropolis does the same for the sci-fi genre.It is also incredible to see just how much this movie is able to do with what little it is given. 1927 was still the early beginnings of film. The first annual Academy Awards wouldn't be till the following year. And, obviously, Metropolis is a silent film. And yet with such heavy limits on what it can do, the film accomplishes so much more than a lot of films today. The film is fueled by a fascinating story and characters, yet visually it is amazing as well. Fritz Lang was revolutionary in his direction style and Metropolis emphasized this style beautifully. Even in shoddy black and white film, the architecture of this futuristic world is mind boggling and exemplified incredibly by lighting and camera work. There are some incredible moments in this film where you forget you're watching something that was made over eighty years ago. Most surprisingly, however, is that this film actually has special effects. There is one stunning and immaculate scene set in a laboratory where a robot is transformed into the form of a human girl. The scene is equipped with whirring lights and lightning bolts. Of course it is backed only by an orchestral score, which does suit the entire movie very well, heightening the grandeur and drama. For 1927, the visual aspect of Metropolis is astounding.Any time you think of timeless classic, Metropolis is one of the first films that should come to mind. Who knows where the science fiction genre would be, or if it would be at all, today if not for this film. Whether you enjoy the film itself or not, you can't deny that it's influence will always be one of the most important and significant in cinema history.


                
What if there was a city, hidden deep under the surface of the earth that was the powerhouse to how our world was run? How would we feel if we discovered that a whole multitude of people were working exhaustingly away so that we could live in the lap of luxury? I would imagine if we ever were to find out, we would be extremely scared and apprehensive to the fact that our lives were in the hands of others. Actually, the way I work, I would probably not be surprised to find out that WE were part of the underground city, slaving away for those above! Fritz Lang's Metropolis was the movie that I devoted my time to. Even being a silent film, it captivated me in a sort of disturbed way. The movie's thesis is stated several times throughout the movie. At the beginning of the film, words popped up onto the screen. They were, "THE MEDIATOR BETWEEN HEAD AND HANDS MUST BE THE HEART!". At first, that meant absolutely nothing to me, but as the movie progressed, I slowly began to see how the thesis panned out.I thought that the film Metropolis showed, very contradictorily, how much technology had advanced and how much it still was so lacking compared to what we have today. Even though it was a silent film, I had absolutely no problem understanding everything that was going on. I even think that awareness is heightened with no words, only the music of the orchestra. Of course, music plays a vital role in movies today. It sets the mood, whether happy or sad or dangerous. The music definitely portrayed every urgency excellently.One thing that I was hoping to see in the movie was an encounter between the real Maria and Robot Maria. As soon as Maria was able to escape from Rothgang's house, I was waiting and waiting for an encounter between the real and the fake Maria; and perhaps a conflict as to whom the people would believe. Obviously, technology was not so advanced then that it could accomplish such a feat, like was done in the movie The Parent Trap, where one girl played two girls in one scene.Although certain parts of the film were a little creepy and disturbing, I thought that Metropolis was a good film. Even though the trials took the characters through tumultuous highs and lows, the thesis came to fruition in the end with a happy ending.
One of the most visually arresting films of all time, Fritz Langs Metropolis is a sci-fi masterpiece that's scope and imagination have influenced almost all that have followed it. From Star Wars to Blade Runner and even to the likes of 1984 and V For Vendetta, the vast cityscapes and nightmarish dystopian vision of the future have set the template for generation after generation of writers and directors. Perhaps only Kubricks 2001: A Space Oddysey can claim to have such a profound influence within the genre. Inspired by Langs first impression of the Manhattan skyline, Metropolis is a seemingly utopian city of immense architectural grandeur and towering skyscrapers. Those who live in this city lead an opulent, almost decadent lifestyle. They are the thinkers of society and they have almost all that they could desire. Yet deep underground below them live the workers; men and women who toil slavishly in unrelenting ten hours shifts in order to sustain the city above. It is a hellish existence that emphasises the two-tier society that has developed through the creation of this futuristic Tower of Babel. The film centres around Freder (Gustav Frolich), the sensitive son of Joh Fredersen (Alfred Abel), the all-powerful Master of Metropolis. The young Freder becomes infatuated with a saintly worker woman named Maria (Brigitte Helm) and descends down into the depths to seek her out. However, once down amongst the slaves and oppressive machinery, Freder is appalled by the hardship and suffering that he witnesses. He pleads with his father to do something about the conditions yet is rebuked. So instead he goes down once again and, after taking over a workers agonising shift, he attends a meeting of workers where the raging discontent amongst them is clear. The only person keeping them from revolution is the elusive Maria herself, who speaks of peace and of finding a middle way by using the films lasting mantra... "There can be no understanding between the hands and the brain unless the heart acts as mediator" When Freder reveals himself, Maria believes she has found her mediator. Yet political machinations in the "utopia" above puts them in both in peril. Aware of the workers barely tempered disgruntlement, Joh Fredersen turns to his inventor friend Rotwang (Rudolph Klein-Rogge) to to kidnap Maria and to give a robot (or "machine-man") a likeness of her in order to instigate a rising amongst the Workers which he can subsequently crush once and for all. It's a dangerous game to play, especially as Rotwang is quite insane and harbours his own duplicitous desires to bring down Frederson and all he has built. As the revolt begins and the Workers city starts to flood it is left for Freder and Maria to lead the children left there to safety and to ultimately reunite the hands and the head. Obviously the narrative is incredibly overblown and rather contrived, yet the story of the constant battle between the oppressors and the oppressed is a timeless one. This is never more apparent than Langs masterful blending of futuristic landscapes and machinery with surreal biblical, mythical and at times medieval imagery. The toil of the Workers is imaginatively illustrated in a sequence where they transform into slaves of the Pharaohs, whilst the heights of Metropolis itself are like opulent gardens belonging to Greek gods. The zenith of civilisation itself. Metropolis truly is a film, brimming with verve, energy and an abundance of invention and imagination. The acting may clunk a little and the moral may lack subtlety, but Fritz Langs far-reaching vision, be it artistic or philosophical, never once dwindles whilst the the final rampage of the oppressed is as spectacular and as exciting as anything Hollywood has ever produced.
"What? It's black-and-white? From 1927? And German? Well, I'll never watch that."Such would be the average response from the average person regarding Metropolis, Fritz Lang's masterwork. Be assured, it is not the average film.As with most older films, we must first remember that what you see on screen had never been visualized in such a way before. Thus, the sheer thought of such stunning ideas as airborne walkways between buildings, entire cities underground, or even the ability to use TV cameras and "see" into other rooms (TV didn't hit the big time until the 1940s), was absolutely incredible.And it's shocking that Lang's vision of our modern world would prove so accurate, 70-odd years hence. You will recall that skywalks are fairly common in large cities, airplanes have become far too prevalent, places like Walt Disney World actually do have "workers' cities" underground and TV - well, I won't go into TV. And the fact that all of the incredible effects still have the power to awe viewers today, without the use of complex animation or computer graphics, makes the film a treat to watch.The plot is fairly formulaic by modern standards, though it was stirring stuff for the poor and disadvantaged majority of Germany's inhabitants in 1927. Young Freder Fredersen, privileged son of city leader John Fredersen, has an epiphany of sorts when he finds out about the subhuman treatment of the underground workers who keep the city of Metropolis alive. Disillusioned by his father's uncaring attitude toward them, Freder leaves his comfortable surroundings and decides to live underground. To his surprise, the young man discovers a small but influential resistance movement led by the beautiful and mysterious Maria.Maria turns out to be the central point of the story once properly introduced, embodying obvious references to religion (as a way to appease the monotony of daily life). But, later on, she also embodies the problem of centralized power when under her (?) control, the workers finally revolt with perhaps an unintended result.Freder, of course, represents the transformation of man into man-as-machine by uprooting himself from a palatial garden of Eden (literally) and descending into the workings of the massive power plant that keeps Metropolis running. Lang's concept of such a transformation is brilliantly realized in the towering control room where exhausted workmen robotically transfer back and forth along a series of dials and switches, acting only as a "human valvetrain" of sorts in an effort to appease the machine. Another device, the "clock-wheel", forces Freder to continually keep up with time as each second must be marked by the pull of a lever. Though implausible in design, the wheel is a visible indication of man's futile struggle to beat the clock and work harder.If nothing else, Lang managed to promote the cause of the laborer, though the ending (as well as certain plot points leading to it) is fairly hard to believe given the apparently hopeless situation of the workers and the chilling indifference of the elite.Metropolis is definitely worthwhile, not just for its groundbreaking technical achievements but also for its (sadly) historical impact. It must be mentioned that this was reported to have been Adolf Hitler's favorite film. And while his own plot to free Germany's workers from oppression perhaps began with a noble goal, Hitler's own maniacal and misguided views on race relations and political conduct proved to be horribly destructive for the world as a whole.It would be unfair to say that Lang's impressive achievement managed to cause World War II all on its own, because such a murderous outcome was probably not what the director hoped would result. Like all films, Metropolis must be seen with an eye toward the times in which it was created. It was a fabulous commentary on an overly-technological society back then, and it remains so - perhaps being even more relevant today.Four stars - a classic, and for good reason.


                
Begun in 1925, Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" is probably the most ambitious film ever made. Science-Fiction "dystopia" films are still challenging to do in the modern era of computer generated images, let alone telling a good one in 1920s Germany. To think that the producers of this film spent the equivalent of a $200 M summer blockbuster in today's terms in a tattered post-WWI Germany makes a powerful statement about film as an art form."Metropolis" is a silent film set in the future about a city divided between the wealthy, elite city planners and the underground working masses that make the city operate. A hopeful but potentially dangerous link forms between the two when the son of the city leader notices a young and optimistic religious figure named Maria from the underground and his curiosity about her people heightens.The film operates from a mantra: "there can be no understanding between the hand and the brain unless the heart acts as mediator." It's goal is then to show us why this is true and it certainly does. It's a commentary on social class that disapproves of the disconnect between the wealthy and the newly emerged working/middle class of the time period. Lang brings us some impressive images for 1927. From a modern perspective, it's hard to call it riveting, but especially toward the end it keeps your attention. To think of what this film achieved in that time period helps keep "Metropolis" in perspective. It would make for an intriguing modern remake or other sort of adaptation, that's for sure.


                
Fritz Lang's epic 1927 science fiction film is a classic not just of the silent era, or the German Expressionism movement of the time. It is a timeless story filled with wondrous images and visual effects that are decades ahead of its time and thoroughly challenging.The story is that of two separate groups of people living in the futuristic city of Metropolis. The workers live underground and keep the city running, while the thinkers or upper-class live above ground and enjoy the sweet things of life. One day, one of the upper-class finds his way to the workers' world and is shocked at what he sees. What follows is an extraordinary tale of love, lust, revenge, anger, social injustice and the desire to be free and happy. It is a tale that has been done many times since and may have lost some of its original gusto, but to see it be done in its original state, Metropolis succeeds as a great film and compelling drama that shows you don't need words to convey emotion. In the cinema, all it takes is an image.


                
One of the greatest works of German Expressionism. In the near future, the world is divided in two: the thinkers, those that do the planning and know nothing about the real functioning of things; and the workers, who reach objectives, but do not have global understanding and know nothing about planning. Alone they are nothing but together they make a strong ensemble. This super-production for the time, with scenarios of an entrancing architectonic grandeur, Metropolis is a pessimistic utopia on the future, that only love can redeem. It's a metaphor on the struggle of classes, a renewed vision of the parabola of Babel, Metropolis is smashing in its scenarios but in the same way, is dramatically emotional and human. The excellent restored copy I saw, allowed me to see the brilliant cinematography, all the games of light, the dark - bright fluctuations. I think that the limitations imposed to filmmakers by the nonexistence of sound and color, sharpened its ability to take the maximum from light effects and from the facial expressions of the actors. Seeing Metropolis today is not the same of seeing it at that time, because the technique evolved immensely. But for that time, it was brilliant. And the movie became a eternal and the android female figure of Metropolis, Maria, is now a symbol of science fiction cinema. While some criticize Fritz Lang , saying that the film is an apology of capitalism and even Nazism, he said: "I was convoked by Goebbels (...) to know, for my great surprise, that the Minister of the Propaganda of the III Reich had been charged by Hitler to offer me the direction of all the German cinema. The Fuhrer saw Metropolis and said that this was the man who will create national-socialist cinema. In that same night I left Germany".


                
8 out of 10(Dir-Fritz Lang): Excellent groundbreaking silent movie from Germany portraying two classes(the elite & the workers) under one world in the future, fighting for their own rights but in the end losing much more due to their tendency towards following the sinful dark side that leads to hatred & violence. Yes, that was a mouthful!! But trying to summarize this deep, intense, thought-provoking classic movie in a single sentence is "extremely" difficult.  It's sad that the original showing of the film will never be complete again but it has been restored to its full understanding with the most recent DVD release by Kino Video by filling in captions to bring the missing plot elements together.  Bravo to the original makers of this film and this group for the wonderful restoration.  This movie is truly one of a kind.


                
METROPOLIS, it is safe to say, was far ahead of its time. The lighting and special effects rival some of the more recent films, but overall it does not compare well to the better modern SciFi films. But that is to be expected for a film that is almost 80 years old. I saw it on TCM, the newly-restored version that is now also available on DVD. The picture looks wonderful, and the musical score sounds wonderful. My two 14-year-old neighbors visited during part of it and both said, "They look scary!"  I said they are supposed to.METROPOLIS tells a cautionary tale not too different, in some respects, from THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL. In that film Earthlings were cautioned against use of nuclear weapons to threaten the rest of the Universe. In this film, set 100 years into the future, 2026, we are cautioned against repression of the workers by the rich. The rich live luxuriously above ground, while the workers toil in their city below the ground.It is always interesting to see depictions of "the future." In this film they show small airplanes flying among city buildings. But these planes are not "modern" by 21st century standards, and look more like the biplanes that were popular in the 1920.  In the underground city, workers are shown toiling with manual labor, moving giant hands on dials to control some process. What about computer-assisted process control that came into wide use in the 1980s??  It is simply a feature of any attempt to predict what the future looks like.  There are so many possibilities, most built on yet-undiscovered technology, it is virtually fruitless to guess, except for entertainment.The critic Ebert has a complete and accurate review of the film.  I'm glad I saw it, but unlike THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, which I own on DVD, I don't believe I'll buy METROPOLIS. It isn't the sort of film I would enjoy upon repeat viewings.


                
I always heard about this, one of the highest recommended science fiction movies of all time, a must see. So I finally watched it. After all those high recommendations, I was bound to be disappointed, and I was a bit, but I was also amazed. I didn't know the story at all going in, and expected something completely different. It was a good story, and the effects were great for so long ago. I could see bits and pieces that were stolen for much later films, even potentially a Madonna music video(I thought so anyway). Usually I struggle to watch such old cinema, but I'm glad I did!


                
Directed by Fritz Lang, Metropolis is a Sci-Fi film which depicts the story of a city with a large disparity between the working class and the wealthy in which the leader's son falls in love with a working class woman and, in the process of trying to make things right, causes events which lead to the destruction of the city. The film, having been produced in the late 1920's, was a massive, experimental undertaking which only proves to further exemplify the genius and technological marvel that the film truly embodied. Many scenes in Metropolis hold up even today in special effects and cinematography technology as an amazing example of what proper editing and special effects could bring to a story. Though in the modern day the story of Metropolis, with the sci-fi setting, stark and obvious secondary meanings behind the scenes, and somewhat predictable storyline may not hold up, for the time period it was produced in it was unlike anything else that had been produced on stage. While perhaps a shame such beautiful and masterful cinematography went into a story that seems as manufactured and unfinished as Metropolis' may have been, it was amazing work in each and every frame nevertheless. The story, while understandable and while the 'main' idea was completed does seem to show a story in which Fritz Lang wanted to continue to add more and more but, in the end, was not able to complete his entire vision. Some of this loss may be attributed to the fact much of the original film was lost, but it gives Metropolis a strangely unfinished feeling to it while being undoubtedly whole.
As it was, Metropolis was and still is a shining star of expressionist film making, Metropolis uses wide angle framing to capture the masses of workers marching in unison and places them in stark contrast to the seemingly utopian world of their wealthier city planner counterparts. Each scene possesses both blatant forwards meanings that are displayed through impressionistic choices and deeper meaning brought forth through inflection of what is shown and the how the scene is portrayed, ultimately revealing the deeper intentions of the film as a whole and the story behind the oppressed lower class rising to claim it's rights. This ironically even reflects reality in Fritz Lang's director style as he was reportedly rather cruel to his workers to the point in which producers feared worker revolts on set. However, it is that bleeding of the reality into the creation of the film that also gives Metropolis some of its greatest merits in cinematography and effects. Many of the worker class extras and children were actual poor working class people, and the lack of stunt doubles being used in many scenes allowed for continuous, unedited shots that grant an extra level of realism to the film. Overall, Metropolis is not a film to be enjoyed for its narrative or emotionally moving story telling ability, the now clichéd idea of the 'head' (Leaders) and 'hands'(Workers) falling apart when the heart(love and empathy) does not connect them does it no justice in a modern age of these stories being common place. Instead, Metropolis is to be viewed from the view of appreciation for the art of cinematography and expressionistic development in the time period in which it was produced. The stretches of which the available technology was used and the painstaking methods in which the so memorable and notable imagery and scenes were created and the reasoning behind each are to be marveled upon. As it is, Metropolis is a film to be enjoyed for the artistic mastery it represents instead of the story it tried to convey.
