Technically speaking, I have seen this Fritz Lang silent sci-fi before, but this was the first time I saw it in any shape by which I could fairly evaluate it. I had previously watched Metropolis on a public domain VHS from the 80s. The print was terribly scratched and while there were a few memorable images, the story was so incoherent that their context was usually unclear. Though this was clearly not the best way to see Metropolis, I was still left with an impression of this supposed classic as a dusty museum piece that was praised by critics because they were expected to like it. So finally seeing a restored and expanded copy was as much as a revelation as seeing Once Upon a Time in the West letter boxed in how it led me to reevaluate my opinion of the movie. The movie is a strange mixture of political speculation political parable, apocalyptic fantasy, and religious allegory. It depicts a futuristic city that is divided between the wretched workers, who toil in the depths tending the machines, and the upper classes, who dwell in luxury up in the skyscrapers. The hero, the idle, pampered son of the city's supervisor Joh Fredersen, changes his ways and becomes concerned with the plight of the lower classes after catching a glimpse of Maria, the Madonna of the workers. His father, meanwhile, is plotting to thwart Maria with the help of the mad scientist Rotwang, who has discovered how to create robot replicas of human beings. One of the most surprising things about watching this version is just how much I didn't see. In addition to restoring scenes to the film, the DVD also includes inter titles to explain pieces of the plot that cannot be found in any version. With these changes, the story becomes much clearer, particularly the machinations of Rotwang and the master of Metropolis. Perhaps most importantly, a whole new subplot is added involving the hero's dead mother Hel, who was loved by both his father and Rotwang. With this clarification of the back-story, the close but adversarial relationship between Rotwang and Fredersen becomes much clearer. In some ways it recalls the family back-story of the Star Wars movies. Of course, the real strength of Metropolis isn't the story, which is pretty silly and probably wouldn't have worked in anything but a silent film, but its amazing visuals, which in their scale and ambitiousness look forward to 2001 and Blade Runner. Actually, though in most respects silent films now look primitive, one area in which they have the edge over modern film-making is in their frequently grandiose production design. Metropolis employs huge sets to show the hellish factories of the subterranean world. The models of the city's towering skyscrapers are also surprisingly convincing for a 1920s film. Even beyond the expansive production design and (for the time) special effects, Lang's visuals are all consistently inventive. The robot Maria provides some of the movie's most iconic images, including her transformation into a human being. In a later scene, she performs for upper-class men in a nightclub, and as she performs a striptease that in 1920s Germany was apparently seen as very decadent, the screen is filled with wet staring eyeballs. A sign of Lang's visual lavishness, and the studio's, that he doesn't hesitate to throw in lavish dream and hallucination sequences to drive home a point or illustrate a character's state of mind. For instance, when the hero first enters the subterranean city and sees rows upon rows of workers toiling on huge machines, he imagines the furnace transforming into a monstrous idol's head into which the workers are being sacrificed. At another point, while he's sick in bed he imagines statues of the Seven Deadly Sins coming to life and advancing out from a wall in a cathedral. When Maria preaches her message of peace and understanding to the workers, she tells them the story of the Tower of Babel of a management vs. labor parable, and Lang gives us spectacular images of the tower's construction and fall. In a sound film many of these scenes would have seemed redundant and over-literal, but they're what silent cinema does best -tell a story without the advantage- or obstacle- of dialogue. The story is a little slow to start, but once it picks up Metropolis becomes one of the most directly involving silent films that I've seen. In addition to being a pioneering example of the cinematic possibilities of science fiction, Metropolis also has to be one of the earliest disaster films, as the workers riot and sabotage the machines, endangering the entire city. Lang creates a sense of rising fury and nihilism in the last hour that in a strange way reminded me of what was going to happen to Germany in less than 20 years.


                
Silent movies are not for everyone. Neither are subtitles. Those brave enough to view a movie with no sound and words that are far and few between should definitely enjoy this silent masterpiece. One of the biggest productions of its time, Metropolis still holds its own when set design and special effects are compared. But what Metropolis really has is orginality. This German-Expressionist film had such originality in everything from its costumes to its views of a future (modern) city that its ideas can still be seen everywhere in modern sci-fi. Star Wars's C-3PO was based on Bridgette Helm's robot. Dark City and Brazil both have Metropolis look-a-like cities. This is a very good movie. It's too bad most movies don't have its originality.


                
Francis Ford Coppola once said that 'Apocalypse Now' wasn't just about Vietnam, is was Vietnam. In a similar way, 'Metropolis' isn't just about the Twentieth Century, it is the Twentieth Century. Almost every image in it reflects or, more often, predicts the realities of life in the West over the past hundred years in a way that is truly uncanny.From small details - the traffic jams and blackouts that plague city dwellers - to major historical events - the climactic flood predicts every industrial disaster that has destroyed the lives of thousands of workers, from Chernobyl to the Bhopal disaster, whilst Fredersen's vision of workers being fed to Moloch can't help but bring to mind the holocaust - 'Metropolis' feels prescient in any number of ways. In the image of the Manhattan skyline, Lang really did find the perfect symbol of the coming century - progressive, new, faceless, oppressive.This is far from the simple Marxist fable it is often taken for - although the Socialist message can hardly be ignored. It's also a Christian parable (Maria, flanked by crosses, is counterbalanced by the Machine, brought to life under a pentagram) informed by the book of Revelation; a retelling of the Orpheus myth, with Freder as Orpheus and Maria as Eurydice, lost in the underworld; and a Kafkaesque nightmare of depersonalisation (although the Gothic, expressionistic production design is a long way from Kafka's more sterile style).It's also, lest we forget, a silly adventure-melodrama, with a mad scientist, an evil twin, a bad father with a noble son and an impossibly virtuous, idealised heroine. In many ways, it anticipates 'Star Wars' in dressing up mythic standards with Science Fiction tropes - with Fredersen as the misguided King, Freder as the handsome Prince, Maria the good-hearted peasant's daughter, Rotwang as a scheming sorcerer and the Machine as the wicked witch, appropriately burnt at the stake by the 'villagers'.The Machine-'Man' (a confusing name for a construction so obviously feminine) is the single most indelible image of the film; the scene in which Rotwang brings her to life for the first time is a real moment of magic and awe, untarnished by eighty subsequent years of cinematic showmanship. Even better is the scene in which she becomes a duplicate of Maria - such an obvious influence on James Whale's 'Frankenstein' that it's hard not to shout out 'It's alive!'. The optical effects are years ahead of their time, certainly the best of their kind until the sixties (at least). It also marks the beginning of Brigitte Helm's truly extraordinary turn as the false Maria.This is only the third silent film I've seen (after 'Nosferatu' and 'The Cabinet of Dr Caligari'), and it's taken me a while to acclimatise to the acting style, which can seem close to parody. What it really reminds me of, however, is modern dance, which similarly seeks to communicate with the audience visually, rather than verbally. 'Metropolis' encourages this comparison, with the highly choreographed movements of the workers operating the machinery. Bearing this in mind, Helm is hugely impressive in multiple roles. Maria could be a rather dull and virtuous heroine (she enters the film surrounded by poor children in rags) but Helm invests her with enormous energy and expressiveness. It helps that the script allows her to take an unusually proactive role for a female character, organising workers' meetings and racing to the rescue of the endangered children. However, it is her performance as bad Maria, vamping up a storm, that lingers in the memory - the twitching, jerking movements of her head and body, the Anne Robinson style half-wink that changes the shape of her face, that malicious little grin that makes it hard not to root for her mischief. The entirely weird 'erotic dance' that she performs isn't technically very good (or erotic), but it is utterly unforgettable. Subtextually, she's the Whore of Babylon.The other performances are mainly very good, particularly Alfred Abel as Fredersen, proving that it is possible to underplay in a silent film. Only Rudolf Klein-Rogge hits any wrong notes - difficult as it undoubtedly must be to play a mad scientist in a silent film with subtlety, some of his more unrestrained gesticulations leave you worried about the safety of the other actors.Ultimately though, it all inevitably comes back to the imagery. Lang's film remains unmatched even today. Pick a scene, any scene - the synchronised, shuffling crowds at the shift change; our first sighting of the Metropolis, all biplanes, skyscrapers and suspended motorways; the vision of Moloch; the Machine-Man awakening; Maria, pursued along a pitch-black tunnel by a beam of light; the statue of Death coming to life in the Cathedral; disembodied eyes, entranced by the twitching false Maria; the crowds swarming up the steps in the 'Tower of Babel' section; the lifts crashing down, one by one; desperate children crowding around Maria as the flood-waters close in; and, most of all, false Maria, laughing as she burns on her pyre, then transforming back to her metal visage. No film, before or since, matches this for spectacle. And if, in order to appreciate it, you have to swallow a little treacle about the heart being the mediator between head and hands... well, trust me, it's worth it.
Silent German film about a city of the future run by dehumanized workers who are sick of their lot and plan to stage a revolt.  Kind, sweet, lovely Maria (Brigette Helm) stops them saying they should talk through their differences.  However the evil head of the city wants a revolt so he can get rid of them and put in robot workers.  He gets a mad scientist to help him. He kidnaps Maria and (in a stunning sequence) transforms the robot into her image.  However this Maria is pure evil and sets the workers off...and things go barreling out of control.The original version of this was (purportedly) 5 hours long!  It has been cut drastically over the years and much footage was lost.  Finally, 75 years later, we have a version that is complete as possible (it runs a little over 2 hours), looks incredible and has a great reconstruction of the 1927 score.
The film still holds up--the special effects are still impressive and quite obviously influenced many sci-fi films of the future ("Blade Runner" especially).  The movie moves quickly and there is (literally) a cast of hundreds.  Great sets, special effects, a beautiful music score...a definite must-see.  Only debit--the acting.  It's VERY overdone especially by Helms.  She's OK as the sweet Maria but is hopeless doing evil Maria.  The audience I saw it with broke out laughing more than a few times at the expressions on her face.  Also the actors must have been freezing doing this--you can see their breath!Also, there's a 1984 reconstruction which cut the film to 80 minutes, added tinting and (briefly) a color sequence and put in a rock score (including Loverboy, Pat Benatar, Lyle Lovett etc etc).  Sounds horrible but it works. It just doesn't make a lot of sense (40 minutes were edited out!).  That's worth seeing, but see this one first.  Again--a must-see!


                
Metropolis is about the idea that love will save us from tearing each other apart. Though this idea is well hidden among many things: class warfare symbolism, biblical references, human cloning and an ensemble of recurring, meaningful characters each with their own arcs and surprises. All this taking place on silent film made almost 100 years ago.The main plot is Freder's pursuit to win the love of Maria. The film opens with Freder falling in love on first sight and ends with Freder saving Maria and winning her love. In between is a demonstration that this love is the only thing that saves Metropolis from destruction.Freder happens to be the son of the master of Metropolis and Maria a prophet of the worker class. In his pursuit of Maria's love, Freder sympathizes with the workers' plight. His growing sympathy, trust and love for the workers stands in sharp contrast with the cold political calculus his father employs against them. His father's mad scientist, seeking revenge for losing the love of his life, manipulates the mistrust between the classes to incite a revolution to destroy Metropolis. He does this by cloning Maria with a robot which begins to incite chaos. The workers destroy the machines that run the city and seem to have killed their own children in their blind rage. Freder and Maria save the children. In the end, Freder helps the workers reconcile with his father who has had the cold heartlessness shaken out of him.This does not even mention the ensemble cast of characters who add dimension and meaning to the story. Nor does this give due note to the above mentioned symbolism and the psychedelic effect of sped-up film and thousands of human bodies marching in rhythm. Suffice it to say the story makes a poetic case for the idea that love will save us from tearing each other part.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca.
This film is a legend and now I know why. I was lucky enough to see it on a big screen last week and was mesmerised by it. Hollywood is the famous American film city but this film is German and that has to be borne in mind at all times. The reason for my title is simple. The film is the greatest silent film I have ever seen and is silent films at their zenith. However, as it was released on 10 January 1927, silent films were coming to their end and when "The Jazz Singer" was released on 6 October of that year they were soon rendered obsolete.This film however will never be obsolete because it deals with universal human themes. I don't see it as supporting either Nazism or Communism. Hitler admired it but Fritz Lang made it at the height of the Weimar Republic and some of that republic's famous partying can be seen in the film. I don't think it was Communist either, but rather a plea for simple common human decency in the face of inhumanity.What struck me the most was the Biblical allusions. There was a Tower of Babel, a Great Flood and a not quite human woman being referred to as "The Whore of Babylon." That was relevant to me as my own church is studying the book of Revelation right now!! Since the Bible is so little studied in our own time, I wonder how much of those themes would actually be recognised by younger viewers. They might be more likely to see the film's link with Star Wars and other famous science fiction films much more quickly. I would call Metropolis more a work of prophecy than of science fiction. It still has a relevance in its call for people to be treated as more than just labouring machines. It may be 87 years old but its message is as true today as it was on the day of its premiere.


                
The story of Metropolis is set in the year 2026 in a massive city named... well Metropolis,the rich live on high in their skyscrapers and the poor do all of the work underground in poor conditions. When a man named Freder discovers the bad conditions the poor are going through whilst falling in love with a profit named Maria who predicts the coming of a saviour who will bring equality to the city which has now become a dystopia. Behind the scenes there is a conspiracy going on about the construction of a robot who will put a stop to Maria's prophecy and in the long term take over all over the workforce underground.The story is perfect and inspirational with a great performance from Brigitte Helm who basically steals the spotlight as both Maria and the robot, Gustav Fröhlich also steals the show as well as his performance as Freder is great as well. The supporting characters are great as well but they kinda bite the dust as Gustav Fröhlich and Brigitte Helm steal the show. Although the story is perfect, I found it underwhelming and predictable as you could see all of the plot-points coming from a mile away.Even though the film is almost 90 years old, it still stands the test of time with some great set design and cityscapes, the robot design is particularly impressive. Its immortality with the films overall design has lead to other sci-fi and superhero classics taking notes from this silent movie such as C-3PO in star wars taking inspiration from the robot and the city Metropolis in superman taking the actual name from the movie.This movie has left its mark in time and has even become more powerful than when it came out in 1927. This silent sci-fi classic has survived almost 90 years so why not let it survive another 90 years. The director Fritz Lang has created a movie that will possible last forever.
Probably one of the most important, original and inspirational movies, not to mention one of the oldest, in science fiction history.This picture first premiered in 1927, and since then many of the copies of the original picture have been heavily damaged, ruined or simply lost. Therefore the picture today does not equal the quality of the original which was released back then, but it definitely isn't a problem. It was only in 2008, that they found another copy of the original in Argentina with a lot of the original missing footage, which was used to restore the movie as superbly as possible. Of course not everything has been recovered, and it is highly unlikely that it will change in the near future. But having this fact in mind, it is amazing how well the movie looks. The plot is unquestionably perfect. A legendary masterpiece. It is about humanity. It's flaws, it's sins, and it's virtues. The main character, who has been living a comfortable life, discovers the 'real' world. Cruelty and harsh settings for people rule life for the majority of the city's population. 'The workers'. After witnessing the unfairness of it all, he is determined to make a change. Also, as the Metropolis is practically one huge machine, that sucks the living effort out of hard workers, there is an important element of humanity versus machinery, which is heavily essential to film's idea. More clearly speaking, the plot actually resembles ''the Matrix'' and ''Dark City''. It would be quite likely if the creators of ''the Matrix''and ''Dark City'' were inspired by ''Metropolis''. At least that's just my opinion. But of course comparing the two for anything else that the idea of the story, I believe, would be unwise, as they differ one from the other aggressively. Probably due to the fact that the the time line between the both premiers is massively huge. Exactly 72 years! So if you liked ''the Matrix'' or ''Dark City'', I can not guarantee you will enjoy ''Metropolis'' as well. However, the fact still remains that the plot's are based alike. Knowing that this WAS one of the first major sci-fi stories, it would be idiotic to neglect it's importance. It IS a must see to any film fanatic, and ESPECIALLY to a sci-fi fan. A sci-fi fan not having seen ''Metropolis'' is the same as an artist not knowing who Leonardo da Vinci was.
Before actually writing this review, I had been thinking for several weeks about the film and what exactly I was going to say about it. My first response after seeing the movie was that of hatred, I believed that this film was a "False God" among film critics and self proclaimed critics. I felt it was cheesy at first, that it lacked human connection and was just overall pretty boring. But it was not until I actually spent some serious time thinking about the film that I realized I was entirely wrong. One of my favorite movies of all time is The Matrix. I have watched that movie close to 200 times, and I can recite each line by heart and reenact any of the scenes. I find that movie to be absolutely brilliant in every single way, and I never believed any film could come even close to the throne that The Matrix held. After these past few weeks, I think Metropolis may sit in a close second to my favorite movie of all time. Not only was Metropolis the beginning to a new era of films, but it was the forefather of The Matrix, and the comparisons are uncanny. The dystopian society, the reigning of machines over humans, the idea of an underground society, Metropolis has it all. Metropolis is, at almost every point, a masterclass in set design, sound design and story design. The music is flawless, and conveys exactly what is going on in the scene at that given moment. Due to the fact that this is a silent film, the music is arguably one of the most important parts, and it ties everything together in an almost magical way. The sets feel and look real (well, as real as they could be in 1927), and they provide the viewer with an understanding of the cities social classes and wealth without ever literally describing them. But the most incredible part of this film, in my opinion, is the story. It is filled with intense moments, passionate moments, frightening moments and overall a hefty amount of scenes that I felt so enveloped in the story I almost forgot I was in class while watching them. I never thought I could truly enjoy a silent movie as much as I did, but in a way, it didn't even feel "Silent". Of course there are no lines of dialogue that are spoken, and to be honest, I didn't even see the need for the words on screen. I felt as though the film was written so well in terms of the actor's actions and expressions that every scene could be understood without ever speaking. One of the more staggering things about this film was it's ability to predict the future, or at least shape it. Being the first well-known sci-fi film, Metropolis clearly sets a path for sci-fi movies to follow in the future. It lays out the idea of a dystopian society in which the wage gap and personal wealth determine how your life is spent, with the rich often seen as being above everyone else, quite literally, in their flying cars and high rise buildings far above the workers in the machine below ground. The film presents the idea of machine dominance, showing that a robot could one day be smart enough to start a rebellion and an uprising. Almost 100 years later, in 2018, this theme is still seen, with the latest advances in Artificial Intelligence and robots with machine learning. A.I. such as Siri or Cortana can now learn their user's speech patterns, make decisions for their user's and almost scarily "speak" to users with a distinctly "human" voice. In my opinion, Fritz Lang is one of the most influential and brilliant filmmakers to ever live, and I am tremendously thankful that my professor had our class watch the movie that has earned it's spot as one of my favorite movies of all time.
There can be no doubt that visually "Metropolis" is one of the most influential movies of all time, especially for the science-fiction/dystopia genre. Its bold, expressive visuals are still striking and a treat to watch, and it's not surprising that so many directors have found inspiration there; traces of "Metropolis" can be found in countless movies such as "Brazil", "The Fifth Element" or "Blade Runner", and even in some episodes of "Doctor Who".Furthermore, we're now lucky to have a very good restoration available on DVD. Although this most recent release still doesn't contain a rather big part of footage, the gaps are filled by explanation texts (quite unobtrusive, as silent movies contain intertitles anyway) in an attempt to recreate the story in its original 1927 form. Most of the footage thought lost at the time of the DVD's release was recently rediscovered, so I think that we can expect an even better DVD not too far in the future, but due to the mentioned method of filling the gaps, the approximately 30 minutes still missing from this release certainly don't heavily deform the story. Still, if you want the movie in the most complete form imaginable, maybe you should wait for a release including the newly unearthed material.Well, but now... to the story. As said above, a meticulously restored DVD release is available, so we can't blame loss of material for weaknesses of the story. And I have to say, if this were not such a visually amazing movie (with excellent original music, by the way, greatly enhancing the experience), I would give it four points out of 10, and only when feeling generous. This is not a good story. It has nothing to do with the age of the movie - there were many movies in the 1920s telling far better, far more consistent stories than this one.My biggest issue is with the ending: For instance, foreman Grot suddenly being accepted as leader of the revolutionary workers, after previously appearing as Fredersen's loyal servant who e.g. dutifully provides Fredersen with the plans found in the pockets of dead workers and who tries to stop their attacks on the machine. Still, at the end, the movie depicts him as the one whom young Freder and Maria have to unite with Fredersen for a "happy ending". And that's it - what kind of ending is that? What message? What about the social situation of the workers? It's a false, sentimental pseudo-"happy end" and the movie's motto ''"Mittler zwischen Hirn und Händen muss das Herz sein"'' ("the heart must be mediator between brain and hands") is pure kitsch, especially in the way it is presented as the grand culmination of the whole movie's meaning.No wonder the German critics largely ditched "Metropolis" in 1927... maybe underrating (although noting) its visual greatness, but being less forgiving regarding the story than many people nowadays, who maybe think "well, it's an old movie" - which would be grossly unfair towards what was possible and also achieved in the 1920s in movies, story-wise.Nine points from me, nonetheless! Lang's imagery alone is great enough to justify such a vote.
Metropolis is a fantastic movie; the best sci-fi movie of its time, and one of the best of all time.  I've seen reviews of Metropolis describe its plot as hopelessly dated, but that isn't accurate at all.  If this movie had been made seventy years later, that might be true, but the fact is that Metropolis was the movie that set the stereotype for distopian-utopian society movies.  It is the original story of how the machines that run a futuristic utopia are oiled with the sweat and blood of the unseen workers. The images in this film are stunning, and the original score for the movie is pretty good too.  Director Fritz Lang did not give himself enough credit for providing the movie with an effective soundtrack.  Rent the version with the original score if you can. The movie is full of symbolism and imagery surrounding society and religion; you could spend a year analyzing hidden meanings within the film -- I would recommend watching this movie 3-4 times to really understand it.


                
Over the years I have been watching increasingly longer versions of Metropolis as new footage has been found and put together in different releases. Finally, in 2010 almost the entire movie was released on DVD or Blu-Ray by KINO. And now that I've seen the complete film, I feel I'm able to do an accurate review.* The complete Metropolis is one of the greatest movies ever made, silent or sound. Metropolis has a spectacular use of miniatures, impressive sets and special effects for its time. The original music score (in a new recording by KINO) is one of the best I've heard, fitting every mood. The complete story is interesting with its focus on class, the danger of oppression and anarchy. This complete version now has a back story which explains many of the motivations of the characters. There is also plenty of interesting symbolism in Metropolis including from the Bible and about the structure of society. * But while the restoration of the movie has taken a tremendous leap forward, the new footage has only been partially restored. So, some sections have lots of lines from scratches. It is still watchable though. Hopefully more money will eventually be found to digitally improve the new images. (This kind of digital restoration costs over a million dollars per film so, it's going to take time.)* But my review is about the movie itself. Now that Metropolis is almost complete, we clearly have a brilliant landmark in the history of film.


                
***** This review is in the wrong spot, it _should_ be attached to what IMDb calls "Metropolis (2010)", which is a later restoration version of the same film. However, at this time "Metropolis (2010)" is still marked "in development" and is not yet accepting reviews. *****I saw a theatrical release of the newly restored version including the Argentine footage in September 2010. It was distributed by Kino, was obviously their U.S. (or at least English) version, and was on a Blu-Ray DVD. (I don't know whether the eventual home DVD release will be exactly the same as this theatrical release or not...) As with the previous restoration (and perhaps even more-so, if such a thing is even possible), the current aesthetic of restoring the "real" item (rather than trying to re-imagine "the spirit of the piece") has been followed rigorously. Fortunately, this is an excellent example that investing enough care and effort into the accuracy of a restoration winds up restoring the spirit of the piece too.The additional Argentine footage was a 16mm copy rather than the 35mm originals previously used for the rest of the restoration. It's instantly identifiable by quite bad vertical streaking. Matching of brightness and contrast though, and timing of splices, were seamless, so sometimes a scene could be mostly the previously existing master footage but with interleaved bits of the Argentine footage, and the net result looked okay. Even though there was an explicit warning in the pre-film notes on the screen about the Argentine footage having a narrower aspect ratio, resulting in a vertical black band at the edge, and even though I tried to see it for myself throughout the entire film, it was so well hidden I could never spot it.There were copious intertitles (even more than I remember?), and they were very well translated. I only remember two remaining short text bridges over spots where no footage has ever been recovered; everything else is here.The story lines haven't changed hardly at all. As before, when listed they seem rather pallid or even retro: Blake's "dark Satanic mills", millennial ideology, an unrealistic and sappy resolution, love at first sight. The storyline is the armature for powerful images and feelings, not something of great interest on its own.During the first ten or twenty minutes of the film, the additional bits of footage just provided a few seconds or tens of seconds here and there that extended a scene, or showed the same scene from a different angle or distance, or showed an additional character's facial reaction. My first thought was "what's the big deal?" But then somewhat later in the film, bits of restored footage add whole subplots and flesh out characters. The Thin Man is no longer just a bit part, but is sensibly present throughout most of the film. The dual pursuits of the two Marias colliding and inadvertently swapping now makes full sense. How Georgy/11811 avoids identification by the driver, and how he gets sidetracked into Yoshiwara, are spelled out in detail. And so on.In several places Fritz Lang initially presented two bits of action simultaneously by cutting back and forth between them. In many of these places one of the two bits of actions was removed entirely, leaving the other a bit disjointed, skipping some parts of the plot, and making comparisons much less obvious (or even opaque). The Argentine footage has been used to restore virtually all of these places, and this is where it shines the most. For example always before I'd been a little nonplussed by where the obvious motivation of both sides toward rapprochement at the end comes from. With the restored footage presenting threads side-by-side, it became clear to me as it never had before that what Fredersen and the Workers discovered they had in common was deep concern about their offspring.One possible problem -just as with the original- is it's "too long" for American audiences. Go to the bathroom and buy your popcorn beforehand. And prepare to have your attention span challenged a bit.Always before, Metropolis has been something of an intellectual exercise for me. This version though drew me in by its dramatic force. It's no longer a quaint, "interesting" part of the history of film, but a visceral experience that reaches out and grabs you (even all these years later). I highly recommend it.
What can I say about Metropolis? The words: Amazing, genius, thrilling, captivating, wonderful, purely excellent, and imitable come to mind.Metropolis was a very early sci-fi film, by that master of filming, Fritz Lang. It was made in 1927; so if you had even seen a few seconds of the film, you would be surprised at how advanced it was, even then. No CGI or 'special effects' like we get nowadays; Metropolis is absolutely magical. And it has such a storyline that is absolutely unique... there is not a film like Metropolis. It mixes Sci-Fi, dystopia, romance, and thriller, along with other genres, so there's something for everyone.The most unfortunate thing about Metropolis is that it is incomplete. Or, at least, the versions of the film you can get now is of the incomplete versions. Due to it being a lengthy film (Fritz Lang had a habit of showing every meticulous detail that may be relevant to the storyline), it was cut severely, so that the audience would receive it better. Unfortunately, this made the plot confusing; what seemed like bit-parts were in fact originally key characters, important events were missed out... Generally, the copies of the film you can get now on DVD are of the most 'restored' version, but there are still some parts missed out.Fortunately - the parts of the film which had been cut have just recently be found. I would love to see the film when Metropolis has been reunited with the 'lost' footage! Even so, Metropolis is highly recommendable. There are still some minor flaws, I find, but if you appreciate good films, with good story lines, with revolutionary filming techniques... Then Metropolis is for you.


                
To sum up 'Metropolis' in the best way I know how, it was years ahead of its time. A visually stunning film with a haunting vision of the future, Fritz Lang's silent masterpiece is still a fascinating and thought-provoking motion picture more than 80 years after its release. It is when those faced with the limitations of cinema did the best creative minds emerge, and Lang was certainly able to channel German Expressionism to create a beautiful and expertly crafted work of art.Released in 1926 and set 100 years in the future, 'Metropolis' paints a dark picture where the privileged live above ground in a bustling city filled with gorgeous skyscrapers. But it is those who helped build the city and continue to operate it who live in an underground city absent of the wealth and abundant extravagance. A cataclysmic revolution threatens when a young man, son of the city's leader, ventures below ground in search of a woman and instead witnesses the oppression that smothers the workers.'Metropolis' warns us of a society where science and technology becomes the reigning rule of thumb, when the distinctions between man and machine are practically indistinguishable. A cautionary tale we've heard many times before, but perhaps never with such compelling originality and emotional impact. A machine that systematically devours its overworked and exhausted crew, a powerful retelling of Babel, an angry mob that put's the city's future at stake. Profound moments in an influential and mesmerizing film, 'Metropolis' intoxicates the imagination and makes for a viewing experience like none other.In an age without CGI and green screens, you'd be amazed by all that 'Metropolis' is able to accomplish with simple tricks of the camera and a little artistic flair. Outdated by today's standards, but truly evocative and breathtaking. And with the recent discovery of missing footage (more than an hour's footage was lost, making 'Metropolis' unfortunately fragmented), the world will soon have the chance to see Lang's completed masterwork for the first time since its original release. But as it stands, it's difficult to deny the influence 'Metropolis' has had on film today. A futuristic nightmare that so convincingly blurs the lines between truth and fable.More reviews at rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public


                
Metropolis is the oldest movie I have seen; therefore I do not feel it is fair to compare with recent science fiction films. I think the film is phenomenal and creative for the era in which it was made. The use of scenery to create the skyline for the mega-city is brilliant. I thought the special effects used throughout the movie were innovative, especially the laboratory scene when Rotwang creates the 'Maria' robot. Although the movie was in black and white, I noticed the color of the character's clothing was part of their role. For instance, Freder was dressed in white to portray a good guy. The acting was a bit dramatic compared to today's actors, but considering it is a silent film it was tolerable. I enjoyed the movie and place it on my list of 'Must See' movies.


                
The Future City of Metropolis has two classes of people. The "Brains" are the rich and powerful elite class; they enjoy sports, dances and gardening. The "Hands" are the throngs of lowly workers; they work 10-hour days, like slaves, and live underground. Leader of the brainy Upper Class is Alfred Abel (as Joh Fredersen). Mr. Abel's son Gustav Fröhlich (as Freder) is, initially, unaware of any discrepancy between the two classes. Lower Class lass Brigitte Helm (as Maria) catches his eye; and, Mr. Fröhlich peruses her to the bowels of the City. Fröhlich is horrified at the treatment of "Maria" and the workers; and, he joins their underground revolution. His father, learning of the resistance, enlists the help of scientist Rudolf Klein-Rogge (as Rotwang). Mr. Klein-Rogge is building a "Machine-Man" (Robot), which (rather inexplicably) winds up looking just like Ms. Helm.Can the Mechanical "Maria" dupe the underground workers into abandoning their plan to destroy Metropolis? While the story and performances are sometimes lacking, the superb look of "Metropolis" makes it a city worth seeing. Fritz Lang's direction is, indeed, futuristic. Otherwise, the film works better if you look at it as a dream... or, a nightmare... ********* Metropolis (1/10/27) Fritz Lang ~ Gustav Fröhlich, Brigitte Helm, Alfred Abel, Rudolf Klein-Rogge


                
018: Metropolis (1927) - released 1/10/1927, viewed 8/15/05.A hurricane kills 650 in Cuba. Serial killer Earle Nelson, the Gorilla Man, is on the loose. The NBC radio network opens with 24 stations. Mt. Vesuvius erupts. Agatha Christie disappears from her home, turning up in a hotel 11 days later apparently with partial amnesia. The first transatlantic telephone call is made, from New York to London.BIRTHS: Chuck Berry, Richard Crenna, Johnnie Ray. DEATHS: Harry Houdini.KEVIN: Okay, we've seen Lubitsch and we've seen Murnau, now it's time for the one and only Fritz Lang. This movie was very cool. The creators were really breaking new ground with the look of this film. I really liked Brigitte Helm's performance both as Maria and in her over-the-top turn as the evil Machine. I was extremely impressed with the visual effects, mostly regarding the Machine. I've seen films made in the '50s with crappier effects than in this film. One of the more regrettable things about this film were the missing scenes. I tried really hard to visualize the lost scenes based on the descriptions given. I hope one day they recover the missing footage.DOUG: In Germany in early '27, Austrian filmmaker extraordinaire Fritz Lang released his silent science fiction extravaganza Metropolis. This is a film that I'd really been looking forward to. It's tragic that a quarter of this movie is lost; those text cards describing the missing scenes during the movie sounded exciting. I must say, I was impressed, although a little confused at times. The plot is kind of weird and confusing. Metropolis was the most expensive silent film of its day, and looks it. There's a lot of special effects, groundbreaking at the time, including futuristic cityscapes (probably matte paintings), visual overlays (done the old-fashioned way), and of course the famous "machine man" played in human form by Brigitte Helm. Helm does an excellent job of playing the evil robot lady and the good-hearted Maria; you can tell instantly who she is just by the way her head is cocked. Rudolph Klein-Rogge pretty much steals the show as the demented scientist Rotwang. I didn't quite get how the movie illustrated its theme/tagline about hands/brain/heart. All the extravagant effects and sets kind of distract from it.Last film: Faust (1926). Next film viewed: The General (1927). Next film chronologically: The Kid Brother (1927).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
When this movie came out 92 years ago this month, it became a worldwide success yet it was heavily edited from its premiere for the US release and cut even more when Giorgio Moroder helped restore Metropolis and colorized it to death with a synthpop rock disco soundtrack featuring the worst song of Freddie Mercury's solo career before he rejoined Queen for Live Aid years before AIDS killed him. I saw this version on VHS and thought it was fast paced. Then I saw the original version, which stays true to the theatrical cut as seen in theatres during the era along with a organ score. The design and visual effects of this movie still stand true to this day. It even inspired the 2001 hit anime Metropolis, which has no connection to the fritz lang movie. Queen would use clips from the film in the video Radio Ga Ga, the title of which Lady Gaga got her name from.


                
The grandfather of science-fiction. The film that single-handedly pioneered a genre. Just, impressive. I've been waiting a good few years to watch this German expressionistic silent film, and the time has finally come. With 150 minutes being recovered and mostly restored from the 153 minute original runtime, this was the closest to the full cut I was ever going to get. Fritz Lang not only implanted his views on authoritarianism and capitalism, but he crafted and adapted a film revolving around the idea of social justice. Revolutionary back in 1927, and yet still thematically important today.The son of the "head" of Metropolis decides to switch his lifestyle and work as a "hand" in the underground working city, to which he quickly falls in love with an innocent woman who gives insight into faithful readings. During this time, an inventor builds a man-machine and chooses to lead the workers into revolution by destroying the very city they have been working on.Much like the film itself, the city is bustling with themes and social injustice. A class system where workers must work every day underground whilst the wealthy enjoy the endless possibilities of knowledge, entertainment and everything else the gargantuan city has to offer. Fritz Lang takes a traditional romance and develops it during a period of economic struggle and freedom deprivation. His technical prowess and inventiveness when directing all these characters is what makes Metropolis timeless (and one heck of an experience).For a silent film, there was a considerable amount of personality being shown through exaggerated arm-flailing performances. Fröhlich, with his questionable attire, commands the film through his naivety. Abel on the other hand acts as the manifestation of autocratic authority, with a frown that will haunt your dreams. But it's Helm, presenting us with a dual performance, who goes full arm-flailing. Encapsulating the fragility of Christianity when she's Maria, but quickly shifting to psychotic revolutionist when transformed to the "Man-Machine". What intrigued me the most was the neutral state these characters resided within. The Man-Machine, whilst attempting to create social justice through worker's revolt, did so in a method that would become a detriment to everyone. Through authoritative order, it created uncontrollable chaos. Conversely, Fredersen overlooks a futuristic cityscape deprived of a democratic system, but does so for what he believed was the best for his people.The "head" and "hands" of society must come together through a mediator that understands both parties, the "heart". This thematic message comes full circle during its concluding minutes, which unfortunately was my main criticism for the film. Lang conveyed this heavy-handedly, as if the audience were unable to depict this metaphor for themselves. Considering the expertise and masterclass in production design that preceded this, it was somewhat a slap in the face. Speaking of production design, this sci-fi flick features some of the best stage sets available at the time. From layered cut outs illustrating the complexity of the city's infrastructure to beastly machines that act as the heart of civilisation. Lang naturally gives grandeur to his production. He also includes gothic structures, in particular a stoic cathedral, to represent the need for history and its importance in a world advancing with technology. This goes without saying the connotations of Christianity, especially a dream-like scene involving the seven deadly sins.The restoration of the film itself was stunning, and holds up well to this day. I believe one scene involving an inventor being overthrown by Fredersen is still missing, and so consequently the film felt jarring for one moment. However I am unable to criticise this. A few plot conveniences here and there and an overall lacking of title cards, but small nitpicks.Metropolis has attained a rare achievement. It has stood the test of time, not just with its technological ingenuity, but with its coherent themes of society. This may just be Fritz Lang's masterpiece, and deservedly so.


                
MetropolisLang's time traveling to the dystopian future is the evergreen masterpiece that is still impenetrable, after a century later. Let's work our way up to the gist or the concept of the feature starting from the details. Such rich details is something that is only seen on rare gem-like Disney animation where an entire new imaginative world is created that is much more hip and happening than ours. And in here the concept being simply a head or tail case, the details are immensely impressive. Now to write these words is one thing and to implement it on set is another. But Lang's set pieces are equally large as its concept is.And with huge crew, beautiful large set pieces and stunning production design, Lang gives you the time of your life. And with a head start like such from the concept, the expectations of the film increases to a whole new level, and with a layered narrative and a buoyant script, the characters keeps giving us back the reasons and material to not even spare a time to blink. Especially the second half of this symphony, that keeps you at the brisk of your emotions through exhilarating chase sequences, cut throat politics, morality conflicts, family drama and electrifying attraction towards each other. It surely is a cinema for life.Abel as the puppeteer losing its control is a force to be reckoned with that is challenged by his son Frohlich itself. But the real game changer and heart of this cold mechanical world is Helm (she is splendid as both the evil twin and the heartwarming love interest) in command, from her looks to her body language, the entire feature is dependent on her vocab. Metropolis is an awe-inspiring civilised stable city that preaches its choirs, from the viewers to the makers itself.


                
"Metropolis" is a classic expressionist film directed by Fritz lang, a German film director. In the history of science fiction film, this film also has a milestone status, classic scenes are repeatedly used by many science fiction films. Other than that, I found it to be a thoroughly religious film in the guise of a science fiction film. Although there are many dystopian elements in the film. But the overall tone is an optimistic, religiously utopian mood. Then please let me explain my understanding to each reader.Joh Fredersen, the capitalist - the master of metropolis
 The 1920s was a period of rapid capitalist development, and before the global economic crisis hit in 1929, Germany struggled and wavered to develop its own economy. In this case, the capitalist also has a sense of authority that is superior and unquestionable. It must be emphasized that Joh Fredersen is not only a symbol of the capitalist class, but also a metaphorical religious symbol: god. The reasons are as follows:
 As the ruler of the whole metropolis, Joh Fredersen enjoyed a high degree of authority in the whole metropolis. His words could plunge people into the abyss of despair (as could be seen from his dismissal of the supervisor). And much of his opening shot is of standing in the window of a towering building overlooking everything outside, and the director goes to great lengths to make the audience understand that this is a master in charge. 
 Second, he could have suppressed the workers' rebellion, but he only told the foreman and the workers through the foreman that if the machines were destroyed, their homes would be flooded. In this regard, the director not only wants to say that "crushing machines cannot bring freedom", but also wants to make people witness the destruction of their homes caused by their own atrocities. He also wants to imply that human beings cannot communicate with god. I take a series of suffering caused by a series of wrong actions that I want to "pursue freedom". 
 Finally, it was his own son, Freder, who served as a mediator between him and the workers. Although he did not give up his son voluntarily in the film, he did not limit Joh Fredersen' actions. It can be said that Joh Fredersen went to the workers with his acquiescence, and he went to the workers completely and completely. Therefore, it is not strange to regard the capitalist Fred sen as representing god.The woman teacher Maria
 "Look, these are your brothers." Freder, who was playing with the girls by the fountain, suddenly saw a crowd of ragged boys and girls, led by a plain schoolmistress. It was her words that struck the carefree fun of Freder that made him want to "get down there." This Maria, though it did not give birth to his body, did indeed turn Freder into another person, and his soul was reborn. The name Mary itself has a strong religious color, but the early preaching of patience and waiting for workers in ancient tombs gave her a religious color beyond the virgin Mary.The foreman
 When many people watch "Metropolis", they will focus on several main characters, such as Joh Fredersen, Freder, Maria and the inventor Rotwan, but actually the foreman is also an indispensable figure in the whole movie.
First, the foreman facilitated Freder's trip to the factory to find out.In the film, with the help of the foreman, Freder enters the factory and begins his work as a "heart", or "mediator", with the huge machine that devours the lives of the workers. Therefore, the foreman plays the role of prophet here.
 Second, the foreman intervened to stop the frantic actions of the workers, who, at the instigation of Maria, told the workers that the result would only be the destruction of their own homes. The foreman had to tell the metropolitan's owner, the capitalist Fred sen, that while the workmen were still determined, the answer was: let them go. At this point, the foreman's role becomes the figure of the late old testament prophet that the bible warns against transgressions and is completely ignored by the people. 
 Again, as the workers bask in the joy of smashing their machines, the foreman comes out and asks "where are your children" and takes them from a populist pinnacle of joy to a moment of desperation where their children's lives are seriously threatened. The scene also has a symbolic meaning: after indulging in the challenge of god's authority, human beings will always suffer the consequences, but it is often their children who suffer the consequences rather than themselves. In this scene, the foreman's role is more similar to that of the apostle who preached the Gospel of great men of repentance in the new testament.
 Finally, when Freder and Rotwan were fighting on the roof, it was the foreman who first spotted them and led the crowd to see them, and finally made peace on behalf of the workers and the capitalists. In fact, the foreman here, playing the representative of the human church, became the first person to be associated with god (shown in the film as capitalist Fred sen) and good. Therefore, the role and performance of the foreman in this film, every action has a very significant metaphorical meaning and performance value.The capitalist's son, Freder
 In fact, the author realized that the religious significance of the film was from Freder' discovery of the hard work of the workers in the factory. Even if he stopped for a few seconds, there might be an explosion that would kill all the workers, so he decided to take his place after a worker passed out. At this point, a worker gave him a set of overalls to wear.
 First, he saw Maria coming into the garden with a group of workers' children and said to him, "look, these are your brothers." When he arrived at the factory, he witnessed a machine explosion and had the illusion of "the devil's gate that eats people". On the other hand, he chose to take his place because he felt sorry for the exhausted workers. After experiencing the heavy, repetitive work himself, he crouched over the machine, crying out in pain: "father, I never knew that ten hours would be a torture." Here, he himself abandoned the garden of paradise to the leisure and joy of life, willing to experience the hard work of the bottom workers.
 Second, as workers smash their machines, the workers' housing estates begin to spray water underground. (it's worth mentioning that the scene here is very similar to the fountain where Freder and his girl play around at the beginning of the film. Freder rushed into the workers' quarters to help Maria and other nannies save the workers' children. The children had great hopes for Freder, and they did not hesitate to follow his lead and follow the foreman's directions as they fled from the flooded workhouse.
 Finally, at the end of the film, he fights inventor rotwan, who has the upper hand at first, even knocking Freder to the ground. But Freder eventually kicked rotwan off the roof, and the inventor fell to his death.Inventor Rotwan
 In normal times, the development of science should be expected and expected, but why in this movie, the inventor played a bad guy, and was shamefully kicked off the roof by fritz and fell to his death. Why did the inventor take on the role of villain Boss and clown in the film? The answer is simple, because in this movie, rotwan comes out as an image of satan.
 It is conceivable that the machines should be of underground plants from Rotwan, and indeed for the world of life provides a variety of necessary resources, but they also became one of the underlying workers at the root of miserable life, make workers almost lost the characteristics as a person, live like machinery, even just collapsed in a person as a backup parts fill up. This reflects that in the age of film making, people have an attitude towards machinery and technology: they need and fear, but fear and disgust are the majority.
 In Mr. Freder's imagination, the factory machine became a monster's gaping mouth, and workers lined up mechanically to the mouth of the monstrous demon. And the most colorful villain in the whole movie, machine Maria is also from Rotwan's hand. His laboratory is full of strange machines, bubbling flask beakers and giant electric switches, exactly the sort of "laboratory of the future" people imagined in the 1920s. In a sense, perhaps that's because of the natural racial divide between robots and humans. Nevertheless, Rotwan's laboratory is a complex reflection of people's worship and fear of the development of science. People believe that the development of science will bring about significant changes in life, and even expect machines to replace human work completely. On the other hand, the development of science is frightening because the workers on the assembly line have become a part of the machines. This development makes them full of fear about their future relationship with the machines.Robot Maria
 In the film, Maria keeps saying to the workers, you have to endure, you have to wait for the mediator, you have to endure the fate. Interestingly, this apparent "drug of thought" was cut off by Joh Fredersen, leaving Rotwan to impersonate a robot and disrupt the normal order of workers' lives. The appearance of robot Maria can be said to be fascinating and very demagogic. The first sentence on the stage is "I have taught you to be patient, but there is no need to be patient now", completely breaking the original teaching of "waiting for mediation". And the workers actually did not have a doubt, did not hesitate to follow the arm shouted.
 Machine Maria is a complete villain in this movie, a love-hate villain. She is loved because she is not so thin, so weak, so far from the world as Maria is; She was energetic, provocative and lively. Every word she said caught the hearts of the workers. Robot Maria sets up a confrontation between workers and capitalists, and is so successful that the big machines in the factories are smashed to pieces, that the w
Very good, fun and captivating story. Without a doubt one of the best films of the 20's and one of the best science fiction films ever. Highly recommend.


                
The impressionable Freder (Gustav Fröhlich) is the son of an industrialist in a world of the future. In this world, all the upper class members live among the clouds, in luxury, while the blue collar workers who maintain the numerous machines live dreary existences. Freder, entranced by the outspoken Maria (Brigitte Helm), decides that the workers are his friends, and rebels against his tyrannical father (Alfred Abel). Meanwhile, a mad scientist / inventor (Rudolf Klein-Rogge) assists the father in his schemes by giving his robotic creation "the machine man" (also played by Helm) Maria's likeness, and having this fake Maria incite the workers to violence so that the dad can use violence against them.Considering that this early Fritz Lang masterpieces is over 90 years old, it's quite the stylish accomplishment. The sets, the photography, and the special effects are amazing, especially when you see how Lang is doing all of this on a grand, epic scale, leading to a destructive finale that works as an ancestor to the "disaster film cycle" that came along almost half a century later. The provocative screenplay (written by Thea von Harbou, based on her novel) makes one think about such things as the advent of unions, unsafe working practices, mistreatment of the lower class, and, of course, the way that people would come to rely so much on machines and technology for their continued existence. Since the film is now available in an almost-complete version (about 25 minutes worth of footage were discovered not that long ago in Brazil), it's a very long and deliberately paced fable, one that wouldn't suit viewers with shorter attention spans. It also bears the mark of many silent films, with some VERY enthusiastic acting from some of the principals.Still, it's hard to deny the absolute passion brought to this project by the filmmakers and cast. It has wonderful atmosphere, carrying a feeling of despair that ultimately climaxes with a sense of hope for the future. The big set piece of Metropolis being flooded is some genuinely exciting stuff, and will have even modern audiences marvelling at how Lang and company pulled this off.Lastly, it's a superb melding of memorable images (such as the look of The Machine Man) with the excellent music composed by Gottfried Huppertz. (Various other composers have taken a stab at writing for this classic over the years.)Future noted genre writer Curt Siodmak ("The Wolf Man", etc.) has an uncredited bit as one of the working men.Nine out of 10.


                
Mechanical movements and heavy over exaggerations jump from each and every corner of the constantly moving screen as Lang shows off his revolutionary talents as a filmmaker. Envisioning an over the top and consistently horrifying dystopia, "Metropolis" is one of the very greatest science fiction films ever made, but the viewer must keep in mind that it is heavily flawed. Some moments and performances are melodramatic to the point of heavy laughter, it's way overlong, and the story is no where near as compelling as its visuals. That being said, this is still the ultimate German Expressionist classic. Crooked windows, creepy shadows, unforgettable imagery in nearly every frame. This mixture of futurism and Expressionism is what keeps "Metropolis" moving along at a perfect pace. There is tons of thrilling action, mind boggling surrealism, and wild editing; enough to keep even the average moviegoer at least mildly entertained. It is likely to inspire headaches or confusion, laughter and tears and shouts and so on. There are constant references to religion and some highly intelligent commentary on both the pros and cons of Marxist theory to allow one's intellect to be entertained (although the religious references are so obvious it gets a little annoying at times). And the visuals...I'm not even sure if I can muster up the energy to comment on them. Even today they're aw inspiring and fantastical, adding to the film's "fairy tale set in the faraway future" feel with exuberance and occasional, explosive violence.


                
