I found Skam when I was looking for something new to my exam-free period for binge-watching. Like normal students do. I didn't give it much hope after I read the introduction, but I thought, oh well, just give it a try.I ended up finishing all 3 seasons in 3 days.There is a lot of great things about this show, but the best is, that it is realistic. These things happen every day in schools around the world. They portray teenagers as they are: confused, angry, dishonest/honest, rebelling, in love, etc. There are two themes that made this show my favorite:SPOILER!!1. Vilde's and Noora's eating disorder. They portrayed eating disorders in a way that no TV-Show did in the past as I can remember. They never ever used the terms "anorexia" "bulimia" or "eating disorder". Not once. They focused on habits people do who have a battle with diseases like these. And on the support the two girls silently gave each other. If you take a look at other TV-Shows, they portray anorexic/bulimic girls as something fashionable, skipping through pages of magazines, starving themselves and throwing up to be skinny. But they don't focus on the reasons behind that and don't give a realistic picture. This show does.2. Isak's coming out: coming out is not simple and they pictured it realistically. He needed a long time to come out and they showed the side-effects that kind of fear and stress produces. They also captured the friendship between the guys brilliantly. As any normal 16-17 year olds, they had no idea how to handle their friend being gay, but they gave their best to support and understand him and that is what true friendships are about.Honestly I hope that the writers get every prize and credit, because the dialogues in Skam are more than brilliant. They are clever, on point but still teenage-like. So I would recommend it really to everyone. I'm not a teenager anymore, but I felt for every single character in this show and it reminded me of my school-time, which was a living hell. And if you have teenage kids, let them watch this. It will help them recognize things in the way they understand it. (and I am really sad, that they'll make an US Version.. I'm sure it won't be as half as good as the original one... )
I've got five sections and it seems that the main character has a boyfriend but that relationship begins to fail, for she is trying to be with her new bunch popular in school in order to have a successful russ bus (?) to the student and then have her girl gang pick on the elderly guys to increase when important popularity and it is not good for the relationship she has but really, it's probably best to huvudpersonen in question want to have friends when she had apparently lost their old than I do not know why but I anar it has with her nuvarnade relation to which complicate everything even more, leading to feelings flying around in the air wildly hate love happiness and shame in the city of Oslo as teenage characters gets learn to cope in their own way. Juste they say "dritt" fat lot also


                
