The Truman Show could have been so good.  There were good intentions behind it and clearly some people with huge ability working on it.  The problem was that though it pretended it was treating the audience as an intelligent entity it took the typical Hollywood attitude of presuming that after all that we would not think about this film.The subject matter demands that as we leave the cinema we must think about the questions that have been asked of us.  To what extent is the media dominating or commanding our lives, do we live to see other's manipulated, is what around us real or a projection of our imaginations (however sick and warped that may be).  All very well, in fact excellent.  Too few films ask us to question the world around us.  But this is where we run into problems. You see, once you start thinking about the film you realise quite how many holes there are in the plot.Forgive me but I would presume that if a man is brought up in a fake world he would never know it was fake because it wasn't fake to him.  For Truman Burbank there can be no real world because in reality to him everything outside the TV studio which is his reality is fake.  Forgive me if I'm not explaining myself clearly enough.  Let me put it like this.  If all your life the rain simply followed you about and did not touch others would you question it.  The answer is no because that is the way things are for you.For Truman to one day start thinking this is a bit weird is not only unlikely and out of character, it could never happen.  Similarly he would not only not find it odd that people around were constantly advertising products, he would adopt that speech pattern himself.  Ultimately this would lead to the failure of the show itself because Truman would no longer be a real man to the viewers, instead he would be more like a trained monkey performing tricks.  But this is straying from the point (though it does demonstrate how examination of the film proves how badly thought through it is).Now onto a second complaint, why is it that the people around Truman have no feelings for him?  They have grown up with him, gone through life with him. Yes, I accept he is their life line but I find it hard to believe that a man who has played his best friend for the best part of 30 years cannot care for him in the slightest.  Not even his 'parents' seem to have any real interest in his wellbeing, despite the fact that they have brought him up as if he were their own.  Are the makers of this film so cynical that they cannot give even the smallest amount of humanity to these characters?I have several other problems with the film, particularly the ending which was one of the most utterly contrived moments on film I have ever seen, as well as the lack of scope given to the show's creator, Christof (easily the best thing in it) and the unnecessary 'love interest.'  However, the major flaw of this film was the idea behind it.  It was so good that I don't think anyone really stopped to think out the complexities before making it.It is such a shame because what could have been so good turned out to be so bad.
What we have here is a film with great potential. Potential to become one of the great dystopian films. It raises such themes as a nation obsessed by television, the means used to provide people their purile "entertainment" without any consideration of ethics nor human dignity. Truman could be a great tragedy. We could see one man live a meaningless life, forever watched by millions of big brothers, completely unaware of his fishbowl existence. A warning, pointing to the disconnect and disassociation we all experience upon seeing someone on a television screen. And also to our slavish instinct to glorify these people without knowing why we adore them.And I can't help but think of this when I see all the thousands of mediocrities line up to make complete fools of themselves on national TV on so-called "reality" shows all in the name of a few brief and unmemorable moments of "fame". We've been brainwashed by the media into believing that fame it itself, is a desirable virtue.But this movie, instead of exploring these issues in depth, skirts around them, afraid of giving itself intellectual depth and weight. Instead were treated to Jim Carey's charming smile and empty acting. This film has the potential to be a memorable and in-depth dystopian vision of fame and the media. Instead, out of pure cowardice, its turned into another meaningless popcorn movie. A complete waste of celluloid. All the people involved in this should be ashamed of themselves.


                
Truman is a truly Boring, Overrated, Pompous Movie that is not worth your time. People rate this high because they think we are supposed to. If we don't then we are not getting it's point and we are lacking.  Jim Carrey does do a good job. However, Ed Harris' character is ridiculous, He's just not believable. The main reason this movie fails is the storyline is ridiculous; it's just to far fetched. Society isn't so cruel that we would allow let alone watch a show like Truman. Celebrity Boxing and Survivor Sure. But the premise for The Truman Show is Cruel the main character is not a voluntary participant. Basically he's Innocent and being violated and we are supposed to think everyone thinks it's ok. The Truman Show wants to be taken seriously and thats not possible with this weak, far-fetched story. The idea was good, but this movie stinks even with the talented actors starring in it.


                
Yet again this film illustrates that the Hollywood machine should on no account attempt films which speak to you at some deeper level. Stick to making thrillers, Sci-fi, romance, mainstream comedy etc which they excel at, but leave subjects like this to the European cinema or at least to the East Coast tradition. Failing that, only a director of the stature of David Lynch has the breadth of imagination to tackle a story line such as this.Quite simply the problem is that the film cannot make up it's mind whether it's a moral fable or (by a huge stretch of the imagination) a representation of some form of reality. As a result, it continuously flips between these two genres and cannot quite make up it's mind which path to take or which one to stick to.As a representation of reality, quite apart from the corn like the director wearing a beret (gimme a break), the wife trying to do product advertisement in the middle of a flaming row (!!!!!!) it's just too full of illogicalities and inconsistencies to bear even a remote resemblance to any real life situation. One might just about accept that were the whole populace of the 'set' also in the same boat as Truman himself, the scenario might ... just might ... work, but a solitary figure in a landscape of actors and extras???? Anyone with any experience of working in entertainment media sector could tell you that's simply not feasible. And the 'fable' angle doesn't work either because direction and production strive too hard to show film pertains to a real life situation.But the most glaring hole in the whole storyline is why go to such lengths (and expense) to examine human reaction in a supposedly 'Real-Life' situation. Just stick enough CCTV's in any small township or village, pay the inhabitants some dosh and tell them to get on with their life. As has been proved time and again, subjects fairly soon tend to forget that they're the subjects of a study and begin to ignore the cameras.


                
I feel gutted after fast forwarding this heap of embarrassment. I have rarely seen a movie so devoid of entertainment value, intelligence or plot. A guy in a virtual world finds out he's not in the real world, sails off to find the edge of the studio, finds it, has a sappy talk with God, -The End-. In between: Highly annoying people smiling smiles as seen in 1950s commercials and a script from Airplane III which never made it to the big screen for perfectly healthy reasons.Why wasn't there any subplot, some deeper meaning, some...Oh I don't know, ANYTHING! If they tried to have any, it surely was smashed during the employment of the 3 megaton thermal nuclear device that was used on the silver lining. The entire story was so laughably straighforward, even primates would find it insulting. I'm truly sorry, but this movie's glaring emptiness and it's pitiful acclaim completely beggars belief and really challenges my mental sanity when thinking about it.0/10


                
"The Truman Show" is a film in which Jim Carey plays the character Truman Burbank who is an insurance salesman that seems to want more out of life. He finds later that there is something strange about his surroundings that isn't authentic. There must be someone watching him because everything seems to be orchestrated.He goes on from this to the discovery this hypothesis is true and that there has to be more to the world than he has seen. He tries to escape his surroundings that he was groomed to be accustomed to, and finds that magically every attempt that he makes is unsuccessful because something always comes up as a block.This aspect of the movie portrays much of what one must imagine would happen in the raising of a wild animal in a controlled environment. They would either find that there is no way out of their environment and eventually give up, or they would rebel. This would be much like in "Jurassic Park", where the dinosaurs find a way out of the fence of the controlled environment. Truman is a wild animal that is kept in a controlled environment that is against his innate will and instinct. His instinct is to explore and find meaning to life. He is a wild man on the lose, and nothing can stop his aspiration to venture to the unknown. This is much the same in "Jurassic Park", in that the animals that once ruled the earth have an instinct of free range. They will, by their instinct, find ways to become top of the chain again.There are many that will find that the movie "The Truman Show" has some underlying spiritual meaning and that the producers had some great theological statement to make about how we view God and whatever else may come to mind. Many may even say that it is a statement of theodicy in that God has everything perfectly orchestrated to his will but makes mistakes in his outtakes. Others may say that much like what the Mormon church believes, God was just a man that was given high power of which he abused and screwed up thus bringing disorder to his creation.While all of these are legitimate statements about this movie, none are quite on par as much as to say that this was a movie for the sake of entertainment and poking fun at reality television. While reading many interviews of Weir, one will find that it was a satire on reality television and that it was to show how fake it was. It is almost as if it were to show the persons involved in reality television are pets that are subject to what the master throws at them. All of their responses are controlled and generated responses from a learned behavior in one way or other. These directors have simply learned how to manipulate those responses to get good ratings.Unfortunately, unlike "Jurassic Park", "The Truman Show" is not worth a sequel. The movie was poorly made and had a juvenile story line. The plot development was not adequate for the audience to fully connect with all of the characters. It was obvious that the prime focus was to give Jim Carey a character portfolio that would bring his career into a deeper, more meaningful position. While this being true, more than likely, this was the only way that a writer of a movie in this caliber could get his work published; one can find an actor with the need to diversify, come up with a budget, and create a film with a big name and it instantaneously happens, they have a career.For any person to say that this movie had any type of effect on them spiritually, would be to say that the "Care Bears" shaped their epistemology ultimately leading them to Jesus. There is about as much spiritual meaning to this movie as there is in a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and to say otherwise is to deny that of the words of the director and to read cosmetology into "Gandhi".


                
Let me go on a point by point basis, in discussing this piece of dreck, this film sickened me to the point that I have to write a review for posterity so that they will know how bad it really is. Peter Weir=Dead Poet Society his only good film the rest forgettable Jim Carey=first saw him in Once Bitten - he played the character straight, he can act, it's just that this performance is not worthy of any award. Ed Harris= I defy any of you to name one film in which this man has played anyone other than himself. He plays a character that would only be believable if this were a farce, his character is so unnaturally evil, am I suppose to believe in this film that his character is so obsessed that he is crushed when a fellow human being wants to be free. And what is with the hand gestures, I want everyone to pay attention to his hand gestures, almost homoerotic in a way, if this were done on purpose it might be funny might be fitting, it's that method acting isn't it? The woman who plays his love interest=one word-TERRIBLE her face is shot in such an annoying way it is almost unbearable to watch. PLOT: if you are going to do social satire with a moral dilemma it must be believable(i.e. A CLOCKWORK ORANGE (FILM and NOVEL) 1984 (NOVEL) and NETWORK (FILM)) you cannot do a STAR WARS treatment to a supposedly serious film. For example, we are supposed to believe that a man in his early thirties has been on film for his entire life: 1. if he were born sometime in the sixties the technology simply would not be available to carry on with this charade. 2. and most importantly as bad as we are as human beings I cannot believe that any of you would allow this to happen to a person, therefore what is the point of this film? It doesn't make me think of anything other than Hollywood made a great deal of money off of us and we are starting to appreciate the sh** that they give us. So now that Stanley Kubrick has died where are we? The only thing that I can think of is that I am going to have to start making movies, I can't be any worse than these guys!!!


                
This movie was one of the worst movies that I have seen in a long time.  The lack of a storyline in the beginning and the slowness of the movie provided a very boring movie.  By the time the storyline became evident, I was falling asleep and then had trouble keeping my eyes open for the remainder of the movie.  I was told that the end of the movie was the best part. However, if you cannot get through the beginning, the movie is just not worth watching.  Jim Carrey's role was a good one, but it would have been a better character if they had casted a more talented actor.  I feel that the movie could have had great potential, but bombed out due to lack of acting and a weak storyline.


                
When this film came out I was really excited to see it because people were calling it the greatest film of all time, etc.,etc. Yet when I went to see it, I was probably the most depressed person. I swear, that was the worst movie of the year, not the best, as people were saying. If you are a BIG film like I am, do not go see this awful piece of garbage.


                
Yeah, I saw this movie and was looking forward to it , but the whole performance of the concept disappointed me. About half way through I wished it was going to finish then,to stop this embarrassing farce.


                
I disliked the movie it wasn't an interesting movie i found it boring even though Jim Carrey played the part well the movie was boring.The main characters are Truman Burbank(Jim Carrey),Meryl Burbank(Laura Linely),Marlon(Noah Emmeron),Trumans father(Brian Delate),Trumans mother(Holland Taylor),Young Truman(Blair Slater).I think the director was trying to get the idea across that you have to adventure to find out things about your self.I think that the film has its funny moments but it is hard to put in a genre because it was a weird movie unlike nearly all of Jim Carreys other movies like The Mask and fun with Dick and Jane.
This movie reeks.  I'm too busy kicking myself to go any deeper than that.


                
Is the American audience so ignorant that they can truly believe that such a poorly directed movie, which is nothing more than an interesting bit of coffee table philosophy could be a revolutionary cinematic concept?Jim Carrey should stick to low brow facial acting, and leave the real acting to real actors. Though his comedic performance was the most entertaining aspect of the 2hours I wasted on this movie, it did not make the grade. This was nothing but a thinly veiled concept movie with a big name actor to railroad it into "the hearts of Americans". If you want to see a movie which has depth, in which all the elements of cinematic excellence come together to form a cohesive film try something like: Brazil or reading 1984 ( that was a bad movie). Try to find a movie without the "feel good" American perspective, where the director is afraid to alienate the ignorant..


                
This film had a good premise but it failed miserably to develop it. The characters were all over the place.Jim Carrey's acting was the only redeeming feature. The ending was particularly bad with people who lived for Truman cheering his escape though it means they will have nothing to do.


                
All I heard was how original this movie was. Original? Try a rip off of an old Twlight Zone episode. The characters had no pathos. It boggles my mind. Why do people love this movie? It's not worth the price of the film it was printed on.


                
This is my most hated movie. it is the most offensive movie I have ever watched, and it is not only the movie, itself that I find offensive: It is also the huge, positive, popular reaction to it. You should all be ashamed of yourselves and perhaps re-evaluate yourselves to see if you actually HAVE any values. Let me get this straight: A human being (human life still matters to some), is trapped at birth (illegally detained, which is the legal equivalent of kidnapping) in an immense, dome-like structure and introduced to a cast of characters who play the part of his family, friends, etc. None of it is real, and it is all broadcast on TV, which is hugely-popular.I am trying not to become angry as I write this. This movie reveals a hidden danger in the human subconscious and all of you who approve of it are latent, misanthropic psychopaths.Let me ask you a rhetorical question: "How far will you go for entertainment?" Will you trap a small child in the cage of your fancy and decoration? Tell me: Which country would allow this? Which country with a shred of decency left?! (I am not talking about the governments. I am talking about the people. I'm talking about you. If you would do this to a human being, or even admire its depiction in art, and I knew you, I would keep a very close eye on you. You people disgust me.


                
Jim Carrey plays Truman Burbank, a man who's life has been watched by the public ever since he was born. His wife and friends are all actors. His home is a studio. Cameras follow him around everywhere. All that and more, so everyone can watch 'his' show The Truman Show. The only thing is, Truman thinks he's an ordinary guy and he doesn't know anything about this. Until one day, he finds out the truth about his so-called life.
I really wanted to like The Truman Show but I just didn't. I mean, yeah the idea for the movie is good and even though I'm not really a Jim Carrey fan, I guess he gives quite a believable performance here. Let's just say EDTV, another movie about a man being watched is much better than this.


                
The tragedy that people consider this film reaches some philosophical nirvana accompanied with a deep meaningful message adds to the contempt I already have for this excrement. A child's mind could only deliver an idea like this, maybe plagiarising a Twilight Zone episode. The technically superior camera work and uncluttered cartoon like sets only allow the viewer sharp focus on the banality of this story. I will not go into detail as others have, I just add my 1/10 to the mix.Some of us are not fans of Jim Carey either, and his addition to any movie relegates it to doom anyhow. I knew it would be a bad idea to watch this, but I went along, accompanied by a nagging suspicion, with the high score and praise.More proof that either the majority are stupid or I am a loony. We did go to the moon.


                
