I asked a friend to describe The Truman Show.  He said, "No, it's not a comedy, well...not exactly."  I didn't quite understand until I watched it myself.  Truman takes on a tone quite different than any parody/comedies I've seen lately.  The point (the media and its destructive powers)  is subtlely relayed through dark humor, and you don't feel like the director is smashing you over the head with his morals.  Peter Weir demonstrated his artistic genius in Dead Poets Society and here as well. The soundtrack is great, Ed Harris is stellar (what were they THINKING at the Academy?) and for once I actually liked Jim Carrey. His performance wasn't ribald for once. The final scene--I will not reveal it--is a majestic, long-awaited finish to an intellectual movie. Some people will insist that it was boring or pointless.  Those are the same viewers who prefer slapstick, obvious humor to the subtle layers presented here.  This is a thinking person's movie.  If you can't see the underlying message here, of course you won't like it!


                
'The Truman Show' epitomizes strong and original storytelling on screen. This film is emotionally engaging, didactic, witty, dramatic and very unique. For those unfamiliar with the concept, Truman Burbank has never left his ideal home town of Sea Haven. What he doesn't know is that his entire environment is a materialized set and he is the ignorant star of a reality TV show of epic proportions.Taking this entirely original concept, writer Andrew Niccol and director Peter Wier take the viewer into territory uncharted by anything in film history. Thus, the plot is entirely unpredictable but still flows along expertly. The tightness of the screenplay and the immaculate pacing of Peter Wier contribute largely to this film's brilliance.The acting performances are amongst the best I've ever seen. Jim Carey is superb as Truman, effortlessly conveying his fears, desires and personality. Ed Harris is excellent as the reclusive creator of the production. In addition, the entire support cast appears synthetic enough to let the audience know they are "acting" for Truman but in some scenes let their "genuine" feelings shine through. The ensemble simply cannot be faulted. Carey was hardly done by not to get an Oscar nomination for his performance.The music and visuals are top notch. The cinematography has a reality TV feel that is clever but never intrusive. The shot selection is of the highest quality, particularly in the movie's final sequence. Muscially, this film is incredible. Phillip Glass is a dream on the piano, perfectly evoking the mood for each section of the narrative. The two combine excellently during the scene in which Truman breaks his routine for the first time. During the sequence, Truman makes subtle changes to the bland routine he follows compliantly every day. The emotion of the music when combined with the apparent simplicity of Truman's actions makes this scene one the most powerful I'v ever experienced.This film is an absolute gem. It effortlessly combines everything a classic film should have. It has comedy, drama, strong character development, atmosphere, originality, superb visuals, a superb score, tight writing, raises interesting moral questions as well as providing insight into the human condition. One cannot watch this spectacular film without wondering how a human would react when put in that kind of situation. It touches on our sense of adventure, desire for conformity and the courage we require to question the life we are presented with. 'The Truman Show' does all this in the most accessible and compelling fashion. One of the greatest films of our time.


                
When I first saw 'The Truman Show' I came out of the theatre amazed. This is your first clue that you are watching something different from your normal Jim Carrey movie. I love the dialogue, camera shot, performances, direction, music, and running time of this movie. There is nothing I would do to change it. I came away from 'The Truman Show' feeling inspired which is the goal of good filmmaking Jim Carrey was outstanding as Truman, underplaying him, not making him too comic or too dramatic, but giving true sincerity when asked. He deserved an Oscar nomination. Ed Harris has always been a good actor, but in this movie he's a great actor. He plays Christof with such arrogance and bullheadedness that you don't know whether he's helping or destroying Truman. He and the director, Peter Weir, deserved their Oscar nods.Weir, who directed the great 'Witness', uses different camera angles to make you feel like you're actually watching 'The Truman Show' and not a movie. He ends it before you get tired of the concept and helped Carrey and Harris give immaculate performances. Andrew Niccol script is a real star in the movie too because of it's inventiveness and ingenuity. Overall, 'The Truman Show' is what I like to call a true American classic.


                
Life is starting to imitate satire. "The Truman Show" was only made seven years ago, but it predates the current mania for so-called "reality" television shows such as "Big Brother". The idea behind such shows is that they present the viewer with a slice of actual reality- real people in real situations with real emotions- rather than the simulated reality of drama or the edited reality of documentaries. The flaw in this idea is that nothing is more unreal than a reality show. The presence of the cameras has a distorting effect, inducing artificial behaviour patterns in those who appear in front of it, and the sort of people who star in such programmes are almost invariably eccentric exhibitionists. "The Truman Show" takes the central concept of reality TV shows one stage further in order to overcome this flaw: what would happen if we made a reality programme about a person who has absolutely no idea that he is appearing on television? Truman Burbank is an insurance executive, living in a small American seaside town called Seahaven, and happily married to a nurse named Meryl. Or at least he thinks he is. What Truman doesn't know is that he is the central character in a soap opera and that his whole life is a fiction. The company he works for does not exist. Seahaven, the island it stands on and the surrounding ocean are all part of a gigantic set, specially created for the programme and sealed off from the outside world in a gigantic geodesic dome. Everyone in Truman's life- Meryl, his mother, his colleagues at work, his best friend Marlon- are actors playing out their roles in his drama.For thirty years Truman has accepted his world unquestioningly, but at the beginning of the film a series of incidents- a light falling from the sky, the reappearance of his father, who was supposed to have drowned in a boating accident when Truman was a boy, strange messages picked up on his car radio- awaken his doubts. Although members of the cast make strenuous attempts to dissuade him, he decides to try and explore the world outside Seahaven; in particular he wants to travel to Fiji where he has been told that his former girlfriend Sylvia now lives. (Sylvia was written out of the show when the scriptwriters decided that he should marry Meryl instead).The film has certain similarities with another film from the late nineties, "Pleasantville", which dealt with an inverted version of the same idea; two teenagers from the real world are magically transported into the world of a fifties television show. In my view, however, "The Truman Show" is the better of the two. "Pleasantville" deals with its political themes in a heavy-handed way with some very obvious symbolism. "The Truman Show", although it deals with some weighty issues, is never ponderous or excessively serious; indeed, it is often very humorous. The main source of humour is the contrast between the naïve, trusting Truman and the behaviour of those around him, all living a lie and desperately trying to prevent Truman from finding out that it is a lie. I had previously thought of Jim Carrey as a rather annoying actor whose appeal was based upon the idea that manic overacting is in itself funny, but here as Truman he is very good indeed, both amusing and touching. I was also impressed by Ed Harris as Christof, the show's enigmatic producer.Another factor in the success of the film is its visual look. Seahaven (like the town in "Pleasantville") appears as an eerily perfect, not-quite-real version of the typical American small town, but was actually filmed in a real place, the purpose-built village of Seaside, Florida. There are similarities with the cult British sixties television series "The Prisoner", which was also filmed in an eerily perfect seaside village, Portmeirion in North Wales.The film is obviously a satire on the intrusiveness and obsession with celebrity of the modern media; added relevance was given by the fact that it came out shortly after the death of Princess Diana. There is, however, more to it than that. Much has been made of the film as religious allegory; it has been pointed out that Christof whose name is clearly, and quite deliberately, similar to "Christ", is a God-figure, whereas Truman (the "True Man") is a symbolic Everyman. It has even been claimed that the film is an anti-religious allegory, with Truman's final escape from Seahaven symbolic of man's need to break away from outdated religious dogmas. This is not an interpretation with which I would agree- if one is trying to put across a "God is dead" message, it seems odd to provide a God-figure who is very much real, not mythical or illusory. The imagery of the final scenes <U+0096> the calm after the storm, the ascent up a flight of stairs into the sky and clouds- also struck me as religious rather than secular. Moreover, the film seems too complex to be reduced to any single allegorical meaning, although it certainly deals with the relationship between man and God. It also touches on man's need to explore- both to explore new places and also to explore new ideas and to break away from established ways of life and ways of thought- and on the nature of reality. Truman's world may seem unreal to us, but as Christof says, "we accept the reality we are presented with".This is a brilliant, multi-layered film, part comedy, part satire, part philosophical speculation, and in my view one of the two best movies of the late nineties. (The other was "American Beauty"). I felt it should have taken the "Best Picture" Oscar for 1999- "Shakespeare in Love" is a good film, but "The Truman Show" is a great one. It confirms my view that Peter Weir is one of the best directors currently working. 10//10
It not so easy to be Jim Carrey, because nobody takes you seriously after many funny movies, even when he is ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. He proved himself so many times in dramas, he is so great actor.This time, there is no grade for the script, 10 is too low, maybe 10++ would suffice. I must agree that in everything around us we can see only what we are capable to see, but this movie gives so many levels and many people would see it differently and ALL WILL BE THRILLED by this movie.People who are interested in the phenomenon of 'Big Brother',a kind of TV voyeurism (so present today) will see the ultimate human desire to observe somebody's life, from its beginning, and without consent of the person which is the object of that observing. There is nothing special in this man who is watched, but we like to have mirrors of our lives in other people (who knows why). Of course, the next layer is ethical: do we have the right to watch somebody's life, because we don't talk about a rat, but a human being who doesn't know that he is watched in a TV show. If we go further, we must ask ourselves, what is real in our life? There is is always some possibility that we are observed, directed, guided, monitored..., by somebody and our life is not so authentic as we used to think.Next layer: this movie talks about freedom and personal choice. How we want to be free, no matter what are the other alternatives are. Free to love who we want, free to go, free as much as it is possible. Of course, if we want to be free, if our mind and society stop us.FINALLY... The most interesting level is the spiritual one.This is a guidebook of the spiritual path. At first, this world is so secure and predictable place. We have our little lives and we can define everything what is important for us, to have some simplification of reality, to feel safe. This kind of ordinary life is a bit boring, but we are in a herd, we are not alone in our dungeon.But..., at some moment, this world is maybe not what we thought it is..., maybe we want more of our lives,and the world is not so simple and ordinary place. We feel that there is something BEHIND this so- called 'reality'. And we start to search, to test that reality, which gives us more and more 'magic' things as we go deeper. This is still a stage of curiosity, many people tasted this path and feeling, but at some superficial level.If we go further, we must fight the world. All possible obstacles will arise, people and circumstances. When Truman wants to see reality what it is, to be free, all his 'friends' and the complete crew don't let him to go our the ordinary tracks. So alike the spiritual quest. Then, the moment has come, men must be separated from boys, that is, the curious people from the real seekers. The latter are ready to give even their lives, to 'waste' their time, to face their worst fears, to be 'hunted' by the society (which wants they to be 'normal' again)..., but a true spiritual person won't give up. The same as Truman ('you'l have to kill me!!!!!!!'), the quest is the real one only if we are totally determined to follow our inner feeling and to search the truth. AT LAST..., we hit the 'border' of the world, the frontiers of the reality, we get know what this world really is. We are free to talk with our 'God' (though I think it is the final trick of our ego, to bring us back to be 'normal' again and it plays so many games to pull us back, by saying that there is nothing out there, everything is the same, and it is better in realm of ILLUSION). Only a real spiritual person will say 'thanks' for the offer, and go to freedom, no matter what it is, but it is OUR freedom, our insight, the world won't be the same anymore. It is such a pity that this is a kind of review, that I can't make a spoiler, to give more details, to relate the scenes from the movie and my points. But when you see it, you'll know what I am talking about.Again, you'll see what you are able to see, the movie will be deep in degree of your ability to open your mind. This scenario can't be beaten even by movies like Gandhi or Mozart, or any other. An excellent work of Andrew Niccol.


                
I loved this movie. Everything about it. It is one you just want to watch over and over again. Jim Carey, as usually, played an amazing role. He made you think you were him, as the whole movie did. Watch it... its a must.Imagine being captivated all your life in a show, without knowing. Your neighbors, your family, your loved ones... everyone you ever knew were just actors, pretending to be people they are not. Well Truman Burbank not only imagined it, but also lived it. This is a hilarious movie, that will catch you from the first minute you watch it. Just be aware... once you start watching it, it will be difficult to stop. I rate this movie 5/5, with no negative comments.


                
When I was a young adult on the search for my true self, religion and God; I found myself reading all kinds of books such as: Demian, Sidarta, Brave New World, 1984, the works of Jean Paul Sartre and Simone de Bolvoir. The world of Truman Burbank certainly took me back to those days. I used to look at myself in the mirror and say out loud: "I wonder if I am me? I wonder if everybody thinks the same shade of red when I say red? Why was I born? Why are my parents my parents? Why did God create the world? Will I get punished by God for thinking all these things?" This is a deep movie, bound to become an art film.  Jim Carey did such a superb job that it earned him a Golden Globe Award. This is definitely an Oscar contender. It made me think! What a suprise! Movies do not make me think very often. They are predictable to me now. Could it be age?When the lady comes on the bike with the basket, then the dog and then the yellow Volkswagen it reminded me of how repetitive life seems at times, when we think that nothing is going to change and we want changes. The Director was like God,  the creator,  although at times he was a mean guy, I think that all of us have questioned God and have been angry at him. Truman's world seemed so "perfect", no messy hair, no trash. Just phony! Our world seems much like that, everything is a matter of perception.The audience that watched the Truman Show in the movie was a hedonistic audience of consumers who wanted to be entertained no matter what the cost to Truman, reminded me of the soaps, of the Paparazzi, of how we like to know about the celebrities, and ultimatly of how the product could be the death of someone such as Princess Diana, or Truman Burbank.Purchase the video and watch it many times and many other symbols will come to mind. Like Jim Carey stated while he received the Golden Globe that he would enjoy it down to the crunchy chewy part.
"The Truman Show" is a rarity in Hollywood - or movies in general - a film that actually makes the audience think, and is about ideas. How do we know what we see is real? Why do we accept what is around us without questioning it? What would happen if we found out that a fundamental we were making about the world turned out to be completely wrong? You'd think a movie that was about those things would be a chore to get through, but in fact "The Truman Show" is great fun. I certainly wouldn't call it a comedy (although there are a few light moments here and there), but it's not too heavy and goes down easy.It might sound like exaggeration, but the scene where Truman first starts to realize what's going on is one of the best scenes I've seen in any movie, because of Carrey's acting, the direction, and also because of the Philip Glass soundtrack (which was critical to making that scene work).If you haven't seen The Truman Show, do yourself a favor and check it out.


                
Have you ever thought you were being watched? Like you life was possibly a Television show? Well, Truman Burbank never did and this movie tells of how he found out his life was a TV show.Quite possibly one of the most imaginative plots ever, Peter Weir's The Truman Show shows how one man's vision (Ed Harris) of having someone's life be on TV (that being Truman played by Jim Carey)...without him knowing it. A totally real show that has no boundaries except the walls of the enormous set. With actors playing the roles of the townspeople in this perfect community, as it seems.Jim Carey is brilliant as the confused insurance salesman who just wants the truth about his life. The death of his "father" drowning at sea has given Truman a reason to stay in his town and not venture off. But the urge to see the woman of his dreams is all to much. She was moved to "Fiji" because of some problems. Laura Linney plays Truman's wife. She isn't only his wife but is a walking commercial. Whenever there is a product she brings home, it seems like she is telling the world how great it is. Noah Emmerich plays Truman's best friend Marlon. This always uplifting character brings comic relief for Truman when he needs it most. When Truman's world seems to be falling apart, he's there. When Truman just needs a friend, he's there. Marlon is the one part of his life that makes it seem so real when everything else seems so fake.What makes this movie so enjoyable other than the story is how the people act in this "town". The way they make sure Truman stays there and doesn't leave. How everybody has a routine and even the weather is controlled. In the opening scene Truman wakes up and heads off to work to have a stage light fall right in the street. Where it came from?...he doesn't know. But doesn't worry about it because life is going great...for now. Ed Harris's character Cristof a.k.a. the Creator is genius and maniacal. With his people working around the clock to make sure all is well, this world he has created is now a world wide phenomenon. He is on top of the world with millions of people watching his creation unfold.This sensational film about a man trying to find his way in the world is incredible. When everything seems like it doesn't add up, it just keeps getting more complicated and giving the viewer one hell of a good movie. The Truman Show is in a league of it's own.


                
The Truman Show may be approached on one level as social satire exposing the emptiness of an American Dream defined by consumerism and purveyed by the electronic media over the last half century. Life in "Seahaven," the vast dome-enclosed set/community in which Truman (Jim Carrey) has been raised under the watchful eyes of a worldwide TV audience of millions, is a sharp and elaborate parody of the corporate sponsored images of middle-class American material bliss and innocence first introduced to mass television audiences through such '50s sitcoms as Ozzie and Harriet, Father Knows Best, and The Donna Reed Show. A closely related target of The Truman Show's satire is the pervasive voyeurism and passivity that has increasingly characterized American social behavior as witnessed in film (ED TV), entertainment television (tell-all talk shows, Reality TV, the talent search genre), and even broadcast news (disaster/victim footage).Yet, on another level, The Truman Show, like Gattaca, The Matrix, Dark City and other more obvious examples of science fiction, deals with broad philosophical themes such as free will versus determinism in human action, subjective versus objective perceptions of reality, the assertion of humanness through existential rebellion, and the quest for an authentic self/ identity. Most immediately, the names and plot functions of the film's two principal characters - "Christof," the megalomaniacal producer/director of a 24/7 reality TV show, and "Truman," the show's eponymous everyman figure - invite the viewer to approach the work allegorically.Legally adopted by a corporation (in a clever parallel to virgin birth), manipulated by the all-seeing all-powerful Christof (Ed Harris) into phony friendship and empty marriage with actor-minions, and psychologically conditioned (i.e. terrorized) into fearing adventure and change, Truman gradually begins to suspect that Seahaven is not the paradise it purports to be. To assert his humanity and escape his artificially prolonged state of childlike ignorance, Truman must ultimately undertake that most mythic of journeys, a Sea Voyage. At its end, he must turn his back on the secure, controlled environment of his "heavenly" father's house and step through a forbidding black passageway that leads to the true human condition: emotional and physical risk, scary freedom, and - perhaps - real love. In so doing, Truman ironically brings to his TV audience (whether they are still capable of appreciating it or not) the very affirmation that the false god of television claims they receive from the contrived "hope and uplift" pabulum the show has been ladling out for 30 years along with its subliminal primary diet of product placement advertisement. In its climactic scenes, The Truman Show reveals Christof to be neither a social visionary nor a benevolent deity. Rather, we learn he has much in common with Orwell's Big Brother and - allegorically - with the implacable, sadistic god that Melville's Ahab imagines is running things behind the sky's impenetrable veil. By literally rending the heaven of his imprisoning universe, Truman navigates his storm-tossed sailing ship toward a completion of the heroic quest that Ahab's mad distraction (and Melville's theological uncertainty) forestalls: he momentarily frees himself and us from the diabolical/divine puller of the chains of human fate. In its final act, The Truman Show recasts the tragic despair of Moby Dick as comic triumph.
With its (all intentional of course) cheerfully colorful cinematography, cheesy music and one-dimensional supporting characters, it's easy to miss just how brilliant The Truman Show is; it's in fact one of the most important cinematic creations of the 1990's, at least as important as darker films like American History X and Fight Club, and one that works on several different levels. Because while it works quite clearly as a sarcastic satire and a commentary on the destructive and intrusive nature of the media in the post-modern age, in the light of the reality TV syndrome which was at the time just starting to grow, it's also a philosophical metaphor about the state of mankind.For Truman's story is man's story; and it's difficult not to see the importance in the names given to the lead characters. True Man's life, the film says, is an illusion, a lie. Or perhaps <U+0096> all our lives are illusions, but the True Man is the one who figures it out and seeks a deeper truth. In its essence the point is very similar to the one The Matrix made; The Truman Show is a fascinating trip through Plato's Cave, and while it takes a rather simplistic look at Plato's philosophy <U+0096> because any other way would be impossible in a film of less than two hours <U+0096> it doesn't dumb it down. The Truman Show is a deep and intricate film that deserves repeated viewing and gets better with time, and can be discussed for hours.Writer Andrew Niccol <U+0096> who made his breakthrough debut one year before with the critically acclaimed cult favorite Gattaca <U+0096> lost the Oscar that year to the Academy's favorite Shakespeare In Love, and director Peter Weir got most of the credit for the film; but while it's certainly an important achievement for Weir and the best film of his long career, it's Niccol's sarcastic, intelligent, innovative script that made The Truman Show great; that, and the amazing performance by Jim Carrey, who showed his fantastic dramatic skills here for the first time. Carrey is enchanting in the lead role as the ultimate everyman Truman, and we're as fascinated with him as the show's fans in the film. Praise should also go to Ed Harris, who plays Christof, creator and director of The Truman Show (and again, special attention should be given to the character's name) <U+0096> and also to Laura Linney, Noah Emmerich, Natasha McElhone, Harry Shearer, Peter Krause, Paul Giamatti and the rest of the wonderful supporting cast, both in Truman's world of Seahavan and in Christof's 'real' world. Finally, a word of praise for the excellent musical score, composed by Burkhard von Dallwitz and the great Philip Glass, which compliments the film's atmosphere to perfection.The Truman Show is not an easy movie to absorb; it's a disturbing tale and a disturbing message, which takes some time to seep in, and while it's entirely unconvincing as a reality and even as sci-fi, and feels more like a metaphor than a story of a specific man, it's also entirely involving and demands to be taken at face value. Truman's character is irresistibly charming, and just like the people watching The Truman Show, we believe in him and identify with him completely. The beauty of The Truman Show is that it's lots of fun; it proves that entertainment and art are not necessarily opposing ideals. By being entirely entertaining and gripping, it gets its messages across a whole lot better.The Truman Show is now eight years old: the way I see it, once a decade has passed, a film can begins to be considered a classic. The Truman Show will pass that test. In any possible aspect, The Truman Show is one of the absolute best films of the 90's, and one that will remain relevant long after reality TV has bitten the dust.


                
With "The Truman Show", released in 1998, Peter Weir delivers a brilliant satire about the excesses of reality shows, with a prophetic relevance disguised under a misleading comedic mask. This underrated gem of the 90's, tells the original, to say the least, story of Truman Burbank, played by Jim Carrey in a breakthrough dramatic performance with this bit of tender wackiness we expect from him. Truman is an ordinary insurance salesman living in the small peaceful town of Seahaven. He's popular and lives in harmony with his wife, his mother, his best friend, his colleagues and neighbors. In appearance only <U+0085> What Truman doesn't know, and here's the visionary originality on which relies his life, is that Seahaven, is in fact a huge studio with 5,000 cameras always keeping an eye on him and that everyone's an actor, including his wife, his mother, his best friend etc. and last but not least, all his life, was filmed since his birth to become the greatest and longest-running reality show in television history: 'The Truman Show'. Truman believed in a reality which is in fact, completely fictional, and all the protagonists of this pseudo reality, are puppets hanging on the string of the show's Creator who designs the perfect screenplay creating emotional cliffhangers for future episodes. The Creator is Kristoff, brilliantly portrayed by Ed Harris like a kind of almighty God, and the human incarnation of media's omnipotence. And Truman eventually realizes that his life is a huge hoax, and decides to leave the perfect utopia of Seahaven, and go discover the "real" world. Because that's the point: reality shows don't depict reality, but paint it with fiction, it's real fiction, but fiction nonetheless. The ambivalence is obvious in "The Truman Show". Truman's life is fictional, because all the protagonists play a role in order to create a story for the viewers. Viewers who follow the show like a soap opera with a 'realistic' dimension. Indeed, Truman's character is real, as stated by the creator of the show, he is the only "real" protagonist of this world, his reactions are spontaneous and sincere. The reality is pushed to (unscrupulous) limits, because unlike other shows, Truman doesn't know he's filmed, he's natural. His life is a fiction, but paradoxically a 'real' one. This is the semantic loophole, unscrupulous TV program managers use to justify the unrealistic aspect of their shows. The script's fascinating brilliance reminds of "Network" in the 70's, highlighting many unpleasant aspects of TV Reality, including the viewer's tacit complicity. Indeed, the viewer never minds the scripted aspect of reality as presented in TV programs as long as it improves his personal enjoyment, like for all these people who were assiduously following 'The Truman Show' in all over the world. The second aspect is the subjectivity of reality. Truman, for all his spontaneity and sincerity, was unknowingly following the storyline that producers traced. And all the situations were constructed to make him react according to a script. The process of mediation doesn't prevent from spontaneity, but it undermines its credibility by creating specific situations for premeditated reactions. Like in some programs where two people who don't appreciate each other or whose views totally differ, are both invited just to create a violent verbal confrontation -supposedly unexpected- to please the audience.Finally, the main lesson of the film lies on the climax where Truman, tries to leave the fictional world of Seahaven, materialized by the powerful symbol of a dome painted like a sky. Truman struggles to get outside before he faces the producer of the show. The latter warns him against the dangers of a hostile real world where truth is no worthier than elsewhere, and invites him to join the perfect utopia of Seahaven, where he's a hero. Truman's reaction is very symbolic. He left the cameras' world, like an artist who addresses his fans for the last time, with his famous catchphrase as a farewell, and finally gets out. This last pirouette, sublimated by the thrilling score of the film, earned him the applause of the audience, as if the excitement made them forget that the show was ending. Indeed, when the show was finally interrupted, two viewers quickly recovered from their emotions, and zapped to another program. The end. Truman is a genuine character, who understood the completely artificial status of his stardom. He therefore preferred to leave a charming utopia and face the real world. Television today launches ordinary people at the rank of stars for the simple reason that we, viewers, observed their everyday's moves, the details of their life's banality during weeks or months. But that kind of artificial popularity is inevitably ephemeral: it sinks into oblivion as soon as a new reality show emerges. And that's because camera's point view as depicted in the film, presents the reality in a dangerously subjective way. The 'staging', admitted by the public as it highlights positive values like friendship, fame, success, and empathy is a dangerous emotional depiction of reality. The risk is less for the viewer, who accepts the process, than for the protagonists of these emissions, whose purely artificial and prefabricated fame can lead to deep feelings of frustration later. The emotional excitement is binary, and plays on both positive and negative poles, it may present for the sake of transparency, real people who suffer and live under difficult conditions, whether in the context of stories, talk or reality shows. The danger here is moral, because with this constant clash between reality and fiction, how can we be sure that the depiction of suffering and frustration will inspire the audience positive psychological reactions like compassion and solidarity rather than a voyeuristic sadism mixed with a circumstantial empathy?"The Truman Show", denounces the fictionalization of reality, through a remarkable fiction, that makes today's reality look like a less believable fiction <U+0085>
Have you ever felt like your not alone in you house. That maybe just maybe there's over half of the world watching you. The Truman Show is a film about a man called Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey). Who lives a normal life; with his normal job. But he is living in an abnormal world. Because Truman is living in his own world called sea heaven; sea heaven is actually a set and his home and job is all a lie. Truman has a world based around him and what ever he does the citizens of sea heaven have to go along with it. His Mum, Dad, Wife and even his best friend are all actors. The Truman show is filmed with the highest technology in cameras around. Small clip on cameras that can clip on to a jacket and not be seen. But when Truman sees that elevators have 4 men drinking tea in the back of them and that the radio has co-ordinates of his position on it he starts to get suspicious. The Truman Show has been nominated for three Oscars and has won three Baftas. Award winning director peter weir worked with paramount pictures to make this film a masterpiece. The Truman Show is a film that just about makes up for the horrible disasters of Godzilla and Armageddon, this film might be the film of the 90's.The Truman Show had a strict budget of $60 million and earned $125 million in film screenings alone. The Truman Show hasn't got any fancy graphics or any expensive cars or props its just pure film making and passion.Overall the Truman Show is a very good film, but my only criticism is that some of the background actors didn't look like they knew what they were doing. But overall there was no big mistakes in the plot. I would give this a five star rating.


                
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT:Truman Show is without a doubt Carey's best work. I did not have the pleasure of seeing this until this year, where after seeing Bruce Almighty and becoming somewhat of a Jim Carey fan, I made an effort to watch more of his movies. Truman Show is an instant classic in all the right ways, it's a smart, well acted, somewhat eerie, and utterly unique masterpiece. It also gets better the more you watch it.I don't happen to like the genre of science fiction and nobody could deny Truman Show's got a bit of sci fi but I don't think it really falls under any one genre. What's really scary is the idea-this concept-is not so out there anymore, in today's times, that one could completely rule out that this could ever happen. It's creepy, very much so, in the way that The Original Stepford Wives is but more so in a way, and I wonder about what would be said about the movie had it been released currently, instead of the late 90's when reality TV was just starting to cause a ripple.I first started changing my thoughts on Carey after Bruce Almighty, a great movie (and one that is a lot more thought provoking then many give it credit for.) But as good as he was in that, he simply shines in Truman, everyone does, I loved Laura Linney as Truman's annoying, cold on screen wife Meryl. I've seen many of Linney's movies, this is one of her best.I'd advise people who haven't seen Truman Show to see it more then once-the first time I saw it, I thought it was about an 8 or 9, it grows on you and it's the kind of movie you want to see again as soon as it ends. There are a few frustrating things to be sure, I wish it had not ended so ambiguously, I'd have liked to see more of Truman's life after leaving the set, his relationship with Sylvia and what the other characters were feeling gone into a bit more. Also the audience. Was Truman an instant celebrity when he left or was he quickly forgotten in favor of the next flavor of the month by his devoted audience as is a bit inferred? Truman Show, unlike about 95 percent of movies made, does seem like a sequel could be made, although with how bad most sequels are I'd be a bit wary. Still, any flaws are not enough to prevent a 10 of 10 rating from me, you could be watching this movie for the 50th time and it still seems like it would inspire the same reaction.
I recently watched The Truman Show in my ELA class during our satire unit. I was pleasantly surprised when the movie actually turned out to be good. Before watching I read the description and I had my doubts but those were quickly cast aside while watching Jim Carrey play the main character Truman so well. Jim's funny personality really drove home the humor in the movie. Serious scenes were expertly acted by all members of the cast and I found myself enjoying every minute of the film.The Truman Show included many satirical elements inside some of the funnier scenes in the movie. The film uses satire as a means to show the audience that forcing your own ideals on someone is not always a good idea. In the movie, the director tries to play god and run the life of Truman. Truman eventually finds out that his entire life is a lie and tries to escape. After Truman finds the exit of his artificial world, the director tries to convince Truman to stay by telling him that the world he has been living in is better than the real world but Truman decides to leave anyways. The message behind this is a strong one and the movie did a good job of getting it's message across.
The Truman Show is a satirical comedy-drama with a cast includes Jim Carrey as Truman Burbank, as well as Laura Linney, Noah Emmerich, Ed Harris and Natascha McElhone. The film chronicles the life of a man who is initially unaware that he is living in a constructed reality television show, broadcast around the clock to billions of people across the globe. Truman becomes suspicious of his perceived reality and embarks on a quest to discover the truth about his life.It was written by Andrew Niccol and directed by Peter Weir.Truman Burbank is unaware that his entire life is a hugely popular 24- hour-a-day TV series. Every moment of his existence is captured by concealed cameras and telecast to a giant global audience. His friends and family are actors who smile pleasantly at Truman's familiar catchphrase greeting, "In case I don't see you later, good afternoon, good evening, and good night!" Employed at an insurance company, he is married to merry Meryl, and they live in the cheerful community of Seahaven, an island where the weather is always mild and no unpleasantness intrudes. This is the basic situation of the series, which has grown over the years into a billion-dollar franchise for the TV network. As an unwanted pregnancy, Truman was adopted by the network and raised in the zoolike environment of a TV soundstage. Thus, the TV audience became hooked when Truman was very young. Now, at age 30, he still doesn't know he's a prisoner on an immense domed city-size soundstage, simulating Seahaven. Both the illusion and the ratings will collapse if Truman ever leaves Seahaven. In addition to elaborate events staged to make sure he stays put, Truman is given constant reminders of how wonderful Seahaven is compared to dangers in other parts of the world. However, his growing suspicions make him curious enough to try to leave, and the show's director and master manipulator Christof (Ed Harris) must constantly devise ways to thwart Truman's escape attempts. To enter the harbor, Truman must overcome his fear of water.This is a funny, tender, and thought-provoking film.It is noteworthy for its remarkably prescient vision of runaway celebrity culture and a nation with an insatiable thirst for the private details of ordinary lives.The issues it tackles are just as relevant now than they were when the film was first released theatrically.Also,it has great performances from the cast especially from Jim Carrey in what may be the performance of his career.
I stopped watching tv for two weeks after I saw The Truman Show, and now I try not to watch anything other than the news or movies.  Jim Carrey CAN act in a drama, and he was simply incredible in this movie.


                
After watching The Truman Show I found that it is a great film for people of all ages. It is both a comedy and a drama, so everyone can get something out of it no matter what they like. Although there is some language, most of the movie is pretty family friendly. It also has a great message about reality TV. One thing you should look out for though is that the ending scene is very intense and may give children nightmares. There is some profanity including the sh-- word, hell, and godd---. Although these are very few points in the film and I'm sure no child would pick it up.


                
The Truman Show has proved to remain updated throughout already two decades, exposing the world to themes like following your dreams and never stopping to get to them. This idea is exposed in an idea that could be inspired by "Plato's Cave", but with a modern twist, based on how ignorant people can be in one's surroundings. The exposure of consumerisms still remains a mirror towards today's society. The cinematography utilized to mimic the hidden cameras is brilliant, making the movie an amazing analysis for philosophical viewers, and a fun movie for casual ones.


                
That rare cinematic experience a movie so close to pure perfection that it seems a shame to spoil it by even reading a review beforehand.


                
The Truman Show is flawless in every sense of the world. It's a metaphor for everything, for so much of what is wrong with the world. It's a commentary on what people want, what they crave, and how they operate. It deals with how much power one person can have over another, how you can't keep a person from being independent. There are many that say that the end of the movie was a cop-out, that he should have gotten revenge. I say it is completely perfect the way it is. It proves that the most basic human instinct is to know, to learn, and to be independent. So many movies try to be revolutionary, to be a metaphor for life and fall woefully short. Sometimes it's because the metaphor doesn't speak the way it should, sometimes it's simply because the quest for profoundness has stripped the movie of its entertainment value. This movie does neither. It speaks volumes, but it's still entertaining. And I don't think there is a movie ending that moves me to tears quite as frequently. I don't think there ever will be.
The Truman Show is one of Jim Carrey's most successful comedy films along with Dumb And Dumber, The Mask, Ace Ventura and Liar Liar, however this movie is the most well received by the film critics and earning an 8.1/10 on IMDb and a 94% on Rotten Tomatoes (as well as a 90 on Metascore but nobody gives a damn about Metascore). So it's no wonder that some people are still thinking about watching the movie and reading reviews, and one of those people used to be me once, and I'm surprised you're reading my reviews out of all the ones. I'm glad you're reading this, and I'll try to give you the best effort for a review possible so you can see whether you'd like this movie or not.The Truman Show can be interpreted as a basic comedy movie to pass time by some but it can also be interpreted as a misunderstood masterpiece because of the specializing in cinematography, subtlety and wittiness in the subject of TV shows. In reality TV shows, people like Truman live in them for basically the entirety of their lives and the only difference is that they are fully aware that they have been living in one while Truman is completely unaware. However, Truman begins to gain suspicion after strange events happen and he begins to suspect things while we, as the viewer, are completely aware that the strange events are because of the fact that he is in a TV show. As usual, Jim Carrey brings his humorous characteristics as he reacts to these strange situations such as product placement, coincidental happenings and bad luck and we, as the viewer, are amused when we watch him in these situations because we know he is in a TV show. While these situations are funny they are actually very thought-provoking and they may question your life itself and how the process of Reality TV Shows work and whether or not the actors in Coronation Street are like Truman - except that they are self-aware of it being a TV Show. We then watch these TV Shows with heaps of effort and we enjoy them, however are we really to care of the impact of TV Shows? After an episode we just flick it onto another channel until dinner is ready.Still not sure whether you will like this or not? Well, if you are a big fan of Jim Carrey's outrageous but intelligent humour then I think you will enjoy this movie. While this is a lot more subtle and thought-provoking in terms of humour than Jim Carrey's previous comedies, it still sticks to the humour we know and love from Jim Carrey however on a lower volume than it is usually played. If you are a fan of thought-provoking, cynical satires then I think you will enjoy this film as well. If you are a fan of good cinematography techniques then I think you'll enjoy analyzing this film. If you simply want to watch a good film then watch this. If you are not a fan of Jim Carrey, satire, cinematography or good films then this film is not for you. Simply put, this film is a comedic masterpiece that may be to some tastes and below others depending on the type of films you usually take interest in, but for me it was a delightful treat that just whizzed past my expectations.


                
Remind me of the story Zhuangzhou Dreamt of Butterfly. We never know whether we are living in the true world, whether there is someone spying on us all the time, whether our lives are directed by others...Now that we can not figure it out, why do we always care about others' views about us? JUST BE YOUSELF.


                
Here I am watching this in 2017 and Spellbound by such beautiful work. I never knew a movie could quite be like this. If you've never seen this movie you need to see it. It's not a comedy but it's not the drama exactly. It's life pure and simple life and the Awakening to the fact that maybe it's not what you thought it was. Maybe it's a commentary on midlife crisis cease or maybe it's a commentary on the modern-day prevalence of reality TV. You could take it either way or you can take it for what it is. A story that sings.


                
This film opens my door to the magic world. I watched several times at different ages and I gained new things every time. This is the first time I realize a real good story can really peek you from inside. It's not only talking to you but also talking about you. It stands with me forever.


                
