When the movie started I hoped I'd see a movie that utilized the potentiality of what this kind of plot has: Finding that your whole life was one big lie - and the emotional crisis that follows it. Alas, that was not to follow - I hoped the movie would go on from the point Truman successfully escaped the place, but instead the movie ended.I was dismayed that the director didn't realise what great potentiality the movie would had if we could see the emotions Truman would go thru when he finds the Real World(Tm). One would go insane from going from a safe haven to a more unfriendlier and tough world, which would be very interesting to see - and give the movie a much more emotional edge! Which is a shame, because at its current form it does not live up to the hype it had back then.


                
There are two types of moviegoers.. people who like this movie and intelligent people. This is the most overrated movie I have ever seen. The story is so poorly done it's a crime. I am truly shocked so many people like this movie. The scene where Ed Harris talks to Jim Carrey like he's god is the true low point of this film and a perfect example of why this movie isn't good.


                
A wonderful concept, highly original, but unfortunately, poorly implemented. The sets are good and Jim Carrey's as good as he ever was, though.  You just feel when you leave the cinema that something was missing.  No real beginning and no real end.


                
I saw this with my friend as a two movie double. We walked out of Can't Hardly Wait feeling sore from laughing so hard at how hilarious and great it was, into The Truman Show.The pain quickly got worse, but not in a happy, laughing way. I expected this movie to be a great piece of cinematic history, but the truth is, I was almost asleep by the end.I would have to say that the thing that annoyed me most about this movie was that NOTHING HAPPENED. Honestly, I didn't find it exciting at all. I know that it wasn't supposed to be an Ace Ventura bum-talking movie; I was prepared for drama, but it was just one big let-down.


                
God, I wanted to like this film. Jim Carrey is a good actor, an excellent physical comic, he's also capable of giving heartfelt truthful performances. He does it here.Confound it, I want to like everything Peter Weir does. I frequently don't, but I'm always willing to give him the benefit of the doubt. Anyone who can do a "Picnic at Hanging Rock" can't be all bad. He obviously has the capacity to make us see, feel, understand without overstating the obvious; all while skirting the obvious, for heaven's sake! "The Truman Show," therefore, SHOULD have been one of my year's high points cinematic ally. Maybe I was in a bad mood when I saw the advanced screening. I returned and actually paid to see it. Maybe the first-view dyspepsia carried over, maybe I hadn't given it enough time.I rented it.Okay: I liked it less the second time I saw it. I almost hated it on the third viewing. (I know, I KNOW...A film -- play, painting, a joke... whatever -- is meant to be grabbed on first view, by single exposure. Repeated looks are bound to let us explore flaws...but, dammit, I was trying to give the thing a break. Really. It IS the kind of thing I should love...) What's wrong with Truman? It's one of those things that SAYS it's going to do something. It tells us what it intends to show, then proceeds NOT to show us, but to restate the thesis! And the audience is expected to buy into the notion that the film has actually explored the issues... whatever they are.Truman, for me, is all statement and no delivery. It gives us a wonderfully correct theme...a charming, easy to root-for hero...a potentially exciting and interestingly equivocal villain...then blows it all away because it hasn't got the courage of it's own set-up.What WOULD make Truman, despite a lifetime of conditioning, get on that boat? NOTHING!! He so easily accepts the unacceptable, he so easily overcomes every problem the film gives him, that there is no dramatic tension, no questions, no... Okay: no film! Of course, it presents us with a user-friendly, feel-good ending. The sit-com man takes charge of his life. Victory. Vindication. And we don't even have a clue what Truman's life -- or Life in general -- is about... nor, alas, does he.Sorry. Too facile...like Jim Carrey's talking butt...an easy laugh, a go-for-the-guaranteed-result. This film, for me, is a smug, simplistic, self-congratulatory exercise in Hollywood telling us what's wrong with Hollywood - and us.Go write your own screenplay on this theme. Bet you can do it better.
I cannot believe all the hype surrounding this movie.  After I saw it, I sat there dumbfounded, thinking, this is what everyone thinks is so great?  It was a good idea but so slow and boring with such an anticlimactic ending that I almost fell asleep!  And of course Jim Carrey took every opportunity to make stupid faces even in a dramatic role. It was totally unbelievable and took forever to get to the end. I thought it was incredibly silly and would not recommend it to anyone.


                
This movie just might have made a good half hour episode on the "Twilight Zone", but there just isn't enough here for a feature film and the idea is hardly original - the sixties series "The Prisoner" had many similarities. Do yourself a favor and skip it.


                
To tell you the truth, I think I missed something. How else can people say this is a good movie? Sure I think that the concept is a cool idea, and this is one of Harris' best roles, but other than that there is no reason to see this movie again. And all that Oscar buzz for Jim Carrey...How? Jim Carrey was better in Ace Ventura than this movie.


                
I watched this movie on TV, and was looking for something a lot better. It had received a lot of support when it was in the cinema, both from the critics and the general public. After watching it I wonder how it was given such high rating. I am not a fan of Jim Carrey, but I know that he has a lot of talent, mainly in the comedy field. I don't know which is worse this movie or The Cable Man. However I do hope that this Canadian talent is not wasted and he is given some better scripts. At many points in the movie I was just at a loss what was going on. Watching a third or fourth rerun of "Murder She Wrote" would  have been a better option.


                
and since it's a movie I felt ripped off. Dull and predictable (a real, winning combination) I walked out of this dreck after about an hour. I finally caught the whole thing on video - and believe it didn't improve with age.


                
