There's a point at which some works of fiction ask you to convert the "willing suspension of disbelief" which we must bring to any fictional work into "throwing all critical faculties completely to the winds", and that's what happens here. This film is mildly entertaining for a while..until you start actually thinking about some of what it asks you to take for granted. 1. Weather on demand. While we've all seen wave making pools, has anyone actually seen the technology to create violent localized storms? (While there are some who claim the "secret" government has such weather control technology, even they supposedly can only do it over a large area.) On a sound stage, this could only have been done with giant fans and large, obvious water-spewing machinery. Where were the fans and the other machinery? Or are we supposed to believe all that weather just came out of thin air? 2. Ventilation. With all the car exhaust and heat generated by the community and the artificial lighting, there obviously would have to be giant air conditioning systems (remember, the dome was supposed to be a closed, sealed location) to dissipate the heat and provide fresh air. Where were all the giant vents that would've been needed? The a/c equipment? The constant noise that large a/c equipment generates? 3. Wouldn't Truman have noticed that there were never any airplanes or helicopters seen flying anywhere? Wouldn't he have asked "why don't we have any aircraft here?" I can't think of any "excuse" for that which would have been even remotely plausible. 4. For this "community" to have gone on so long, it would've meant that all of Truman's "schoolmates" weer actors who grew up there along with him. Does anyone really think that so many children (actors, no less) could have kept such a big secret for so many years? Come on, now! You can bet that more than one kid over all that time would've felt the need to spill the beans. 5. Laura Linney's character was initially shown as a cheerleader. That means that the island's high school played competitive sports with other schools. So...does that mean they NEVER played an "away" game?? Wouldn't Truman have thought that to be a little strange? And would all of the opposing team's athletes have agreed to be bought off and keep silent? How much money would it have cost to buy the silence of those kids, in addition to all of those mentioned in 4. above? No t.v. show would have been able to marshal the huge budget necessary to pull all of this off on an ongoing basis -- not to mention the huge budget just to pay all of the hundreds of actors. 6. All t.v., radio, magazines, newspapers, movies and internet (yes, internet existed when this movie was made) coming to the island would have had to be censored of any references to The Truman Show. There's no way a t.v. network would be able to exercise such total control. Truman would have noticed that the only media were locally generated. Wouldn't he have asked why he was cut off from everything else? 7. Even if the supposed explanation that he was adopted by a corporation was valid, the moment he was restrained from free movement of any kind the corporation (and thus Christof) was committing the felony of kidnapping -- a federal crime which wouldn't have been excused. 8. There were even internal inconsistencies..e.g., "Christof" said in the Harry Shearer interview that all revenues for the show were generated by product placement. If that's so, then why did "Meryl" have to hold up various products to the camera and deliver spiels? 9. We're supposed to believe that "Meryl" was so upset by some of the manifestations of Truman's waking-up process that she breaks into tears and claims she "can't work under these conditions, it's not professional". But at the same time, we're supposed to believe that living for years in a sham marriage with a man she doesn't love (and presumably, routinely having sex with him) was perfectly okay with her, simply because it was a paid gig! That's pretty cold, even for Hollywood.
What I liked about The Truman Show was the setting and the cinematography.  The production values are good, which sometimes impresses me more than it should.  At least in this case the resulting sense of realism is very satisfying.But the story seemed muddled and pointless, Truman goes through a random process of discovery, and then breaks free.  So what? Can it be possible that the message of this movie is that we watch too much TV? That many of us have trouble distinguishing entertainment from reality?  That everything in life is an illusion?  If it isn't one of these hoary platitudes, what is it?  Even when someone suggested that the movie is an updated version of the escape from the Garden of Eden, and so probably has something to do with loss of innocence, I still end up asking "So what?"  There's a dorm-room earnestness about The Truman Show that left me cold.  You might love it.  It's definitely worth a try.The Truman Show may be like Citizen Kane, a movie that everyone knows is great but that hardly anyone asks for at the video rental store except extreme cineastes.


                
Excruciating.It has so little to say and takes so long to say it, this movie give you a good idea of what watching "The (real) Truman Show" must be like. Maybe because I had heard about it before seeing it, I expected some profound insights from this movie.Nope.My friends pretty much covered it all when they told me, "It's about a guy whose life is a TV show, and everyone knows except him." Intriguing idea. I kept waiting for more, but it never came. At least Jim Carrey is fun to watch.


                
I didn't really like "the Truman show" it was really boring there was not enough action.The main character's names are Truman Burbanks, Meryl Burbanks, Syliva and Marlon they were played by Jim Carrey, Laura Linney, Natasch McElhone, Noah Ennmerich.Truman was a child born into a world fill of actors and he never found out till he was about 30yrs old that his whole world was false. He was the star of "the Truman show" a world wide reality t.v program.I could tell that the director wanted to make something original and different. I think the director achieved this.
The movie was generally bad.  The story was understandable but it wasn't particularly interesting or enjoyable--quite pointless if you ask me. There were no particular funny scenes,    Jim Carrey's Dumb and Dumber is so much more entertaining.   The movie seemed more like an unrealistic drama that just wasn't fun or catchy.  The only good thing to say about the movie is that the more serious acting from Jim Carrey was impressive and the cinematography was effective.   Don't bother with this film.   If you want an excellent black comedy try the one of a kind "Bride of Chucky."


                
Nice idea, bad delivery. Could be many things. Chock full of symbols. Is it the journey of the homosexual male trying to be like everyone else at his own expense? Is it about conformity? Is it about the weight of heterosexual mores and traditions that kill you in the end? About lost dreams, lost loves, lost selves? About naivete and trust? About lies? About living lies? Marrying who we hate and doing what we dislike to please others? About ancestry, adoption (Truman's real father isn't real), making up God in a godless society? Dreams of perfection? Parable about Hollywood and what they try to shove down the public's throat while brainwashing them with ads? Making people buy things? Latent lesbianism (all the women dislike men). Fake selves we present to the world? Masturbation (both mental and physical)? The emptiness that comes with getting what you think you want? American actors are too self aware--their egos always intrude. God is a repressed gay man throughout. Jim Carrey fails at drama. You pick the scenario you like.
Would have been a decent film if they took a little more time introducing us to the situation before Truman started to notice things.  They seemed rushed to get to the end.


                
