This is a good movie, and it could've been great, though unfortunately it wasn't.For one, the idea for the story was thought-provoking, intriguing. Too bad they didn't make the most out of it ... that's the feeling I got somehow. I felt it could've been better. Maybe it was the way it was written. Who knows.The acting was, well, ... it was fine enough, though I can't honestly say that it was wonderful, because I've seen a lot more which was better. Ed Harris was good, and Jim Carrey was OK. I guess perhaps all those rave reviews came because people got a revelation with another side of Jim Carrey in this movie, but I think he still has a long way to go. Still, this is a good start!This is a good movie, though it could've been great. Too bad it wasn't ... Anyway, we can hope for better movies. Get another great idea. Then make it !!!!!!!! The Truman Show got the first one down, now we need movies which follows up both.


                
Interesting premise of television programming focused on one man (Carrey) who is unaware of his prominence.  I enjoyed the movie more the first time than the second, I'm not sure it holds up very well to scrutiny.  Plot takes itself too seriously and hits you over the head with the concept;  also, Carrey's unawareness of his situation is a little too much to swallow. Worth a shot but don't expect too much.


                
I was one of a great many people who saw this movie and were blown away at how original it was.Then, a few nights ago, while flipping channels, I caught the last five minutes of an episode of Twilight Zone, The (1985). The episode (I've learned after digging a little) was titled "Special Service" and was episode 3.27, airing in 1988. It concerns a regular guy who discovers that his entire life has been orchestrated and broadcast as a cable TV show.I guess it just goes to show that all of us who thought, "Man, what a Twilight-Zone concept that movie was!" were more right than we could have known!Grade: 7 out of 10. Good. Worth seeing, but once will probably do.


                
Peter Weir's earliest major films -The Last Wave, Picnic at Hanging Rock --are studies of people overwhelmed by circumstances they can't understand or control. But his later films offer hope of redemption and triumph. Like Dead Poets' Society, the Truman Show is the story of struggle for freedom from an oppressive system. While "DPS" was an interesting development of a standard situation (a liberal-minded teacher helps students free their minds from tradition through creative literature) the Truman Show is based on a very unique setup. The main character, Truman Burbank, is the only "true man" in a TV-show world of actors and commercial advertising. We, the viewers, discover this truth before he does because Weir introduces us to a selection of viewers who are hooked on the show. The film holds our interest by showing us, first, Truman's process of discovery, and then his attempts to escape his situation.A lot has been made out of the supposed religious elements of the Truman Show, presumably because of the "Christof-Christ" name parallel (a bit too cute, don't you think?). But to turn the film into a religious allegory misses the obvious: the film is about the line between fake and real, and how television destroys humanity by hooking us on images in order to sell products. The key line in the film is (Truman to Christof): "You never had a camera in my head!" You can't say that about God. Second, the real Christ was a rebel (as in the confrontation with the money-changers) who was killed by the system. If you want a Christ image in the Truman Show, it's Truman "walking on water" at the end of the film, not the lord of commercialism chillingly played by Ed Harris.If there's a deeper philosophical message in the film, it has to be the rejection of the postmodern idea of how we know what we know. Truman lives in a world that's been created for him. A postmodernist (i.e., pretty much anyone teaching in the literature or history department of my university) would say that we accept the world we're given. What we "know to be true" is what we are told is true. My "truth" depends entirely on the culture I live in and the categories of thought I'm provided with. On this basis, Truman should never escape Seahaven. But human intellect and curiosity exist precisely to question and change categories of thought. So, Truman's quest for the truth involves observing both anomalies (a falling stage light, odd patches of rain) where there should be consistency, and patterns (bicycle, flowers, Beetle!) where there should be randomness. He persists until he finds a way out of the world of image into the real world, out of the fake light, sky and clouds into the black door of whatever is out there. The tragedy is that the commercial world of television needs us not to find our way out. So the very last image of the Truman Show is not the hero escaping, but the viewers saying, "So, what else is on?"
I am not a Jim Carrey fan.  His performance on one of the MTV award shows a few years ago was a prime motivator in my having that channel removed from my cable service.  I rented "The Truman Show" at the urging of my teenage son - what a pleasant surprise!  Carrey CAN act when not behaving like an ass.  Very entertaining & thoughtful movie.  Certainly gives one second thoughts as to just how much television intrudes into all our lives - shades of "1984" - not too far away folks!  If we're not careful.Sterling Ed Harris, as always.I was disappointed, however, not to see the reunion between Truman & Sylvia. But then the human/true/real aspect would have clouded the entire concept, perhaps.  Good movie & highly recommended.Dissenting "intellects" please keep in mind the adage (paraphrased) "An intellectual is one who has been educated too much".


                
With all the reality shows currently on TV it feels almost like the concept presented in "The Truman Show" would be the next logical step.The Truman show is about the insurance salesman "Truman" whose life is a TV-show. The biggest reality show in history. He is filmed around the clock and has been for all of his life. The only thing is, he doesn't know it. But now things are happening that makes him question his reality. How will this affect him? "The Truman Show" is a very entertaining film. Besides the interesting concept presented it is also well written, well acted and masterfully directed. What also makes it entertaining is the way that you feel sympathetic towards the characters, the way that many of them are believable in their artificial way. Jim Carrey does some of his best work here as Truman, far removed from the antics of the Pet Detective.In the end what raises this movie above the crowd is the interesting concept. A concept that should give plenty of food for thought for people with tendencies towards paranoia. It also asks important questions about the importance of freedom vs. security. Questions that are more important today than ever before.I rate this 7/10.


                
This movie was ambitious and attempts to be a classic, yet a weak screenplay prevened it from being so.It turned out to be a deluxe episode from the Twilight Zone instead.Carrey did a very good job showcasing more of his versatility adding to people's respect for his talents.You will get your time and money's worth from this movie though.It is worth a look if you are looking for one of those light comedy/drama movies that still makes you think.A must for Carrey fans who are growing in number fast.He is one of the best comedians all time and this movie confirms it.He proves he is not all slapstick and rubber face only but is capable of other styles of comedic techniques......


                
I finally watched the Truman Show after all of the talk I had heard about it and all of the articles I had read. I really had high expectations for the film that was supposingly "robbed" of a Best Picture Nomination. I must say I felt let down.Anyone who thinks that Jim Carrey's performance is Oscar-worthy is insanely out of their mind. Saying that is similar to asking why Tom Hanks didn't get an Oscar nod for "The 'burbs." Carrey gives a decent performance that to me differed in no way from any of the performances that he has done before. There are still elements of his comic side (scene in which he drives around in circles trying to foil the other cars) present here and he really never comes through with any element of real drama, it all seems fake. However, who knows? Hanks started his acting career by doing mainly comedies until Philadelphia and look what happened to him.The film itself is directed well by Peter Weir who I felt had so much potential to use other interesting facets of the life of Truman. It seems that we are given a quick intro into the life of Truman and are all too quickly rushed into his ploy to get out of the dome and fly to Fiji. If only the first half of the film was devoted to what life is like for Truman and some of the neat ways everything that he does ends up on camera, this film could have been much better. We are hardly introduced to his family, friend and co-workers before the film turns on itself and leaves a lot of interesting issues untouched.The Truman show is a good film overall, however, not even close to the near-greatness achieved in two of the Best Picture nominees that I have seen so far (Saving Private Ryan, Shakespeare In Love). I guess I'll have to look to EdTV for more of what I was looking for.7/10 stars.


                
I think that the Truman Show is very much a satire, and a relevant one at that. The purpose of the film is to criticize the entertainment industry, and the lengths they will go to for ratings. It is meant to target the makers and producers of reality TV trying to make them realize the error of their ways, as well as the damage they can do with their platform. There are countless examples of of reality TV shows that have gone horribly wrong. As well as several times where individuals in the entertainment industry have snapped from the pressure that producers, directors, and even co-stars impose on them on a daily basis. The audience however is for everyone because we as viewers can also contribute to the problem by supporting the show, and making the producers feel like they have to exploit their actors for more views and better ratings. It is interesting to see Truman's growth as a character develope in such a unique way. The Truman Show is funny, ironic, and wonderfully made, but it also continues to convey a deeper meaning that even the members of today's society can connect with.


                
It's shot in such a unique way that you can almost believe it's the real backstory of Jim Carrey. It's an nice classic staple of film, that many people should be able to appreciate for its originality and also for it's meaty existential plot.


                
The Truman show was an exciting and all together enjoyable experience that makes people question whether or not they are being watched by others or by a higher authority. For those who have never seen the Truman show it is about a man named Truman how has been on television broadcast his entire life without his knowledge. To add to the fact all his friends and loved ones are actors hired and payed to be his friend and family they are all scripted to like or dislike him. This movie uses irony exceptional well in the format of Blame by Praise. It is praising the use of surveillance technology to monitor people without their knowledge. Just like big brother not the reality TV show but the government surveillance, but it is real condemning surveillance of people against their knowledge. That is one of the reasons I liked this movie so much it had many different levels. The base level of funny humor and how that situation could never happen, but then it gets into levels where it makes you think about whether or not with the increasing technology it could real happen or if someone is already doing it. There are other meanings that are explored like that of free will and whether or not people want to make there own choices or to have them made for them. Or is ignorance bliss and the more knowledge you gain the more you become suspicious of the world and others. The Truman show is a great commentary on the nature of surveillance and what are humans really like without putting up a front.


                
The Truman Show is a very clear picture of what a satirical film represents. This satirical film represents how crazy a "reality" television show can be or set out to be. The Truman Show was made quite a bit ago but, it is still very relevant to today. Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey) lives in a community that is completely domed over. There is no leaving this community for Truman. Truman lives a life where everyone knows and revolves around him. Truman is not only a known person inside the domed community but also around the world. He is a star on a television show, The Truman Show, and he is the only one who has no idea about. There are over 3,000 cameras around town and everywhere that he goes. Every single individual in the dome are actors or actresses, even his family and close friends. The Truman Show is targeting what a lot of Americans are obsessed with, reality television. These include Keeping up with the Kardashians, Jersey Shore, Dance Moms, The Bachelor, The Bachelorette and many more. What we think we would be able to have from a "reality" show, since it is "real life and daily lives", we will never be able to have. It seems to be that these so called "reality shows" are now beginning to be staged and no where near the real life they actually live behind the cameras. The Truman Show is a real reality show. Truman has no idea he is no camera and lives life normally doing his normal daily activities. This movie is very enjoyable with the dramatic plot and humor put into it. Although this movie is enjoyable, it does require more thought about how the society works and how it is portrayed in the film.


                
An engaging, one of a kind fantasy yarn which propels you into a journey into an impossible world, and is one of those "concept" movies that stays in the mind (the only other comparable work I can think of at the moment would be GROUNDHOG DAY). In the light of reality shows like BIG BROTHER, THE TRUMAN SHOW is effective in its depiction of an entire world obsessed with one specific television program, which is in itself the ultimate "reality" show as it shows the 24-hour day, 7-day a week life of the one guy who's not acting in a sea of fake appearances and pretend people. Blessed with excellent music and a fine, distinctly un-Hollywood director in Peter Weir, this is a film in which the concept can't fail. The script is witty and highly amusing at times, especially when real-life invades the fantasy world and has to be desperately explained away by the producers.Jim Carrey - to be frank, an actor I can't stand - puts in a restrained and adequate performance as Truman, probably the most accessible role for his non-fans. Ed Harris steals his scenes as the frightening, bullish Christof, and the rest of the cast enjoy playing their over-the-top polite and friendly characters for all their worth. With a knowing wink at consumerism and without too much sentimentalising, this is perfect family fare and a must-see little film with a warm heart and the feel-good factor; in all probability it really did deserve the Oscar nominations it received.
The Truman Show is an intriguing cinematic experience that delves deep into the ethics of human rights and free thought in a semi-comedic way. The film follows the story of a man named Truman Burbank, an insurance sales representative who has a normal life. We soon learn, however, that Truman is the most famous man in the world, without even his knowledge. Truman lives on the sunny island of Seahaven, a man- made island rigged with cameras that are broadcasting live 24-7 to a TV audience. Every person in Truman's life is an actor paid to record him and to create good television. This movie seems to be a satiric commentary on several things, specifically the control and influence that the media has on our society. Throughout the movie there are various product placements and references to things the consumers of the show will see. It was also a satire over the treatment of zoo animals and prisoners, as well as the control the Government puts on our lives. Truman is completely controlled, and although he is treated fairly, he lacks free choice. He only has the illusion of free choice, which many believe to be a God-given right to men. The Truman Show was a well executed film, I would highly recommend this movie.
The Truman show was a wonderful movie. At first you're happy with Truman and his life being a TV show star but soon after you realize Truman's whole life is a lie and you become overwhelmed with the hope that Truman will soon see past his false life and realize what is really out there beyond this fake TV show life. You also realize how bad it is that they are allowed to adopt Truman when he's born and make his life a TV show. This will most likely infuriate you as you realize what there doing here is completely wrong and shouldn't have ever happened. Then you have to consider what I believe to be is a satirical piece in this movie. I believe the satire part show how the government is in control of all of us and we are all Truman. Only by questioning what is right and what is wrong will we actually find the truth. The director is like the government. They want us to to stay in what they think is a nice place to shelter us from the real world. Even if we want to escape they will try to keep us in here for what they claim is our good. But really all they want is for us to stay here so that they can profit of us and live the cushy lives that they want to live.


                
I believe that the Truman show was an effective satirical piece. A clear view as to what the satire is criticizing, a lasting impression on the watcher, and just enough light- heartedness that pulls the movie together. The clear purpose of the satire is to expose the seemingly wonderful and well meaning but unintentionally benevolent nature of the media. The movie shows how awful the fixation that the media carries with certain people can destroy their lives in the end. What's interesting, in a rather sad manner, is how relevant and accurate the movie is today, now more than ever. The movie shows the deflation of personal privacy, which now mimics how some reality TV shows are set up. The movie also shows the inflation of shared interest in television, which has been on the rise for a long time. The movie, while seemingly outdated, is still a scarily accurate representation of modern society.The reaction of Truman to realizing something is afoot is almost odd in this day and age. He grew up without access to reality television, so he's unused to how some people would crave the fame that came with his role. It is almost odd to think how different his reaction may have been, had he been given access to the world of television.Personally, I enjoyed the movie. The acting left something to be desired for me, but the writing and setting were very satisfactory. The plot was complex, but not to the point that it was not understandable. The humor is typical of satire, but not too crude or brash, which is nice. I think this was a very well made movie, especially for the time period.
The Truman show is an interesting example of satire, that is interesting, and entertaining. The movie is about a man who was raised on the set of a TV show, and knows of nothing else. I found the beginning confusing, as did others I know, but after half an hour to an hour, it will all fall into place and make sense. The satire in this piece is several layers thick, and much can be drawn from it. One of the main points is the comment on television. One of the things mentioned about what makes the show so entertaining is that Truman isn't acting and is thus very real to watch. This says some stuff into how TV at least at the time was not too relatable. Another comment was about how if it was too real, that can be weird, and not relatable. Some of the deeper stuff later, without spoiling too much, a comment is made by the director about how the real world is the twisted sick place, and the studio where Truman is is what the world should be like. This is a comment on how people perceive the world, and how people look at their own work. It is interesting he sees the world he created as the perfect version of the world, a vision of how it should be. Another message I drew from it was a comment on big brother spying. Whether it was intended I saw in the presence of so many cameras a comment on privacy invasions made by the government. I'm not sure if I'm drawing conclusions that aren't there, but as well as being entertained, I drew a good number of comments on society from this movie.
The Truman Show is a satirical piece about reality television. The satire has a bit of merit today because lots of people today watch at least one reality television show. People who watch reality television often do not think about the effects that this show has on its stars. The Truman Show is a good satire because it uses many satirical techniques. The Truman Show uses connotation when the lady is calling the show to try and free Truman. She uses the word, cell, to try and convince people that the director of The Truman Show is holding Truman captive, and that Truman would want to leave. The Truman Show is targeting the watchers and developers of reality television and saying that they should stop making reality television. The Truman Show is a hyperbole of the making of reality television because they greatly exaggerate the number of people and the amount on equipment that they need. In the show, the director says it takes the work force of a small country to run the show. The show, also, has a good bit of comedy. There are multiple lines that make the story seem very funny. Truman has lots of funny little jokes to keep the mood lighthearted. The Truman Show did have its worse moments. The show was not the best in the beginning because at first the story doesn't make tons of sense. The beginning has the director introducing the show, but it's the director of The Truman Show, which is watched by people in the movie. If you do not previously know that the movie is a satire, then you will have trouble understanding the beginning. The story does not make much sense until about halfway through the movie. Also, some of the people watching the show seemed very out of place. People today watch lots of reality television shows. Some examples are Keeping Up with the Kardashians, Dance Moms, and The Bachelor. These are some highly viewed shows. The Truman Show is still relevant today because of these shows. This satire is something that might need to be remade with today's technology because lots of younger kids will dismiss it. The real thing that makes it something worth remaking is really just the technology, the fashion, and the lifestyle. The Truman Show is relevant today, but just could use some modernizing for younger people, who are too young to understand this lifestyle.
The Truman Show is a TV show in a movie, starring Jim Carrey as Truman Burbank who lives in a utopia-type town, where he is unaware that his life is a T.V. show and those around him are "actors" within the show.This movie starts off very slow and does not gain any traction until almost toward the middle of the middle, where Truman begins to realize that there is something wrong with the life he is living in. That is where things gain steam and become more exciting as the film progresses.Jim Carrey's acting was pretty good, as is Natascha McElhone, the actress who plays Carrey's love interest. Much of the other cast members acted too carefree and theatrical, which rendered them somewhat annoying. It was also distressing to see all of the characters in on this conspiracy of exploiting Truman's life in worldwide broad-casted T.V. show, making you root for Truman to outsmart the conspirators and escape the "fake" life they have envisioned for him.This movie sends a message that life is not simple and there is no such thing as a perfect world. Despite all the problems and turmoil in the world, there is nothing greater than your own freedom to live your life and make your own choices.Again, the movie takes quite a long while to gain any momentum, and Burkhard von Dallwitz's music score for the film seemed very out of place for the story. However, the overall plot is quite captivating, making the movie worth the watch.Grade B-


                
An insurance salesman/adjuster (Jim Carrey) discovers his entire life is actually a T.V. show.This movie has been brought to ethics and philosophy classes and used as a tool for discussion. Unfortunately it was never used in any class I took (despite being a philosophy major), but I guess we cannot all get that experience.So much to ponder: was it right to treat Truman this way? Was the television executive playing God? If the wife (Laura Linney) was only in it as part of a contract and not because she genuinely cared for Truman, what does that make her? And what if this really happened? Would people watch it or rebel?


                
The concept of someone's entire life being turned into reality television seems remarkably prescient given the boom in reality TV that has happened since. The plot line of this movie, which follows Jim Carrey's attempts to a) understand some of the oddities about his world, and b) escape from it altogether, could never really fail, and it doesn't disappoint. It's a really enjoyable watch.I can't help feeling, however, that in the hands of a better director, and (as much as I love Jim Carrey) with a different lead actor, this movie could have been even better. It has all the markings of a SciFi dystopian classic, but never realises its potential, preferring to remain primarily a quirky American comedy drama.
I am not hater of this movie but some of the songs where bit bad in it I am not saying its not an awful movie but being that some of the songs where bit bad there some good songs in it. OK about the story its about guy who has beem taken care of some actors in this and he does not know its real and many people try to get in his way to stop him getting into other places as well. He trys to get out but fails he trys one more time to get out because in his teenage hold he find someone that he really loves and they took her way from him which is the fact he want to get out and find his true love that was the fact that made this movie really good not to bad not to stupid. I love the boat scene where he trys to get out which really good but and thats how movie should be. I know that some people disagree about this but I don't disagree about hating this movie. Its pretty good but some of songs where bit bad and some good. But its great for all ages but great movie its show how we feel inside. great movie 7 out of 10. pretty good


                
I thought this movie was about a 7 out of 10. I didn't like most of the characters except for Truman and his friend, Marlon.The main characters are Truman (Jim Carrey), his wife Meryl (Laura Linney), his friend Marlon (Noah Emmerich) and the creator of the show Christof.The movie was about Truman being in a show that broadcasts 24/7 all around the world, without him knowing about it.I think the director wanted to say that not everything is what it seems like.If you liked Napolean Dynamite you may like the Truman show. They both have the same kind of jokes and stuff.
"The Truman Show" is a film about Truman (Jim Carrey). He is one real man living among a town (Sea Haven) with a last cast of actors . during the film Truman starts to realize that everything is too perfect and it all seams to be made up around him.i enjoyed watching this film and rated it seven and a half out of ten. A few things i disliked were when the actors were advertising products they over did it, giving it away to Truman that they were talking to someone else. I think that the director wanted to show what a "perfect world" would be like and what it would drive people to do, I think that he successful in doing this. Compared to other Jim Carrey films he was not as crazy, but he still made random dictions and he was very determined to do what he felt he needed to do.
What's great about this film is that although ostensibly it's about society's obsession with TV and voyeurism, the influences appear to be things like 1984, The Prisoner, and even man's attempt at spirituality. There's a little bit of Truman in all of us - seriously, how much freedom do we really have? Don't you ever feel like you have no control, and wonder if there is someone out there plotting your destiny? A clever film indeed, if only because it raises issues and encourages us to ask questions. Also beautifully played - for the most part straight - by Carrey. Natascha McElhone is wonderful if under-used. Harris is surprisingly good as the self-appointed creator (of what, exactly - in his mind?!) Original, inspiring, warm and funny. The very last line of the film is perhaps the most telling of all.


                
