It took 2 episodes for me to skip all the rest. It's awful. It could have been good . Just replace the music, the stupid style, the cameraman. All those comparing this with Boardwalk , well open your eyes. Boardwalk was at least believable, had music that did fit and the acting and pacing was perfect even if being slow, because at that time there was still time available in life. Now they make a show which does reflects the same time-frame with music that does not fit and use stylistic camera-work that does not fit. What is worse is the overacting. Everybody is trying so hard.This is bad directing as well. There is so much talent on the floor and it is used in a wrong way. No sorry, not for me.


                
I'm bored to death on each episode.. I managed to start the 3rd season but so far I haven't found anything interest.. Pitty though cause everyone kept saying how awesome this series is and that I MUST watch it.. Nothing impressive to me


                
I didn't have to try to like Peaky Blinders .. Everything about it felt like a revolution in TV drama .. I think I even compared it to The Sopranos .. I'd heard the criticisms of the gratuitous, indie-soundtracked slow motion shots, and mumbled, breathy dialogue, but brushed them off .. Before long I'd bought the first season DVD boxset and sprouted a 1920s military haircut ... Unfortunately the sheen and style of the series wears off eventually .. About halfway through season 2, I suddenly became aware of the complete absence of any kind of compelling narrative .. Evidently things happened, but by now the monotone delivery and haircuts felt like they had nowhere to go .. I read an interview with the writer, Steven Knight, in which he boasted about how he'd already got nearly a dozen seasons written, and could reel off a script in an afternoon .. Well, great work if you can get it, but a stark contrast to the year-long team-writing process behind a single season of Breaking Bad .. Where Breaking Bad creates a narrative worthy of a Russian novel, and The Sopranos shows profound insight into the human condition, an episode of Peaky Blinders feels like 10 minutes of hastily scrawled script, padded out with brooding shots of people smoking in dark rooms, walking in slow motion, and generally loving the smell of their own farts over a one-dimensional selection of 90s and 00s indie .. In fact it's astonishing to me that an episode of The Sopranos and Peaky Blinders run to about the same length, as where each episode of The Sopranos feels like a self-contained movie; an episode of Peaky Blinders has less script than the average Jay-Z video .. All in all, a huge missed opportunity - a show that gets so much right, but fails to look beyond its own style for anything resembling a story or character development.


                
Difficult to know where to start. Here goes: over acted, historically complete nonsense, script basic with cringe worthy philosophical anecdotes, dreadful background rock scene music, a predictable plot with subtlety of a sledge hammer. Don't bother.


                
S1 to S3 was atleast bearable to watch ( although they were the stupidiest thing i've ever seen) but my God !!! S4 was almost unbearable to watch with bad acting , bad writing ( as they have given the task to 6 year old boy to write a story for them ) and bad direction with zero character building . It seems everything is working perfectly for shelby family as tommy shelby have dramatically escpaed death about three or four times out of nowhere. For all those who think that this show is masterpiece must watch The sapranos, The wire, Boardwalk Empire to get even the slightest idea that what is meant by " masterpiece".


                
Wasn't really hooked on the first episode. Might've gone further but the spontaneous, crazy rockish music they pump out every time the character starts to travel somewhere is so disrupting.


                
A dull, slow story wrapped in many layers of cosplay. And the whole thing is the scenes, because the story is quite useless. The acting is decent, but the characters are all 21st century people. So, no, the acting is crap too given the story.


                
This show is plain stupid. Peaky blinders? More like stinky blinders. Horrible.


                
How is it possible for a seemingly big budget series to be so ignorant ? I will not comment on the overall action or plot,but i will say that from a 9 or 10 this series became a 1 for me. I knew that films are ignorant in general towards details such as authenticity or history but i find really repulsive to consider a group as the irish travellers gypsies(tigani) that don t even speak romani(tiganeste) but they speak a strange accent of romanian. That s is ignorance and it s an offence towards all romanians,and a disgrace for the English people. They openely showed in a TV show that they are arrogant ignorant and racist,considering romanians gypsies. If the irish gypsies talk romanian they could very well speak Italian Spanish or Portuguese,there is the same similarity between gypsy language and romanian as between those languages and gypsy. I don t know how they speak in season 3 onwards i stopped watching the moment i saw this shameful display in season 1. It s a shame on the producers of this show and on the English people.


                
Until season 3 it was a realy good show BUT season 4???? what the f... happened. Adrien Brody with the worst italian accent ever, full of cliché, so so naive and so so disappointing.


                
This association between the gypsy people and romanian language is really offending! This is a very sensitive subject for our country! So the producers should have document more regarding this and before using it this way! From my point of view, it is a big mistake! 1 star from Romania!


                
