Just started watching this series... it's really dull. Cillian Murphy is extremely good looking, and he's the only thing that's keeping me going with this series. The characters and costumes are a bit annoying to me. The characters are not relatable - many are trying too hard to be cool and hip. Some look totally misplaced (bad costuming) ie., Grace Burgess. She looks like she's a girl from 2015 living in 1919 Birmingham. The hyper-macho bearded guys remind me of a lot of current- day Brooklyn, SF, or Portland hipsters. The 'gangster' haircuts are too well kept. Guys end up looking like Adam Levine from Maroon 5. The story is (from where I'm at) pretty generic - 'cowboys vs. Indians' style. Very 'American' in that way. The music is extremely annoying. Not sure why they feel they have to play Johnny Cash-styled music every time something's about to go down. Doesn't fit the era. Ugh... I still prefer Downton Abbey.


                
After being hugely excited about the arrival of this show, I have to say I abandoned ship halfway through the second episode. It feels like a show that needed to be made ten years ago, when it might have felt fresh and compelling. As it is, it appears to have been diminished through the 'drama by committee' process that so plagues the BBC. Episode 1 felt like an expensively-dressed Boardwalk Empire impersonator (out-of-town cops coming to get our heroes? CHECK. Mole sent in to get on the inside? CHECK. Trouble brewing with rival gangs? CHECK.) that wore its influences far too heavily and awkwardly.Sam Neill was excellent, but no-one else was...and these are several actors that I like. It wants to be something it has neither the imagination nor the stomach for (the slow-moing of the clumsily- shoehorned-in violence with the Lees was as gutless as the whole scene was preposterous).It may get better, but I for one will only find out by other people telling me.3/10...a real shame.


                
If it weren't for the jarring pop music that randomly blasts out this show would be, hands down, the most coma inducing show in the history of television. It can go a quarter of an hour without any dialog or sound at all where the camera is fixed on either one or the other of two faces staring at each other. The only action scenes appear to be a single flashback of the same WW1 event over and over and over by the same character. Moreover Sam Neill's accent is the worst ever. Cillian Murphy's is barely better and not a single actor in the show actually sounds like they're from Birmingham. Somehow this family gang of criminals is involved with BOTH the Gypsies and the communists and entire underpinning of the plot arc is they committed crime against the army accidentally and if only Winston Churchill would listen they could put it all right no harm no foul.


                
I had no expectations but watched because a story set in Birmingham is rare, about British working class is rare, about British organised crime is rare. I was unimpressed. I found it dull and un-involving and hard to watch. The sets are very unreal and I was never able to forget I was watching a television drama. The opening sequence was laughable and reminded me of the American movies about Sherlock Holmes but what they would be if done on a tight budget, with few extras, and no CGI. Thus far I find none of the characters interesting or engaging. They all seem to be cardboard cut-outs. The dialogue clunks along and now and then a character is given lengthy passages of exposition to explain the story to the thick people in the audience e.g. SPOILER ALERT: the dialogue in the museum or the explanation about the execution which was not an execution. Bloody hell! It is a period drama but now and then we get contemporary music (why?) and bizarrely the poet Benjamin Zephaniah pops up now and then dressed as a preacher and spouting doom and gloom on the ungodly of Babylon. So, is this 1919 or 1979? Can we expect every episode to feature a has-been from real-life Birmingham come to pay us a visit? It is a dog's dinner of a mess - a nice idea, some talented actors, but the result lacks drama, action, humour, ideas, emotion, aesthetic pleasure. In short, anything to make it worth watching. Some reviewers liken Peaky Blinders to The Sopranos. They have to be joking! This is not anywhere in the same league. If people cannot tell the difference between this creaking BBC homage to When The Boat Comes In and The Sopranos then they should stop writing reviews because they clearly have no idea what they are talking about. Will I watch episode two? I doubt it.
Mumbling incoherent dialogue which is incomprehensible unless you're an uneducated special needs punk living on the streets of Liverpool.
The show could be so great, IF you could understand it, and Gillian wasn't trying to channel that misunderstood sullen genius genre of "hero". And the absolutely horrible amount of smoking; so much so you know it's just a veiled attempt by the tobacco industry to sneak in adverts to get around laws.
If they could show him smoking while swimming underwater and drinking a fine Scotch whisky at the same time, I'm sure they would.
I'm not going to watch this season.


                
