the 1st season of peaky blinders burst upon the TV scene like a nuclear explosion. blinding light, sweeping all before it. BUT ....BUT.... is it me lord, is it only me?, or am i the only one who thinks that season 2 has dropped off dramatically. yes it has tom hardy so far woefully under-used & painfully over-acted, yes it has the wonderful helen mcCrory carrying all before her, but...the attempted assassination scene in the equestrian sales centre? ohhh pleeezzzz... last year, at least an 8 out of 10, & was a must see every week. this year i'd be doing charity work with a 4/10or.....is it me lord, is it only me?
So far I like the story and find it interesting. The acting is pretty good, not spectacular. what I sincerely dislike, and have not decided yet if it's going to turn me off to the point where I just can't watch anymore is the Directing choice to use contemporary music and Guy Ritchie-esque camera work to tell this story. I's ridiculous, pretentious, distracting and so incredibly awkward it makes me embarrassed for the production team. I wish they would just Stop it! I don;t care how good a score this show has on rotten tomatoes or anywhere. I hope they just stop this and grow up already. Just tell the story and have confidence in the art your producing, it's good enough on its own without some DB trying to dress it up in a cheap imitation.


                
Really have changed how I think about this series now. I really loved season 1 and 2 which had characters you really emphasised with regardless of their morals and actions. The scripts were tight and I felt I was looking into a world which may well have been real or near enough to reality. Season 3 I gave it the benefit of the doubt, yes it was so improbable but well I went with it thinking that with that storyline gone they would return in season 4 to the strengths of the show but how wrong was I. There are just countless instances where you are thinking that is just ridiculas just so improbable and all those seemily endless slow motion scenes with Poly and her smug annoying grin or Arthur and his huntched hard man look makes me want to reach for the remote. And while in the first two seasons you really liked Tommy because of what he went through in the war and he had underneath it all a heart this is now gone because they have made him into this lacky for the British State who seems to have no other purpose than making money and doesn't care about anything else. Maybe it should have been called Tory Blinders! People have said this is HBO quality, it isn't anywhere near their standard and just goes to show that American drama is streets ahead of the offerings we get in the uk.
I will start this review by warning you all that it contains spoilers,so do not read this if you haven't watched both seasons of the Peaky Blinders. My problem with this show is a problem I have with a lot of gangster shows,is that they haven't evolved beyond sexist jokes and using violence against female characters as a plot device. The main reason for the popularity of this show is Cilian Murphy's good looks and his Irish accent.But the show is full of clichés,protagonist has a tragic back story,bottles up his emotions and finally falls for a girl he shouldn't have fallen for. I hate how Polly is smarter than all of them combined but she is sidelined because she is a woman.I hate how Ada is just a means to hurt Tommy and we don't get to know anything about her story other than how she is a problem for Tommy to take care of. Then we come to Grace who is also objectified and humiliated by the protagonist but she ends up falling for him anyway. Then there is the fact that Gypsies don't speak Romanian,like the show suggests. Coming to the second season,the rape of Polly by the inspector was completely avoidable,did not add to the plot but as the show uses violence against women for pure cheap shock value,we get why that had to be there. Unnecessary nudity and sex scenes that add nothing to the plot but are there again for pure cheap shock value,make the show un-enjoyable. We finally have an independent woman character May Carleton in the second season but she is too independent for Tommy Shelby and he goes back to Grace.All in all too much cringe inducing scenes and sexism for me to enjoy it,Cilian's pretty but that's just not enough for me,I give it 4 stars.
The bare basics of this show is watching men sit, drink or have sex. There's no back bone and can drag a fair bit. I got all the way to season 3 before deciding enough was enough. No where near enough action and violence compared to sex scenes, nudity and alcoholism. It's a sufficiently more boring and stripped back version of game of thrones in my opinion. Saying that it's great if you're trying to eat dinner with background noise.


                
