In Peaky Blinders we follow a family after the First World War that is always looking for power and money. But a policeman arriving at the city is looking to stop this family, but it's not easy. It will also be noticeable the segregated fight of ghettos like Italians, gypsies, local gangsters and Jews. Peaky Blinders is an excellent gangster drama full of rich, interesting and diverse characters. The fact that Peaky Blinders is a crime series can give the impression that characters are macho men. But this is not true. The series also incorporates many powerful female characters. It has an excellent cast and script. Thomas is a character who uses his strategic intelligence and applies violence to his own ends without hesitation. The film music is the highlight of the series along with Cillian Murphy and Tom Hardy. The director does resort to a modern soundtrack that reflects the fiction.It is estimated that one episode of the series is worth 1 million and 1.5 million euros. This means a rich, detailed and beautiful work of art. Constantly supporting the narrative structure visually, Peaky Blinders often touches upon the working conditions of the working class in Birmingham. Peaky Blinders, with a color scale that chooses to contrast between pale blues and greens, and contrasts with the shades of red, makes the strongest manifestation of emotions in the midst of this unknown, while attributing a distinct obscurity to Birmingham's misty air. Also, the visual effects used from time to time are quite clever. The visual effects used are also quite compatible with the historical theme of the series.Peaky Blinders makes each episode a separate action and drama. It's a breathtaking series where you can see the rise of Peaky Blinders. 9/10


                
I was not expecting it to be this good,I really enjoyed all 4 episodes. The story is interesting,the acting is brilliant and the cinematography is just beautiful!I am eagerly waiting for the next episodes.When I compare Peaky Blinders to other popular TV shows that use sex,brutality and violence to shock the audiences and get high ratings(which they actually do)this sincere work is like needlework;fine,classy and detailed.The makers of this drama have not chosen the easy way,they have set off to make a first class period drama,that dares to be different.Cillian Murphy is at his best,I will even go as far as to say that this is one of the best performances I have seen of him.Sam Neil and Helen McCrory must be praised,all casting is perfect.Peaky Blinders sets high standards for other television dramas to follow.


                
Cillian Murphy and Sam Neill are Amazing. I started watching the series because I saw that Sam Neill was in it, and that other guy who had a bit part in the Batman movies. As I watched the series I found myself extremely impressed with Cillian Murphy's acting. That was one of my first thoughts. As I watched on, I realized that the entire cast was great. The writing, character development, the acting, the soundtrack, the camera work.... the grittiness of it all. Usually a series takes a show or two, or even the entire first season to pull itself together into something great, this show started of spectacularly and rips right through the gate!


                
As a born and bred Brummy with a mild interest in our history, I'm really pleased with this series. Firstly that we're not being overlooked for London, Manchester or Liverpool, and we're being allowed our own history, which is interesting and colourful.At first glance the downstairs of the Shelby house looks too big to be the ground floor of a terrace, and people seem to be using their front doors far too often which, since there seems to be a significant amount of 'respect' being shown and rules being followed, it irks me that this protocol's being ignored. That said, it does look better to have the character using the front door.My other issue is accents. In fairness, for the most part people are doing an amazing job - most real Brummy accents do not sound like the caricature most people think of, and this is being respected by the actors with only the occasional slip... except for Aunt Polly. Helen McCrory is a fine actress - a mistress of the Brummy accent she isn't. Her performance is making up for it however.The Jamaiacan preacher amused me; as pointed out by another reviewer this actor is Benjamin Zephaniah: B'ham local and poet. Jamaica did send help over for WWI, so it's not impossible that several men stayed. He is a wonderful reminder that Birmingham has always been a hub for migration - even more so after WWII.Sam Neill's performance is amazing.So far the series is not just telling an interesting story, it's telling elements of Brummagem's history and present in a subtle and interesting way. I hope it continues.


                
As a fan of Cillian Murphy, I watched the 1st episode in great anticipation of his role -- To my surprise, Sam Neill's role is the most captivating of the cast -- While Mr. Murphy plays the strong silent type, it is something we have seen him play before – Regarding the role of C.I. Campbell, the writer's of Peaky Blinders will probably get awards -- Mr. Neill lights up the screen with his superb demonstration of dialog well-written -- I simply do not see Sam Neill but the character, C.I. Campbell -- One small criticism -- the one flaw the British t.v. shows/writers fall victim to is the need to "tip" the plot ahead for the viewers -- Just when I gladly welcomed the fresh writing of "Sherlock" and "Downton Abby" and their use of unabashed surprise to keep us watching, the writers of Peaky Blinders revert to the tried and true very "British" way of keeping viewers tuned in -- talk about spoilers to a story line ! I will continue to watch "Peaky B", and welcome these characters in my home.
Cillian Murphy is perfect as Tommy Shelby! Murphy is able to show Shelby's fierce and cruel demeanor toward his enemies while showing his kind, sentimental personality towards his family. The writing is absolutely phenomenal, with gruesome fight scenes and amazing surprises the audience does not expect. The set pieces are extraordinary, it is very easy to imagine you are in 1920's Birmingham. Tom Hardy is absolutely amazing as Alfie Solomons and absolutely steals the show in every scene that he is in. Paul Anderson as Arthur Shelby is amazing, he is very convincing as a deranged, brutal gangster that will do anything Tommy commands him to do. I loved Seasons 1, 2, and 4, but 3 was a little convoluted and the show's dynamic changed somewhat. Fortunately, the writers were able to get right back on track. This is top 5 of my favorite shows of all time! I suggest this for anyone to watch, but I do warn that it can be gruesome and there can be very vivid sex scenes especially in Season 3 episode 5.


                
I never give a ten unless it is blinding so a 9 is excellent but not astounding.The Blinders really took me to the grit and dirt of post WW1 Britain, it is atmospheric and draws you into the time. It was actually bit of an education of how people lived.The plot is complex and mysterious and you find yourself trying to guess what will happen next.There is a fantastic underlying romance cracking on.There are a good few sub plots spinning about to keep you amused and entertained; a few laughs and feel good moments; a few tragedies to keep you depressed if that's what your into.I started to relate to the characters quite early on and they are all distinctive. You really feel involved from the start unless you have no social skills.All in all a good watch, I was waiting for it to come on the next week ... not literally obviously ... I didn't like sit in my flat for a week looking at a blank screen till it came on, but I did look forward to seeing the next episode.You certainly won't waste your time having a gander!


                
Wow! Truly great TV with lofty standards that'd make Hollywood blush. Handling its story perfectly, jumping through time and seemingly also naturally progressing the characters over time it's a brilliant process to watch unfold. A simple tale of gang vs gang with slight changes per season you'd struggle to find issue with this product, at least as far as I'm concerned: fantastic performances, an iconic and defined aesthetic, gripping moments and genuine characters all mix together and create a vast and deep landscape within which the show takes place (and that's excluding the fantastic soundtrack consisting of Arctic monkeys and alike, which fits all situations) the action is brutal and gut wrenching but also impossible to look away from due to a level of 'beauty'. Given the chance I could wax lyrical on this product for days, but you should give it a watch and I can't wait for the upcoming season(s) which'll eventually bring a conclusion


                
This man is a chameleon and can make any role his own. The series has all the grit and suspense of a good period drama. Worth checking out.


                
This is the most underrated series right now. Its directing is on point, dialogues are well placed and the story is a masterpiece.The protagonist is well maintained,subplots are precisely placed and the characters are chosen very wisely.I conclude that it's a must watch is very very underrated.


                
I know almost nothing about the early 1900's history of England, Ireland, or any part of Europe, so I can't speak as to the show's historical accuracy. Regardless, the sets, costumes, and props together with the surprisingly good acting are very convincing. The cinematography is also impressive, with the perfect amount of saturation to pull you into almost every scene and make it feel like you're really there. Also, it's just the "right" amount of sex, drugs, and violence for a show of this genre to keep you coming back for more, without making it feel like you're watching soft core porn or a cheesy slasher flick. Cillian Murphy does a phenomenal job portraying the head of his budding crime family and dealing with the endless stream of physical and emotional volatility that comes with his position. Overall, this is definitely worth watching.


                
Watched like more than 100 series but this is crazy level of Excitement and suspense it's really the best of the best.


                
I have to confess that I started watching Peaky Blinders a while back, and stopped a few episodes in. That's why this review is a little out of date. I can't remember why exactly I stopped watching. I remember thinking that it was very good. Perhaps I got distracted by life or by another show or I stopped watching television for a while, which is something I tend to do every so often. I love to read, and television shows can eat up so much time that I need to just stop and get back to my books every now and then. I have to confess as well that I only went back to watching Peaky Blinders because I found out that Tom Hardy was in the show, starting with the second season. Those of you who know me know that my obsession with Tom Hardy has gone far beyond a mere man crush to bordering on psychotic fixation. I honestly do believe that Hardy has, in a very short amount of time, gone from being just another great British actor to becoming one of the most dangerous and brilliant actors of this generation. He's also pretty enough to make me question my heterosexuality, just a little bit. Okay, more than just a little bit. The level of Hardy's acting ability is very much on display in his appearances on Peaky Blinders, where, as Alfie Solomons, a London Jewish mobster, Hardy practically explodes off of the small screen with a dangerous, impulsive and unpredictable character. His performance here is reminiscent of a young Gary Oldman, Gerard Depardieu or Jack Nicholson at the beginning of their careers. Hardy steals every scene that he's in, in the same way that those great actors did in their youth. This is no small feat, given that most of Hardy's scenes are with Cillian Murphy, the lead actor in Peaky Blinders. Murphy will be familiar to film audiences from performances in Batman Begins, Red Eye and Inception (Which also includes Tom Hardy), just to mention a few. He is one of those great British film industry actors, and is at his very best as Tommy Shelby and carries the weight of a very complex character in a very complex show superbly. The show itself is about a family run gang in Birmingham shortly after the end of World War 1. It is based very loosely on an actual gang from that time, whose name came from their practice of placing razor blades in the caps of their hats to use as a way of blinding enemies in a fight. The story centers on three half Gypsy brothers coming back from the horrors of the war and establishing their power, led by Tommy, the brains of the outfit. All of the actors in Peaky Blinders are superb, from supporting leads to secondary and even minor characters. The real discovery for me was Helen McCrory as the Shelby boys' Aunt, Polly. In the first season McCrory is just another very strong supporting actor. It is in the second season that her character is given much more to deal with, and we begin to see Judy Dench like moments of such startling sophistication and delicacy that I found myself wondering how I had never heard of her before. The only thing that I did know about her is that she is married to Damian Lewis of Homeland and Band of Brothers fame (Also one of the actors considered to be competition for Idris Elba and Tom Hardy for the James Bond Role...) and that she had been in a Harry Potter movie.. McCrory is absolutely stunning in this role and so are so many other actors. The writing, by Steven Knight, most recently of Taboo fame, is superb and powerful and the show has the same kind of dark intensity as Taboo. The third season does start off with more slack than the first two seasons, largely because the characters are in a very different situation than we have seen them in up until that point, but the tension returns as the season continues and, at the risk of bordering on a spoiler warning, I can tell you that, by the end of the third season you will very much need to see the next season. I don't know why I stopped watching Peaky Blinders the first time. I must have had a reason. But, whatever that reason was, I was definitely wrong. Peaky Blinders is excellent. It is television at its very best, which is saying one hell of a lot nowadays, with so much fantastic TV out there. Don't just watch it because Tom Hardy is in it. Although that is a very good reason to watch anything. Watch Peaky Blinders because it is a damn good show. And Tom Hardy is the bonus. Granted, Tom Hardy is one hell of a bonus. But Peaky Blinders is more than worth watching in and of itself. And don't make the mistake that I did, of only watching a few episodes. The more you watch of Peaky Blinders the more impressive it becomes. It is, in a few words, more than binge worthy. I personally can't wait for season 4...


                
Wow. There is not much else to say other than the writing, acting, production, music and cinematography of The Peaky Blinders will set standards for years to come.


                
This is how you make a series.. This how you make a good characters.. this what you want to see and die for


                
I actually stumbled upon this show and WOW, I was blown away. The first two seasons are just incredible. The other seasons may not be as incredible but they are still really, really good. One of the best shows I have seen on TV. This show will certainly raise your standards. The acting is just brilliant. The writing does the show justice. You probably haven't seen anything like this before.


                
I never heard people talking about Peaky Blinders as they do about other, lower quality, over-hyped productions. And maybe that's what made it even more enjoyable.I started watching it because it was recommended by Netflix and I felt like having some background noise while doing boring tasks. The only thing I knew about Peaky Blinders prior to this was that Tom Hardy had some role in it.Wow.The fast-paced action, simple and satisfying narrative and the impeccable dialogue got me hooked. The cast offers a raw and gritty performance - top notch acting. Amazing decors and cinematography.Besides the technical side, the characters really got to me. I often found myself rooting for Tommy and his gang members while also feeling angry at them for the injustices they put normal, hard-working people through. While definitely exaggerated, I found most of the characters entertaining and interesting to observe. The only one which I could not stand though was Grace. Glad she didn't stick around too much.Anyway, definitely worth watching.
Brilliant series portraying an exaggerated (but who the hell really cares) story set in an absurdly underused location and a period of time that is usually over looked (interwar period). When set up against the Period romantic dramas (Poldark) and faux page 3/Daily Mail portrayals of history (See, The Borgias, Tudors etc) it stands out in a very distinct manner. It contains romance, action, mystery, inter family politics and history in an almost perfect ratio and doesn't seem to have to stretch to "tick" these off. I found myself regularly searching things up on-line in a smug desire to look down on the show with a smart arse (Well that didn't exist) only to be, 9 times out of 10, sent packing with tail between my legs to the shows wiki page. Centring on a culture and accent that is still distinct and visible nowadays it's premise alone deserve applause. The performance of Thomas Shelby is quite literally a pleasure to watch. Cillian seems to saunter through the role with ease as the many layers of his character are regularly exploited and played with by the story. Fair enough, the accents aren't perfect but when you hear interviews with cast members, it is still a very impressive effort all round and with the perceived hegemony of the London accent over the British isles I think that shows like this are extremely important. I am literally waiting for a similarly imaginative but different show set in Sheffield or Bristol to come around. At a time when some people desire to destroy diversity and claim to want to return to a time period like when this is set I was also very impressed with the portrayal of the multiculturalism that was in fact as I researched very much rooted in fact. I am extremely intrigued to see where the writers take the Peaky blinders and on a more curious level to see if this has gotten traction in the US as I think it would be good to remind our cousins that our nation isn't just royals and cockneys in Grey old London Town. Putting the Sycophant/ fan boy part of me aside, If you can't tell, I am just really enjoying this series and I would advise you to take some time off Daredevil or Poldark or whatever and give this a try. More of this please.


                
The Trilling & Unpredictable Saga <3 Just Completed 04 Season. A wonderful dark industrial landscape, great soundtrack, rich characters that have real depth played by quality actors, all to the tune of a great script and an interesting time line.
The story is interesting,the acting is brilliant and the cinematography is just beautiful.
I found myself extremely impressed with Cillian Murphys acting. That was one of my first thoughts. As I watched on, I realized that the entire cast was great. The writing, character development, the acting, the soundtrack, the camera work.... the grittiness of it all. The action is brutal and gut wrenching but also impossible to look away from due to a level of 'beauty'.
Cillian Murphy is perfect as Tommy Shelby! Murphy is able to show Shelby's fierce and cruel demeanor toward his enemies while showing his kind, sentimental personality towards his family. The writing is absolutely phenomenal, with gruesome fight scenes and amazing surprises the audience does not expect. The set pieces are extraordinary, it is very easy to imagine you are in 1920's Birmingham. Tom Hardy is absolutely amazing as Alfie Solomons and absolutely steals the show in every scene that he is in. Paul Anderson as Arthur Shelby, The Executioner is amazing, he is very convincing as a deranged, brutal gangster that will do anything Tommy commands him to do. I loved Seasons 1, 2, and 4, but 3 was a little convoluted and the show's dynamic changed somewhat. Fortunately, the writers were able to get right back on track <3
Highly Recommended. I rate this season 8.7/10


                
I couldn't resist binging all 4 Seasons of Peaky Blinders.
Steven Knight > Bravo!
Cillian Murphy, Paul Anderson, Helen McCrory > stellar performances! Tom Hardy, Aidan Gillan & Adrian Brody too.
Awaiting the continuing Shelby Saga. PEAKY BLINDERS. <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
Definitely one of the better shows on Netflix. Worth the watch alone for the once in a lifetime performance by Cillian Murphy playing Thomas Shelby. Excellent scenes with Tom Hardy and Adrian Brody. Arthur, played by Paul Anderson, is a treat. Solid acting all the way around. The first season has a slight disconnect between the loud rock and roll style'd music that doesn't quite match the show. This does get much better as the show rolls on as does the entire series. I've never watched a show that improved as much from season 1 to season 4 as much as Peaky Blinders has.


                
Excellent acting....excellent characters....excellent setting...excellent storyline's doesn't drag on with loads of fillers like some series do can be violent but it's not over the top gore it's one of those shows that leaves you disappointed when you know you have watched the last episode of the series and need to wait a while for the next!


                
I admit to being a latecomer to this series.
I was put off by "judging a book by the cover". I expected yet another Sopranos trope. So i passed on the first two seasons. There was so much hype, however, i gathered i should at least give it a go.
It took a few episodes to bed in and change my mind but in the end it won me over.
It is superb, even though its a subject matter that some like me are not at first interested in, the storyline , plot twists, clever season build-ups, intriguing yet subtle character building and overall perfectly polished production makes it one of the best TV series of all time. (Up there with Sopranos, Breaking Bad, the Wire....)
The acting on the whole is very good (although some shaky performance & accents from some characters....Aunt Polly's dreadful accent, Grace's inability to hide her posh acting school , Ada Shelby's strange overnight transformation from street broad to a middle class business expert ?<f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+0083> and Adrien Brody's over the top and quite unnecessary cameo appearance <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B2>).
Equally some of the best supporting actors had few or no lines at all. (poor Finn was overlooked completely by the producers) and a better offer from "Salem" caused the show to lose the mesmerising Iddo Goldberg far too early with a very weak & unconvincing write-out.
(Tip to Executves..if you are investing big bucks in a show that you intend to run for at least 3 seasons, it's a good idea to make sure you're lead characters are cleared of competing contract commitments for the duration.)
Some performances were nothing short of brilliant (Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy and of course the ever reliable Sam Neill).Production quality and shots are just top class as are the sets and locations that captured the era, the grittiness, the tensiin, the raw ambience. It takes special skills to work with a period script without making it hammy, clichéd or just plain unbelievable.Am i the only one who thinks Sam Neil's character isn't dead and may well indeed come back to be Tommy's final nemesis??.A fantastic show, that still has enough energy to run to a 6th season.


                
Brilliant story, cast and soundtrack this is another example of amazing modern TV and all it can achieve. Good and inventive visuals with a fantastic set of performances and great writing this is well worth a watch


                
The acting was amazing through out each season. The character development is why you get sucked in. The plot took too many unbelievable turns after the first season that it becomes borderline ridiculous. However, that should not undermine the overall greatness of this series. You see these characters evolve and become more complex as their environment constantly changes
