Berserk is by far the best anime that I have ever seen. Nothing even comes close to capturing the interest of the viewer and holding it tightly throughout the ten hour duration of this masterpiece. Firstly, I must admit that it has its flaws, such as a few points of lazy animation, as in some of the battle scenes, as well as the somewhat disappointing ending, which leaves the viewer thirsting for more without the promise of any follow-up. Yet the fact of the matter is, and I speak for myself, that the positive aspects of Berserk outweigh the bad so drastically one cant help but overlook them in terms of the entire film. The frequent sub-par visuals mean nothing in comparison to the amazing plot depth and beautiful character development marbled throughout the film. In summary, Berserk is a ten hour mini-series that consists of 25 20+ minute episodes detailing the life of a rogue swordsman named Guts. Guts, in short, is simply the most intriguing fictional character ever constructed. Guts, first of all, is one of the finest examples of an individual driven entirely by self preservation and improvement. Throughout the series Guts grows stronger and more deadly before our eyes, with each thrust of his massive sword. The personal relationships that he develops over time, especially with Griffith and Caska, are totally believable and honest. In particular, the love/hate relationship that Guts has with Caska sucks the viewer into their world and with each episode end leaves you literally thirsting for more. I can honestly say that I had never so anxiously awaited a release as I did with each progressing volume. The score, other than being entirely redundant, creates an additional emotional appeal that quite literally leaves a mark in your mind. The opening theme song, although an acquired taste, becomes somewhat of a necessity to mark the beginning of each additional episode that will bring you deeper into the world of Guts and the Band of the Hawk. In no time at all you find yourself singing along with it as if it were a top forty tune. The climactic theme played every 3 episodes or so, is absolutely haunting, leading one to wonder how it came to be included in an anime.
Berserk is a definite must-see for all fans of anime. For those who dislike anime or are indifferent to it, the mediocre visuals may tarnish your opinion of it, yet the rock solid plot and character depth with leave you amazed.      Rating: Animation Quality: 7/10 Character Development: 10/10 Plot Line: 10/10 Overall Enjoyment: 12/10 (If that's at all possible)


                
I wan't to start by saying that i cannot recommend Berserk enough. It was the single greatest anime experience of my life. I watched the entire series on my computer over a three day period during which I had school and extracurricular activities to attend. Although I did not have any extra time to spare during the days I stayed up all three nights watching episode after episode unable to break away from the most engrossing anime series created.I am not going to spoil anything but will tell you that the series features some of the most interesting characters i have ever experienced. Although the animation is rarely top notch and the voice acting isn't always perfect i still found myself captivated by each and every second of the series. If you value plot and don't mind flagrant amounts of violence and some nudity this is definitely and anime series for you. If you have ever liked anime or enjoy more medieval types of live action films even you should give Berserk a try.P.S. after watching the series you should definitely check out the forums or the manga, it will make you feel a lot better i promise.Overall 10/10 for an incredible experience, despite some technical flaws. Watch Berserk as soon as you can, you will not regret it!


                
This is a good anime if you want to get introduced to the Berserk franchise and I know for sure it was my introduction because while I prefer the manga, I still love the anime quite a bit.Both subbed and dubbed versions are pretty good though I am neutral on the subbed/dubbed debate personally. But the English dub did pick good voice actors and what captured me on the dubbed version was Marc Diraison voice performance as Guts.This is a great anime of the one of the longest and still good manga out there written and drawn by the great Kentaro Miura! The anime did his manga a decent amount of justice at least.


                
Berserk 1997 is to me the best anime out there, it's pretty much a shame that Berserk 2016, 2017 and the "Golden Arc" movies are so bad.It tells a compelling story mainly about 3 characters and how their relationship starts and evolves through time. The thing about Berserk is that all the characters, even secondary, support characters are very interesting and it's pleasing and exciting to watch them every moment you watch the show. It has a very unique way those relationships between characters is and evolves.There's action, drama and some funny moments. I was completely stupefied while watching every episode. I had to read the manga after watching the show, which is also superb.Don't listen to people who say the animation looks too old, this is traditional animation, they also use moving images in an amazing way to tell the story I've never seen done in any other anime or series.The only "bad" thing about this is that it ends in a cliffhanger and the new seasons or adaptations are awful in every sense of the word. And that the manga isn't over yet, too many hiatuses. In any case, I'd highly recommend this anime to anyone.
Dont watch the dubbed version. Get the original japanese with subtitles or you will ruin it. This was hands down, one of the best animes ever made. And that is despite the fact that it had limited funding and the animation was not the best. The story telling is superb as you follow the lives of a group of mercenaries who rise to every challenge they are hired to do no matter how improbable. It centers on three main characters, a cold and calculating leader (Griffith), his loyal lieutenant (Casca) and the hot blooded warrior (Gutts) who wanted no part of joining them but was indentured to them via a reckless bet. You also get to know a bunch of minor characters who are important to the mercs.You follow them around for 24 episodes (note that 1st episode is misleading) as the commander tries to build his own army and build his own kingdom. But this is not a happy hero show, its a bit more realistic. There is plenty of satisfying fighting but also awkwardness, tragedy, espionage and luck (both good and bad). In many ways the story makes a great effort to make the show believable and you wont see any clean cut heroes in this one. Yet you still can understand them even when they do wrong. You will run into some demons and magic here and there but it is not the focus of the story which is why I say the 1st episode is very misleading since it makes you think that its a show about the supernatural. This show is a lot like Game of Thrones and predates GoT by more than a decade. Like GoT it has supernatural elements but they are not really the focus. The focus is on the characters and their struggle and I argue the characters here are much better.


                
Berserk is nothing short of a masterpiece. It is purely a masterpiece. The characters go deeper than you could ever expect. The music is amazing, the only song I do not feel is pure perfection is ball, it tries to sound orchestrated, but fails.The only flaw realistically, is the animation, it appears dated and is a clear sign of the times, however this is negated completely, there is a HD remaster and the animation being dated is no excuse not to watch this series, some of the greatest anime are over 35 years old. The dub is worth watching over the sub, the voice acting fits all the characters, Guts sounds like a hardened warrior, Griffith a passionate leader, Corkus an arrogant, selfish fool. If you haven't seen berserk, then go, watch it now.
I've watched a lot of anime in my day, and I've watched all of the best ones. Death Note, Hellsing Ultimate, Cowboy Bepop, Elfen Lied, Steins Gate, Monster... drop me a name, I've probably seen it.I have to say though that for me this original berserk anime stands in high isolation on a desolate peak. It is in my mind pure art and I cannot praise it enough.The story is one of the most gripping, guttural and awe-inspiring journeys ever committed to moving pictures. If Shakespeare had written this I'd wager he might have called it his masterpiece.It is brutal, it is twisted, it is raw. But is also honest about the world and incredible intelligent. It deals with complex topics such as ambition, honor, destiny and righteousness almost in passing, and without breaking a sweat.The honest truth is that if you do not like this anime you may not be ready for it. To fully understand it you must be willing to accept certain truths about the world.It is not an "easy watch", but if you understand it you may come to think like I do. With hindsight I have even come to think that the ending is nigh on perfect. Think Shakespeare and you will understand what I mean.


                
Isolation, Foundation, Test, Recruitment, Comrades, Battles, Passion, Glory, Sacrifices, Moving Forward, Skills, Friends, Blood, Tears, Will, Determination, Separation, Isolation, Reunion, Danger, Fighting Back, Tears of regret-ion, Rage, Hate, Loss Of Will, Abomination, The Beginning.The best story or work of imagination i have ever encountered and were inspired by all the work and creation.Its truly one of the best animations i have ever seen.A very outstanding set of work and there are no words in my mind to just praise the work of Miura Kentaro's work.he is really amazing.The start was pretty confusing of this animation but as it comes to the second episode the real journey starts and takes you a world of full time excitement and blood and real life of commoners and weak who have dreams of getting bigger and those who have determination and the strength to go to any lengths and heights.Many victories as well as tragedies come in life and the way how things change life is very realistic in a way.In short the best i have ever seen.


                
This is the best anime I've ever seen! I hate when someone talks sh*t without ever watching the whole series! This is better than all animes I've ever seen (I'll probably become hated for saying this but) this is far better than Claymore or Neon Genesis Evangelion or Gantz or Elfen Lied or Hellsing. This is on completely different level! Whether you like anime or not you should see these series it's better than all the movies I've seen, it's..... you just have to watch it!!!! Yeah it's not perfect but it certainly comes as far as possible - the graphics 8/10, the sound 10/10, the story 12/10 (and maybe more), OVERALL 10/10! This is UNIQUE!


                
Berserk is fantastic; in story, in writing and in execution. It is a magnificent piece of action anime. Dramatic, brutal and unrelenting in its darkness. It beats many other anime to a pulp hands down. If the general public cannot equate anime with anything but Dragon Ball Z or Doraemon and their bright colors and even brighter characters, then this is a must-see example of what the medium is truly capable of. It mixes elements of horror, fantasy, action and drama into a unique world of swordplay, warriors and battle grounds. Pulling that sort of thing off without coming off as a farcical or nonsensical mess is a rare thing these days, but it is all to do with the brilliant writing and incredibly well-rounded characters. It manages to be Conan the Barbarian, Lord of The Rings, Dragon Slayer (and dare I say it, Ran) without becoming crass and unbelievable.With all fantasy based productions you need to carry with you a greater suspension of disbelief in your cynical mind but the fact is any right-minded individual loves a good well told story and this is a very well told story with many dramatic moments, a beautiful score and believable characters that the viewer can care about.Berserk explores the age old themes of loyalty, trust, betrayal, friendship, morality, dreams, courage and redemption in ways that most other tales can only fantasize about. It is serious and entertaining, properly violent and raw. A Five star treat. And What An Ending.


                
Sometimes one gets caught by a series. Berserk really is one of my favorite animes or even the best. The end could be a little bit disappointing for some guys, but i think its just because the anime ends with an open end - on the other hand it s rather a motivation to read the manga. Brutality - tension - sadness - mystery - fantasy - combined with surprisingly fascinating character-development to result in amazement. By the way ... even those who don't like anime-style .... with its huge eyes ... berserk is drawn in a really adult way ...If you liked berserk - i tell you that you wont find any equal to this ... but in spite of that you could try the Ninja Scroll movie (actually didn't watch the series, Naruto (but the fillers), Basilisk, Samurai Champloo.


                
I finished watching this anime within about a week. I had taken my time. I was prepared. I didn't want to watch it too fast or too slow. And I already sensed it back then when I was watching the first episodes that it saddened me to know that this art peace would come to an end. In one equation: !!!BERSERK = BEAUTIFUL!!!!I came to know about the anime/manga Berserk accidentally about a year ago. I was searching for some sites which listed a top xx off best anime/manga. That's when it cached my eye that in most top xx manga, the manga Berserk was always mentioned. But I never heard of it before. So I went to IMDb typed in 'Berserk' and....BINGO! There exists an anime-derivative of the manga. So I read some reviews and brief introduction to the story and characters and I became obsessed. I had to watch this anime sooner or later.Thankfully that day has come to be. Before watching this anime, I really didn't know what to call my personal favorite in the genre. Was it Akira, Ghost in The Shell, Ninja Scroll, Wolf's Rain, Jin Roh, etc. But Berserk surpasses those great titles BY FAR!!! The mean character in the story has to be Guts a very big and powerful swordfighter, who at some point in the story joins up with the mercenary band: Band of the Hawk lead by the charismatic Griffith. Who is also one of the mean characters. The other one is Caska a female member of the band. Although this is certainly a rough anime with loads of blood and death body's, that what really makes this anime/manga superior to all other anime I've ever seen, is the character development of the leading characters. And the triangular relationship between the main characters.It is that what from time to time made me shiver. I had hard times trying to tear myself away from the desire to watch the next episode. It is seldom seen that you develop such a great affection towards the characters in the story.What a great series this was. That what most people resented about this anime was its abrupt ending. I was already warned about it before watching. So the ending landed a little softer on me. But for sure the end can be called a cliffhanger. You're dying to know what will happen to Guts and the others. But to be honest about it, I think it was a great ending to the anime. Because I think the makers of the anime really wanted to shock you and to hunger you for the rest of the story. It is almost if the author of the story, Kentaro Miyura made the first part of the manga or to say the biggest part of the anime to be something which serves the power of the dramatic ending of the anime. I find this to be a genius way off story telling and making viewers/readers interested in reading the manga where the story definitely will be continued. Which is also what I'm doing at the moment: I'm reading the manga and it's great! For sure Kentaro Miyura has made a grand, beautiful and intriguing Fantasy world with great characters included. But then again I also have to stress out the achievements of the makers of the anime for bringing this world and its people so vividly alive. But be warned I can understand that the anime is somewhat heavy, because of its grim and bloody content but it is still not that heavy when compared to the manga. Things that happen to Guts in the manga where probably too much to show on a late-night TV-series but it does give more dept to the characters.It's true, especially in 2006, don't expect great animated graphics, that's not what makes Berserk memorable. But for sure it's not bad. It's just not that great either. I've you want to watch this anime do it because of the story and the characters and nothing else. There are about 4 to 5 themes in the anime and it fits the anime, according to my taste, very well even though it's being repeated over and over again.Anyway I'm glad that I watched this anime. Ladies and gentleman it's a 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10P.S. PLEASE, PRETTY PLEASE, IF YOUR READING THIS, YOU POWERFUL Japanese ANIME PRODUCER YOU, CREATE A SECOND ANIME SEESON FOR BERSERK!!!!!


                
I have watched many anime series..but this is far better than most of them...i recommend it because is the classic type of anime..has a well written plot and the characters have a strong personality...it makes u wanna find more...and you can by reading the manga...I don't know another anime where the relationships between characters are so strong..form example Guts-Grifith...Guts-Caska.. As for the story: It takes place in a setting similar to Europe in the Middle Ages and tells the story of Guts's life ,a mercenary, from the time he enters the Band of the hawks until Grifith becomes Femto..the 5th demon from the God hand...It also has some romance ,like the love story between Caska and Guts that ends in tragedy when she is raped by Grifith.Anyway..the ending it's a little too scary and bloody..but i have to admit that maybe i won't ever see an anime as great as this one.If you haven't seen it maybe it's time.
I was first drawn into the world of berserk by a friend of mine while i was aimlessly wandering around blockbuster. He recommended it so i rented the first two DVD's. The first episode sucked me in immediately. The more i watched, the more i wanted to see. The characters are fascinating. They are incredibly believable and you just fall in love with the story. The character development is like nothing i have ever watched before. You are completely drawn into the series and cannot stop watching. I watched the first five DVD's in two days, practically nonstop between class and work. The sixth and last disc of the series was nowhere to be found so i immediately went online and bought the entire DVD set. It took two weeks to deliver it. Two agonizing weeks i had to wait to finish the best series i have ever seen in my life. So i suggest you have the entire set available before you start to watch itI highly recommend it to everyone over 17 without a faint heart because it was a very powerful and emotional series.


                
I sat through the entire beautiful Wagner Ring Cycle at the New York Met Opera - all 15 hours of it. While the Ring Cycle may be one of history's greatest works of art, I have to say that this Berserk anime series is the most creative and revealing works of fiction I have ever experienced. To me it really is up there with the Divine Comedy and Faust. I know it's just a cartoon, but the strength of the main characters and meaning of the story and its ending touched me so deeply that Berserk reigns supreme over all stories I have read or watched.Even if you have no interest in Japanese anime, believe me it is worth your time to watch this astoundingly deep cartoon.


                
I am not a huge anime fan. When I was younger I watched the typical anime on Adult Swim such as; Yu Yu Hakusho, Cowboy Bebop, InuYasha, Rurouni Kenshin (and Dragon Ball Z on Cartoon Network). While these are all great anime (InuYasha not so much) none of them even come close to Berserk. No other anime has made me feel as attached to the characters and the story. No other anime has made me seek out it's manga, and read it as much as I wanted to for Berserk. I absolutely love everything about this anime. The music is absolutely wonderful, it's the kind that gives you goosebumps. The character development is amazing, especially for the 3 main characters. The action is awesomely brutal (people & horses being sliced in half with a single blow, decapitated, the works). The ending is breathtaking, and is the main reason that made me seek out the manga. I am sure you will feel the same after you watch this. There are too many good things about this anime for me to write about. Please, whether you like anime or not, watch Berserk - you won't be disappointed.


                
!!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! Yes the anime is very good,interesting story,great characters.But more so the main theme that drives Berserk....Always showing the power of the human spirit,the power to defy fate and continue living and fighting. Guts can be described as tragic hero,a man driven by heavy emotions and physical challenges such as the numerous fights against non-human beings. That all thrown in a cruel medieval world where religion rule ones life.They all call God and kneel before him and his 5 "angels" unknown to them that just because of their stupidity and cruelty is why the world is such a rotting place. It is a common human believe that one always try to understand the things out of his control,to know why he lost the fight...Maybe because God said so?Or why I don't have a luck?Maybe because God want it that way. Humans always want everything served:instant happiness,love,success... An ocean of emotions,mainly fear,hatred all passing trough the Idea of Evil an entity which resides in humanity's collective unconscious,IT existed only for one thing-responding to humanity's need for a reason for suffering, manipulating human affairs and controlling humanity's destiny. In this world of chaos is there a hope?... Perhaps.... Now that Griffith is reborn and ruling his army of demonic creatures Guts has left his quest for retribution and now his main quest is to heal Caska which now is his driving force and the bottomless love he has for her. SO much emotion and sadness mixed up with gory and bloody fights,warped up with philosophical questions,it will make you question a lot of things in the real life.The manga is simply superb and everyone who speaks only of behalf of the anime is ignorant,the anime is maybe 10% of what Berserk is and once you've read the 1-13 volumes(the anime series are based on these volumes) you will know and see a lot more stuff...Not to mention that the manga begins with the kill of 3 apostles and attempt for killing Femto. And again: If you truly want to know what Berserk is-read the manga If you want just to check out Berserk(and nothing more)-watch the anime Yes...the manga is that good. One last request-for the newcome Berserk readers-I know the fights are superb with perfectly detailed art style,but read it carefully and see the magic of Miura's work...
I just finished watching Berserk for the second time in my life. This time it felt different than the first but one thing remained: Berserk made me feel strong emotions once again.This is a very tricky anime to deal with. The story is excellent, the characters are excellent and the flow of the series is excellent. Kingdoms Chudor and Midland are fighting in a 100 years long war against each other. A war that is now fought only because it is a war, neither side can hardly remember why the war started. Guts is a young mercenary, who gathers attention with his phenomenal fighting skills with his huge sword. After a battle, he encounters a band of mercenaries who try to steal his gold he gained from his battle. It appears that the mercenary group had been fighting with the opposite side that Guts fought. Guts handles the attack, but when the leader of the mercenaries, Griffith challenges him, he loses. After resting, Guts wants a rematch with Griffith with following terms: If Guts wins, he can walk away and if Griffith wins, he can do whatever he wants with Guts. Ultimately Griffith wins - again - and forces Guts to join his group of mercenaries, The Band of the Hawk. That is where their journey together begins, Griffiths journey to world domination...Of course, this is only the beginning of the whole story but it is futile to tell it any further here. Berserk has three main characters: Guts, Griffith and Casca, the female captain of The Band of the Hawk. And I have to say, that the chemistry between these three characters is one of the most interesting ones I have ever witnessed in any story. They have very different personalities that react with each other very unpredictably. Guts is a man who has learned to live his life through battles, he knows nothing else but the adrenaline and it's temptation in the battlefield. Griffith is a charismatic leader who aims for only one goal: his dream of becoming the king of the world. No. Matter. What. Casca is a women whose life changed when Griffith saved her when she was just a girl. She has followed Griffith ever since, becoming a strong warrior in the process.But this is only the surface. All of these characters become different in the viewers eyes with each passing moment. As the series evolves, Guts, Griffith, Casca and even all the other characters (Corcus, Pippin, Judeou etc.) change and reveal surprising elements of their inner self. It is very fascinating to watch how the love - hate relationship between Casca and Guts evolves and to what direction or how Griffith goes extreme making his actions very questionable and his motives difficult to analyse. It is interesting to watch the electricity between Guts and Griffith, how Griffith becomes dependable on Guts and how ultimately Guts pulls all the strings. Everything Guts does affects Griffith. Guts makes Griffiths ascending towards his dream possible and Guts has the power to ruin it all.It is also very fascinating to see all the philosophical aspects of Berserk. Each person is what he/she is for a reason and these reasons define what these persons live for. Sometimes they don't know why they do what they do or why they live their lives. And in the times of desperation they question their motives and desires, not surely knowing what they want from life. The thoughts of these persons make you wonder your own existence as well and the meaning of your life. Does it have a meaning? Does it have to have? Or do we live here just because we live here? If a series can make me think these kind of questions, I believe it has achieved more value than just entertainment...Yes, Berserk truly is very deep in a realistic way. The watcher becomes one with the characters as the series goes on. All the philosophical aspects combined with the ruthless violence and darkness makes Berserk truly an amazing series. But the thing that makes this series so unique is it's ending. All of you who have watched this series know from what I'm talking about. The original story of Berserk doesn't end where this anime ends (and I have not read the manga...Not yet) and since there will be no second season, this anime stands for it's own. The ending makes me mad. It makes me sad, shocked, petrified, horrified...In a good way. I can still remember when I watched berserk for the first time, I couldn't believe the ending, it was so shocking! NOBODY can end a series like this, this makes even Twin Peaks's ending look soft. It is actually heartbreaking to watch the last two episodes of Berserk, when you have jumped in to the worlds of these characters...Everything they ever made, everything they achieved becomes nothing, and the high hopes for the future (after difficult times) are crushed in a blink of an eye. Not a happy ending, not in a million years...Every anime friend, you have to watch Berserk. It is deep, dark, violent and philosophical view to all sides of human nature and the motives to actions that lurk beneath. Berserk holds many different world views and personalities, but makes every action and decision understandable from the aspects of each character. Guts's violent nature, Cascas varying actions, Griffiths ascending towards his dream, they all are explained in a realistic way, trough different motives. I can even understand why Griffith chose to become Femto, no matter how heartless and cruel decision it was. Berserk is absolutely magnificent anime, that makes you wonder and question many things, even in real life.
Berserk is the ultimate I took a big chance 2 years ago when I rented Berserk 01 War Cry. At first I was like o.k. this is interesting then in the opening scenes I was instantly hooked I had to see what was going to happen to Guts next. This series is in some ways like the old film Excalibur. I love everything about this series The memorable characters, the great fight and battle scenes, the violence too isn't really that bad I mean its not gross or sickening in any way unlike so many movies of late, But on the other hand I wouldn't let children watch it. I think the natural progression from animation when we were all kids to now is berserk and shows like it. Thats all I got:)


                
Berserk is awesome anime you have to watch it has 1 season it has a lot of action and a lot blood and guts


                
I've seen reviews saying that the animation for Berserk isn't very good. I disagree; at times its high-detail is quite remarkable, and the action is very well done. I do admit that in spite of some of the otherwise amazing shots here and there, it does falter in some areas. However, the story and sheer sense of tragedy in the show is rarely seen in animation, Japanese or not.Berserk is memorable, over the top at times, but always watchable. Its pacing is universally appealing and there's a good sense of tension and unpredictability. this is an anime that can be appreciated as a television show, not just an animation show.Please give this 90s gem a watch.


                
Unlike others i enjoyed the animation.The music puts you under a deep spell that lures you even further into this world of epic dark fantasy with plots and twists that rivals series such as game of thrones , character developments are rich and complex , the direction is great and puts you in the right mood , there is also a tons of goodies for those who like to pause and see stuff a couple of times , cant wait for more episodes. if your into cool characters that are strong but do take damage during fights this is it , or you just want to see something different and grown tired of cute cuddly characters and want to see some good old fashioned dirty anti hero like characters and some romantic stuff between, this is it , just pick it up and give it a go ,you wont be disappointed even if your not into anime's your gonna be surprised.
I've seen quite a bit of anime, and as far as series go, this is by far the best one I've seen.Episode one starts you off with some good action and lots of questions, and by the time you're at episode 3, you're hooked. Each episode advances the story with gripping action, fantastic dialogue and golden character development, leaving you itching to watch the next episode. The overarching suspense is remarkable, you absolutely never know for certain what is going to happen next, and often times when you think things are going a in a specific direction, you are dead wrong. All of this leads to what is in my opinion one of the best endings to any production in film or television I have ever seen, the finale is intense and leaves nothing to be desired. I strongly urge not just anime enthusiasts, but absolutely anybody who is interested in action or psychological-centered cinema.


                
Hello, i am surprise that people often gives 8 or even 9 to this anime, other note is pure disrespect to an Masterpiece, i often view to 20/30 animes per year and i consider by far one of the best anime ever i had seem, in spite of having or not tons of gore/sex/blood it contracts with an powerful story, deep and well designed chars as mental/historical/buildup, it also has that blow mind effect the scenarios + sound + actions on that crucial moments WoW, also the twists and plot on the history is one of the best i ever seen, i don't see any anime and if don't have at least an decent plot, it goes to my scrap list. I would put this as an top anime of all times without doubts, genre or opinions, it's the experience of seem Many and so many animes and it's always one thing missing to be that perfect, berserk has it. Guys See all the anime/read manga it's perfect guys for 98, yes it has 17 years old and still kick some a** animes that are rated with 9+ in this time. The original is the real thing that turned me a huge fan of this epic anime. Guys see it is a masterpiece for sure, when marketing and advertising goes with time what stays on time it's pure form of art, like berserk. Note 20/10, exaggerated?! Just see it and bring your own conclusions. Time never forgets and we never forget Berserk for sure.


                
Berserk is series about a lad named guts,who fights for money and kills a general on combat field.On his way he is attacked by some mercenaries.he challenges leader griffith to end his life while griffith asks if he wins guts will join their mercenary group named the band of the hawk.in some days guts becomes the commander of the band of hawk.the band of hawk earns king's trust and they fight for king as he demand and with 100% win rate.in fighting they come across a demon,the demon slays every human who enter a cave pass.seeing his men dying guts enters the cave too there he see a demon with sword slashes his comrads and run to combat him then griffith joins guts to fight the demon but griffith gets injured and when the demon see locket around griffith's neck he tells guts that the one u think as ur friend he'll bring death to you all and leaves.the story ends in a cunning bad way under 18 please don't see the finale same goes to weak hearts.


                
