1) The pilot episode. It ain't shitting around with a slow build up. It begins at a point in the future where the lead character is already somehow betrayed and mutilated by his best friend, and he is on a quest to kill the sucker. The very first episode tells you with a scene from the future how the world became a dark and morbid place, where the people live in fear and demons have crawled in powerful positions of authority, toying sadistically with innocents. It is an extremely powerful plot device to hook you for what is about to follow<U+0085> or not. The second episode is actually the story told from the start, as we gradually see how the protagonist grows up in the battlefield, gets more powerful, wields bigger swords (I mean, REALLY bigger swords), how he makes allies, friends, lovers, and enemies. You already know how all that will have a bad outcome because of the pilot episode so you are easily interested to see how all that happened. 2) Gore, splatter, nude and sex. This almost goes without needing an explanation. Sex and violence always sell and this anime has buckets of it. Sounds like brain-dead superficial entertainment but unlike most shows Berserk is only using them as attraction and not as definition. Because to be honest, most heavy on action and/or nude series are usually nothing without these elements while Berserk works fine even without them. Plus, it uses a form of violence that is quite appealing to me; hand-to-hand and sword-to-sword battles between frenzied armored warriors. Using magic or lasers to do the same just doesn't look raw enough.3) Interesting characters. The main three characters are interesting, even if there wasn't a ton of violence and gore in the show. You gradually see them revealing all their inner thoughts to you, their pasts, their goals, their desires and hopes. You see them getting beaten, learning from their mistakes, maturing, being broken by betrayal and coming out more crazy than what they already were. Plus, the aforementioned violence is used to bring out their weak side and hidden thoughts. 4) Political power struggles. The show is not centered on a team of warriors, strolling a generic kingdom and doing stand-alone missions. The world they live in has affected them and is affected back by them, all part of Griffith's goal to leave his mark on the world by getting his own kingdom. Along the way many aristocrats get annoyed by his continual successes and fearing their own agendas to be stolen by him continually try to assassinate him. And he reacts by plotting his own assassinations. All of which happen in secrecy, while the kingdom is at war with its neighbors. So it is not a story about a few brave warriors protecting their good homeland by invading monsters; it is a simple war of political agendas between local kings for whom gets to have all the lands for himself. And not only that; it is also about the internal double crossing the aristocrats do to one another every time one wants to steal the glory from the other. 5) Atheistic take on humanity. Although religion is a topic hardly mentioned directly in anime, over here it is openly trampled as nothing more than a false ideal to hide one's dark desires. It is extremely interesting how the show uses ideals and hopes as means for clergy and ambitious leaders to control their underlings. This was never done before so openly. It even goes as far as claiming how all the demons in the show are in reality people willing to sacrifice everything in order to fulfill their desires, even if it means losing their humanity and killing everyone they love. I really liked how monsters are not treated as generic incarnations of evil or plain misguided mortals; they are shown to be the pure form of ambition liberated by the constraints of morality, emotions and ideals. 6) Psychological symbolisms and imagery. Many parts of the show, usually those involving demons, are full of WTF sceneries, all of which have to do with basic carnal desires and fears. Unlike most shows with demonic dimensions, which are nothing but generic depictions of torture of the damned, here all the monsters and their Eclipse world are directly attributed to their personalities having been given in completely to their desires. The characters are not scared of getting crazy because of them. Heck, they are mostly terrified of becoming like that as well. Not because it is bad or wrong, but because it feels inappropriate for any human being to end up like that. Which is again very interesting as a concept. Cliffhanger ending. This is a part most hate about the show, as it ends in the most exciting and agonizing way possible. But in reality, that is also a plus of the show as it is almost demanding from you to read the manga just to see what happens next. The animators had lots of sloppy moments inserted in the show and most of them have to do with lack of animation and repeated footage and not with bad drawings. The drawings are in fact great. The music score is amongst the most blood boiling pieces of grudge rock and orchestrated epic music even made and easily tops even the animation part of the show. The characters have really appropriate voice actors with no stupid pitches in voice. Even the sound effects were successful, as simple as they may have been. Bottom line, Berserk is fine dark fantasy material, with great action and story and characters. The manga version is of course continuing the story far more than where the anime stops and features far more gore and sex scenes.


                
I had discovered this series a few days ago and having watched all 25 episodes I thought I'd leave a review here.The series tells the story of Guts, a lone mercenary with an over-sized who joins the mercenary group Band of the Hawk after being defeated by its leader Griffith. Guts lacks any ambition, he fights because it's all he knows what to do. Whereas Griffith dreams of having his own kingdom, which leads to his downfall.The romance between Guts and Casca is well done. During the series, the two learn to set aside their differences on the battlefield as well as respecting one another. As we learn about Casca, we care for her as Guts does.The character development in the series is also good. We learn more about the characters' motives. This includes Griffith's ambition (he is shown to be willing to have sex for money to fund the group), Guts' heroic actions (he saves Casca despite not getting on with her initially) and Casca's initial hatred of Guts (she envied the attention Guts gained from Griffith).On a personal note, I enjoyed the music. The opening theme, while inappropriate considering the anime's content, is catchy.The weakness of the series lies in the production. The corners that were cut to produce this quicker and cheaper are obvious and can be distracting at times.At the time of making this series and writing this review several years later, the manga (which I plan on reading) was not finished. Because of this the series doesn't have a complete story and ends abruptly which will leave viewers disappointed. The final scene has Femto (Griffith in demon form) raping Casca in front of Guts. The post-credits scene and the bulk of the first episode show events after this but their escape is not shown. There is no satisfying conclusion. There is a revived series which does continue the story but as far as I've heard is nowhere near as good as this series.Overall, I'd recommend this series, the strengths outweigh the flaws. But a warning, the series is for mature audiences only as it contains some graphic violence and some nudity. It is not recommended for the faint of heart.8/10.
Loved the Gory action, it's among the most bloody I have seen in an animated series. The series is about a band of mercenaries so we get to see a lot of battle scenes. The brutal swordplay, iron armor, castles and cavalry charges reminded me of medieval Europe. The story is deep with focus on friendship, love, ambition and betrayal. But we never get to the end of the journey as the series only covers one Arc, so be ready to be disappointed.The background scores are amazing, the number Gats was my favorite, a haunting number, worked great with all the emotional scenes. Animation is good for the year 1997 but a let-down, considering I watched the series having seen the remake movies Golden Arc, the movies being 15 years fresher with amazing animation.Normally the series deserves a 10 on 10 rating but there being an equally good fresher remake and the story being incomplete I am giving it only 8/10.


                
Berserk started slowly, (as most anime does) however, it soon began building very compelling characters and an involving story. But, Wait!!! This may seem like a positive review of Berserk, however I can NOT recommend this Anime at all, and for one reason---- the ending. Withholding spoilers, let me just say that it goes to the darkest most disturbing place I have seen in any anime, then abruptly ends with zero redemption. This ending was more than disappointing, it was kind of traumatizing considering the skill with which the show had previously made you feel connected to the characters. So I would say,- only embark upon Berserk if you are interested in feeling depressed and unsatisfied with life-- which apparently is quite a few of you. This comment is not coming from someone who is conservative or easily offended. In other words I found Passolini's film "Salo" more agreeable than the ending of this series.


                
That summarizes it, the reason I give this an 8 is due to some lazy animation moments where it truly takes you out of the experience. I'm a hug Berserk fan, and if you're reading this and you're wondering "But that ending didn't finished anything" Yup, read the manga, when you're caught up, you'll wish it never ended.


                
Berserk (Manga) is not a new series to me, I read a couple of volumes earlier. The darkness of the subject seemed not an interesting study for me. Once my father became very angry, because he caught me with Berserk volumes, I was 15. The same series I've downloaded last week and watched Season 1, complete 25 episodes. I see, Guts' story was started rather simple and had the quality of an epic. The knowledge beyond the nature, the myths, they exist because we do exist in flesh and blood.Why it captures my attention? Berserk has an exceptional balance in the story. Each character has his/her unique qualities and not dominates other. Every single mercenary of the Band of the Hawk are characterized like real characters. Griffith, the anti-hero who is dare ambitious and has the charismatic attitude. He borns not very strong but he has all the qualities of a leader. Guts, the mysterious Black Swordsman, not one of the Hawk's, who is superior in power and achievements, and has no fear in his eyes. He becomes the Commander of the Hawk's who can bring thousand of victories alone in the battlefield better known as the 100 men slayer. The 3rd main character is a women knight, Casca who is a victim of sexual assault in her childhood and desperately chosen her fate to fight. She has purity in her heart and she is completely devoted to Griffith who saves her life several times.How the story becomes alive? The story is indeed fantastic, the love triangle between three main characters and the Crimson Behelit, The Egg of the King, that incidentally saves Griffith's life time-after time. Yes it is alive! Things we believe do exist, but supernatural like Zodd the immortal, sometime they too, either in real or in dreams but they do! We all know they do. The same way, the size of human character that is depending on wealth not in our earthly figure!Griffith's ambition is innocent, at least at the beginning we think so. But the adobe he builds in his mind is erratic, he never forced anyone to join him, except one man, Guts who has changed everything. Griffith's dream reflected in Guts's eyes. Tudor, the most powerful neighbouring country of Midland that was unconquerable for centuries was defeated by only 5000 armies of Band of the Hawks. Such impossible becomes possible because of the leadership of Griffith and the strength of Guts. Zodd the supernatural himself appears to the battlefield to see Guts live.Casca loves Griffith, her love is all about devotion. She knows Griffith is ambitious, and to fulfill his ambition he flirts people. She knows Guts has the power that Griffith lacks. The day Guts defeated Griffith on a duel to prove he is a freeman and not belongs to anybody without his own will, Casca realizes her blind devotion.Guts felt love for one woman in the earth, Casca. He dislikes festival, dance, highborn court women, amusement, and lights. He enjoys silent moon at night. An iron hearted man without feelings. In a flashback we see how he learns to live life. A group of mercenaries found a newly born from the corpse of his dead mother. The wife of Gambino, a mercenary, adopts Guts. Years later she died, leaving Gambino to raise Guts. Guts learned to fight alongside the mercenaries even though he is just a child and his sword is as big as him. Although Guts loves Gambino as a father, Gambino is cruel and harsh on Guts, believing the child brings the curse and blaming Guts for his wife's death. One night Gambino attacks Guts in a rage and Guts accidentally kills him in defense. ConclusionAll well that ends well, may be here the writer and illustrator, Kentaro Miura tries to make a difference. Berserk is a dark saga. Above I shared the ideal folk tale is aroused by curiosity. At least people like me will love to know up-to that level. Later the same story reminds me of Dante's Inferno is in compare. But it is not that the end, the saga burns everything into the hell. It could be something else, better. It's not about the cruel rape scene, that is common in many sex by force stories. Indeed the darkness is something beyond the bad dreams, cruel, horrific, devastating, that directly played with the feelings and emotion that people afraid of. May be Griffith's rebirth aftermath is concluded without an explanation. The whole thing is judged just rightly wrong in a completely bad manner.
