Checking this anime out of my local Blockbuster, I didn't know I had a gem in my hands. So I got home popped it in not expecting anything particularly special only to find that I was watching one of the most deep anime I have ever watched.The story follows the exploits of rogue swordsman Guts. Based on the hit manga series from Japan the anime retells the origin story of how Guts got to where he is in the world. In it we see how he went from a lone wolf only interested in his own well being to a loyal, unflinching, protector of those close to him. We see his bouts with love and loyalty to his friends. It becomes apparent that this man deals with some pretty hard conflicts not entirely unlike our own. He isn't just some dumb brute capable of destroying entire armies but a man with a heart. It's truly heartbreaking when we find out the dark sinister plan in store for him and his comrades.The story is solid if not a bit slow at times. Many themes discussed are the importance of friends and the dangers of too much ambition. I didn't give it a full ten because like I said the plot while solid can be sluggish a bit especially since the entire series, sans the first episode, is in a flashback and doesn't really scratch the surface of Berserk itself. The ending for those not familiar with Berserk is greatly different from the manga. The anime unlike the manga ends in an abrupt halt. The manga however extends many more volumes onward so if you don't like the ending of the anime don't worry you can just read the rest. The ending is only a small set back.Since this anime came out back in the early 90's don't expect the cutting edge animation that we've come to expect today. However it does offer a refreshing look into pre Cowboy Bebop anime. The musical score, while not typically changing all that often, is well suited for this anime. If I had to point out any parallels connecting this anime to the anime of today I would say it's more like the granddaddy of the anime for Gungrave. The stories are similar in their themes and the pacing is the same. If you liked Gungrave you'll like this. Berserk is an anime that starts slow but I guarantee by the end you'll have some deep emotion for it one way or the other.
This is my first review and no I was not compelled to write this review because Berserk is the greatest ever series I ever watched, frankly it's not but it's not too far away from that either. The main reason for this review is Berserk's beautifully unique, character driven and powerful storyline that left an lasting impression on me. When I completed the series the immediate feeling was that it was a decent anime and nothing more, but after a few days everything started to sink in and I began to appreciate the full depth and complexity of the story. The series gradually grows on you.At first look Berserk seems full of action and gore, but that's just on the surface, the story is more about friendship, love and betrayal. The crude nature of the series might be a bit too much for some people but is completely justified for the era Berserk is based in. One of the things that I like most is that the series never waste too much time on developing supporting characters and utilizes that time to give unbelievable depth and understanding of the three main characters(Guts, Griffith and Caska) and their complex relationships so much as that you can feel their pain and understand their actions. The music is just superb and complements the plot and characters completely and adds to the already heavily emotion packed series. The only flaw is that the climax leaves a few things unexplained but not like Evangelion(thank god).Berserk is an absolute classic and I strongly recommend it to anyone who is looking for some serious and emotional entertainment.


                
I've just finished watching the last episode and I can't really shake its effect off of me; so I decided to write some thoughts about it here.I started watching this anime because of some recommendation and at first I didn't really love it, seemed kinda 'dusty' and unpolished, and also the characters were a bit annoying. But - how lucky - I kept on watching and it became more and more interesting, mysterious and diverse. And here I have to praise the character development and relationships. Such well crafted emotional depiction! It often made me stare at the screen with a grasping feeling in my throat.*** MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS... SOMEWHAT *** The story is set in a somewhat fantasy-like medieval era, with the first episode being a 'stand-alone' and a glimpse to the future of one of the protagonists - it is from an other story-arc of the original manga. Then the main storyline keeps going in a medium pace without too many real twists until the end-ish episodes, where things get quite messed up. So if you are planning to watch the series, be prepared that you'll have to watch the last 5 episodes in one rush.The only problem is that the anime series doesn't contain the whole manga so the ending is kinda left open and a lot of things are left unanswered. Time to search for the manga books!
"Berserk" is simply one of the best action anime series ever made.It had all the fun and excitement of series such as "Lodoss", though it was done from a much grittier perspective.It's interesting to notice how the original "Berserk" anime only a had a few fantasy elements, having a "realistic" (but effective) approach of this story, which combined very well elements from epic and horror stories, resulting in something unique (At least for television) It had plenty of action, interesting characters and a fascinating background, that gave the story an incredibly appeal. The animation was reasonable well made, despite having some obvious limitations, the overall result was still pretty effective. The designs of the characters and sceneries were excellent, with many details and more mature aesthetic that gave this an "edgier" approach than other fantasy anime series with a more light-hearted tone."Berserk" kept a good level from the very beginning of the story, until the end of it. In fact, the ending left me wanting to see more about this story (Specially considering that this anime doesn't cover all the plot from the original comics) Now that some new "Berserk" movies are being made, it was nice experience for me to re-watch this series, and I'm glad to say that this survived the test of time.I just hope that someday all the whole great story done by Kentaro Miura get adapted into an animated format, considering how good it is it. But I'm sure that this will remain as the best adaptation.
Its a privilege to witness such a great script and not more than rare to be swallowed by a Drama like Berserk. Berserk is violent and very dark. Many people die and War is hell. A mysterious Swordsman seeks revenge on someone. The story that explains why is deeply fundamental. The incredible Soundtrack adds magic to this brutal world. The characters are very dimensional each one, not the least Guts who is raised by the Sword and battle is all he know. One could see a little crusader in him who dreams of another World. A genius and god-like worshiped leader is driven by a Dream. Hes conscience makes him doubt as people dies for it. Heartgripping turn of events all the way trough like a Rollercauster. Unpredictable and chocking. Berserk is something that no one wants to miss.


                
This is an excellent series for anime. tons of gore guts and blood on the surface and a great story underneath.


                
