For those unfortunate few who have never seen an episode of Joel Hodgson's MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 (referred to by fans as 'MST3K'), here is a brief rundown on all the fun you've missed out on.  Dr. Forrester is your typical mad scientist.  He sports big glasses, an oversized lab coat, crazy hair, and an insatiable urge to take over the world.  In an effort to kick off his latest foolproof world-domination scheme, Dr. Forrester abducts a dry-witted janitor named Joel Robinson from the research center they both work at.  Joel is blasted into space in an apparently escape-proof ship called the Satellite of Love, forever doomed to orbit the planet Earth. Forrester keeps contact with Joel via satellite transmission, and each week sends hims an unbearably awful b-movie which he is forced to watch.  The mad doctor's idea is to keep sending movies that are so mind-numbingly terrible that it will eventually drive Joel and his viewers to insanity, thus giving him an easy outlet for conquering the world.  To help preserve his sanity, Joel uses parts from the ship to build four wise-cracking robot friends that keep him company and help us to avoid cinema-induced lunacy by mercilessly heckling the films.The show aired weekly, and re-introduced old 1950s-70s era drive-in swill to a world that has long forgotten about it.  The movies they chose--The Brain That Wouldn't Die, Time of the Apes, and (most notorious) Manos: The Hands of Fate, for example--were truly some of the most awful abominations in cinema history, and how they were able to find clear, working prints of these (mostly) obscure films is beyond me.  Not only was it great to be able to witness some of these "masterpieces" first-hand, but the non-stop commentary by Joel, Tom, and Crow was absolutely hysterical.  There was never a dull moment when those boys hit the SOL's onboard movie theater.  On occasion, there would be a break from the movie to show a humorous sketch that would further the basic plot of the show.  While many of these segments were admittedly not all that funny, they didn't last long, and Forrester would call for "MOVIE SIGN!" again in no time.  Come to think of it, it may not even be that these primitive skits weren't funny, but that they simply paled in comparison to the sheer hilarity that took place in the ship's movie theater.MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 is one of the few television programs that seems to be loved by virtually everybody.  Seriously--I know of not a single person who didn't like this show, nor have I ever read a single negative comment or review of it.  That being said, why on Earth was such a brilliant show like MST3K canceled?  It couldn't have been because of poor ratings, since the show had a huge cult following and a substantial amount of regular viewers.  If anyone has any information regarding why this series was taken off the air, please contact me!


                
Mystery Science Theater 3000 could quite possibly be one of the most inventive and hilarious shows of all time. In a nutshell, an average guy is rocketed into space by his evil boss and is forced to watch terrible, cheesy, poorly acted, poorly written, poorly shot, B-grade movies (sometimes even lower grade than that). The only way he keeps his sanity is by mocking and riffing on the movie-of-the-week with his robot friends, Tom Servo and Crow T. Robot. He is also kept company by the robots Cambot and Gypsy, who do not watch the movie. Each episode of MST3K delivers almost non-stop laughs and great one-liners that make watching these awful movies not only bearable, but also hilarious! There are fans (known as MSTies) of all ages, from adults who have been watching it from the first televised episode to teens just discovering it thanks to the release of the DVDs. All in all, I am a huge fan of MST3K and have never been dissatisfied with it. I've never seen an episode that didn't make me laugh out loud.It's difficult to describe it to those who haven't seen it before, so if you're not one of the legions of fans of MST3K yet, hurry out and rent or buy one of the DVD sets. You won't be disappointed! 10/10


                
Comedy Central gets credit when credit is due. "South Park", the "Chapelle's Show", "Win Ben Stein's Money", "The Daily Show" and a few others -- were breakthough series for a very hungry comedy generation. But this was their very first hit, let no one tell ya differently.At first, I thought Mystery Science Theater 3000 would bug me. A bunch of folks talking through a movie. I HATE that. But these guys have gone through and chosen a host of films that are bad to begin with. And you know as you're sitting in the comfort of your home, by yourself or with friends watching these same films, you are saying or thinking the same thing of what Joel and Mike and the 'bots are.Yes, MST3K is "cheap", its stupid..but its a heck of alot of fun. There are a few movies they took that I didn't think deserved an MST3K "do-over" but at some points in the series, they did a unique thing and added in Cartoons, old Soap Operas and TV Series before showing the full feature. That was a laugh riot.Comedy Central's MST3K went to the Sci-Fi Channel where they still show the series but I wish they would also show the ones with Joel and the 'bots along with the ones with Mike and the 'bots. In such a depressing time, it puts a smile on my face for two hours every Saturday Morning. It's simple and s-i-m-p-l-e.Every year the Sci-Fi network does "Twilight Zone" Marathons which I love. I remember Comedy Central ONCE doing a "MST3K" Marathon, it's time to do another. This is the best comedy/sci-fi series to date, it deserves alot more than it got.If not, maybe its time to pull the gang together and do another "Movie". The "MST3K" gang really blew it with doing "This Island Earth" when we all know "Manos, the Hands of Fate" would have gotten them Academy Award Nominations. Find another film like that, put these guys back into space (and hey, bring 'em back home!) and I bet it would surprise everyone in the film industry for how well it would do.Great Series!


                
The best comedy series ever.  The range of humor, from lowbrow to extremely sophisticated, is amazing.  Despite numerous cast changes over its ten-year run, it maintained a high quality and its final season was no less funny than the others.  The writing was top notch, the performances hilarious, and their treatments of the abysmal films they mocked proved that you CAN make silk purses from sows' ears.  Certainly, a station with greater resources than Comedy Central or the Sci-Fi Channel could have delivered the audience the show deserved, but, sadly, this was not the case, and its second cancellation was final.  No TV program has enchanted me the way MST3K did, and I still mourn its cancellation more than a year after the fact.  Catch it while reruns are still being aired!  I don't expect them to continue much, if at all, into 2001.  If you manage to see it, I guarantee you'll be heading to Rhino Videos to order tapes of the old episodes, and contacting fans to obtain copies of newer ones.I am in my forties, yet Servo and Crow, the two main robot puppets, became as real to me as any human character on TV.  Along with the rest of the cast, they became friends with whom I looked forward to spending a couple of hours every Saturday morning.  Invite some real friends over to watch it--it's much better as a group experience.  Once again, catch it in reruns on the Sci-Fi Channel while you still can!


                
Many people are wise to the attraction of BAD movies - however poor they are you can sit and gasp 'WHAT WHERE THEY THINKING' or pull holes in the plot/acting/effects/continuity/script. Especially Sci-Fi. And, like myself, you probably rip the mickey out of said films whilst they are watching them. This show takes it one step further - and makes a GOOD job of doing just that for you! And the humour is ALWAYS spot on - so much so that during a recent showing of 'Overdrawn at the Memory Bank (1985)' I laughed so much I almost did SERIOUS damage to myself (and my underwear)!! I just wish this was shown more in the UK. Sci-Fi channel - come on!!! Put it on earlier so us non-vampires can see it! Top class comedy.


                
"Mystery Science Theater 3000" does what we'd all love to do when watching a bad movie, but hesitate due to courtesy or our own lack of wit: Offer our own biting commentary on the wretchedness before us. For 12 seasons, this sleeper cult TV hit used this idea (one that can never grow old because there will always be bad movies) to hilarious advantage. The plot was as follows: mad scientists Dr. Clayton Forrester and Dr. Larry Earhart (who was replaced one year later by doofy henchmen TV's Frank, who proved much more popular) run Gizmonics Institute. They have such an irrational dislike to quirky, sleepy-eyed custodian Joel Robinson (Joel Hodgson, the show's creator), that they blast him into space on the "Satellite of Love". As if that weren't bad enough, they force poor Joel to sit through bad movie day after day to study their effects on our hero's brain. Well, space gets pretty lonely, so Joel builds himself four robot companions (according to the show's theme, they're built from parts that could have helped him "control when the movies begin and end"). The main robots are suave smart-ass and occasional crooner Tom Servo (who is made from a gumball machine) and abrasive pop culture fiend Crow, a bizarre, gold, bird-like thing. There's also Gypsy, who controls the main functions of the ship and has a girlish crush on B-actor Richard Basehart, and Cambot, who tapes the show. Every week our hapless captives were sent an awful movie (just a reminder, these are REAL movies, and they have to be seen to be believed), each more horrendous than the last. Bad acting, cheesy scenery, plots that range from silly to reprehensible, lame special effects, laughable fashion, stilted dialogue, these movies have it all. Yet Joel and his plucky pals have a secret weapon: their never-ending supply of wisecracks at the rubbish they're forced to watch. Everything that comes out these guys' mouths is a comedic gem. Example?Servo: What do you think the lesson of the movie was? Crow: Don't watch it. Like all long running shows, "MST3K" went through many changes. Dr. Forrester and TV's Frank moved from Gizmonics to Deep 13, a lair located at the core of the Earth. Joel Hodgson left the show in 1993 and was replaced by one of the show's writers, Michael J. Nelson. Like the fictional Joel Robinson, "Mike Nelson" was an affable, All-American temp working in Deep 13 who was much disliked by the mad scientists (Dr. Forrester called him a "mild-mannered boob"). When Joel miraculously escapes after seeing the Joe Don Baker crapfest "Mitchell", Mike was immediately blasted into the Satellite of Love in Joel's place, and stayed for the rest of the show's run. Mike was an excellent replacement, having a slightly different comedic style than Joel, but still getting plenty of laughs. While Joel was more laid back and wry, Mike tended to be more blunt with his remarks during movies ("Did ANYONE know how to run in the '50s?" he quips during a horror film). Five years and one movie later, Dr. Forrester's mother Pearl was the main villain, along with her henchmen: Bobo, a simian professor, and the Observer, or "Brain Guy", a cloaked genius who transported movies with the power of his mind. No show has ever had one formula that stayed fresh for so long, and it's still a cult favorite that's a hit on DVD. Mike Nelson even keeps it up with Riff Trax, a web site where you can download his skewers of bad mainstream films like "Road House" and "The Phantom Menace". Yet the fine art of making fun of cheesy movies will belong to those silhouetted three chaps who tear sub par movies a new one. Yup, I stand by my statement: Best. Cult show. EVER!!


                
basic synopsis: Joel Hodgeson, along with his robots Tom Servo, Crow, and Gypsy, is held captive thousands of miles above the earth, in the satellite of love (S.o.L.), where he is forced to endure gruelingly bad movies. Joel, rather than succumb to the terrifying badness of the films, makes slapstick puns, which Tom Servo and Crow easily join in on. Joel also creates weekly inventions for Frank, the man who shot him into space. Inventions include the comic grinder, which mixes boring comics with other boring comics to create FUN!!! comics, i.e. "Ziggy got Garfield neutered?!? NOW THAT'S FUNNY!"Even after 10 seasons, the humor never ran down or let up. In fact, the only notable difference was the change in humor styling, from Joel to Mike. What happened, basically, was Joel either decided to quit, or was fired from, the cast of MST3K. His replacement was Mike Nelson, who did an equally good job commentating on movies. Anyways, where Joel brought a sarcastic, harsh tone to his humor, Mike gave more of an analytical, joke-by-comparison type of humor. It is very hard to explain, but you should understand once you actually view a couple of episodes.Overall, there were many decent episodes, such as those from the first season, which were really stepping stones for the MST3K crew to find their real footholds on the show. the jokes were less risqué', and the cast lacked it's flare. Nonetheless, the episodes were still worthy of watching. Titles include: The Crawling eye, the robot versus the Aztec mummy, and Mad Monster. Definitely not a bad group.However, the third season was where the MST3K really got things cookin'. This was the first season where MST3k appeared on Comedy Central, and it shows. Personally, this, along with season's five and ten, was my favorite season. The episode's were all great, every last one of them, and they all had the necessary emotion put into them. Titles include: Cave Dwellers, Santa Claus conquers the Martians, and fugitive alien. Must see!Finally, we have the fifth season. Half way through this season, something went wrong with Joel, and thus he was fired. So, starting with episode 514 (Mitchell) we were introduced to Mike Nelson. Do not take this statement the wrong way, this season was great! All of my favorite episodes were packed in here, and above all else, the season had the change that MSTies everywhere were looking for. Titles include: Eegah!, Mitchell, I accuse My ParentsThe only other episode I would like to remark on is Manos: The hands of Fate, which is considered to be the worst movie ever made, and, in my opinion, truly is. It is also a great episode, providing lots of hilarious gags, etc. Definite must see.Overall: MST3K is a 10/10 fa sho.


                
I feel that I am at a loss of words to describe how much I truly adore this show. It is pure genius and pure delight. I remember my first ever encounter with MST3K: It was five years ago and the featured movie of the episode was Hobgoblins. I had heard about the show but had never really had an interest in seeing it. I came across it channel surfing and decided to watch it for awhile. At that moment, I was forever hooked. Since then, I have seen every Sci-Fi era episode and roughly half of the show's Comedy Central days. I have been exposed to some of the worst movies in history, and I have loved every minute of it. When I found out that the show was ending its run of original episodes in 1999, I was devastated. Fortunately, Sci-Fi has kept re-runs of MST3K going every Saturday. My only complaint is that its not on enough. Rhino has made the wise decision to release select episodes of MST3K from the Comedy Central era on video and DVD, making the show readily available to a new generation of fans. Hopefully, someday every episode of the show's prestigious run will be released for human consumption, or at least it will go into wide syndication like many beloved TV classics. Until then, tune into the Sci-Fi channel every Saturday morning and witness a true work of genius in progress.


                
This, fellow men, in the finest work of art ever made by humans. The off-beat but promising concept of two humanlike robots and their human friend riffing bad movies quickly blossoms into the funniest show ever made. From the sheer quirk factor, (the genius host segments, the seriously weird movies,) the raw entertainment value, ( the jaw-droppingly hilarious jokes tossed at the worst movies so bad they make fun of themselves, jokes so funny you'll be spitting whatever you happen to be drinking from your nose,) and the timeless quality, (I have 60 episodes on DVD and have vigorously watched and re-watched them, and honestly can't wait to finish my collection.) Manos, Santa Claus Conquers the Martians, Space Mutiny, Merlin's Shop, Boggy Creek, Prince of Space, Final Justice, Revenge of the Creature, Jack Frost, Riding with Death, Invasion of the Nepture Men, Horror of Party Beach, and so, so, so, so, so, so, so many more of the funniest gems you've ever seen and will ever see. Why anyone would want to get rid of this perfect show is so mind-boggling in its evil that I grow nauseous thinking of it. For a time, I couldn't sleep unless I had seen a Mystery Science Theater before I went to bed. ( Okay, that is pretty pathetic, and I've grown out of that seeing as how I've loved the show since I was little. But still...my love remains undiminished.....) This show is a bastion of good taste and raw hilarity against a storm of lame and overrated sitcoms, (coughFriendscough) We've got movie sign!


                
I got hooked on this show when it was on the Sci-Fi channel. I tried to watch it, along with my parents sometimes, to watch it every Saturday morning. It is so funny, cause I like that kind of quick smart-alic humor, I'm good at it. Thats what it is at our house. But the drawback to getting hooked on it, so my parents say, is now whenever I watch any movie, I do the same thing now. After I started watching MST3K I started cracking jokes when I watched movies. Which at first drove my parents nuts, except my dad would do it too. Now they and my friends just got used to it and go along really. But this show is so funny, I'm sad that no one shows them anymore. Sci-Fi should bring them back.


                
What can be said about Mystery Science Theater 3000? Well lots actually, it's a very funny series where one guy and two puppets comment on B movies from between the 50's and the 80's. The pitch doesn't sound all that, but the comedic timing of these three is unparallelled. I'm not sure how many times they subjected themselves to the likes of Puma man or Space mutiny to notice every little continuity and plot hole errors, but it really pays off.The series ran for quite a while on the Sci Fi channel on Sky, but not anymore, unfortunately the videos of these great shows is extremely hard to come by too. As such there is probably a large amount of people out there that have not had a chance to watch some of these great episodes. Word to the wise, go see them, it will be the best thing you ever did.


                
When I first was told about this show I was skeptical about it. A bunch of guys talking through an entire movie? Not good. When I actually watched it I thought it was hilarious. I got hooked instantly. The fact that these characters are making fun of really bad movies (which we do anyway) was genius. Even so, I find myself making comments about it while they are doing their own. It's sad that they don't make them anymore, just because I've seen my share of bad movies recently. Ones that I make fun of all the time, and I would love to see them make fun of them also. All in all, I'm not done collecting the sets, as they come out with new ones. (One coming out I think on June 7th)I can't wait to have them all.


                
I discovered this show back when it was on Comedy Central in the early 90's. The whole premise for the show is so original-movie watching as a form of mental torture. I look back with fondness upon the first episode that I watched. It was "The Human Duplicators" starring Richard Kiel. The horror! Since then, of course, I have seen nearly all of the episodes, including the granddaddy of all bad movies, "Manos: the Hands of Fate." My eyeballs were permanently seared after that one. Here's hoping that more episodes will soon become available on DVD. My favorites include "The Day the Earth Froze", "Danger: Death Ray!", "Daddy'O", "Outlaw", "Bride of the Monster", "Mitchell", "Girl's Town", "Santa Claus Conquers the Martians", "Killer Shrews", "It Conquered the World", and "The Thing That Wouldn't Die". Movie Sign!


                
Personally this is the funniest thing i've ever set my eyes on. When ever I watch an episode I just think oh my gosh what if you were watching the movie without Mike/or/Joel and Crow and Tomservo it would be awful. There would be nothing to watch just a bunch of junk. My favorite episode would have to be 'Girl in The Golden Boots.'I just Can't get over how stupid the movie is there is no point to it. Just a dumb broad who wants to be a dancer. Who really stinks at it. and then there are all these ditsy dancers and anyway there is no point to it. But Mike, Crow and Tomservo make it all worth while. The theme song gives a great summery of what the show is about. I'm not so good at making comments so hopefully some other peoples comments make you want to watch the show. Everyone who loves comedy should take the time to watch an episode or two.
Mystery Science Theater 3000 (TV Series 1988-1999)J: Starring Joel Hodgson, Michael J. Nelson, Kevin Murphy, Trace Beaulieu, Jim Mallon, Bridget Jones, Paul Chaplin, Mary Jo Pehl, Frank Conniff, Patrick Brantsen, J. Elvis Weinstein, Jann Johnson, Beth McKeever, Peter Rudrud, Alexandra Carr, Bradley J. Keely, Faye Burkholder, Robert Czech, Eli Kenneth Mallon, Daniel Breyer....Director Trace Beaulieu, Joel Hodgson, Jim Mallon, Kevin Murphy, Michael J. Nelson...Script Joel Hodgson, Trace Beaulieu, Jim Mallon, Frank Conniff, Paul Chaplin, Kevin Murphy.........."Mystery Theater 3000" was a highly successful horror film showcase on cable television. When it premiered in 1988, it was unlike any other horror film showcase in that it was FUNNY! Everything, including the films, were marked with comic remarks from the principal characters who hosted the show. The series ended in 1999, about a decade later. The premise: Michael J. Nelson (who was the head writer) and at times the other host Joel Hodgson (yet another writer on the show), are subject to punishment from Pearl Forrester, a gruff female forest ranger (possibly a lesbian), an unintelligent Planet of the Apes ape Bobo and the brainy Observerer. Forrester hopes to rule the universe and has locked Mike Nelson/Joel and his robot friends Tom Servo, Gypsy and Crow, in their own spaceship where they are forced to watch the worst in B movie horror films. Believe it or not, but some of the films were more than entertaining. Despite cult classic and cheesy, awful films such as "I Was A Teenage Werewolf", "Space Mutiny" and "Viking Women" and others, some of the films were quite good in their badness!! Mike/Joel and the robots constantly speak over the film to make jokes. This was never on standard TV and therefore only cable TV owners in the 1990's were able to enjoy it. This show targeted a young demographic, mostly college-age students. It was a well-written show, due to the fact that most of the writers frequently appeared on the show. A fine show overall.
A mild Mannered Every-man is shot into space by a mad scientist and is forced to watch the worst Movies of all time. Luckily, he's a handyman, and he builds himself some robot friends to help him endure the unfathomably bad bits that Hollywood had to offer. So, basically it's sort of the plot from Silent Running (1972), but with movies instead of murders. This show was Mystery Science Theater 3000 and truly it was brilliant. It ran for 7 years on Comedy Central and 3 Years on The Sci-Fi Network (spanning 10 years and producing a feature film)! The movie changes every week, so the strength of the show has a good deal to do with what movie they are watching. The Show typically comes in 3 Flavors: A) The movie is bad, but ambitiously bad. These are Typically the funniest/most entertaining episodes, as the jokes come easier at the films expense. (Example: Time Chasers, The Brain That Woudln't Die)B) The Movie Features uninteresting/cliché characters, as well as poorly lit/shot scenes. The acting is sub-par. The sheer awfulness of these films is cut by the hilarious jokes and quips. The movies are watchable, but not by much. These episodes can still be quite entertaining, if the jokes really hit. (Examples: Samson Vs. The Vampire Women, The Deadly Mantis)C) These are the most putrid piles of BUTT-ROT ever known to man. Often these 'films' were written/directed/produced by some random moron who got some friends and family to 'star'. These films should be shot into the sun. These episodes are very hit or miss for most. These movies are truly unwatchable and weird. The average viewer can't endure it, even if the jokes are funny. These are for the hardest of the hardcore fans (Examples: MANOS: The Hands Of Fate, Sky Divers, The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies!!?)DEFENSE: It might look like a puppet show to those who haven't seen it before. I could understand how some people might even think it looks ridiculous, and to it's critics I say this: get passed the cheesy sets and low budget and use your imagination a little. If you buy into the show's premise, the payout is huge and hilarious. Truly, One of the best television shows of all time.


                
You know, I bet each of us has seen a movie that just practically shouts out "AWFUL!" For me, that movie was My Big Fat Greek Wedding, but that's a story for another day. The point I'm trying to make is that somewhere out there, there may be a guy who has to sit through all of history's greatest wastes of celluloid.In Mystery Science Theater 3000 (MST3K for short), that's just what happens: a human male (Joel Hodgson/Robinson in the earlier seasons, Mike Nelson in the later episodes) is subjected to horrible films. But one aspect that remains constant is that the human is accompanied by his robotic pals Crow T. Robot and Tom Servo (along with supporting droids Gypsy, Cambot and Magic Voice). Since Joel/Mike has no say in the weekly movie choices, he, Crow and Servo just heckle and mock the movies all the way through to keep themselves from going nuts. Depending on the season, our heroes are pursued by the insidious Dr. Forrester, his mother Pearl, TV's Frank and other crazy characters.During the movie (and an occasional bonus educational short or something), Joel/Mike, Servo, and Crow are all represented by silhouettes at the bottom of the screen. This, in my opinion, is much more realistic than having voice-overs, although the snide remarks sometimes make it hard to follow the movie (if you actually care enough).Nevertheless, these guys crack a great mixture of obvious and subtle jokes. They don't alienate either the casual viewer or the hardcore trivia wizards. And since many of their flicks hail from the USA in the 1950s/60s, there's time enough to beat up the squeaky-clean, woman-hating, perfect-hair conformity stereotypes present in cinema of that era. Moreover, the producers were careful to pick up only movies that were too horrible to become famous (although Manos: The Hands of Fate owes the majority of its fame to MST3K), yet there are a few episodes with movies featuring well-established sci-fi icons like Godzilla and Gamera.MST3K has disappeared from television broadcast, but the show is being released on DVD by Rhino Entertainment in boxed sets of four episodes each. It will unfortunately take a very long while for every possible episode to show up, but until then, MST3K has found a loving home in the home video trading scene--possibly inspired by the "keep circulating the tapes" message in the credits of several episodes. (Don't tell the industry bigwigs, though.) Best of all, they're non-sequential, so pop a show in and enjoy one of the thoroughly funniest programs in the universe...


                
The old line, you will either get it or you will hate it, applies here. Probably on your first few viewings, you will be confused. After that you will develop an inkling if you like it or not. If you like B movies, Scifis, biting sarcasm, Monty Python, 3 stooges, the Marx brothers, improv comedy, and or puppets, you *might* like mst3k. Some of the humor is complex, while a lot of it is just plain juvenile puns and slapstick. But If you HATE people who yak away during a movie, you will definitely hate mst3k.Common question for Noobs is, which episode do I see first? Thats a tough one to answer, because there is no real accepted "starting point", and there are over 200 one hour episodes, about 40 or so are readily available on DVD. Also, many of the favorite episodes for mst fans are the kind that gradually grow on you, worse, every mst fan has his/er fave and they are adamant about it being the best one. In general, the earlier episodes have older movies, are a little slower paced and have less riffing, while the later episodes use more recent movies and the riffs come a mile a minute. My only advice would to NOT start on season 1, and watch 3 or 4 episodes before you make up your mind. Space Mutiny, Mitchell, Manos: The hand of fate, or godzilla vs megallon are some favorites. Also, if you don't like the first movie you see, just go to the next one and forget about it. Regardless, One thing to beware of are the ones who call themselves MISTies. These are highly deranged geeks who are obsessed about the show, have no tolerance for those who aren't madly in love with it, and generally look down on those that aren't MSTies. Noobs should not try to engage MSTies on the boards, give them a wide berth, and you can pretty much enjoy the show without listening to them at all. Worse yet, there is a possibility you will become a misty yourself. This may bring familial disruption, loss of work ethic, and many long long hours on the computer writing messages and downloading etc. There is no known antidote, except perhaps, a line from opening song: Repeat to yourself, its just a show, I should really just relax!


                
It always warms my heart to see people try to disparage MST3K like the user comment below this one by "Bryce David" tried to.People who diss the show have limited exposure to it, plain and simple.For example, "Bryce David" (who, by the way only gave "Jaws" a 5/10, Jaws, for god's sake!) states that he watched "several" episodes of the show yet he only cites episode 101-The Crawling Eye the first episode of the show's run on cable. It's commonly acknowledged that the first season of MST3K is severely lacking when compared to even the 2nd season. The show's format wasn't ironed out yet, a majority of the modern writing team wasn't on board yet; the writers thought of it as a "primordial" season that they even admitted sucked. So, I don't disagree that the episode watched wasn't very enjoyable.However, considering one would have to buy the first episode from a tape trader or get it from a torrent site, I'm almost inclined to say that "Bryce David" wanted to complain, but not having ever seen the show he just chose the first episode from the list and decided to cite it as evidence. But I know nobody would do something that stupid...In any case, one cannot make a snap judgment about a show with almost 200 episodes and 10 seasons based on the first episode or even the first season. It's patently dishonest.Secondly, when people complain that more modern movies need to be riffed-on and they use this as an example of why the show is bad: they have no idea of how the show worked. The makers of the show would buy the rights to the movies they would watch. If they just got a DVD of, say, "Howard the Duck" and put their commentary over it, they'd get sued. The reason they didn't do big-budget movies is because it would've cost too much to get the rights to them. So that's a bit of a moot point.Additionally, they didn't solely trash old movies. Yes, a large amount of the movies they did were from the 50's, however, the most recent movie they watched was from 1996 and movies from the 60s/70s/80s were sprinkled in throughout. And it's not just the fact that it's an old movie that makes it a bad movie. The fact that it's poorly made makes it bad, a point often expressed on the show.So basically, if you give up on the show after watching the very first episode...that's your loss.Oh right, this is supposed to be a review, isn't it. Basically, Mystery Science Theater 3000 was the most original, consistently entertaining and intelligent show of the past 25 years. 'Nuff said.


                
I'm a movie person, reading person, and computer person. I don't watch TV much, and most series recently are dull.My point is that I don't like TV. But this is one of the three exceptions. It is originally about Joel Robinson, who is better at inventing than Dr. Clayton Forrester. Because of this,  Joel is sent up into space to watch the worst movies ever made. But, as Joel says, "When you've got lemons, you make lemonade." He makes fun of these films with two robots he invented, Crow T. Robot and Tom Servo, while the Sattelite of Love is operated by Gypsy, another robot, and we see the show through Cambot's view.In season 5, the Mads (Forrester and TV's Frank) are plotting the death of Michael J. Nelson, and Gypsy thinks they are talking about Joel. So Mike tells her that there is an escape pod (hidden in a box marked Hamdingers) and can help Joel escape, but it only holds him. He escapes, and Mike is sent up to watch the films.in season 7, Frank is taken into Second Banana Heaven by the angel Torgo. (Torgo was in "Manos: Hands of Fate" which is universally agreed the worst film EVER.) And in the final episode on Comedy Central, Deep 13 is the place Forrester has been hiding for a long time, but due to funding, he is forced to close it. As Mike and the Bots are about to enter Earth's atmosphere (which will kill them), they barely escape, and become pure energy and leave the solar system. Dr. Forrester watches himself grow old, and seeing a tape labeled "The Worst Film Ever Made," turns into a Star Child. (2001: A Space Oddysey is what they are spoofing.)For Comedy Central, it's over, but in 1997, it was ressurected. The gang learns that Pearl Forrester has killed Dr. Forrester, and is now sending them movies. Pearl is Dr. Forrester's mother, and with Observer and Bobo, go to ancient Rome, ending in Bobo accidentally burning it down. They then go somewhere (I don't know), and in season nine, go to Castle Forrester.
(Spoilers Ahead) In the final episode, Pearl is playing with a joystick that controls the SOL, but breaks it, sending them to Earth. They survive, and Mike, Crow and Tom live in an apartment, watching bad movies. Gypsy starts ConGypsCo.  If you want a short summary: It's about making fun of bad movies, and it does that well. Some people like me are MSTies, or fans. We don't want to give up, and some won't. And if you want my opinion, watch it on the Sci-Fi channel. If it's gone, go to Blockbuster and get some episodes. No matter which, they are funny. If you want my opinion for video, get "Pod People," and if you're lucky to find it on Sci-Fi, wait fo Hobgoblins, Soultaker, and Danger Diabolik. JUST WATCH ONE-you'll never regret it.
I watched this show a few times when it first came out and found it quite entertaining. Now, it's on NetFlix and I began watching it again."Mystery Science Theater 3000" is truly creative, and, very funny. Although "Beavis and Butthead" were doing this same thing a few years earlier by mocking music videos, MST3K has taken this sort of thing to a new level...mocking and tearing-up old and cheesy movies.Someone wrote a comment here about how stupid and 'infantile' it is to make fun of low-budget movies; and, how he'd respect MST3K if they made fun of high-budget movies!?!? That's just it...low-budget movies are made fun of, because...they're low-budget movies! They're cheaply made with silly scripts, poor acting, and, stupid dialog that's easily scorned and worthy of ridicule. Who'd watch a show like this that pokes fun at, and, insults movies like, "The Godfather," "Doctor Zhivago," and, "The Wizard of Oz?" No one! These are movies people want to see without interruptions. Then, again, someone who writes a comment that preposterous is someone who'd turn around and write a comment about how MST3K has a nerve to ridicule high-budget movies - he can't be pleased either way!?!?Another thing about those who dislike MST3K is, I believe, they just don't have the background and/or the mentality to understand the jokes that are being made towards these movies. If you don't understand where the jokes and comments originated, you won't understand how they're being applied here. It's the same as the review I wrote on IMDb about the original "Rocky and His Friends"(1959). In order to understand that show, especially "Grimm Fairy Tales" and "Fractured Fairy Tales," you first need to know about those original stories. For example - if you don't have a simple background in, or, knowledge of, "Rapunzel" or "Goldilocks," you won't understand the jokes related to these. The three main characters in MST3K make many references to people and events from long ago. Most people nowadays don't know who Rose Marie(Hollywood Squares), Doris Day. or, Foghorn Leghorn is/was, so, they don't understand the references.Granted...some of the movies being made fun of on MST3K probably shouldn't have even been here at all. One in particular is the Russo-Finnish movie "Morozko"(1964) (aka "Frosty")...on MST3K as "Jack Frost." This movie, and, fairy tale, is a classic in Russia, and, in most of Europe. It's well-made and well-acted. Even one of the cast of MST3K states that Natalya Sedykh makes Olivia Hussey("Romeo and Juliet" 1968) look like Thelma Ritter, and...that's saying a lot seeing that Olivia Hussey was beautiful in that movie.Either way, and, regardless of what inept tards may think, or, not think at all, I love this show! It's people who criticize and knock down creative shows like this who lead to diagnostic terms such as 'sociopath' and 'imbecile.'
The heart warming story of two men chosen at different times by a mad scientist and his assistant to be the lab rat in an experiment to find the worst movie ever made and use that movie to take over the world! Good thing those two men - first series creator Joel Hodgeson (as Joel 'Robinson') and later series head writer Michael J. Neslon (as himself) - have those wacky robots Tom Servo and Crow to help them get through those bad films. Also on board is Gypsy.Though some of those films really were grueling (like "Manos: The Hands of Fate") the boys always managed to get a laugh out of the audience with their oddball quips and one liners. Also adding to the fun is the the sheer low budget look of the sets. It looks like it was set up for a Saturday Night Live sketch.The show kind of lost me when Frank left and was replaced by Dr. Forrester's mother and lost me even more when it moved to the Sci-Fi channel and had to replace Doc Forrester with own mom and also Crow, but still it had its moments.All in all, one of the great series of television. Joel and Mike were both great hosts who brought something a little different to the show; Mike had more personality going for him but Joel had some of the best episodes(like "Hercules Against The Moon Men"). One can only hope that one day the whole series will be put on DVD. Also the movie is very funny.


                
This is definitely one of the most underrated shows in history. On a low budget, MST3K became a huge phenomenon. What a great concept to have 3 guys (2 robots and 1 human) watch some of the worst movies ever made and make funny comments throughout the films. I can't watch a single one without having to pause it because I was laughing so hard and didn't want to miss anything. The writers, led by Michael J. Nelson, are absolutely brilliant. Even with changes to the cast (Joel, Frank and Trace leaving, Bill Corbett taking over the role of Crow, Mike replacing Joel), the show did not lose a single ounce of comedic flavor. Anytime I need a good laugh, I can just pop in an MST3K episode and my mood is guaranteed to improve. This show tops any other sit-com including Seinfeld, Frasier, Friends, That 70's Show, Two and a Half Men, The Simpsons, etc. You name a sit-com, MST3K is funnier. I don't see how anyone could give this show anything less than 9 or 10 stars. I just don't. Even if you're not a Sci-Fi kind of person, you will love this show. Though I wish this show lasted longer than 10 seasons, that's a lot of episodes and a lot of bad movies. I don't envy the writers having to watch these films over and over. MST3K is a thrill-ride you will never forget. To the person who said she could see why it got cancelled, it lasted 10 seasons and I'm not sure it did get cancelled or if they just decided to call it quits. If a show can last 10 seasons, it's obviously not that bad.
There few shows in the history of TV that will give me consistent laughter. The Simpsons, Whose Line is it Anyway? Seinfeld, SCTV and Scrubs just to name a few. Mystery Science Theater 3000 is one of those shows. It was one of those shows that when it ended, I was sad. It was so so good, which is ironic for the truly awful movies that they would show. See the premise of the show was that a human(Joel from seasons 1 to 5 and Mike seasons 5 to 10) was captured and was forced to endure experiments from Mad scientists. And, of course, the experiments were to that Joel or Mike would have to watch really, really, really, really, REALLY bad movies. Though out the series, Joel/Mike would watch true stinkers like, Santa Clause Conquers The Martians, Mitchell, The Pumaman, Space Mutiny, Soultaker, Final Justice, Monster a Go Go, Prince of Space and the ever popular turkey, Manos! The Hands of Fate. Knowing the any normal human would go insane because of this, that Joel, the creator of the show, built his robot friends, to help keep his sanity. Robots like, Crow T.Robot, Tom Servo, Gypsy and Cambot helped keep the host's and our sanity by making wisecracks, or riffs at the movie. Thus, making the show amazingly hilarious!! There is something special in a human and two robots, making fun of terrible movies. For ten years it has made legions of people laugh and of course myself. This show is a true classic of TV and it deserves all the praise that it gets.


                
The premise of MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 (also known as MST3K) couldn't have been weirder: a mad scientist shoots a man into space and forces him & some robots (puppets made out of household items slapped together) to watch bad movies in the hopes of finding a film so awful he'd somehow take over the world with it. This has to be the absolute weirdest premise in the history of TV. Some would say it was just an excuse to kill a couple of hours of airtime while watching some guys make fun of poorly made movies.But you know what? It worked out brilliantly! Whether it was mocking their way through movies like "Monster A Go-Go", "Santa Claus Conquers the Martians" and "The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-up Zombies" or performing comedy sketches funnier than the past several years of anything on "Saturday Night Live", the gang on the Satillite Of Love and their captors kept their fans laughing out loud for ten years, almost 200 episodes, several cast changes and two networks.Thanks to a very talented and dedicated cast/crew (almost all the actors/puppeteers were also members of the writing and production staff), MYSTERY SCIENCE THEARTER 3000 is STILL one the most beloved and funniest shows ever put on the air, even after all these years since its cancellation. Truly a masterpiece of comedy.


                
