Decided to watch this Netflix series because it was rated a 9.5 on IMDB. We were puzzled by the first couple of episodes and thought we must be missing something. It was hard to follow at times with scenes and characters popping up that seemed to not tie into preceding events. Yes, it is absolutely wonderful to see something out of India. Yes, Mumbai is that star of the show. Yes, the actors are great. But frankly if this was set in Detroit or LA or the suburbs of Paris I wonder if it would have been so popular because of all its other flaws. Episode 5 was so violent and with several scenes that just didn't make a lot of sense in terms of advancing the story that we almost gave up. However, with only 3 episodes left, we'll endure it to the end and hope it doesn't get any more difficult to view.Footnote: as I've been preparing this review, I had an email from the Economist magazine with its own review. One phrase jumps out at me: "The series strains to meet such heavy expectations". That about sums it up. Here's a second: "Viewers are left to scratch their heads." Well, we certainly did a lot of that. Worth a read if you can find it on the Economist website.I'm amending my comments after watching the final few episodes. This just got worse and worse and both my wife and I now regret having watched it. I'm even lowering my rating from 6 to 5 as it was worse at the end that the beginning. Bottom line: it would seem if you are India or have a strong connection to India, you might enjoy this (certainly the case based on the names of the reviewers who rate it highly), if you are an international viewer, you are probably going to be disappointed and conclude as many have said that this has been grossly overrated.


                
Have only watched one episode so far but...what a wasted opportunity.I thought the book was absolutely brilliant Such a shame that Vikram Chandra only produces one novel every 20 years or so.The main character, the Sikh detective, is a pretty cool guy who manages to stay on top of things incredibly well. In this version he might as well be Harry Bosch or any of the others.
Netflix have turned him into just another hard-boiled cop with personal problems who scowls and sulks all the time.There's no subtlety, with the bent cops all being one dimensional stereotypes and the characters mostly grouching and snarling.Netflix have produced something totally formulaic and managed to make a cow's ear out of a silk purse.


                
Boring, cliche, predictable story of the uprising and decline of a gangster in the slums of an Indian city. The series is full of foul language and scenes but that's not what makes it bad, it's the boring story with no juice in it. Overall a disappointing watch.


                
I followed the high rates for watching this series but i was disappointed..
I can summarize my experience as follow :1- Plot could have made better , it attracted me at the beginning then started to 
 become more and more boring.
2- The protagonists didn't deliver a unique character that will let you get 
 attracted to them , especially the inspector in which i found him dull and dumb 
 in many occasions. 
3- The distribution of scenes (flashbacks and the investigations) is not organized 
 well and didn't attract attention. 
4- The supporting characters are boring.
5- Gunfire is so shallow and no interesting fight scenes which i was expecting .


                
I liked these series because of brilliant acting only..
In our country all things are going well enough then why to introduce these kind of hatred series regarding ReligionKindly dont make these kind of hatred Regious series in our country .. past is past lev it dont bring these kind of stuff in our country where hatred will be spreded easily..
The 8 episode series is typical on lines of Anurag Basu and Vikramditya Motwani style. Dark and blood. Without getting into the story or hinting on the series I only have one question - Was the display of Nudity and explicit Sex scene were directors requirements or Netflix demand. There could have been references but absolutely no need for the actual scene in the series. The series would have been same even without such scene and would be more popular but there's no sensor board so how do such contents be not viewed by under 16? Sad that decent series had such unwarranted scene.


                
Sacred games is excellent for international audience.
Look like Gangs of wasseypur upgraded version.
 Vurgler languge ,nudity and abusive language.Overall average concept.


                
