Not an Indian but am completely hooked. Better watching this in Indian with subtitles than the English dub. Great story, great actors and the way they finished the season, just when it starts getting more interesting makes me mad because I've got to wait how long until the next season haha.


                
With a solid start to the drama,with every episode makes you heart beat faster. The rawness of the drama is surreal and gets you hooked. Every episode leaves you with a question unanswered? and doesn't answer them till the very last. Great acting by the whole cast.Not only do the "star" actors shine but the an amazing supporting cast make keeps you engaged.Lastly, Dont watch the first episode if you have your exam the next day or i promise you you will be locked in your room for 8 hours straight.


                
First of All congratulations to Anurag and Vikram,I have always loved their work.It is an excellent start to original netflix content in India.
Opening scene is enough to show you that this is not your typical Indian show. Nawab and Saif are excellent in the show,but I felt Radhika's character was underdeveloped.
Cinematography and those long shots bring alive the MUMBAI (an important character in the show).Gaitonde identity and 25 days threat makes it excellent thriller. 
I loved this season, can not wait for season 2.


                
I liked how the story began. This isn't a slow narrative, you basically have to run with the characters to catch up with their mind and emotions and sometimes have to see between the frames. I live on the extreme ends of storytelling arch. I love the slow narrative where each and everything is described in such a manner that you feel you are in that situation and you start feeling what the character feels and then there is the impromptu situation where you are unexpectedly put in and you have to start catching up with why the characters are doing what they are doing. Both are fun ways to sit back and enjoy a show. Sacred Games falls under the latter category.
Ganesh Gaitonde is that don who has only one purpose and that is to be the city he lives in - Bombay. The show takes us through his journey from Trimbakeshwar to Bombay and how as an adult after pedaling in drugs he decides by and by that he is meant for much more than that. He dreams big and he sets his ambition into action. We see ruthlessness in him which is a pre requisite of being a don but at the same time we see him trying to make his gang walk the secular line so as not to have religion come into play. You and I and that is if you were born in the 80's will nod your head at the narrative of the story when scenes of unrest are shown in the post Indira Gandhi era that has left the nation broken and at the same time has become that "gap" that Politicians use as their mosh pits come election season.Gaitonde claims he has three fathers and tells us about each one and how they influenced his life and made him who he is.
Then we have Sartaj, the Sikh inspector who is trying really hard to battle the internal corruption in police services by refusing to give a false statement in court. His refusal becomes leverage for his superior who dangles his refusal as bait at every opportunity that Sartaj needs back up or when he works on a lead.
Sartaj has his own emotional baggage. His wife has left him and he hasn't gotten over her. This I presume is what leads him to consume anxiety pills. We see a little bit of emotional instability in him but not so much that we question his judgment as he pursues his cop instincts.
Anjali Mathur, the RAW agent who wants to step out into the field and not just stay behind her desk. She, like Sartaj, follows her instincts and teams up with Sartaj to save the city. Except she believes there is more to the story than just a gang war. Of course she is stopped from acting on her hunch and evidence because hey she's a girl and girls can't go out and play after sundown. Like Sartaj she also has her own reasons for being who she is and that is what propels her into going forward to uncover the roles of different people in the story.
Kookoo, I think was a metaphor for the city itself and whoever had Kookoo had Bombay. That's all that I'll be saying about this character.These are the primary characters and these characters all have very obvious roles to play and are definitely the leads but for me it was the secondary actors who did all the work in making me hate and love the plot.
Kanta Bai, who is so freaking stoic even when there is chaos around her and even when things are going bad she is just there strong as a pillar and not scared of Gaitonde. Probably because she is more like a mother to him, after all it's all thanks to her that he gets his first break.
Katekar, is that constable who is at Sartaj's beck and call. Even though he represents the constable in the series he is also doing the added job of being the common man's voice when he is expressing his opinions as a person. Most of us have skewed perspectives based on the news and political speeches we are fed.
Malcolm Murad, was a decently surprising character. I liked him in entirety except in one place when he did something out of character.
DCP Parulkar's character has been portrayed so well! He makes you hate him. He makes you want to plough through his body with a rain of bullets. I like it when actors actually make you believe they are really that bad.The dialogues are amazing, even the ones making a jibe at political situations. Don't know who Shah Bano is? Google her. I like how one-liners were used to tell months' worth of tense situations in the country.But is this the best story ever told? No. Was the story predictable? Yes. Were we told anything different with this story? No. So what exactly is the show's USP? Acting!


                
What a series it has bang on target, superb acting by all, great storyline, Anurag Kashyap at his best...waiting Season 2


                
The wait is over, the two mavericks, Anurag Kashyap and Vikramaditya Motwane have done it with "Sacred Games". The Indian TV has become obsolete, it lacks creativity and has zero plausibility for the niche and edgy content lovers. Thanks to the likes of Netflix, Amazon etc, who are delivering the shows from the corners of the world and catering to the audience who wants intelligent content. 
 
Anurag Kashyap and Vikramaditya Motwane collaborated with Netflix and explored their creative sovereignty which was restricted earlier. We can witness the fathomless creativity of Kashyap & Motwane when no strings are attached and the result is one hell of a performance, they never shied. "Sacred Games" based on Vikram Chandra's novel of the same name. It has been adapted beautifully, an eight-part series does comprehensive justice to the multilayered characters and plot. The writing is immaculate and the development of characters is top-notch. The ticking background score keeps you on the edge and plot revelations are perfectly timed. The transition between the two timelines is seamless, the editing does a wonderful work here.The transformation of Bombay to Mumbai is spectacular, the gritty setting, costumes, props, locations, and milieus have attention to details. The production value is higher than most Bollywood movies, every scene looks stunning and rich.Saif Ali Khan, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Radhika Apte, Neeraj Kabi, Jitendra Joshi, Girish Kulkarni, Jatin Sharma, everyone has done a trailblazing job. I don't need to say anything more about the performances, it is just magnificent watching every actor doing their part phenomenally."Sacred Games" raises the bar very high, it is the first Indian Netflix original series and more to come. Kudos. Waiting for Season 2


                
I am from Brazil and I like to watch foreign Tv series. With streaming, this became easily. I am always trying to watch productions from different countries and this Tv series was a wonderful surpirse. As others said here, if you are not from India, maybe in the beginning you'll need a little effort. But it is well worth it. Dense, dark, brutal, edgy. Can't wait for the next season!


                
Watched this series when it just released. One 'of my friend came and told me about this and he had just watched one episode but could not stop his excitement and this friend was one of the known person who watches a lot of TV SERIES be it hollywood shows or the youtube series and when he himself recommended the show i really had high hopes for this show did stand high on all platforms.
All actors are professional, quality acting, good plot, dramatic ending of each episode it had all. I highly recommend it. Go watch the transformation of indian shows right before your eyes.


                
Each and everything was showing there tremendous effort. The story and all the main and supportive character was well established. Everyone tries hard I must say.
From my perspective, I didn't like Radhika Apte's acting in this series. I have watched many films of Radhika Apte, where she did marvelous work. I am actually a fan of Radhika Apte. I have seen her to cope up with any kind of role. I hope in the Season 2 if Radhika Apte back she will try hard to make herself more dedicated to the role.
Mainly, Jitendra Joshi, Neeraj Kabi, Nawazuddin Siddiqui force me to see all the episode.


                
India's first contribution as an original series to netflix is no less than a grim,brooding and edge of the seat thriller distributed in 8 episodes each directed by Kashyap and Motwane ... Two personality changing the scene of cinema single handed and if thats not enough for an oxymoron then let me tell you that the series has some graphic and sexual content ever coming out from india and that to be said it also is one of the best in terms of writing,acting and direction. Saif stood apart from all the previous roles he has done even though i personally appreciate his effort to try different and this was no less than a challenge for him however the star of the show is Nawaz who just goes on a different dimension when he has kashyap on his side. I gave it a 9 not only because its awesome but also for keeping it real and not melo dramatic.


                
Very nice flow of story . Acting by all the characters was the best and highlight of the show. Watched the whole series in a day, the show keeps you hooked. 
Saif looks very mature and strong , first time saw him giving attention to minute details, waiting eagerly for second season!!!


                
This show is very compelling and is head and shoulders above mediocre Indian content like Inside Edge and Lust Stories. Excellent direction, dialogues, script, acting and an engaging story. Even the English subtitles were very good, and not literal translation from Hindi (which happens too often). Frustrating to some degree, the background score seemed too loud at times to the extent that dialogues were inaudible. Yet, the background score is several notches higher in quality than other Indian movies or shows. A gem. I hope Season 2 will live up to the expectations ...


                
Anything of this magnum has not been attempted and executed this beautifully in a long format in India. 
I have watched it on the very first day of its release. The kind of storytelling, cinematography, performances, music, direction this series has come up with is amazingly beautiful. It's gripping and provides you with a cliffhanger at the end of each episode which makes you binge watch the series.I love how these people have set the bar this high for all other series to come.
Waiting eagerly for season 2.


                
Scared Games based on a best seller by Vikram Chandra is a sprawling tale set in Mumbai during 80s-till date . It is a gangster tale but with some major differences. Religious conflict and exploitation, political opportunism ,cat and mouse games,and human philosophy are woven into this basic cops-gangsters saga seamlessly . The TV series adopts a non linear mode and the transition between time periods takes place naturally. The acting particularly of the main protagonists is excellent and the rest provide more than good support . The photography is stunning and the music fits i right into the series . The action is relentless and crackles with life with few moments of black humour ( more would have better) .There are a lot of cuss words, and there is graphic violence with nudity but that's typical all over the world now. There is a feel of Scorsese movies like Goodfellas and Taxi Driver to this series in depiction of violence and grittiness but it charts its own course. Kashyap and Motwani directed story lines featuring the Nawaz and Saif respectively in different styles and merged them at the editing table with very good results. Sacred Games is a great leap forward for Indian TV making forays into international markets and Netflix deserves full praise for its new approach to TV serials


                
It's great to see that finally Netflix and other platforms providing us the series we can actually watch.. 
A must watch..
Performances of actors are amazing and the directions is obviously great...


                
The trailers made it seem like this would be good. But then trailers can be teasing and very misleading (i dont know why but Raees comes to mind when i say that). well these trailers were not. the actual thing was as good, if not better.
the plot should keep you on the edge as a mumbai cop wades through murky waters trying to get to the bottom of the '25 day' countdown riddle. each episode shows the countdown with how many more days are left till the all of mumbai is destroyed.
there is a terrorist plot and politicians are part of them. there are dirty cops protecting the politicians and trying to impede the die-hard cop. there are bent pundits out to incite riots. so there is a good range of controversial element. i thought, it deals a bit with sexuality too with gaitonde falling for a glamour 'girl' and then settling on a far plainer woman.
i just hope it continues. i have not read the novel, so i dont know if the end of the first season is where the novel ends too. it would be a pity if it did. but saif ali khan has indicated that there is indeed a second season. oh, and i thought he kicked ass. i mean, i know nawazuddin can kill his role but saif really kicked ass. radhika apte was good too. nothing to complain about the performances.
this was as good as any other top rated netflix original, not just good as an indian production. pretty damn good.
one of the episodes stereotypes bangladesh negatively. despite being a proud bangladeshi, i thought this should be seen just as it is -- a badass production which is all fiction. must see.
by the way, there is a lot of swearing. its local cops, mobsters, thugs and politicians going at each other. what do you expect? violence is part and parcel. several explicit sex scenes. and of course content is very much adult. in other words, schoolchildren should not be anywhere near it.
have fun then!


                
This right here is the series we've all been waiting for, this is the series that says the truth. This is the series that makes everything naked. I know there had been many films about politics in India, the Police Department, but trust me, most of them are exaggerated and a few made to the top. But this is the series that tells us how it actually is, neither shallow nor deep. Indian series got into another level through this one. I would love to suggest it to Indian viewers and to foreign viewers as well, don't worry, you won't have to research, It's that good!


                
From the first scene it keeps you on the edge. Two timelines simultaneously. A good Indian drama, thriller for binge watching.


                
Must watch! Saif Ali Khan portrays Sikh character too well..Nawazzuddin Sheikh is true hero.


                
An amazing Season 1. This will bring Indian moving/drama making appeal to the level of top class TV series. It's not that we haven't produced or made top class movies or TV series, it's that the standard has stooped so low in this decade that creative and brilliant directors are sidelined for poor stories and scripts but steaming 'item' numbers, stardom, extravagant sets etc. With Netflix launching it's first ever TV Series and letting Anurag Kashyap use his skills (not being stifled by the censor board), we witness the brilliance we knew he has. Unlike typical Indian heroes, Sartaj Singh is not your typical hero. He is honest and scared. He fails to live up to his principles on occasions and when he does, he lands himself in trouble. The characterisation of Sartaj is top notch. Never during the series, he is seen changing from an ordinary cop to extra ordinary one in one step. The change is gradual and it's not like typical India soap opera. Saif Ali Khan lives up to his 'Langada Tyagi' reputation and does a brilliant job. After watching the series, I realize why we haven't seen the best of Saif. It's because he never got a chance. Thanks to Sacred Games, we see the best of Saif. No words for Nawazuddin's performance. He is brilliance personified. His portrayal of local gangster will etch in human mind for years to come. It wouldn't come as a surprise if his role is a considered as a case study for acting classes. Just like Sartaj, Giatonde (Nawazuddin) is not a super villain. He is not physically strong and immune to harm. He is as normal as a human can get except that when comes to desire to succeed, Gaitonde has no limits. Rahika Apte, wow. She has definitely singed a contract with Netflix and it's worth it. She gets to do brilliant roles and at the moment, in my book, she is top notch actress. As a RAW agent, she blends into the role with ease and delivers a punching performance. Every other character is brilliantly (I might be over using 'brilliant' in the review and that's because I can't help it) portrayed all the actors involved. Sartah's constable's wife, the RAW agent computer geek, the police computer geek, TV actress and many more is portrayed by talented people. Nudity and sex was a definite surprise and they didn't overdo it. Not every episode has nudity and when there is, it's not for prolonged period. It's included as part of story line and adds to the grit and raw image of Mumbai underworld dealing. Everything about this series is wonderful and I just can't wait for S02. #love4sacredgames


                
Watch for Nawazuddin's acting and Anurag Kashyap's direction.
One of the best thriller.


                
The best part of this series is that you will never get bored, not even for a single minute. Every actor performed really well...


                
Do not watch it coz every next guy/girl is talking about this. If 1st 2mins of the series does not engage you it is pretty clear this is something you will not enjoy. Characters are written well and actors live up to the expectation. Don here is not what you expect to be, very rich or powerful or macho types. Gaitonde even with his aspiration to rule Bombay is struggling with emotions and decisions which creates twists in his life.


                
Such a thrilling and an action packed series. Can't wait for Season 2.


                
Just imagine you have Anurag Kashyap, Vikramaditya Motwane, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Saif Ali Khan and Radhika Apte. Now just watch this series and be awestruck. Will Eagerly wait for second season.


                
