I know there is a law against talking about internal logic with regard to QT-movies. But I'm quite a bit fed up with sloppy, dyslexic screen writing and I'm feeling kind of outlawish, so here I go: Initially Schultz (Christoph Waltz) asks for Django's help, because Django is an acquaintance of three fugitives, the bounty hunter Schultz is after. A "Dead or Alive"-handbill with its sketchy description and drawing is not very reliable and shooting the wrong guy can easily happen and it will just as easily get yourself hanged. Therefore the recruiting of Django does make perfect sense. Looking for another wanted man Schultz enters the next town, where he's never been, meets him, who is now the sheriff of this town and whom he's never seen, and kills him after a few seconds, without even talking to him. This is the moment "Django Unchained" stops making sense.Schultz is a cold blooded serial killer who murders people because some sheet of paper tells him that he's got the right to do so. He is a hypocrite, he gets mad at someone who also executes his state approved right to kill, but with sadistic pleasure. Murder is fine as long as the state tells you so and you do it for business, not for fun. In the original Spaghetti Western a guy like that would have always been the villain, many of the heroes were "Wanted Men" themselves. In "Django Unchained" he is the only human and sympathetic figure and without any doubt the main character. In many ways the spirit of "Django Unchained" is the exact opposite of that found in the movies Tarantino tried to emulate.The story of the bland eponymous Django's development from slave in chains and rags to sharp dressed gunslinger with sunglasses is above all ridiculous and boring. So after Schultz's exit this excessively overlong movie becomes even more of an ordeal, although you get to see the explosion of a queer, ugly old geezer, who really deserved to die. He is played by QT himself and that's only something to look forward to and no spoiler, because naturally it has little plot relevance."Django Unchained" is about hating a whole ethnic group, just like "Inglourious Basterds", where Tarantino made sure to avoid the impression that there could be a German (a "Nazi") who wasn't devilishly evil. The nice young Zoller turns out to be a wannabe rapist and the clever detective Landa (Waltz) turns into a monster, strangling a helpless woman to death. After all Tarantino wanted his viewers to enjoy the butchering of hundreds of Germans in a cinema hall. In "Django Unchained" the murderous Schultz is the only decent white guy. All the others are preoccupied with torturing and humiliating blacks, so there is no need to dehumanize them any further. Will some savior please rise and rid the world of this evil? "Django Unchained" tells the sentimental education of this savior, Django, that ends with the exit of his teacher. Now the Hate is strong with this one. He uses it for the righteous cause, to kill white people. All of them. The murders of the self-righteous are always cool and justified, right? Hypocrisy is the new religion. Tarantino is one of its high priests, "Django Unchained" is a High Mass. Enjoy! "Once Upon a Time in the West", "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", "Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid" - those are masterworks. "Django Unchained" is the work of a slave, designed to debase its audience.
I have never been a fan of Quentin Tarantino, but I know that other people think he's great so I decided to give him another chance and actually paid $3 to see "Django Unchained." I was surprised to find that I liked the first part of the movie. It was interesting, funny, suspenseful, and actually seemed to have a point. Some of the story strained credulity (look it up), but it stayed within the bounds of believability... until the German bounty hunter shot DeCaprio. Then believability went out the window.The movie didn't even make sense within itself. The entire film built up Dr. Schultz as not only a great shot, but also an extremely cunning strategist. And yet, he shot DeCaprio and then just stupidly said, "I couldn't help it!" and stood there waiting to be killed. (Which he was.) But his derringer had two barrels, which presumably means two bullets, so why didn't he whirl around and shoot the guy who was standing there with a gun?He could have, but then there wouldn't have been the bloodbath that follows, which I guess is Quentin Tarantino's "signature." The movie quickly degenerates into a stupid, pointless bloodbath. White guys come out of nowhere to be shot, blood gets spattered everywhere, and so what?Then the film gets even worse! The black guy who killed so many white people is in the hands of his oppressors, yet instead of torturing and killing him, they decide to send him off to a (allegedly horrible) mine, thus giving him the opportunity to escape and wreak his horrible vengeance. Does this seem believable to ANYONE? After that, it's completely predictable. I don't need to tell you what happens because you can figure it out for yourself. But think about this: the movie makes a big deal about how nobody in the South back then was used to seeing a black person on a horse. For most of the film, the white Dr. Schultz accompanied Django and helped smooth the way. But at the end of the movie, Django and his (black) wife ride away on horses -- in Mississippi before the Civil War! So they'll just wander through the South to freedom? Really?? What a great happy ending! I could criticize this piece of sh*t on many more levels, but I've wasted enough time on it.I actually liked the first 3/4 of this film. I absolutely HATED the last section. And ultimately, Quentin Tarantino's popularity says something troubling about the state of American culture.
Jesus, where to begin. Completely juvenile, rabbit trails galore, slow moving, get to the firkin point. The way the scenes drag and the endless explaining and talking. This movie was so distasteful, predictable and irritating. First of all, Foxx was miscast, he does not do period well, at all, totally unbelievable here, after years of slavery he's suddenly the fastes gun in the west, PLEASE! The music, what are we to make of the modern day music with the period events here, you can't take any of it seriously. I had to laugh was so absolutely silly and out of place. I have lost all respect for writer/director, the actors I can only hope were in it for the money, but they lose my vote now too.Open your EYES folks, for god sakes this is all about bringing division, "I wanna shoot white people and get paid for it". WOW, talk about the globalist elite wanting to distract and divide, this is one of their vehicles. Good for you Hollywood and Washington DC, add another notch to your ugly crown.
In his previous film "Inglorious Basterds" Tarantino presents two worthy scenes - the one with the Nazi officer in the French farmer's house, and the one in the bar where the British and American spies are in German uniforms talking to a suspicious SS German officer and a shootout follows.In the first mentioned scene the Nazi officer explains how one has to think like a rat in order to find "rats." The offensive reference is to Jewish families trying to escape Nazi extermination (whom the Nazi officer chases in the movie).In that scene the Nazi officer, maybe inadvertently, describes himself as a rat, trying to play wise guy. So does Tarantino."Django" is actually proof that Tarantino is a talented Hollywood "rat" that feeds on popular trends packaged in politically correct radicalism. The mixture is gratuitous violence, popular concepts of "just revenge" and butchering of history and the importance of historical fact. Jews killing Nazis in "Inglorious..." Black man killing whites in "Django..." Tarantino is a torture-porn specialist, hiding behind badly disguised ridicule of the magnitude of human suffering in historical dramas like the Holocaust or the issue of slavery in America. One just has to remember his "Hostel" achievements and it all comes home.The Tarantinonites can knock themselves out with Django - another trashy movie with a spice of genius in it, to excite the perverted tastes of Hollywood. Evil genius. That smells like a rat to me.
Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained is, among much else during its leisurely 165-minute running time, an adolescent male revenge fantasy about an omnipotent mass shooter wreaking carnage upon dozens of victims. I suspect the film would have appealed profoundly to the late Adam Lanza.You might think that this wouldn't be the best time for a quasi-comic daydream/bloodbath about a deadeye gunman who always fires first and is immune to the thousands of bullets shot at him. But the recent unpleasantness in Sandy Hook has gone almost unmentioned in the critical hosannas greeting Django<U+0085>because, you see, the invulnerable hero is a black gunman shooting bad (i.e., Southern white) people.It's not much more complicated than that.For example, in the The New York Times, the scholarly and mild-mannered A. O. Scott declares Django:"a troubling and important movie about slavery and racism."According to Tarantino lore, the former video-store clerk is a dyslexic with a 160 IQ. It's hard not to be amused by how easily this semi-literate junior high school-dropout dupes 21st-century intellectuals.The reason Tarantino has had the time to watch so many bad movies is because he doesn't like the written word. Most people of Tarantino's intelligence discover that reading is a higher bandwidth way of finding out about the world than watching straight-to-video dreck. But the auteur's learning disability has left him defensively proud that he's ill informed about everything other than movies.Slavery is a potentially fascinating topic, but to have something interesting to say about it would require Tarantino to read a book. And that was never going to happen. After all, white men were the only men to abolish slavery but who cares about that little tidbit of truth?Tarantino may not know how to spell, but he knows how you are supposed to think: solely in terms of Who? Whom? The only thing that matters anymore is whose side you are on.Just as Tarantino is being praised today for empowering blacks by having them slaughter whites, he was praised for empowering Jews by having them slaughter Nazis in Inglourious Basterds and empowering women by having them slaughter men in Kill Bill.As you may have noticed, Tarantino isn't black, Jewish, or female. Nor has he shown much genuine interest in those designated victim groups. Instead, Tarantino's favorites have always been middle-aged movie tough guys.A cynic might suggest that what Tarantino really likes is the slaughtering. He's happy to make the details of who slaughters whom conform to the current prejudices, just as long as he gets to keep up the gore level. All Tarantino has had to do to critic-proof himself is identify the zeitgeist's sacred cows (so far, women, Jews, and blacks, but not gays) and have them massacre their foes. (Someday we may be treated to a Tarantino ABC Afterschool Special about the plague of bullying in which a CGI version of Charles Bronson show up at school to take out the homophobic trash.) The premise of Tarantino's latest film is that "young Django," a slave played by 45-year-old Jamie Foxx, teams up with the loquacious Christoph Waltz, 56 (once again dripping with Gemütlichkeit before he suddenly guns everybody down) to kick white butt. In 2009's Inglourious Basterds, Waltz played a Nazi bad guy, while in Django he's a Viennese anti-slavery good guy, but he's always the same character, Tarantino's talkative alter ego.Indeed, Basterds' Jewish revenge plot was essentially a front to allow Tarantino to indulge his fascination with National Socialist (Nazi) cinema. What would it have been like, Quentin wondered, if he had been Goebbels to Harvey Weinstein's Hitler? In Django, a similarly vast amount of the dialogue is turned over to Waltz. Unfortunately, Tarantino's Teutonophilia can't get much traction in Django. He has a vague notion that in 1858 Richard Wagner was contemplating The Ring cycle—thus Django's wife is named Broomhilda—but has no idea what Waltz ought to do with that. (The excessively articulate Waltz would be better suited to playing Wagner,but the composer never killed anybody and lived before the invention of movies, so don't look to Quentin for biopic ideas.) All these distractions leave poor Foxx with little to do except shoot white people.In 2013, is the black gun violence Tarantino espouses really such a fascinating new phenomenon? For generations now, American media have been encouraging blacks to take violent retribution. We're coming up on close to a half-century of whites in the media egging on black badassery.How's Tarantino's macho minstrel show working out for black males, anyway? According to a 1967 government report sponsored by the Surgeon General, the black homicide rate began to rise in 1962 after a long decline. Mostly, though, whites just move out of the way and blacks kill each other. The federal Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that for the 30 years from 1976-2005, there were 276,000 African-American homicide victims, 94% of them murdered by other blacks. They also hold the title in interracial rape with an average of 37,000 black on white assaults per year while the white on black is listed as "less than 10," which we all know means zero.But who cares about a quarter of a million murdered black people and interracial rape? What matters is white-on-white moral status striving. And in that eternal war, even Quentin Tarantino is a welcome recruit. Enjoy.
Quentin Tarantino is a case of arrested development at 12 who keeps on making revenge fantasy movies, my guess against bullies who picked on him as a child. This film is a combination of spaghetti western and blaxploitation. I know I am odds with others, but I don't find hearing the "N" word at least 100 times entertaining; watching two men fight to the death as "entertainment" (the hammer used to kill one of the two wrestlers); the murder of a black man by a pack of vicious dogs; constant whipping, etc., etc., etc. - and with all that said, my least favorite character, by far, was Django - he's supposed to be "hip" and manly and blah blah blah, but he's really just a despicable macho jerk. I was very disappointed by Leonardo Di Caprio's performance (I didn't see the last 40 minutes of the movie; I had enough of the constant violence).I get that others just love guns, violence, the "N" word, and find it oh so funny when the Klu Klux Klan can't see through their sheets (hilarious - not!) - I get that others just love violence against others. Let's see: Aurora, Newtown, Columbine, drone planes murdering innocent children, women and men in countries we are not at war with - hmmm - could there be a connection? A society in love with violence can't quite reconcile the kharmic blowback that inevitably occurs.Yes, this film is well-photographed; there is one interesting performance (Christoph Waltz); the music, while weird, has its moments - but that's it as far as I'm concerned.Tarantino is always infuriating. If he could get away from his adolescent revenge violent fantasies he clearly has a knowledge of film history and has the money to hire fine movie technicians. But this film is a complete waste of time and money.Did you really find all the violence "fun" to watch? It turned my stomach. Films I enjoyed had violent scenes in them but they did not glorify violence.
To put it short Quentin tarantinos latest venture is a self indulgent ego fest, it showcases his deluded view of filmmaking where when Tarantino makes a movie that it's an instant classic. It doesn't matter how overlong, boring, poor comedic timing, uninspired script devoid of quips or intelligence and how much over the top, gratuitous violence that is involved.First of all let me mention the overtop, gratuitous violence that is in Django. Filmmaking 101: Just because you throw galleons of blood on the screen, doesn't make it dramatic. In fact during some of the shoot out scenes I thought I was watching a parody/spoof of a western film! In tarantinos earlier films he balances violence with great filmmaking however he overdoes it and makes it look as if he was watching SAW on set.Secondly the script is bland, cringing and aching to watch unfold, just hearing the the characters spew out line after line of cheese devoid of quips, wit or intelligence. The touches of comedy throughout the film are misplaced as well, and left me squirming in my seat. However I give credit to the actors who really tried their best with the script especially Samuel L Jacksons 'Steven' who is evil personified, but I feel Christoph waltz's character was underwhelming and after seeing his role in inglorious bastards was a letdown. Jamie foxx tried his best to bring life to the poor script with Django but, left me checking my watch as Django was godawful boring to watch and un charismatic as a protagonist.Lastly the film is way overlong, coming in at a staggering 180 minutes it seems Tarantino could not resist indulging himself in his own ego fest. Many scenes could have been cut out completely or at least edited properly. I was left checking my watch multiple times throughout the movie (something I hate doing in a movie). The story was bland and uninspired, a clichéd tale of revenge where Goodguys vs Badguys! Surprise Goodguys win! The plot was predictable from the first 10 minutes but I still had another 170 minutes to go.It still stumps me how this is 96 on IMDb's top 250# list, it makes me wonder if people rate this high as it has Quentin Tarantino in the directors chair. This movie really showcases a classic example of just because you are successful doesn't mean you have a god given right to make anything you want without thought and consideration and still make a good movie. In my opinion one of the most overrated fims of 2012.
Just like the previous installment "inglorious Bastaerds (or whatever)", Tarantino indulges himself in just another (did we really need it??) exercise of spaghetti-onanism. The main question here is "What's the point?". Someone tries to justify the movie to me as an "authentic" (sic!!) depiction of black's slavery in America, to which I say "...Aaaaaw come on!... I've seen it much better done in the 70's in Alex Haley's Roots TV series!!!"... (and I need to say I'm really supportive of Afroamericans)But of course, being a Tarantino movie, nothing is believable here. Everything is "hip". Suspension of disbelief is constantly blown away by that acute sense of being watching another kinky Tarantino tableaux, complete with those trademark Academy Award dialogs... And when it comes to violence, oh my, it's impossible not to laugh at the involuntarily comic attempts at being voluntarily comic of all those Quentin's excesses "a la Peckinpah".I can only salvage one shot in the whole overlong movie: the one in which Tarantino himself gets blasted to pieces, leaving a dark hole in the ground as only remains. If only...A movie strictly for Tarantino fans, Sergio Leone's fans and retarded of all kinds.


                
Sadly, what could possibly have been a good story isn't because it relies on the tired Hollywood shoot-em-up formula. Society is changing it's view on killing, shooting and guns, yet movie makers still seem to think this is what the public wants to see. It is disappointing that a film which could have been groundbreaking won't have as much significance because of it's juvenile overvalued violence aspect. There are an abundance of truthful potential stories that could convey the same "look how far we have all come from being a barbaric country that once had slaves" feeling movie makers seem to want to credit themselves with (I'm thinking of that laughably unbelievable fictional story "The Help" which was also made into a film). To be worthwhile a filmmaker attempting to create something of value to present and future generations should look to a well researched, fascinating book like The Hemingses of Monticello: An American family by Annette Gordon-Reed for example. There are better ways to entertain oneself than watch this movie which all too quickly turns into a series of unnecessary bloodbaths.
After the huge success of this movie over the past few weeks I started wondering what is Tarantino's winning recipe for this movie. Was it the depiction of brutality African people were subjected to during the slavery? Certainly not, since there are movies that do a much better job in that area. Was it the spaghetti western style? Not the best one in that area either. The satirical portrayal of some characters or situations? The movie has its funny moments, but with all of my generosity I could not call it a comedy nor a satire. And then it struck me. Profanity. Profanity spiced with a few jokes and the right dose of blood spatter. Thinking back to his previous work I started to see the pattern. This recipe seems to be very successful with the audience. Why not give the masses what they want, right? That one worked for Rome too. At least for a while. It seems to me the prophecy of the movie Idiocracy regarding our society is becoming a reality much sooner than expected.


                
"Kill White guys and get paid for it? What's not to like" So says the main character at one stage in this farce of a movie. This racist (against Whites) attitude is so all-pervasive and in your face throughout Django that you would have to be blind and deaf not to notice it. Apparently the premise is White people are awful and horrible and deserve to be shot (multiple times, with as much gory detail as possible) - all except the token good White guy who of course dies for his black friends in the end. Basically the entire movie is just this one black guy going on a rampage and killing dozens and dozens of "evil" Whites, and not much else. Booooring. ALso, the "N" word is tossed around like confetti throughout this overlong, underedited exhibition. It's almost as though Tarantino is trying to shock us, with the amount of violence, the amount of racism, the amount of needless gore. In the end I was just rolling my eyes and trying not to let my thoughts wander. If you are extremely self-hating, and enjoy watching a Black guy revel in killing Whites (including a woman), then you might just like this film (obviously a high number of people given the good score). As for me, I think I'll pass.
One out of the worst money-movies these times. Quentin is keeping exterminating his own film-making; burnt out, there's little chance of recovery. He lost his innocence and the genuine investment of the real geniuses that have lived. That's it. I have already written about that not long ago; there's nothing more to do for Tarantino than to laugh his way to the bank. What a loss for all involved. I can understand that Christoph Waltz, Leonardo Di Caprio, Morgan Freeman and Jamie Foxx and many others allow themselves to become involved in the making of a new film and, perhaps, in a performance, in a project with a filmmaker who proved he was somebody... but this garbage is denigrating the art of cinematic storytelling, this is compromising the ability for the young moviegoers to never enjoy in the future any resource and representation of life. What's your name? – Django – Can you spell it? An exchange between Jamie Foxx and Franco Nero, the man who first played Django in 1966, a Damned Great Movie, that time has left behind, which happened, for a sterile profit-only engagement, to fit the name. Today, Quentin Tarantino is not – and probably ever will, be able to spell 'Movie' once again – The 'Director' is silent – I know that, strikes Corbucci's Django.


                
This is teenage garbage, plain and simple, and teenage in terms of the director/writer. Let's set aside that Tarantino's movies never have any substance and are exercises in retro, gory, fetishist camp. Let's ignore that the story arc is off and the film is way too long. Also, that there are massive issues regarding all kinds of credibility. Which leaves the two main problems with this adolescent mess. The first is: what would you say about any film centered on two races of people, in which one race is, with a single exception, shown to be nothing but a vast collection of savage, cruel, stupid buffoons? That's what QT happily does to the white race in this, his attack on racism. Then, there's the blatant theft of Mel Brooks's 'Blazing Saddles' in the many n-word remarks geared for laughs and the idiot pre- Klansmen. Never was a big Brooks fan, but at least he never had the gall to pretend he was making a statement.
Normally I wouldn't bother commenting such an awful movie or even watching it to the end. But this after all was the great Tarantino, who directed some of the most brilliant movies in the last 20 years or so and invented a style of his own, so I soldiered on and hoped to be surprised. In the end, I felt more than disappointed, I felt embarrassed for him. This is not the meta-trash he specializes in, this is just pure unadultered trash: no intelligence, no originality, no irony, no second layer of meaning, no redeeming grace. It is badly written, badly directed, badly shot, badly cut. The actors - with the notable exception of Cristoph Walz - are laughable. This is the gory mush a dumb semi-illiterate teenager would produce if you gave him a few million dollars and told him: go write and direct a movie.So I must repeat the question that has been daunting me since Poseidon by Riddley Scott and Black Horse by Spielberg: what is happening to the great Hollywood directors? Has a zombie plague stricken them all?


                
I didn't see inglorious bastards cause it sounded bad, and morally warped. I didn't mind kill bill because while it was a revenge movie, there was no really sadistic pleasure taken in causing extra pain, in that sense, it was emotionally realistic. Also the suffering and the anguish of the thirst for revenge was portrayed.These two latest films of QT's glorify burning seething hatred, torture, pleasure in suffering (Inglorious and Django)- the worst kind of traits you can humanly empathise with. Every one who is killed is "a bad guy", but the "good guys" are also bad guys, in that they revel in the suffering of others (not just the deaths by the way). The difference is only in the backstory, character focus, and degree of sadism. This blurs moral lines in horrible ways, and tempts you into taking satisfaction and joy, not just in victory, but in human suffering.This is some sick stuff, and I am going to wait until QT stops making revenge movies, before I revisit his movies. They have lost all real human emotional qualities and all sense of moral compass. And BTW, its not that this film grossed me out, its that the main character had a real thing for blood and pain, and that was treated as just and right, not as an emotional curse/burden.


                
Quentin Tarantino needs to undergo some serious rehab before directing another movie. This movie was as racist as it gets with the gratuitous use of the N word and the over-hyped violence of white men torturing and killing black men and black men taking vengeance on white men. Historically, the film is schizophrenic jumping from what appears to be the 1880s in the mountainous West, right down to the costumes and the weapons to the ol' southern plantation life of the pre-civil war twenty five-years earlier. (With shots of hilly California thrown in for good measure.) The only saving grace of this movie is Christoph Waltz as the German bounty hunter and Jamie Foxx looking uncomfortable on horseback. For the life of me, I don't understand what prompted Leon DiCaprio to take part in this fraud.


                
This is nominated for best picture? You got to be kidding me. Where are the sweeping themes, the original ideas, the unique contribution to cinema? This is just a remake of a spaghetti western/blaxploitation movie, with the same old funky soundtrack, the same old movie homages, plot tricks, blood splatter, etc. It was fresh and original in Pulp Fiction, but half a dozen movies later, it is becoming formula. But, wait, I forgot, this is a savage indictment of slavery. Hahahaha. This is movie nerd Tarantino stealing other directors' ideas and painting the world in ludicrously simplistic black-and-white, in Technicolor, so that the bad guys are so detestable you'll cheer graphic violence and mass murder. This time it was slavers, last time it was Nazis, what cliché bad guys will be next? Terrorists? Vampires? In a musical homage? How long can this juvenile director keep spinning the same old blood-spattered revenge theme in a genre remake? This is not cutting edge cinema, folks. Using the N-word does not make you a daring film genius. Now if Quentin spent his multi-million budgets on a movie about, say, a father whose daughter was gunned down in a mass shooting, and goes on a killing spree at the NRA headquarters or a Hollywood studio, I'd be just as disgusted but at least I'd call him original. Well, no, it would be just more twisted cliché, like all Tarantino movies these days.


                
I expected this movie to be awesome, since the director is awesome. I was sadly mistaken. I have to admit it had good points, but over all I wish I wouldn't have wasted my money. Not only did it throw me off when they were playing rap music in a western movie, but in one second they were talking about going to find someone and the next second they knew exactly where they were and they were already there...really? And the sad thing is, is that I always use this website to compare the "good" movies that are out and this one had the highest rating... now it makes me wonder where the ratings really come from. I expected so much more with all the good actors in this movie. I never expected Samuel l Jackson, Leo DiCaprio, or Jamie fox to be in a movie this horrible.


                
Critics are giving Tarantino way too much credit for saying anything meaningful in this film. His references to 60's spaghetti westerns or 70's black exploitation films don't go beyond cheesy film titles and the interpolation of icky songs on the sound track - the social relevance of these films could hardly matter to him; he doesn't have much to say about slavery, other than it was bad; his emotional palette ranges from revenge to more revenge - anything else is beyond him; his lengthy dialog scenes are becoming predictable -dull, too-cute. The only real difference between the films Tarantino is emulating and his film is a fetish for mixing violence with comedy. I can't help but think that Tarantino sees himself as a liberal-cool-auteur-artist; but it is pretty easy to see through what critics call his social 'deepening' as a recent tendency to patronize: Jews kicking ass (last film) and Black slaves taking care of business (this film).He also might consider finding a good editor with his next film. The editing here is atrocious, and the length interminable. In addition, could he locate better camera angles to make his boring dialog less boring? (perhaps nothing could do that). Viewers unfamiliar with Tarantino might find this film weird; his fans will find it amazing; his detractors will find it boring and emotionally juvenile.


                
If anyone else had done this movie, it would be savaged for its low quality. I don't know what this movie was supposed to be. The apparent possibilities are: 1. spaghetti western, 2. black exploitation film, 3. overblown gore fest, 4. knockoff of heaven only knows how many other movies. In the end it was some of all. But the acting, except for the good Dr. Schultz, is miserable. Everyone is a caricature. If I was black, I'd be offended. Fox doesn't act, he glowers. The settings are all wrong....I mean snow-capped peaks in the South? The firearms are not period correct. You can even see the Italian proof marks on them. No effort was made to put together anything other than a 3 hour endurance test for your bladder. It's cheesy. It's lame. It is predictable. Think of this as a pizza from Chuckee Cheeze. It looks like fun. It has lots of colors. I even looks like it is consumable. But in the end it is just another rotten pizza.Yes, I understand, the director or producer of this knows that everything is wrong. I guess that is part of its so-called charm. But don't call this great cinema. Oscars? What, are you on crack? The best way to watch this film is as part of a Mystery Science Theater 3000. In that way you can at least enjoy the humor.Otherwise, wait for Netflix or the $5 bin at Walmart. It isn't worth the price of admission.


                
Cant believe that he messed this up, had such high hopes. This wasn't even a movie, not even a Tarantino creation! Just some attempts for cool lines, cool shots and funny characters. DiCaprio, as excellent as always. Mr. Miami Vice, also good performance. The rest, especially Jackuel M. Samsonite (as my eloquent friends calls him) just wasted time and stole peoples money.My only point is: IT'S Tarantino! Should have been so much better than this junk that just USED the name Django! Messed up, want my money back or "sambadi gonna get hurt reel bad", Russel Peters style! Hope anyone does not get offended, don't really care but my two cents about this garbage movie, stays as they are! Haha!
My last favorite movie ever! Django doesn't have any decent personality at all. He makes me sick!The movie is about equalization only. No logical story line, and it doesn't make any sense!This is about revenge and blood. If you don't like QT, don't watch this movie!Every other actor has better performance than Jamie Foxx. The only thing he did is to show his angry but stupid face.However,Leonardo did a great job in the movie.His facial expression is really great.
Anyone finding this film actually enjoyable should seek immediate psychiatric help. The highly graphic depiction of dozens of revoltingly perverse and entirely gratuitous killings together with endless scenes of physical and psychological torture spread over nearly three hours of virtually plot less melodrama written only to facilitate this obscenity can only appeal to the mentally damaged. You have been warned.A 'German' bounty hunter recruits a black slave by murdering his owners when they refuse to sell him. He needs the slave in order to identify some outlaws whom he wishes to kill for the reward money. However he subsequently guns down dozens of men with little if any identification or certainty that they have ever committed any crime other than their support for slavery - which at the time in 1850's Texas was entirely legal.Were the film to feature typical Hollywood 'clean kills' this review would be less critical. But Tarrentino treats his loyal acolytes instead to a virtually non-stop feast of gushing blood, exploding body parts and agonized screams spiced by the odd bullet aimed deliberately in the groin or knees in order to extend the suffering and misery of the unfortunate victims - and more emphatically, the perverse pleasure of those who enjoy witnessing his 'art'.There is one redeeming feature of this whole ghastly mess; the performance of Leonardo as a gentleman slave owner is absolutely flawless. His wonderful diction and captivating gestures enlivened my flagging attention like a beacon of shining talent amidst the murky gloom of mediocrity. But alas his is a small cameo contribution which the producers have shamelessly exploited with an entirely unwarranted 3rd place billing behind the central pair.Leonardo's subsequent retirement from Hollywood is now fully understood. One wonders how much he knew of the nature of this production before he agreed to participate in it. And perhaps more importantly the decline in American society characterized by frequent senseless and perverse killings is also explained by such trash for plainly this sort of film must play a pivotal role in formulating the mindset of the millions who are subjected to it.But the perversity of the Hollywood system that has nominated this filth for several Oscars (tonight) cannot be explained so easily. How on Earth could such a production be given so many accolades?
I am not a huge fan of Spike Lee's, but I agree with him 110% about this Movie - I only wish I had listened to him before I wasted $20.00, and about 4 hrs.(including travel) of my weekend! I LOVE a Good Western - This is NOT a Western in ANY sense of the word! It's a pure Political statement, That's a cover about as transparent as a Victoria's Secret see-thru white lace bikini!! These divisive Political statements ALWAYS turn me off - Right or left, they attempt to over-blow reality in an attempt to stir up emotions and change minds- Let's be 100% honest, Has ANYONE EVER had their mind changed by a movie or Documentary?? NO! That's why they usually stink! Because we are looking for entertainment with a good storyline, and some T&A!! Get us away from our reality! Not rub our noses in YOUR DREAMS AND DESIRE to Murder WHITE PEOPLE!! Spike says he won't EVER see Django Unchained, and he's boycotting it - I can see EXACTLY WHY that is!! 1st of all - I've seen enough blacks killing blacks, whites killing blacks, blacks killing whites- AKA; People killing People to last me a life-timne! So to watch this was Grotesque and Vile to be honest. I mean WOW!! This isn't a movie about anything at all, except for (in Jamie Fox's own words)"Killing a bunch of white people". I have seen 100s of Westerns, and seen plenty of "white people" shot up in them- so I am not sensitive to shooting holes in made up white people, or any other made up people in the movies, But I have NEVER seen it done with malice to MAKE A POINT of some sick sort. Spike Lee said He will NEVER go see such a pointless and honestly HORRIBLE movie. I wish I had listened to him before I went! As far as Westerns go, the shoot-em up Movies are some of the best, But they ALWAYS start with a story, and then add the cause, and the guns were the tool of the day to resolve disputes etc.. But this "Movie's" must have 1st started with the idea of killing as many white people on screen for FUN as they could hire and they tossed a 2-bit story around the already determined agenda! No Lie - It wasn't even a ".1" on a scale of 1 to 10, it's that bad!
Opening Statement: "This film is the greatest, longest, most boring, unimaginative, tasteless, self-indulgent piece of racist trash that I have ever seen in a movie theater. Do not see it for history will prove you to be a damned fool."This is what sensible critics should have said about this movie.In my defense: First, let me say that I have been a tremendous Tarantino fan my whole life and have seen all of his movies. Second, let me say that I will not be attending anymore of his films in a theater. Third, "Django Unchained" is not a bad movie, in the same way that "Birth of a Nation" is not a bad movie. All these things considered, this is one of my least favorite movie experiences of all time. It completely lacks substance, with the exception of ketchup and corn syrup. There are few things about this film that I actually enjoyed (Christoph Waltz being one exception.) The rest? I can say little in its defense. Instead of making a statement about America's brutal history of slavery and its atrocities, "Django Unchained" rolls around the filth under the excuse that "its a satire," "its comical," "its making a statement," "its a parody," "its campy." NO. (these are not acceptable excuses)Tarantino should not get to do this. A great movie could have been achieved, but he made damn sure to cross that line. In the absence of any real moral message, social statement, or will to style, Tarantino has continued to rely upon ultra-violence to win him points with audiences and critics. If Tarantino wanted to keep me interested, I would recommend he cut the laughable redundant gimmicks that he has fallen back upon time and time again.Please.I am tired of seeing someone getting their junk blown off in every Tarantino movie. Its not shocking anymore, its just repetitious. And his signature scenes of extended dialogue are no longer witty, nor do they keep my mind sharp in between the ever escalating blood baths.So please Mr. Tarantino its time to make a new movie, not just a more violent version of the one you made last time.


                
