I saw Django Unchained with the expectation of any Tarantino fan. But I left shaking my head in disappointment. This is not a bad film, but I'm not saying it's a good one.The length of the film is one of the main flaws. There are many scenes that do not serve a purpose to its characters and story. Which leads to its pacing problem. These irrelevant scenes exist in the film that often slows it down. It is very unbalanced.Mostly, it's the characters and performances. Many are giving praise to Christoph Waltz and Leonardo DiCaprio. Waltz, first of all, is in similar territory when he was in Inglorious Basterds. He and his character served their purpose and Waltz was just fine in the role, but nothing to highly praise. DiCaprio as Calvin Candie was nothing worth noting. Either its in the performance or the script, I never really invested in him. It's as if Tarantino wanted to write a great movie villain and that's what DiCaprio took as his only direction. There is a scene where he gets the evil monologue, but it comes very forced with ultimately ends up destroying the character. Jamie Foxx, first of all, was the right choice for Django, but I believe that Tarantino did not trust his protagonist. It takes a long while to get invested in him, but at that point, why bother? BUT, the standout for me was Samuel L. Jackson. He takes his character Stephen is able to go beyond the material that is given. There is fun in his performance which is what the film should be.I am well aware that I will be in the minority, when it comes to disliking the film. How people will try to tell me that there was more to the story than meets the eye, how it's a great revenge tale, how the characters were great and well written etc. But this is not a good Quentin Tarantino film. The film is too long, with characters that hold the most minimal of interests. I will be really dishearten to see this film receive awards and praise. Maybe it's the love of Quentin that will jade people. I know it will. But after coming out of a strong year for film, Django falls flat.The movie lacks the confidence of character(s) and story in a hyper active world. It loses it's identity somewhere along the line and the little scenes of greatness cannot save it. Most of all it does not have the joy of film that often add life to Tarantino films.
*This review contains SPOILERS.* I normally read the plot summary on IMDb before I watch a movie despite my feeling that it may give away plot details. With this movie, it was the other way round. Here's why. A freed slave in mid 19th century Texas, with the help of a bounty hunter, sets out to rescue his wife who is a slave at a plantation in Mississippi. The story doesn't get to this part till about an hour. I even wondered at some point if there was an angle where Dr.Schultz was going to double-cross Django and sell him off to some white guy. The bounty-hunting part is essential to the story but cut to the chase already! I felt chained to my seat as the movie dragged on forever. Christopher Waltz does a good job, but Dr.Schultz was badly written. He comes across as trying too hard to be funny and cool and his elaborate dialogues get annoying at times but despite all that, you end up liking him. Leonardo DiCaprio does a convincing job as the arrogant, rich, gore- loving plantation owner. He has evolved to the point where he can ease into any kind of role on screen and it is refreshing to see him as Calvin Candy. Watch out for Samuel L. Jackson. He is so good as Stephen that he frightens you, annoys you and makes you want to hate him. He is the highlight of the movie. Jackson and DiCaprio complement each other very well. Kerry Washington has a small role but does a decent job and plays Broomhilda well. Finally, Jamie Foxx/Django. I still have not been able to separate the actor and the character from each other. He is in a trance for most of the movie and transiently comes out of it in between to say a few words and kill people. His portrayal of a man desperate to get to his wife is just not convincing. His acting needs a lot more polishing, but Tarantino is no help because Foxx's portrayal of Django made me wonder if he is so bad an actor or if Tarantino messed up his acting. Hence, I can't separate Foxx from Django. The chemistry between Django and Broomhilda is conspicuous by its total absence. Even the girl who shows Django around when he goes to find the Brittle brothers has a few lines with him. After putting us through 165 minutes of torture anyway, couldn't Tarantino have filmed one scene showing Django and Broomhilda together (before they get separated)? Instead, all we get to see is Django helping Broomhilda escape early on in the movie and then imagining her all over the place. Just one scene of them sharing screen space (instead of the useless KKK scene) would have done the trick. No wonder Calvin doesn't suspect anything between the two of them. There is no show of emotion from Django when Dr.Schultz is killed. He just says a random, unemotional goodbye later when he collects Broomhilda's papers. So much for the man who freed him and helped him find his wife. The action scenes are a little too violent, but it is an action flick, so I'll let that pass. The cinematography is very good, editing terrible and music a little too modern for the time in which the movie is set. This was a good story with huge potential, but the abysmal writing, direction and editing made it a dud for me. If not for good acting by Jackson, DiCaprio, Schultz and the likes, 'Django Unchained' would have fallen flat. Undoubtedly, they are the saving grace of the film. The only good thing for us was that we checked the running time ahead and bought popcorn. Rent it out on DVD, it's not worth the admission fee.
Tarantino's best movies were Pulp Fiction, True Romance and Reservoir Dogs.Tarantino's last few films have been the same old recycled crap. Basically the story is about someone being wronged and then that person takes violent revenge on everyone to blame for the rest of the film. Over and over Tarantino is spewing the same old story with gratuitously violent scenes. Kill Bill, Inglorious Bastards, and now Django are all the same story. I think Django is getting a lot of buzz because it deals with slavery. I found Django to be sleepy and boring. The cameo Tarantino treats audiences to is useless and unnecessary. The gratuitous violence is acceptable because the people killed are big, bad, white slave owners (yawn).Django is not a great film. Really, it isn't. Don't be such a follower and pretend you enjoy it like the rest of the herd. Go see Pulp Fiction or True Romance if you want to see a great Tarantino flick.


                
I loved Pulp Fiction. 'Outstanding' and 'superb' are words that come to mind. Everything by Tarantino since, just awful.I have read some of the glowing reviews for this film, and come away completely puzzled - did we watch the same film? First thoughts that come to mind for this film; dull, plodding, contrived, and sometimes silly. And yet the plot could have been a foundation for a really good film.It started well, with one very witty section concerning a sheriff and marshal. Very witty, very clever. However, even in the early stages, it was apparent that Tarantino had bought a job lot of blood at a discount, and was going to throw buckets of the stuff around. It is not that I object to violence in movies. I forget the name now, but not so long ago watched an excellent film in which a person was sliced in half in a fight sequence. It worked, it fitted, and nothing but positives for the film (which makes the lapse of memory odd). In the case of Django, it was just clumsy violence for the sake of it, and don't say that I don't get it, that it is tongue in cheek etc. etc. No, it is just clumsy and pointless, and poorly done.There was one fight scene which was much, much better - the unarmed fight scene in the room was shocking (well done shocking) and it is probably no coincidence that this scene did not include the blood buckets.If Tarantino could do more scenes like this, there would be no stopping him. Instead, we mostly get the buckets.As for the acting, it is pretty variable. I have grown to respect Di Caprio, but this performance was just OK. Samuel L. Jackson was just unconvincing most of the time. Jamie Foxx did warm up a bit as the movie progressed, but the starting point for the warm up was at the bottom of the thermometer. Christoph Waltz was lonely on the screen as the only star performer and managed to convey some of the potential of the plot.In summary, action scenes; mostly distracted by comedy blood spatters. Cinematography; passable. Plot; plodding, dull, etc. Dialogue; plodding, dull etc. but with a few (very few) moments of sparkle. Acting; mostly routine. Oh, I nearly forgot. The titles were good.Judging by the reviews, I can only conclude that there are too many Tarantino groupies out there .....or maybe I am out on limb in thinking that upping the blood spatter content to buckets of blood is not 'witty' or 'cool'???? 'heh, look, other people use gallons of blood, but I am so cool....I use bath tubs of blood, and do it in an ironic and post-modern way.....etc.' For me it is just for shock 'schlock' and it is not ironic, post-modern, witty, clever, intelligent, challenging or any of the other excuses that are trotted out to excuse this kind of junk. It is just lazy and an ersatz form of 'creativity'.Still, at least Django is an improvement on Kill Bill, but that is not praise.


                
I tried to like this movie but I didn't.The "story" is really weak, only a pretext to show pointless violence that someone finds funny (not me).Waltz was OK but I didn't like his character. Foxx character on the other side is really awful. The way he behaves is really annoying and the fact that he becomes a skilled gunman in one lesson only is really unbelievable.The only actor that stands up is Di Caprio, but the violence he enjoys is similar to that of far fetched rated-18 horror comics; maybe teenagers finds that entertaining.I expected a surprising movie I found a boring and pointless one.


                
I was deeply disappointed by Django Unchained and constantly had to resist the urge to walk out. I didn't find it entertaining, it was too long, and I didn't find it altogether that funny or interesting to regard either. I know I'm in a minority and the films rapid ascent to the top 100 of IMDb no doubt will imbue Tarantino with the confidence to make three sequels to this film. I think that would be a terrible mistake. Tarantino's best film was Jackie Brown, and since then I think the quality of tightness of his films have gone downhill. They've become more self indulgent, more tongue in cheek, less biting, more reliant on shock and gratuitous violence than narrative intrigue. I actually found myself bored during Django, checking my watch periodically. Not a good sign, especially when talking about Tarantino- a man who seems destined to inoculate his audiences against boredom. The plot didn't hold my attention simply because it was a replica of so many plots that came before. Man sees girl, girl in danger, man saves girl. Never do we believe Django or the girl are ever actually in danger, so apparently Tarantino believes the one thing that will keep us glued to our seat is the expectation for more and more outrageous violence. I suppose he's right, and it's a sign of our times. I'm not a conservative type, and I have nothing against violence in movies. I don't, however, particularly enjoy violence for the sake of violence, and don't find a three hour long murder spree fun. I don't like Tarantino singling out innocent people and slaughtering them for fun (and believe me he tries hard to make it fun). Killing slave masters are one thing, but this film goes out of its way to kill the families of these people too. I don't find Django or the good Doctor Shulz heroic, or cool, or fun. Maybe it's just me. Maybe I've just grown up a little too much. Maybe I just don't know how to have fun anymore, the same way I don't sit for hours on end playing video games the way I did in high school. There's no point to it, and it bores me.


                
Truly typical Tarantino effort.Violence for the sake of it, interspersed with long-winded speeches, and then more ridiculous violence, and as many offensive swear words as he thinks he can squeeze in. Tarantino sticks to his usual style of stealing tricks from better directors, and then not executing them properly. He continues to cast some of the biggest heavyweight actors on the planet, and then not trust them to both speak and move at the same time. Much like Inglorious he just cuts back and forward between pointless violent action scenes, and then people sitting or standing still while he has one of them ramble along with some story filler (very little of which makes any sense) and then back to another scene of ridiculously over the top violence.
I'm not sure what this movie was going for. The n-word is dropped every other sentence, presumably for the sake of realism. Yet, nothing else in this movie is even close to realistic.First, Christoph Waltz's character. We've all seen his type in other pretentious Hollywood movies. He's constantly being a smart Alec, which may amuse some people. Even in the face of danger, he's cracking jokes and being a wise guy in front of someone's gun barrel. Is this a bad comedy, or a movie about a slave going up against all odds?Then you have the actual action. I could swallow some of the Rambo stuff that was happening if the movie didn't start off pretending to be realistic. The movie is so pretentious, and I bet some people somehow consider this above your typical Steven Seagal movie.And of course, most white people in this movie are demonized, and in many cases killed in a what is supposed to be comedic fashion. Never mind the fact that not all white folks necessarily agree with slavery that is going on and are simply forced to go along with the culture of their time.I guess my mistake was expecting a more serious and realistic movie. Had I know this would turn into some bad over-the-top revenge movie, I wouldn't have bothered.There were some positive notes here. The scenery and the music were nice, but that's pretty much it. I won't bother seeing another movie from this director again. Not sure what people see in him.


                
Tarantino seems to have been running out of ideas lately and relies on shock and gore rather than on a good script to make his movies stand out.I really disliked Inglorious Bastards as, except for two brilliant scenes (the first scene with Christopher Waltz and the dialog in the basement pub seemingly inspired by a scene from Where Eagles Dare), the movie was just juvenile, stupid and just plain disgusting occasionally. Now, Django fares a little better as there is not so much stupidity in the script (and no characters like Brad Pitt and his squad from Inglorious Bastards), but there is little worthy of mention, either.(SPOILERS ahead) The movie starts on a good foot with Waltz setting Django free to help him identify three former slave farm supervisors. Now, for a western revenge movie, hunting these three guys to pay for what they have done to him and his wife would have been the central plot of this movie. Django would have time to slowly develop his relationship with his German "owner" from distrust to even some kind of friendship (not to mention his weapon skills). Instead, they instantly become friends and Django, seemingly a born gunslinger, kills those three guys on the first farm they visit. The movie drags on unnecessarily after that only to finally switch to a search for Django's wife (who is alive and mostly well, as it turns out, thus nullifying any potential revenge factor). She is located on DiCaprio's farm where Django performs his fake slave-owner character unexpectedly (and illogically) well, but surprisingly, the experienced German head-hunter, who otherwise kills people without a second thought with a mathematically cold logic, somehow fails to hide his shock and disgust of a few (admittedly gruesome) slave deaths. I was at least hoping that it would turn out that he was playing some double game and that he will turn on Django, but that was just wishful thinking. Surprisingly, the cool German fails to keep his cool once more and shoots DiCaprio's character, gets killed and with him what little coherence was there in the movie. After an unnecessarily long and blood bursting firefight, Django is taken alive (why?), but instead of being tortured (why?), he is sold to some miners to face a fate worse than any gruesome death itself (supposedly, as all we have are words by Jackson's character). But, somehow he convinces the miner's men or whoever they were as the movie doesn't bother to explain (nor did I care by that point) to let him go (wtf?) and even give him a gun (WTF?); then he spares no thought in killing them for some reason (why?) and runs back to the farm where previously dozens of armed men were holding guard, but for some reason none remain. He shoots the totally unused James Remar character, plus the unused lawyer and Candy's sister characters while releasing the unnecessary Candy's mistress character. Also, underused Samuel L. Jackson's character is shot (didn't really find him mean or anything, but more like a semi-stupid old fool). Django then shows that he's handy with dynamite, too, and leaves the farm with a cartoon-like explosion in the background (Candy must have been holding a dynamite storage there) and rides into the sunset with his rather bland and unconvincing wife character. The end. Notice how there's so many times I mention the words "for some reason" and "unused", as somehow the movie of some two and a half hours fails to find any space for development of most of its characters or to cater us with some logic behind its characters' actions.I ended up liking some of the music used and DiCaprio's character - not that it was a memorable character, but DiCaprio did a great job with a lousy script at hand. Waltz was OK, but kind of predictable as his character is rather similar to the character in Inglorious Bastards in his overdone slow and meticulous explanations, but ridden of any menace and thus, any powerful impact. Jackson was good, but his character was criminally limited by the script. Disappointing and very unnecessary. Oh, sounds like my review! Wait..


                
I barely made it through this movie, I was so bored, it barely kept my interest from start to end and I found myself checking my watch more and more around the 2hour mark. I've seen the original and I loved it, I seen it many many years ago back when it was re-certified and re-released.I don't like Tarantino but on the request of a friend I decided to see it. I went in hoping, much like The Dark Knight Rises, hoping the movie would be good, I gave it a chance and I did not enjoy it, sure people will like it, I knew nothing going in other then it was a re-make or a homage to it, but I found it drawn out and so slowly paced that when the action finally did come I was to bored to enjoy it.The action, when it happens, is good, thats why I'm not saying this is an awful movie, as it was interesting.The filler between main plot points is drawn out to, it artificially extends the life of the movie by at least an hour and adds very little to the pacing other then to slow it down.I'll probably get grief over saying it but its my opinion. If you loved it then you loved it but if you like redone ideas, 100 things you've seen before and Tarantinos usual over the top blood effects then this movie is for you. You'd be far better watching the original, a far better story and superior pacing.


                
I guess my relationship to Quentin Tarentino's movies is one of equal love & hate.Definitely I enjoy watching most of his movies; Inglorious Bastards, Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs & Four Rooms are all pretty good. But on the other hand I believe the Kill Bill movies to be overrated, and now I can add yet another movie to my "Quentin Tarantino's – Black List": Django Unchained.Excessive violence, blood and gore are all fine trademarks to put in one's movie, but in this case it's just too much. And then there are the endless combinations of weird cutting sequences, strange colors, and sounds/music/noises from a 4th grade child in a music instrument shop, and what about a blue velvet suit with white laces; I mean come on; really? in combination with an almost 3 hour runtime, i were not impressed!My believe is, that the very same things that make some of his movies so very good, are the same things ruining this movie, when they are overdone. And they truly are; overdone.


                
Don't get me wrong: I am a fan of Tarantino's works. But this one is just as much of a shame as 'Munich' for Spielberg or 'Inland Empire' for David Lynch. It has all the signature elements of the great director, but it ridiculously falls apart. Seriously, what's this crap?I admit that I couldn't even watch it to the end. I stopped watching it halfway because there was absolutely no story unfolding. Nothing worthy to watch at least. Indeed, a strange character who's half a Karl May-figure and half a typical Tarantino-ish mass murderer appears, then frees a shady looking shade to be his partner in murders, and then they try to rescue a maid. Almost two hours into the story they still haven't even started. We have a ridiculous amount of fake blood squirting, badly overdone violent scenes and a lot of nowadays non- PC expression. Where does it lead? I don't even care. It couldn't catch my attention. What has Tarantino became?


                
How unrealistic can a move be?? Some reviewers actually gave this movie a 10! Based on what? It started out OK and had some situations that happen, maybe. But for the last ten minutes I didn't know if I was watching a western movie gone bad or the writer was just making a big joke of the whole thing. When Django jumps on a horse bareback, with no bridle and rides off with the horse under total control over the horse, that about did it for me. How phony can you get! It went downhill fast from there turning a sort of interesting movie into a cartoon. I shoot in competition and I wish I could shoot 1/10th as good as Django. My goodness. The first time he shoots a gun(a rifle), it's a 200 yard shot at a guy on a running horse, .....and he hit him! And he shoots from the hip (not really taking aim) and never misses! How anybody could give this movie high marks is a real wonder. And at the end, when he ride his horse like he was trained for the circus, I just cracked up.


                
This film is just another one in which Tarantino resorts to truly unnecessary violence and bloodshed in order to draw the attention of a crowd of a dubious taste. It is as if he doesn't care at all about the artistic quality of his work. It is all blood and death and destruction. All characters and incidents are extremely exaggerated. This film has certainly not been made to claim a place in the history of cinema. I'd rather like to remember Tarantino as the prodigal director of extremely creative, low-budget films such as "Pulp Fiction" or "Reservoir Dogs." Artistic genius is NOT measured by how much the artist earns; it is measured by how much his art is valued how long his works are remembered.


                
Let us harken back to the 1960s. In America the advent of the TV western had pretty much killed off the big screen western, based on the notion that, why buy the milk when the cow is already in your living room? Meanwhile, in far-off Italy, a then-obscure director named Sergio Leone decided it would interesting to re-imagine the American western against an Italian backdrop. All the actors would speak Italian, which would later be dubbed over into the language of the country the film was playing in. Except for the main actor, who in this case was an ex-pat American named Clint Eastwood. Eastwood's TV series RAWHIDE had just cancelled and his career was effectively over. So,. when offered a few grand to be the only English-speaking actor in a "spagetti western" Eastwood agreed, and then forgot the experience. Until he later heard that the film, A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS, had become the #1 film in Europe. But that is yet another story for yet another day... The original film DJANGO was one of the literally dozens of knock-offs of the Leone films, which (as said) were themselves knockoffs of American westerns. It starred Franco Nero, an Italian actor who spoke no English. It was hardly a prime example of the genre. It was hardly a prime example of anything. The more interesting story, a story that will fascinate film historians in the years and decades to come, is why one of the most honoured and respected film-makers on the planet today, a man whose work is actually studied in FILM SCHOOL, felt compelled to do a remake of one of the most forgettable films in the history of the medium...? This reviewer (who, by the way, considers Spagetti Westerns from the 60s a "guilty pleasure" - and has actually seen almost all of them in a real theatre, with a special preference for the ones starring Lee Van Cleef) could barely make it more than half way through Django Unchained, before being overcome by nausea and an overwhelming sense of loss for the way in which these resources might have been better deployed, perhaps in a parallel universe where "QT" is still able to pass an ink-blot test. Make no mistake. This is not fine film-making. This is a cry for help.
First time in many years that i left the cinema, after 1 hour i could not take the B..S... any more, and with many others, i just left the cinema, of course it would not be fair to write a review without watching the whole movie, so i bought another ticket and came to watch it again, this time i could take it up to about 10 minutes from the end of the film, so, with most of the audience, i left again. Only of course to come back the next day and pay and watch the end. this movie is so boring that when people ate and talked in the theater - it did not disturb anyone, a couple next to me planned their wedding - i enjoyed it. most people actually became friends, friendships were rising just like in the war... I can honestly say that if they gave me the DVD for free i would just throw it to the garbage. I gave it a 3 for the music, 0 for everything else.


                
This is not a spaghetti western. Django is not a superhero. It's a comedy trying to use the foil of slavery, torture, KKK to fool us into laughing. We are to laugh at the KKK.The actors seem listless at times. It reminds me of a sitcom in that way; they are sometimes deadpan waiting for the canned laughter to roll in.Richard Pryor could make white people laugh at themselves. His satire was timely. This movie is not timely. It's too late.I heard some audience members laugh. So, it may be the mood I am in. I wanted to laugh. I didn't laugh; I walked out.


                
I had to hold the control in my hand because the music would be too loud and the dialog too low. Good cast, though. If it hadn't been for the all-star cast, I probably wouldn't have chosen it to start with. I have never been disappointed with a Samuel Jackson movie, although I didn't recognize him at first. Leonardo DeCaprio plays a villain with glee. It was well acted and believable. It was a fairly good story, I like to watch a film that strays from the average and predictable, especially in westerns. It well filmed, with beautiful scenery. I recognized the Grand Tetons. But the film was way too long and bloody. I spent the last half hour just hoping for it all to end.


                
I loved Kill Bill and Pulp Fiction. They had good humour, great action scenes and generally great plot.That's why I watched both of these movies. The difference is, unlike Kill Bill and Pulp Fiction, these movies are based on slavery and holocaust. It is probably to gain love in Jewish and Black communities, but it just turns the movies sour.You probably all know why inglorious bastards sucked, there was not so good casting. The bad guys were just bad guys and good guys thought that killing bad guys was the only option. There was no in-depth plot. Although, I must admit that the German guy that is at the beginning and at the end is a very interesting character.As to Django, again, we get a very good performance from the 'bad guy' in this case Leonardo Di Caprio. As to the main characters they are just too plain, there is an ambition to have a very good performance for the German guy, but whoever the actor is certainly does not deliver. As to Jamie Foxx, he is OK, but his character is pretty weird.And most importantly, all these stupid 1 vs 40 fights that end with 40 guys dead are just inconceivable.I know that this movie received very good reviews, but I guess that is because nobody wanted to review a big budget movie against slave owners badly, just like nobody wanted to review a big budget movie against Hitler badly.


                
I should have known that when I had seen the trailer I had seen the whole movie. But sometimes I tend to go against my own good judgment. And so I found myself watching a three hour trailer. The first half of the movie you see the unlikely couple of an eloquent German dentist turned bounty hunter and his liberated ex-slave partner killing plenty of supposedly bad guys. You have got to admire how they tracked all these people but you don't get any clue on how they did it. Were these crooks a bit careless on their facebook profiles? Did they track their cell phones? Oh wait, yes 1850. Facebook wasn't so popular than, so it must have been their cellphones.So there you are, Django looking cool and docter Schultz looking clever shooting a whole bunch of guys until they decide to finally liberate Django's wife. She has already been appearing in Django's visions, strolling through fields looking absolutely lovely and endearing, whenever he had a few seconds to spare between piling up the corpses of all those bad guys of course. He's a romantic at heart. When the wife finally does show up for real, you better understand these visions since in real life she apparently also is best at loving smiles and terrified looks. So after almost two hours of scenes that were not going anywhere, or better that were preludes to another geyser of blood, I was sort of getting numb and hoped to get rid of that numbness with the appearance of DiCaprio and Samuel L Jackson. I guess they did their best and for some moment I had the idea there was some plot in this 3 hour splasher. But apparently Tarantino got bored with that, gave Samuel L Jackson some psychic capabilities to expose our two heroes and treat the audience to another 30 minutes of sadistic shootouts. How on earth does this movie get so high on IMDb?
When Tarantino launched Django Unchained one got the impression it was a remake of a cult Spagetti Western movie in which the hero (played by Franco Nero) moves around dragging a coffin and killing some bad guys! When it came out in the 60s many felt it was very violent for that time but thats it! The new Django is in name only and has nothing to do with the 60s film! This is a movie which talks about slavery in 19th century America and how Black people were illtreated by white people! Almost the entire movie is made to offend with frequent use of the 'N' word against blacks and almost every white character in this movie is shown to be racist. Most shocking is Leonardo Di caprio's character who is just plain offensive to say the least and this movie has potential to destroy his career in long run! I am shocked an actor of his status and calibre agreed to star in this flick! And why oh why did they have that skull speech scene where Leo's character explains the reasons for black people being submissive towards white people (at that time that is)! Then there are scenes designed to just offend you such as the black dude being mauled by dogs or the mandingo fight scene where the winner earned himself a cold beer!


                
The first scenes of this film are very promising. It is intelligently funny and the the effects of alienation in setting, costumes and also how the actors play their roles are really aesthetic. Even the killings are that way. Therefor one doesn't take them too seriously and they don't spoil the fun watching at first. After a while though I began to wait for more fun and more smartness. Instead there came unnecessary brutality and killing. The fun was mixed in and a bitter taste came to it all. I waited for the next scene and told my children that now it will be smart again but it never happened, instead it became even more cruel. Like that not smartness, speed and humor win but becoming as bad as the enemies. Still Django is the hero! The characters are very well chosen and the roles are acted out very well. Only Django himself is not totally convincing.


                
I understand that some people might not agree with this review. It is undoubtedly biased as I strongly dislike Tarantino (though this is my favourite of his films).Don't get me wrong - this film has its merits. The beginning of the movie is relatively enjoyable and follows a well-written but poorly directed story. Towards the end, however, things fall apart and Django's actions even disagree with his character. It becomes an unpleasant viewing experience and I was left wishing that the script would have been given to someone else, as the movie could have been so much better.Everything from the comedy to the violence is disappointing, and - though I understand that it is supposed to convey the style of, and pay homage to, the old Spaghetti Westerns - it fails to remind me of any previous Western that I've seen. In addition, the main roles are poorly acted, with the exception of Monsieur Candy (Leonardo DiCaprio), which is a real shame. A good actor can save a poor film (take the Bourne Ultimatum, for example), but Tarantino doesn't seem to appreciate that. DiCaprio's monologue was the only part of the film I genuinely enjoyed, and I wish he had been cast in a larger role (such as Django's sidekick and mentor). As usual, the director makes his own characteristic appearance, which is as out-of-place as ever.Django Unchained comes across as a crass, unentertaining mess, which almost made me leave the theatre half way through. I am quite surprised at some of the reviews I have seen on here, but perhaps I don't understand it fully. Nevertheless, my view is this: Django's Unchained isn't worth watching (other than for DiCaprio's impressive monologue).


                
Visually the movie is disappointing. The filming seems cheap. The story is too prolonged. The actor Waltz is surpassing all the others, what was also confirmed at the Golden Globe Awards. He also played a formidable role in Inglourious Basterds. Surely much more better, than this one. While DiCaprio seems redundant, just a kind of "album filler" to stack up the movie with more stars. All in all one of the worse movies of one of my favorite directors. I think this movie was given too much attention and credit in advance. It was unmerited. If you are looking for the real thing: dirty, mean, classic western then watch the originals. The Italians made back in time some very good western, the best of them is still "The good, the bad and the ugly".


                
Well, if that's your cup of poison, be my guest. Waltz is good, appealing even. He's certainly the most watchable actor in the movie. DiCaprio is better than expected, in a truly horrible role. A lesser actor would have made Massa Candie a clown.But the picture's a mess. I really think if a cartoon festival of gore is to your liking, you'd do better to watch Kill Bill again and skip this one. At least that picture had some narrative drive, and a heroine you could root for, and terrific choreography to recommend it. Even the bad guys in Kill Bill were entertaining. Django Unchained has none of that. It's not just another revenge fantasy - it's a *degenerate* revenge fantasy. It's like somebody doing bad Tarantino.


                
