I was truly amazed to see that this gets 9,2 at IMDb, I was expecting 3,2 or something. It is really one of the most appalling shows I have seen. The only thing that is done professionally is blood splattering around in slow motion. For the rest it is pure garbage.The acting is basically absent. People appear to read lines of semi-ancient English from autocue or, more frequently, they just grunt. The story is about herds of gladiators killing each other, and their masters also killing each other. With some sex thrown in for good measure. The language verges on the absurd, with all the faux ancient English with four letters words thrown in.I can understand some people would still want to watch this. I can only watch it for a laugh, except it's not funny for more than one minute.


                
I mostly enjoyed the original Spartacus movie as it was historical truth. The first "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" was also the same story and was mostly historically correct. Given the freedom of its cable broadcast it was pretty profane, with graphic sex scenes and much use of the the four letter f**k word. This latest rendition in "Gods of the Arena" is just nothing but f**k and very graphic sex. As usual it is sick in its depiction in slow motion of throats slashed, arms severed and blood spurting all over. It's more like the modern video games being pushed where murder, mutilation and mayhem substitute for any true artistic skill or value. The use of profanity reminds me of 14 year old boys who have discovered the f word and use it mercilessly. These writers are the same 14 year old boys. I would much prefer better plot and character development versus falling back every five minutes on nudity and sex and the f word every other second. Basically, this Spartacus is not fit for viewing by any person with intelligence above that of a rock.
"Spartacus: (fill in cool second title here)". Wow. Where to start?It's nothing but blood, gore and sex, slow-mo killings and seemingly extremely dumb Romans slaughtered. Who cares about history? Obviously not the creators of this series, nor the audience. The acting is nothing to write home about either.Spoiler: Spartacus was initially successful, escaping the Praetorians (the imperial guard and "police-force" of Rome at that time), and plundering small towns and the countryside of Italy. After gathering 70 000 slaves and defeating the two consular legions (about 10 000 men) that had routed Crixus and his 30 000 slaves, and later defeating the two inexperienced legions of legate Mummius, his success was over. The Romans had Crassus and his six legions chase and cut off Spartacus and his forces, at Rhegium near the straits of Messina. Spartacus had no way out and were forced to attack the legions. The slave-revolt ended right there and pretty much all of them were killed, including Spartacus, with few Roman losses. But who cares, there's blood, gore and sex, cursing in every sentence and no realism in the fighting what so ever. Great, huh?
The acting was bad , story line predicable, and production ridicules like two guy pulling on a chain and popping a gladiators head off the added blood and action was bad this movie would have had value if it was a porn movie just a lot a bad sex scenes I gave it one star for a waist of time


                
