I have been waiting for the return of Spartacus: Blood and Sand for quite some time now. Unfortunately, Andy's cancer delayed this for a long time, so Starz gave us Gods of the Arena in stead.All I can say is well done! We are introduced into the same society and atmosphere we were presented in Blood and Sand, but a few years before Spartacus's arrival. Most of the cast from the previous show is back, and the producers did a good job with making them look a bit younger. I will not give out the names, to avoid spoilers, but rest assured, you will not be disappointed by the number of familiar faces.And, most importantly, everything that we've seen in Blood and Sand is here! All the gore, sex, and ruthlessness is back, and boy, I've missed it. Seeing the first episode of the new series, I had a sense of seriousness and ambition throughout the show. There is enough action to keep you entertained, but there are also plenty of sensual scenes and political schemes as well. The cast did a good job, as always, and I did not have the feeling that the actors lost interest since the first season, a thing that happens with lots of shows nowadays. Also, the special effects have gotten a little better, the filming is great too.So, as a bottom line, Starz and it's Spartacus is back, just as strong as the old series, even if Spartacus himself is missing, for now. If you loved the previous show, you will love this too, no doubt, and if you didn't, well, you will start loving it now!


                
By Jupiter's rooster! I'd be willing to wager coin that many a skeptic became a believer upon viewing the premier of "Spartacus: Gods of the Arena". From the opening moment to the final credits I could not gaze in another direction. The brilliant writing combined with outstanding performances and great visuals come together to produce what will no doubt become legend. The depiction of a world with honor among slaves and dishonor among their masters is masterful. The portrayal of a world which doesn't require the web or mass media for it's inhabitants to be exposed to every depravity and brutality known to humanity is enthralling. A better adrenaline rush could only be found by those living in such a world. A must see for connoisseurs of sex and violence. Mere mortals could do worse than vowing patronage to "Spartacus: Gods of the Arena". Never was a more visceral experience produced by a succession of images on an HD screen combined with surround sound!


                
As all of you probably know this is a prequel to Spartacus: Blood and Sand. I assume it is such because of Andy Whitfield's ongoing battle with cancer. Although harsh sounding as it may be, during the first episode you barely miss him. This is not because of anything other than the fact that it is a prequel and we all hope he will return for future seasons.The episode was well thought out and gives real insight into the beginnings of certain characters from the first season. After waiting for so long (or what seemed like an eternity), I was definitely not disappointed with what looks like is going to be another great season.Definitely do not miss!


                
guys nobody is recognizing the role of batiatus.....i see no single comment mentioning about him....it is he who played long duration in all the episodes....and with his performance, has brought life to spartacus TV series...he was the one with highest dialogues in the serial, but he never made us feel bored of his role either in blood and sand or gods of the arena....he really showed us a true lanista......i agree that all the actors performed to their best.Anyways its a great entertainer for our period showing us about the lifestyle during the period of gladiators.I really love the politics in this series especially those played by lucretia and batiatus together in both blood and sand and also gods of the arena.....i really bow before the dialogue writer particularly for the phrase 'jupitor's c**k' during the scenes of frustration..


                
Wow. I absolutely loved the first season of Spartacus and was so sad to hear of Andy getting cancer. I didn't think the show could continue without him. I was proved wrong by the first ten minutes of Gods of the Arena. The actor portraying Gannicus is instantly likable and I actually like him more than Spartacus. Spartacus is mostly melodramatic while Gannicus is just an egotistical cocky bad ass. By the second episode, the writers do such an excellent job that you actually care deeply for these characters and the horrors they face. Episode 3 went almost too far in the portrayal of the brutality of Rome. I just watched episode 4, and am still reeling at the awesomeness. The writing on this show is completely unrivaled, and they do not ever sacrifice reality for taste. The character development and raw emotion in them is so well portrayed through not only excellent writing, but insanely good acting. I will say that especially this season is not for the faint hearted, but if extreme gore, profanity, nudity, and VERY mature themes are not a problem for you then you simply must watch this show!


                
wow. For those who feared this would be a let down without the original lead actor please put such thoughts aside. This prequel seems better than the first season! I'd suggest they have learned some valuable lessons in the first series.The plot is more complex and more gripping than before. The actors play their roles perfectly. I think the direction / camera work has improved slightly as well.The writing / dialogue is outstanding. I was gripped from start to finish. I cant wait for the next episode and to see how this season finishes. I wonder what season 3 will be? is andy better and able to continue? whatever happens I hope it carries on for a long time to come.


                
I really don't like violence in movies or series..this show has plenty of it as well as nudity but somehow I enjoy the show.I think cast is well selected.Especially John Hannah is outstanding actor.I couldn't think anybody else in this role.Special effects are not very realistic but action never stops so you don't care about these unrealistic effects.At the final of the each episode, you say don't make this to me ,don't end in here and one week passes with thinking what is the next..second season of Spartacus: Blood and Sand will be next year.we have to wait too long ..I'm already looking forward to it..Go Gladiators!


                
What can I say? The acting, directing, screenplay (script) are some of the best I've ever seen. A cast of unknowns that act soo well it makes you feel as if you are really there. I looked up Gladiators on wikipedia and realized that the names, Towns, clothing, and real life stories in this series actually existed... I was shocked that the makers of the series really stuck to the actual events that took place and didn't just "make things up". This brings a sense of realism to the show which heightens the drama and the over all story. If you wanted "Thee" actual gladiator film or series, then this and "Blood and Sand" are "it". The era of Rome's gladiators (slaves) from the 1st century (which fought to the death) has never been depicted so well by any other movie or TV series that I have ever seen and i've seen them all. I have seen other comments like "HBO's Rome was better". "Rome" isn't about gladiators or the view point of the slave's lives. There's really no argument in comparing the two. Twists, turns, politics, loyalty and betrayal are all put to the test in "Spartacus Gods of the Arena". This series is "heavy on sex and violence" but has an excellent story and 3 dimensional characters everywhere. You will feel compassion for some characters and hate others with a vengeance. When a series can make you feel such emotions then in my opinion it's an absolute winner. Entertainment that's off the charts! "It just doesn't get any better than this folks"!


                
In my opinion Spartacus: Gods of the Arena crushes the first season in it's ability to draw me in, and keep me on the edge of my seat anxiously awaiting the next episode. It being a prequel season showing how the dynamics of each individual character came about was a wonderful idea. You get a more in depth look at every character; Asher seems even more devious, you see Batiatus when he's still a vulnerable young man rather than the Lanista on top of the world, and of course seeing Crixus the undefeated Gaul start from nothing. On top of how the season portrayed old characters it also did an AMAZING job in it's induction of new characters. Gannicus quickly became my favorite character in the show. He fights arguably the best, he has this cocky attitude about himself because he knows he's the best and yet he has a down to earth sentimental side that when the words leave his mouth they just stay in my head. He gives many lines I feel people should be living their lives by. My favorite being, "There are many things given to us in this life for the wrong reasons. What we do with such blessings, that is the true test of a man". This season although only being 6 episodes, (not even half of it's comparable seasons) has I would estimate an equal amount of surprising twists. Many times a character will go from being the lowest of the low face in the dirt, and by next episode they've stabbed someone in the back or made a deal that gets them to the top. If anyone was on the fence about watching/buying this season I give a whole hearted YES that you should watch it. This season was my favorite of the best show I believe has ever been aired. They wouldn't have even made this season if it wasn't for the original man who played Spartacus (Andy Whitfield) being diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. They started this season in hopes that it would give time for Andy to get better and hopefully return for the next season. Unfortunately life had different plans and Andy Whitfield died shortly after the season ended. Never forget where it all started, and honor the true Bringer of Rains! R.I.P. Andy Whitfield


                
Spawned from Spartacus' c**k comes shows like 'Game of Thrones' and the like. But SPARTACUS really raised the bar and kicked the ladder out from under it! This is pure entertainment. The blood/gore/sex/nudity level is cranked up to level '10', but the storyline is one that sticks with you forever. The characters are all fleshed out a lot more in 'GOA' than 'BAS', so we know how Crixus became Champion of Capua, how Oenomaus became Doctore, how Batiatus rose to power, we meet the extremely sexy Gaia! - but most importantly, we are introduced to Gannicus - Possibly the most talented and charismatic of all champions (really? blindfolded?!) Charming, playful, and absolutely deadly with two swords (or without any!), Gannicus actually made me forget about Spartacus not being there. All the characters are well written and of the course the dialogue is memorable and a lot of times laugh out loud hilarious! ("Once again the Gods see fit to shove c**k in a**!") hahahahah LOVE IT! Never been a show like this in the history of TV and anything after will be a copycat. Truly a Starz ORIGINAL!
I really like this TV show too much, after the Blood and Sand, it brings me elsewhere, keeps me away from real world crap.Blood and Sand was perfectly provide the meaning of the name of the TV-show, it was include too much blood and too much sand. It was satisfy me by its fights. But not the Gods of the Arena for now, it is full of intrigue and full of wheeler-dealing and too much sex. I admit that sex puts TV-show to a new level. It brings energy to the series, because "Roman discovered the sex and the world enjoyed it." right? It provides the idea thats the fact but by the side of this I WANT TO SEE THE FIGHTS ALRIGHT?. I want to lose myself with the struggles of Spartacus like the way i do with the first season. I see only sex and the perfect transitions(the passings between scenes)and the perfect visual effects, they are really remarkable, i really admire the whole transitions, i watch them repeatedly. I hope that TV-show never ends, because the television world needs that kind of quality TV-shows.


                
It's hard to put this series in a category. It has great action and fighting scenes, beautiful (and surprisingly skilled!) actors, good visual effects, good directing and camera movement, fair historical accuracy, a lot of blood and lots of artistic sex scenes. The second season does a great job in building the plot from the first season. I always found the idea of all the slaves rallying with Spartacus against their master to be somewhat forced. The second season shows, among other things, the facts of life that slowly build the hatred of the slaves towards Battiatus. What is nothing to the masters means the world to the slaves. It's entertainment like you have never seen, but not for the faint-hearted.And one final thing: this film has a lot of touching moments that will make your eyes wet. The story reeks of the slaves' desire for freedom, though the word is barely mentioned in the last episode. Freedom haunts the gladiators like a ghost; it's not wavered like a flag (like in Braveheart). The expectations are high for the 3rd season.


                
There is more nudity than needed, it is very entertaining as you see the rise and fall of the gladiators and the house they represent. The show is very close to porn at times(men and women fully nude) so if you do not wish to see that sort of thing don't watch. The seen are bloody, and gruesome it is full of action. There isn't much left to imagination. I like the story and the wording used by the actors. There is a lot of cursing, to much I believe but effective. Remember the time frame this picture represents were gold rules he who has the gold has the power. The actor John Hannah part is done very well I wait to see what he will do next. It is easy to know what, but in what means will he do it.


                
One of my favorite TV show. All seasons of Spartacus are great. But this is my favorite of all. Great story, amusing action, lots of sex.The best thing about this season is that it tells a very interesting and touching love story.I enjoyed Gannicus played by Dustin Clare. He played his character amazingly. His playboy,careless yet skilled with sword character made him very enjoyable.His action,body,hear-style everything was great.At first i thought that Spartacus series without Spartacus !!!! It may be dull . But now that i have watcher it and all other seasons i think i enjoyed this season most. Now i have became a bigger fan of both Spartacus and Gannicus.


                
I always did like the Romans better. I found the politics and intrigue of the House far more interesting than the gladiators and the ludus. As in season one, the writing was brilliantly weaved. The main plot is that of Batiatus trying to step out from the shadow of his father to elevate his own name by overcoming his enemies at any cost to ensure the success of the House with his wife's help. His father, friends, slaves, and gladiators get pulled into his and Lucretia's machinations. The back-story to many of the characters we see in season one of Spartacus(Blood and Sand) is told here. You may be surprised to see how different some of the characters were five years earlier.Gannicus is introduced in this mini-series. He ended up being my favorite gladiator out of them all. Lover of wine and women, this guy is just plain fun in a world full gloominess. His personality carries through in the other seasons of Spartacus like a ray of sunshine where everything is so depressing. He's a flawed but basically good person.Batiatus' father treats him like he's incompetent. In some ways Titus is right, and yet it's just not fair the way he treats his son. A younger softer Lucretia isn't really so bad, yet when motivated by something she cares deeply about such as her husband or her dear friend Gaia, her viciousness comes out, though weirdly you kind of get it, but not excuse it. Lucretia and Batiatus truly loved each in other. They'd do anything for each other. Murder is no exception. Twisted, but damn good! These two are my favorites in the entire Spartacus series. I love well written villains.John Hannah and Lucy Lawless commanded the screen with their brilliant portrayals. Lucy Lawless' acting range is impressive. She goes from softness to gradual subtle changes as her character changes into a harder colder person. Kudos to her. Her acting has always been excellent. John Hannah is just as brilliant here as he was in season one. Dustin Clare owned the role of Gannicus. The mini isn't for everyone. Like the series, there is graphic violence(one very disturbing rape scene), sex scenes(straight, gay, and a very hot lesbian scene), and explicit language. It encompasses the same stylized look as the series, and has amazing action. Watch all series as aired by Starz. This is a prequel, not season one. The mini is important to see as events are mentioned in the later seasons. Also the beginning and end gives away the end of Blood and Sand. Watch Blood and Sand first, Gods of the Arena second, Vengeance third, and finally War of the Damned last. I wish there could have been more episodes. I believe there was a missed opportunity for "The House of Batiatus." A TV show based on that would have been wonderful. This little gem of a mini-series came about due to Andy Whitfield's illness. Made to give him time to get better. Sadly, he passed away. I think 'Gods of the Arena' and the rest of the series honored the legacy he left with his brilliant performance in season one.10/10
I saw this as "second season" to Spartacus on Netflix. Spartacus wasn't actually in this season because The actor was dealing with cancer, but this was a good origin like season. Gannicus was pretty bad ass. He later plays a huge role in the upcoming seasons. The lies, betrayal, fights, and sex were all 10/10.Had this season been included on the Spartacus IMDB it would have raised the overall rating of Spartacus from an 8 to a 9. Spartacus season 1 is also a 10/10 and my fave.


                
These series of Spartacus are just so funny. Believe me, have a drink, get in the mood and just laugh your socks off at the over-the-top macho bull s***. It's so funny. They must have employed the worst script-writers of the Rambo movies. They've combined them with the best, most outlandish bits of "300" and "Gladiator" (they've even stolen lines from these I'm sure)but the result is just awesome entertainment and humor. HA HA HA! Characters are all one-sided, the plots are so thin you can see what's coming an hour away but...that just makes it better. It's so cra..y but good at the same time.If you want real Rome and Roman society, see that series which was infinitely more complex. But I suppose they had to dumb it down for the plebs and teenagers to understand. Well they have, and they've done a good job of it if entertainment is all you are after. I'm enjoying being an adolescent again. Enjoy.


                
