I enjoyed Blood and Sand, but as a guilty pleasure. Outrageous sex and violence, some truly terrible dialogue and dodgy acting from Kiwi accented muscle men. It was fun, but not gripping nor truly addictive.I was happy to sit back and enjoy more of the same, but Gods of the Arena is a major evolution.There's less blood (although still more that any other show, ever) and less sex (likewise) , but far more dastardly pots and intrigue. The dialogue is more Shakespearian and the accents are reigned in. A (small) dose of Deadwood has gone a long way to making this show a cult classic. I hope they keep making these.


                
What's wrong with enjoying in something shallow? This Gods of the Arena is unplanned for and is meant only to bridge till they do the second season, for tragic causes... Only thing annoying enough to take the 10th star is that slaves are speaking deep thoughts in short sentences and wise manner... even more so than their masters! I like the brutality in all the fights, sex and lies! That's probably how ancient societies were, specially Rome. I truly cannot wait to see next season, and this one, however different from the first, is just a way to keep us interested in the series. So, do not be too picky of it's quality. I wanted to keep this review shorter but I could not, since I like to support easy watching series as I find it much more satisfying to ease my mind by watching TV than to watch something of what I will think next two days.


                
If you are of a sensitive nature, then give this, the latest in the 'Spartacus' TV series, the body-swerve. But if you enjoy lots of chiselled male bodies, plenty of both gender nudity, lots of CG gore and aren't offended by some of the bawdiest language ever put into a TV programme, then Spartacus; Gods of the arena, is for you. Neatly tied in carefully with a brief intro (the finale of the last series, Spartacus, Blood and sand) the story whisks us straight into the early days of the house of Bateatus as the scheming Roman builds his gladiatorial house against all the politicking and sexual shenanigans of the vicious and cut-throat world around him. There can't be many sentences where 'cock' is not used, and f**k is thrown about liberally too - as I say, not for the easily shocked, but Chaucerian in its vulgarity! And the reference to Shakespeare? There can equally be few TV programmes where characters say lines like, "He arrives. Let us end discussion and set mind to purpose..." Straight out of Shakespeare for fifth year! So, yes, an eminently suitable successor to Blood and Sand, and will not disappoint the same audience. I feel a need to give it a thumbs up - and let it live for longer to carry on the games!


                
I will say, I am a man, and I love this show, my wife not so much. It is by all means a show for a man. At least 40% of the show is sex and nudity, and 50% of the show is fighting, and within that 90%, there are many scenes that contain sex, nudity, and fighting together. With that said, the plot line is still very strong, and the acting is great. It is not the sex aspect as much as the fighting and plot line that drawls me to this show. Honestly, even without all the sex, I would still love the show, and I think my wife may like it more, but I understand that sex and nudity was a big aspect of the time frame, thus it is a big aspect of the show. I would highly recommend checking this one out if you like Roman war movies and shows, the acting makes this one of the best available.


                
Spartacus: Gods of the Arena (GotA) is a prequel series to Spartacus: Blood and San (BaS), and i does a seemingly perfect job of connecting itself to the original. Characters old and new are present, with many possessing fantastic story arcs and character developments, that brilliantly set up each character's story lines in BaS. The following review does require a watch of BaS first, so you have been warned of any spoilers!John Hannah is given the title role here, returning as Batiatus. Other fan favourites such as Oenomaus, Crixus and Barca also return. What GotA does of well, is to both stand out as its own series, as well as reveal hidden plots that set up certain parts of BaS. It is hard to say much without giving away spoilers, as I am trying to avoid here, but we find out the following:We see how Crixus got to the position of Ludus Champion How Oenomaus became Doctore How Ashur got to where he is (both physically and mentally) How Lucretia and Crixus started their "business" How Solonius and Batiatus became rivalsWhilst those are the main plot lines that carry on over to BaS, we also see how Crixus and Barca formed a respect for each other, as well as how Gnaus hot his net (if you're interested in that sort of thing). The best part of this series, is the mystery and anticipation of it all. Every character introduced here (that is not present in BaS) opens up new speculations as to what happens to them, Do they die? Do they live? You don't know, and the curiosity to find this out is a major factor in why this particular series is so addictive to watch. Sure the 300 style ultra violence and tone provide a very cool show, but fans of BaS will appreciate this series perhaps even more than the primer. There is some stellar acting on show, especially on the part of Peter Mensah, who plays Oenomaus. Personally, I connected wit him the most throughout the series, and every up and down in his story line is heavy hitting, and sparks incredible emotion and enjoyment when watching. Andy Whitfield is tragically missed in regards to his personality and acting talent, but the show doesn't wither without his involvement. The special effects are a bit dodgy, but that is expected from a TV show with a mediocre budget at play, although there are some improvements from BaS, and it never really takes you away from the action and drama. Obviously, if you've seen BaS, you know to expect graphic nudity, with strong sex and insane violence in Spartacus, and this show is definitely not one for the faint hearted not for the young. so please, don't involve young children in this show, as there are some distressing and disturbing images involved. To me, that doesn't put me off, and it if you're the appropriate age to be watching. Spartacus: Blood and Sand has fast become one of my favourite TV shows, and Gods of the Arena is as wells structured and written spectacle, and in terms of rating, stands toe-to-toe with the original. Nick Paul


                
The other seasons are great but I like this the most. I think it has the best parts from the first season. It only has the gladiator fighting intrigs which I liked the most from the first season and a ending that is so epic, with some good twists.
I also think that the fight choreography in this series is the best, with some of the most epic fights.


                
I am currently watching Spartacus which I am really enjoying at the moment when this spin off mini series takes place and I really enjoyed this series as well. The premise of the show is set a few years before Spartacus enters the gladiatorial arena, it sees the house of Batiatus trying to get a foothold in the arena. John Hannah plays batiatus in this show and he is truly great on this show, he is a truly compelling character dealing with people around him from all different angles while trying to get better for himself. Even though he isn't the most moral character you do understand some of his decisions and root for him even if you wonder if you should. Manu Bennett plays Crixus on this show and he has the best development this whole season, he progresses as a warrior and you start rooting for him more and more as it goes along. Dustin clare plays Gannicus on this show and he did a great job making a fun character with a lot of charisma that makes you find him an interesting character. Lucy lawless as Lucretia and peter mensah as oenomaus were both great on this series as cool developed characters. The story is really interesting as you see batiatus trying to deal with the politics going on while keeping up with the cool gladiator stuff seeing these characters building alliances and enemies which for me was great to see. The script has a lot of dramatic dialogue in it that I felt made these characters friendships feel real and strong. Also the dialogue has some quick whitted humour that does make me chuckle even though it isn't really the objective. The style of the show has so much glorious gore and sex scenes which are visually very nice yo see. However, my biggest criticism with the Spartacus show and this one is the overuse of slow-mo and bad special effects in there. It relies too much on it and I feel like the novelty wears off very quickly. Overall this is a fantastic spin off mini series that if you are a fan of the Spartacus show it is a must watch, but if your not you should give it a chance you might love it.


                
