Huge spoilers ahead.I love foreign films. I love dramas with strong characters. I love films that make me feel with the protagonists and live their journey as my own. No matter good or bad. After reading the numerous extremely positive reviews here, and seeing the prestigious rewards it received, I decided to give it a try.This movie doesn't have any of these characteristics. Both the characters and the plot are extremely preposterous and even laughable at some places.Imagine how disappointed I am right now, to sit at 1 am and to start writing my first review ever after years of membership at IMDb.The plot of the movie is horrible. Even TV series have more believable "investigations". Finding a killer after watching a few pictures in an old family album? Seriously? Hey what's wrong and so suspicious in admiring a beautiful girl you know from your childhood that makes you a murder suspect? Okay lets put this aside. So our murder suspect writes barely understandable coded letters to his mothers, containing the names of his favorite football players. Who does that? And a few drunks in a bar decode them and here the main characters catch the suspect right away at the next football game on a stadium with thousands of people. Just like that - as soon as they arrive there. Then, how do you get a confession from him? Easy. Get your boss, a beautiful woman, to tell him that his penis is small. There you go, he puts off his pants and shows her she's wrong and also confesses the murder. Piece of cake.?!I won't continue with the plot, because I already wasted too much time with this pretentious piece of crap.Hey but who cares if the story is believable if you have strong characters! Right? Characters are what drive a good drama.Well sorry, but this movie does not have such.The characters in the movie are not believable at all, except for the rape victim, but she didn't have the chance to prove the opposite. It is not clear what drove the main character to suddenly be so obsessed with the case. At the beginning he didn't want the rape/murder case. But when he saw her, the beautiful young naked body on the floor, he so suddenly changed, that I thought he knew her. That she's his ex-lover, or even... daughter. But she was none of these. Probably he loved her post mortem after seeing her incredible eyes. It was his specialty, yes? But the worst character in this joke was the victim's "loving" husband, who's acting was so misleading that I believed till the end that he was the one that raped and killed her. And no, I couldn't read the love in his eyes. There was no love in his eyes, as there was no suffering too.This movie is one of the most boring, character-less and preposterous crap I've ever seen. And I wouldn't spend the time to write a review if it wasn't so extremely overrated. I can not justify any of the positive reviews and even less the rewards it got.Don't force yourself to like it as I did while watching it. The error is not in you.There're so many good films out there.
Spoilers ahead.I've never been a fan of bashing films by calling them "cliche" or "predictable". Because, even if a movie exhibits signs of being any of those, it still might be told well enough to earn some merit in it's own right. In this case though my patience has been thoroughly exhausted.I don't want to waste too much time, so just let me say that what you get here is an as straightforward and lame old man's romance as you can get. An ex employee of a district attorney basically, who never had the courage to confess his love to his female superior. And who's working his way through a former case just to find the courage to finally step up and tell her. And that's actually all there's to it. A dumb, mediocre romance wrapped into a pseudo crime story with literally no surprises or just any depth whatsoever.I could go on and rip this trash apart step by step. But it isn't really worth the effort. Just take some good advice and don't waste your time on what I consider a disgrace to Argentine cinema. If this had come out of Hollywood, OK, I wouldn't have expected any better. But not Argentine cinema.Booooooooooooh.
