The over-the-top praise for this film is mystifying. The characters and their motivations range from juvenile to incredible, the pace is tendentious, the writing is banal. The actors do as good a job as they can with a poor script and the cinematography is certainly watchable, though I have no sense of having been to Buenos Aires.It's simply not possible to suspend your disbelief to the point where you can accept the premises or characters in this film. The trouble Esposito and Irene have communicating with each other is something most people overcome by junior high school, even given that class distinctions in Argentina in that period are probably stricter than here. The reaction of the husband, Morales, from beginning to end is close to fantasy, and as for the way Esposito and Sandoval track down the suspected perp -- preposterous.So this won an Academy Award and an 8.3 rating at IMDb? What an example of groupthink.


                
Am I going senile? I simply can't believe the reviews, awards and ratings that have been festooned on this movie. The plot: based purely on the fact that somebody looks somewhat shifty in an old photo, a murder suspect is identified. Er, OK you've lost me already. Where would we find this murder suspect? Why not pop along to the football stadium, we're sure to spot him in a crowd of only 20,000 or so. There he is! Quick! Now we have him in custody, let's get a confession out of him, we have 6 minutes. Done deal! Next! The relationships between the protagonists are frankly juvenile. The film is an insult to one's intelligence and if it had been made in USA starring - say - Bruce Willis, it would have been pure B list fodder.It's too long as well, and the music made me want to eat my own fingers. Nice cinematography though.
Having enjoyed many Argentinian and South American films I saw the ratings and was very excited. My husband who has a great nose for rubbish saw through it in about 6 minutes, I kept going, travelling hopefully as they say...I do wonder whether all the rave reviews were written by homesick Argentinians but that is really no excuse for an Academy award. That is just patronising foreigners cos they tried hard. Nice photography is about it, although I always enjoy looking at the sets of bars, houses and workplaces in another part of the world.It goes too fast where it should slow down and is painfully dull where it should speed up. It can't decide if it is slapstick, CSI, police procedural, political history or a heartwarming tale of old buddies solving cold cases together.You always know things are going badly when a lead character starts speechifying and you lose any involvement and start wondering when this bit - which seems to be written by the director's daughter in her creative writing class so can't be cut - will end.I found myself disliking even the main character's motivation for getting so emotionally involved with the case and I don't think it will give anything away to say that its just so terrible because she really is a beautiful woman.....aaahhh....Despite what it says on the box there are no twists. No suspense, no nail biting and no thrills. I can only assume that compared with Argentinian daytime TV this is brilliant stuff. What on earth is it doing in the top IMDb film lists!!


                
I really don't have much to say about this movie, other than the fact that the dialogues and the acting made my ears and my eyes bleed. They are very very tedious and to believe what the actors are saying you have to be not older than 7 years of age. The script is on the level of some mediocre Brazilian shows, and, although, it tries to tap on some serious questions, it does so in such a way that you are left bewildered at best. Acting. I don't know, maybe Argentine Method is slightly different, but the way the actors expressed characters' emotions seemed really odd to me. Example - the husband whose wife was just raped and murdered is entirely calm and then, in the following days, proceeds about his business completely uninterrupted like nothing has happened at all. In any crime movie, such a behaviour would make him the prime suspect, only in this particular case he has an alibi. The movie is not without merits, though, and like so many before me I will say that cinematography is indeed superior. This, unfortunately, is not sufficient for keeping this disaster of a film afloat
