Retired federal agent Benjamín Espósito (Ricardo Darín) wants to write a novel about an old case of the brutal rape and murder of Liliana Coloto. His old boss Irene is still working in the justice department and isn't really happy with him poking around. The case still has some questions about the main suspect Isidoro Gómez who was released early.This is an Argentine movie. Ricardo Darín is very compelling as the lead. I really like the sense of era and place of the movie. It does take a little while to get started. It uses flashbacks to go back and forth. That structure and the subtitles can suffocate the pace and tension from building up. However it gets going nicely with a very interesting ending.


                
I must confess I was slightly disappointed. This film starts off great: a good premise, well-rounded characters and more than decent directing, all wrapped up in a wonderful mixed atmosphere of the "drama" and "crime" genres -- to sum it up, it strikes up your interest immediately, and is both friendly and captivatingly serious from the start. However, for most of its runtime from then on, "El secreto de sus ojos" feels both cheesy and pointless, presenting the murder case as (presumably) solved and focusing way too much on the seemingly eternal (yet never consummated) romantic attraction between the male and female protagonist. It's not that it gets boring; it just loses its focus for a little too long, and, not being a fan of the "romance" genre, I'll admit this bothered me.Still, this film has a respectable amount of both hilarious and shocking scenes, and considerably redeems itself with its unexpected, twisted ending (I mean the part relating to the murder case, not the, once again, horribly cheesy romantic part), which will definitely have you curious for a while and then leave you thinking. Overall, I'd describe this picture as having great potential to be extraordinary, but ultimately failing to completely live up to it, not meeting certain expectations and becoming, for too big a part of it, ordinary. With that said, and while I was, all in all, disappointed, I still urge people to go see this movie -- it's much better than most of the girly vampires/dancing crap out there these days, anyway.


                
A retired Argentinian federal agent writes a book based on his recollections of a 25-year old unsolved murder case. Darin and Villamil give good performances as government co-workers whose relationship is fraught with unconsummated sexual tension. It is an intriguing story, but the execution is sloppy. There are too many loose ends and the plot elements pertaining to the murder suspect are so ludicrously contrived in terms of how he is targeted, caught, and convicted that it's hard to take this film seriously. Furthermore, after all the buildup, the conclusion is rather underwhelming. It's not a bad film by any means, but it falls far short of its lofty reputation.


                
It is a captivating crime thriller, covering the themes of Unrequited Love, Retribution, Friendship, Fear and Passion. The themes are not new, but the enchanting way it is etched into the amazing storyline is simply refreshing.The three lead characters are quite original, likable and intriguing. That, combined with their actors' sublime performances, gets you interested in their lives and how everything turns out. The actors have quite expressive eyes too, without which the movie's name would have lost it's meaning.The direction and background score are equally brilliant, without which the movie wouldn't be as it is. There are a few scenes which linger in your mind even long after you've watched the movie.'Memories are all we end up with. At least pick the nice ones.''A guy can do anything to be different. But there's one thing he can't change; his passion.'


                
Not entering in opinions or specific details about the movie itself, I believe the surprise has a key role (as happened to me) and very probably there will be enough comments about that. This movie deserves all the credit and will be so flattering to have received an Oscar (talking about the current state of things, of course )? I doubt it. The truth is that it has everything you want, either for fun (with a certain humor that often sprinkle here and there , and the inherent suspense as the events will ocurre, never dropping from beginning to end) or to approach a seriously theme and truthful to some extent (and here play two things: the real drama of the matter of the main story and the passionate romance involving it in parallel), and more than expected also. Plus the fact that it contains excellent works on all levels, from the cast and speech to backstage and makeup, from the script and adaptation to audio and beautiful classical soundtrack, from photography to camera work.. Honestly, I can not point out anything negative. It's so catchy and touching in a way that 2h will seem like half, even less. If perfection exists in modern crime/drama filmaking then El Secreto De Sus Ojos is certainly at the top or very close to it and has all the features to become a timeless film.


                
A movie with flashbacks, love, crime, passion, drama, and mystery. That is just the perfect combination. First of all the cinematography is extraordinary, is different, and is risky; and the result is magical. Strating with the positions of the cameras, at some point of the scene they use an angle that is not very common, its original and I loved it. Ricardo Darín is an excellent actor, one of the best in Latin America. his performance in this movie was pretty good. Also Guillermo Francella performance was very very good. The whole screenplay is thrilling from beginning to end, and once it ends, you still wish for more. Is these kind of movies, is these kind of art that makes me proud to be a Latin American. Many people complain the language they use, but I think is wonderful because it adapts itself perfect to the film.


                
The story rolls out in a heavy dose of drama fashion despite the heavy mystery and crime content in it. It tells the story of complicated characters that shocks the viewers at the movie's ending. The technicalities really work great in supporting the story. The heavy dose of close up shots really help to get the viewers to know the characters better. The stadium sequence is just a great sequence of scenes with the illusion of being 'uncut'. One thing that is weird for me is the romance part that is not really balanced. It's quite funny to see all those non suggestive conversations turn into the train scene. The acting sure does help greatly, all the actors can really work their magic with their facial expressions to make the close ups more alive.


                
There is no 'bad' genre in cinema or literature or music I believe. There are just good films and bad films, good books and bad books, good pieces of music and bad pieces of music. So, saying that with 'El secreto de sus ojos' the Academy gave this year the Oscar prize for the best foreign language movie to a telenovela (soap opera) - a genre so popular all over the world which has a special flavor in South America and especially in Argentina - should not by any means be taken as an insult.The story line of 'El secreto de sus ojos' crosses a quarter of a century which for Argentina meant huge convulsions and transformation from the populist demagogy of the rule of the Perons in the 70s, through the brutal military right wing dictatorship at the end of that decade and the beginning of the 80s, until the full restoration of the democracy by the end of the century. It is a complex story, involving a brutal rape and murder which is being investigated by a criminal judge which tries to bring justice at all means, in a system that seems to be corrupt and incapacitated whatever the political system of the day. he story of passion allows the authors to make a deep and convincing reflection about the relativity of justice when faced with political and human weakness. However, beyond the satisfying thriller story it is the unconsumed love story between the investigator Benjamin Esposito and his superior, judge Irene Menendez Hastings that eventually takes over. This apparently impossible love, because of professional and social circumstances, gives the whole film an air of melancholy, and Soledad Vilamil as the judge is a fascinating screen presence, of an ageless and noble beauty that reminded that shines through the whole duration of the film and gives it the deserved title. Her partner Ricardo Darin seems a little too restrained, it is exactly the passion that never changes in a man which is once referred in a key scene that seems to lack to the actor.Many of the elements remind indeed the telenovelas - the development of the action, the parallel threads, the romantic tone. There are however some differences, some in favor of the movie, other against it. There is no violin sentimental music score. There are moments of great quality in the scenes of the 70s representing bars or house interiors or the stadium, the viewer can not only visualize, but also hear, feel and the smell the period. Beyond the principal actress there is at least one more exquisite supporting performance of Guillermo Francella as Pablo Sandoval, the drunken, pathetic, and eventually heroic partner of Benjamin. Yet there is not enough time to develop all the subjects. The film at 127 minutes is too short for all threads to develop completely, the authors seem to have intended to say too much and had not enough time and space to extend, ans the result is that the dictatorship period seems to be treated in a quite superficial manner, and the story has two endings - one for the thriller and justice story, the other for the romantic thread, which do not really come together.'El secreto de sus ojos' is not a bad film, quite the contrary. Having however seen two other of the films that competed for the Oscar this year, Haneke's 'Das weisse bad' and the Israeli 'Ajami' - I personally would not have been surprised or upset at all if any of these other two had won and not this one.
This got the Oscar for best foreign movie. It's difficult to understand for those of us who have seen "The White Ribbon", even if "El secreto de sus ojos" isn't a bad film.A prosecutioner investigates a murder/rape crime some time before the junta rebellion. He can't let it go, not even after his retirement. And finally the fog is left off his and our eyes.The problem is that this film can't really decide whether it's a portrait of a man, a crime story, a relation drama or a comedy, because you find it all here. There are movies which can combine it, but Campanella still has rather much to learn, before he gets away with such a mission.


                
An Argentinian film directed by Juan José Campanella that tells the story of a retired public lawyer, Bejamin Esposito, who starts writing a novel about one of the most intriguing cases of his past: the rape and murder of young wife Liliana Coloto, and the investigation, with his colleague Sandoval and superior Irene, that led to the capture of her murderer.The acting is uneven, poor sometimes, with the exception of Guillermo Francella who is terrific as the drunkard but insightful lawyer Pablo Sandoval. Soledad Villamil and Ricardo Darin have a great chemistry on camera, but not much dramatic emotion can come from them as the script has the love story as a background to the murder investigation, so their feelings are mostly showed indirectly. She plays correctly Irene, a high-class judge, a beautiful rich inaccessible girl. Darin shines in his portrait of the lonely old retiree looking for clues in his life through remembrance, more than in his portray of the young Esposito; however, he portrays with constriction and sensitivity the soft looser that Esposito is. The script tells us widower Ricardo Morales is an emotional wreck after the death of his wife, a man still in deep love with her, but Pablo Rago's performance rather shows emotional frigidity regarding the death of his wife, his grieving, and the search and capture of the murderer. I found Javier Godino's performance over the top as rapist Isidoro Gomez, although I think it is what the script requires from him; in that regard, it is not his fault.I do not mind flaws in a script if they are well integrated in the story, and if the movie compensates them with other positive elements. However, there are so many and evident flaws here that one cannot ignore them. 1/ The first is the fact that the way a man looks a woman in a photo can lead to anyone to suspect he is a murderer; to be honest, if this is the case, Esposito could be a potential murderer, too, if we take into account the way he looked at his adored Irene in the photos taken in her pre-wedding party. 2/ When Esposito and Sandoval are at the house of Isidoro's mother, the old lady returns, her dog starts barking at them but she does not suspects anything, and, even more, OMG the back-door is completely open for them to run! 3/ We are told who is the murderer and that he loves a specific football team, so Esposito and Sandoval go to the next match, the stadium is fully packed, but they manage to find Isidoro 10 feet away from them; not only that, the lawyers have convinced the Police -one assume Argentinian Police had much free time at hand at the time and would consider the proposal sane- to be there to capture the murderer. 4/ Most of the movie is set in the 1970s, when a military dictatorship was ruling Argentina, a system that allowed the Justice System to act in a certain way; but if you are not familiar with Argentinian history many of the events/attitudes in the movie wont make any sense to you. 5/ We know who the murderer is quite early, before he is even captured, a fact that kills the suspense very soon. 6/ One would expect that whomever sent the group of assassins to Esposito's apartment to kill him would have provided them with a photo or at least an accurate description, so the question of the assassins in the movie is completely redundant. 7/ The end of the murder case is good, but still, too delayed and lost in a mix of themes explored at the same time; on the other hand, the end of the romance story is a bit unbelievable, "I solve the mystery and I overcome all of my securities with this woman" sort of thing. This, and much more, makes impossible to call this movie a masterpiece, unless you are blind.Said this, the movie has a wonderful warm retro mood and tones, a beautiful interior photography, a simple unfulfilled romance story, an intriguing plot, a very interesting ending, and good performances by Darin and Francella.The film it truly overrated.
Interesting Spanish whodunnit. Well written and directed - quite gritty. Overly long though - drifts in the mid-section.


                
A retired legal counselor writes a novel hoping to find closure for one of his past unresolved homicide cases and for his non-reciprocated love with his superior - both of which still haunt him decades later.So, this is the best selling Argentine film of all time. And the first one to get the Blu-ray treatment. One can see why, as it is a beautiful movie with plenty of twists and more than a little grit. Any movie where a character takes his privates out of his pants and flops them around is okay with me (though they look very prosthetic).I would recommend this film to others. Does it deserve to be on the IMDb Top 250? Not necessarily. But if someone had an interest in South American film, they would be foolish to skip over this one.


                
Esposito, an investigator for a criminal court in Buenos Aires, IDs a suspect in a rape-murder case by pure instinct and follows his hunch until he attracts the attention of a right-wing death squad (we're back in 1976 or so—Isabel Perón). Meanwhile he also pursues a very tentative office romance with a gorgeous female judge; a hard-drinking colleague supplies comic relief, answering the phone with wisecracks like "Sperm bank! Do you wish to make a deposit or a withdrawal?" I was getting impatient (my wife had already bailed) when the film took a suspenseful, political turn, briefly evoking classics like "Z" and "Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion." Then it went off the rails again, with an ending that can only be described as preposterous. Despite the foreign-language Oscar, the expert performances and cinematography and whatnot, not to mention the glowing reviews on various websites (the Onion AV Club got it right with a B-, en mi humilde opinión), if you're the slightest bit tough-minded about plotting and plausibility (not to mention police procedures), I'd approach this one with caution.


                
