Schindler's List is undoubtedly the best Holocaust film ever made. There just isn't anything like this film. Various other films have tried to show the true horrors of the Holocaust, but none of them succeeded the way that Schindler's List did. Schindler's List is a difficult film to watch. When you see the true atrocities of the Holocaust, your jaw drops. When you see the pain that all of the innocent people were going through, the only thing you can do is cry. The true goal of all Holocaust films is to make you feel sorrowful, and Schindler's List did that to me. If you want to see the best depiction of the Holocaust, make your way towards Schindler's List.
Me n my kids cried during the pit scene.


                
This Movie was sensational. It was a piece of art along with being informational. It told people about the holocaust, and it also told people about the human spirit. It shows how people can just triumph over anything with just some help from one person The things that Spielberg did with the movie was incredible too. The black and white was genius, and how he had the little girl in red and the fire was phenuminal. I have never seen anything like it, Schindler's List is beyond all words.


                
A movie which is so beautifully portrayed and is so hopeful that it won't let you take your eyes off it. 
The black and white portrayal is just exquisite and beyond words. I had a pleasure watching it and people out there must watch it there as well. This is literally one of the best artwork of cinema and the crown for Mr. Spielberg. The direction and screenplay is just astounding and for me this really is the most astonishing work of Mr. Fiennes. 
It was a great cinematic experience.


                
The Holocaust is a dark and touchy subject for many. Many believed it never happened, despite meticulous records kept by the Nazis themselves. Those who lived through it were scarred forever, and even now can barely bring themselves to discuss its horrors. Despite the controversy around the event, there is one thing for certain, Steven Spielberg created a masterpiece with Schindler's List. It is a film that will find no equal in terms of bleak, crushing drama. It sets out what it intends to do marvelously and leaves the viewer emotionally drained and questioning humanity itself.The film is in black and white, a very conscious choice by the director that makes the subject matter, already disturbing, even more so bleak and harrowing. Oskar Schindler is known for saving thousands of Jews destined for a grim fate during World War 2. The movie depicts concentration camp life is fairly dismal, with constant brutal oppression by Nazi camp guards and the sadistic Amon Goth, with a terrifying portrayal by Ralph Fiennes.Yes, this film will not make you cheery or happy. Yes it is about a miserable and dark period in human history, but it is an important film to watch for anyone interested in this historic subject matter and also a beautiful work of art for film lovers. Truly one of Spielberg's finest works. The fact that he is Jewish himself does add a personal touch to the tragic tale, but he never tries to overdo the sympathy or antipathy towards any group in the film. Everyone is human in it, the Jews and the Nazis; the tragedy is that humanity itself failed during this period of history, and we will never forget.


                
It had the sort of power you'd expect from Spielberg, the soundtrack is amazing, of course, and it actually contained many clever things as well. Still sad about the little girl in the red.


                
This is my all time favorite Spielberg film. Its truthful and reliable in its information and the encounter's at which takes place. I love the dedication to research and the intricate details in the film and how it was put together. This film will make anyone appreciate that which we all take for granted everyday... LIFE


                
*Story: Schindler is a German businessman and when the Holocaust starts to begin he decides to have Jews come work for him which will help them stay out of the concentration camps. As long as the Jews stay out of those camps Schindler makes money.*Review: Schindler's List is probably one of the best movies that I have ever seen and ever made. What's really good about this movie is the acting. Liam Neeson proves that he can act and he should have won a Oscar for his performance as Oskar Schindler. Ralph Fiennes also gives a great performance and should have won a Oscar for his performance as Amon Goeth but since the academy doesn't give awards to actors that play as bad people is dumb. What I really liked about this movie is how the whole movie is shot in black and white it just makes the movie even better. While your watching this movie you feel really emotional inside. Everything about this movie is just perfect from the acting, cinematography, musical score, writing, and directing. This movie is intense, emotional, and apiece of art. In one word I can describe this movie "MASTERPIECE". This is probably one of Spielberg's best movies he has directed. Schindler's List is a movie that everyone should see once in their life."This list... is an absolute good. The list is life. All around its margins lies the gulf". - Itzhak Stern


                
I know many of you, out there will disagree with me, when I say that  Schindler's List is one of the greatest film that there has ever been.  It does sound that I'm extremely overrating it, but I truly believe  that Schindler's List is up there with The Godfather and Citizen Kane I  mean everything about is so good, that its close to perfection.  The acting is brilliant, every actor does an amazing job. Liam Neeson  as Schindler is incredible, no doubt about it. He should of won an  Oscar for Best Actor. Ralph Fiennes is the one, who truly is the best  actor in the film. He plays his antagonist role as Amon Goeth, so well  that it is a travesty, he didn't win an Oscar for Best Supporting  Actor.  I'm happy though, that the Academy chose this film for Best Picture, it  was one of the best decisions they ever made. Because if this film  wasn't considered Best Picture by the Academy, I don't know which film  would be, expect maybe for The Godfather.  Steven Spielberg certainly deserved an Oscar for Best Director. It was  a smart idea for Steven Spielberg to make this film in black-white  because it made the movie more bleak, emotional, hopelessness. But you  see small patches of color -- A candle and a child's coat bringing the  evilness of the tragedy into a agonizing focus.  There's no doubt about it, this film will be a classic in decades, even  hundreds of years to come in cinema. This film is without a doubt, the  Best film that Spielberg has ever made. With many other Steven  Spielberg's classics like Jurassic Park,Jaws,E.T, Raider of the Lost  Ark, Saving Private Ryan, etc. Schindler's List will always be Steven  Spielberg's most finest, important film. He blends his humanism to the  tragic horror of the Holocaust to create an emotional masterpiece.  10/10 Absolutely Recommended!
The Holocaust is undoubtedly one of the most significant and horrifying events of the twentieth century. Between 1938 and 1945, the Jewish population was segregated and persecuted, culminating in the merciless slaughter of approximately six million Jews (this figure is quoted in the film, though most historical estimates vary between five and seven million). Amidst all this butchery, one man decided to make a difference, famously saving the lives of more than 1100 Jews- men, women and children who would otherwise have been killed.Oskar Schindler (played brilliantly by Liam Neeson, "Batman Begins") was a Sudeten German industrialist, a wealthy womanizer who wasn't afraid to throw his money around. Always bearing his Nazi Party badge proudly, Schindler would often frequent nightclubs, extravagantly showering high-ranked Nazi officers and their girlfriends with champagne and caviar. With impeccable connections in the black-market, there was little that he couldn't get his hands on, and he was a good person to know. Buying friends was something that Schindler could do well, and he would often use these newfound alliances to aid his own business ventures. When thousands of the Polish Jew population was relegated to the Kraków Ghetto in 1941, Schindler saw an opportunity for further success, enlisting desperate Jewish investors and employing Jewish workers (who were substantially cheaper to employ) to open an enamelware factory. His connections in high places ensured lucrative army contracts, and Schindler need only have watched as his personal fortune grew, despite doing little to run the company beyond offering it "a certain panache."It is clear from the beginning that Oskar Schindler does not harbour any racial prejudices. When Schindler requests the services of Itzhak Stern (a superb Ben Kingsley, "Gandhi"), a clever, humanitarian Jewish accountant, Stern declares that, "By law I have to tell you, sir, I'm a Jew." "Well, I'm a German, so there we are," replies Schindler indifferently, before getting straight to business. It is not race that he is concerned with, it is himself<U+0085> and, of course, his money. Stern does not enjoy running Schindler's business, and he initially acquires little satisfaction from it. When Schindler attempts to convey his genuine gratitude for his profitable services with a glass of whiskey, Stern absentmindedly refuses to drink it, and an embittered Schindler drinks it himself before ordering Stern to leave.With the arrival of Amon Goeth (played as the epitome of evil by Ralph Fiennes, "Red Dragon"), a Hauptsturmführer of the SS, the hopeless plight of the Jews grows darker. In a harrowing extended sequence, largely based on the testimonies of Holocaust survivors, the Jews are mercilessly "liquidated" from the Krakow Ghetto, many simply shot on the spot. "Today is history," proclaims Goeth. "Today will be remembered. Years from now the young will ask with wonder about this day. Today is history and you are part of it<U+0085>. For six centuries there has been a Jewish Krakow. By this evening those six centuries will be a rumor. They never happened. Today is history."This sequence also marks the celebrated appearance of the little girl in the red coat. An ingenious plot device, the character was based upon a real girl named Roma Ligocka who, unlike her film counterpart, survived the war, and wrote a memoir entitled "The Girl in the Red Coat: A Memoir". The embodiment of innocence, Schindler spots the small girl wandering amongst the black-and-white chaos of the Krakow Ghetto, and we follow her as she retreats into a building and takes shelter under a bed. When Schindler later notices her disheveled corpse carted past him to be incinerated, he is understandably horrified, unable to understand how the soldiers could possibly destroy something so innocent. This event memorably signifies the turning-point of Schindler's attitudes towards the carnage, fuelling his desire to save as many Jews as possible.Long known as a "blockbuster" filmmaker <U+0096> with such adventure classics as "Jaws," "E.T. The Extra Terrestrial" and "Raiders of the Lost Ark" to his name - "Schindler's List" was - and remains - Steven Spielberg's most mature directorial effort. Working with a screenplay that Steven Zaillian adapted from Thomas Keneally's Booker Prize-winning 'Schindler's Ark,' Spielberg treats the subject matter with the respect it deserves. Wisely choosing to depict the events as realistically as possible, Spielberg allows the images to speak for themselves. Flawless acting, stunning cinematography and a haunting John Williams score excel this film above all others of the 1990s. This is the powerful story of the difference that just one man can make, and it is a story that deserves to be seen by all. We can only feel grateful that it was Steven Spielberg who chose to be at the helm.
Steven Spielberg makes one of (if not the one) his greatest movies of all time. Liam Neeson gives a great performance as Schindler and the whole film is just powerful, amazing and sad but it doesn't matter because the movie is so good. Ralph Fiennes makes an even better performance as Goeth, a man who made everyone stare into the screen with anger and sadness and that is just what a movie is supposed to do-make you feel sad, happy, angry or effect you in some way. I read that someone thought it was overrated and bad, but I think it's a classic and it'll never go away. So if you want to see one of the greatest historical films ever made, then go see Schindler's List.EDIT: I wrote this when I was 12 or 13, and I'm so sorry about my AWFUL English... Ah, well just have that in mind when you read this. =)


                
Schindler's List is not only a pure masterpiece but, for me, it is one of the greatest films ever made in the world.The film starts off to reveal a womanizing, Nazi business man who profited off of slave labor.  The Nazi business man is of course Oskar Schindler. Oskar is just like most men.  He has a love for good wine, beautiful women, and pursues happiness through the success of his business.  But on his journey to a successful business, millions of Jews were being killed during a time which most label as one of the darkest periods of human history. As Oskar made money, innocent people were being murdered.  That's when the self-centered, often money hungry Oskar steps in and gives up his goal of having a successful business to save the lives of over 1,000 Jews.This film is about redemption and was beautifully photographed in black and white by Janusz Kaminski (cinematographer).  At the helm is no one other than Steven Spielberg, who brilliantly called non-pretentious shots and brought back to life a time and period most want to forget, but shouldn't. This film is a must see by me.  I give the film an "A+" (wishing I could give it a higher grade than that) and a 10 out of 10...


                
One thousand words, the maximum for this review, are hardly enough to describe the direct impact this film had on me as well as some of my friends.  Spielberg does a wonderful job depicting the harsh reality of Jewish Life back in the early 1940's.  I vaguely remember one of his comments before the first commercial free showing of this film on NBC:  "We must not forget the tragedy these Jews had to endure..."  I am thoroughly convinced that I will never ever forget this movie now or 50 years from now. Schindler's List is powerful in direction, hypnotic in nature, and perfect in form.  One of the best films of all time, if not THE best.  Simply a great work, well deserving of all of its Oscars, especially Best Picture. I applaud you, Mr. Spielberg.


                
To sum up Spielberg's masterwork in one word is a nearly impossible task, but I have come to the conclusion that Schindler's List is perfect. Liam Neeson as Oskar Schindler is truly great in recreating the role of a modern day Moses. Making this film all the more compelling is John Williams' perfectly composed original musical score. This film deserves all the awards bestowed upon it, especially best picture by the National Board of Review and the Academy and the Academy Award for best director Steven Spielberg. It deserves all these awards and more. Schindler's List is a film that everyone should see and appreciate to its fullest extent. Spielberg will remain an immortal filmmaker through the work he put into this film.


                
In a sentence, this film was excellence. Spielberg depicts the plight of the Jews in the WWII Holocaust era with a frightening amount of detail, and thus ensures that we don't easily forget what they were put through. I liked the way it was shot in B&W, as Spielberg knows that most people have only seen the war in B&W (on TV and the like), which a lot of people seem to fail to realise. Also, when he does add colour, it gives the audience a lasting impression.The cast was wonderful, the three main leads being excellent in their performances (Neeson, Kingsley and Fiennes) and the supporting cast were just as good. Janusz Kaminski's camerawork was brilliant. John Williams score was incredibly moving, and deserved the Oscar. The music is easily related to Jewish styles of the period. On the whole, a brilliant film, unforgettable, and a lesson to all. It shows that even the most hardened people can change.


                
Undoubtedly, this is a masterpiece, one of the most recent ones created in cinema history. Can a movie about the holocaust be beautiful? Of course it can, and here we have an example. We have more than three hours of poetry about the human nature, about love, about hate, about madness, about egoism, about altruism, all of them mixed to produce the human being as what it really is. It's a film that cleans our soul, makes us feel like humans, and makes us understand a little bit better the aim of the Human Race. John Williams gave the most beautiful sound-track he ever created to set the emotional background this film needed.


                
Many movies come out each year and we applaud them for their screen play, orginality and whatever else we can say about a movie. But only once in a long while does one come out and you say all those nice things, but one you will also never forget. This movie is more than just something for us to watch for 3 hours and 17 minutes, it is something for us to never forget, to teach us a lesson and to remember those who died needlessly along with those who tried to help those same people survive.


                
It's September, 1939. Oskar Schindler is a Nazi-Catholic industrialist from Czechoslovakia, a bon-vivant who realizes that a nice long war in Europe might be an excellent situation for making money... So in a great opening parallel montage, Spielberg depicts the personal journey of one man and the massive journey of one race...As thousand of families are forced to abandon their careers, properties and homes to live in overcrowded ghettos, the scene switches to Schindler, where he pays his way to get a fine table at a fancy nightclub in Nazi-occupied city of Krakow, the surviving gem of Poland's medieval cities...Drinking alone, he scans the strange clientele and slowly sets about casting his nets on the SS German officers... He quickly plied them with food, caviar and French wine... And as a magician, overcoming every resistance, he transforms the separate tables of the cabaret into one joyful drunken party of wine, women, and song for the Nazi officials...The two worlds come together when Schindler meets Itzhak Stern and offers him a deal... Since Jews cannot own businesses, they should work together... Stern's contacts can provide investors, and Stern's expertise can run the business, and Schindler will take care of the presentation...In those same scenes, Amon Goeth is introduced...Goeth is a flabby psychopath who comes to embody the evils of Nazi racism... He is in charge of the camp where the workers are housed and must be bribed and pampered if Schindler is to stay in business... Goeth's excessive cruelty is also part of the reason that Schindler is transformed from an opportunistic 'victimizer' to 'humanitarian.' Liam Neeson portrays Oskar Schindler, the businessman with irresistible charm - the charm of the same magnitude that saved hundreds of innocent people and brightened Schindler's reputation among critical historians... As movie gradually progresses, Schindler's perspective changes much as when he himself states that "People die - it's a fact of life."Neeson's flexibility as an actor is impressive... His performance is built on a combination of self-confidence, indecision, and doubt... His character is always evolving, yet always convincing... His transformation from 'war profiteer' to a "righteous" man is adequately slow and well developed... As the war draws to a close, Schindler decides unexpectedly to evaluate his life... He turns over his gains into a noble cause - and virtually takes his workers away from being swallowed up by the Holocaust... In one of the film's most touching scenes, Schindler goes to Auschwitz and fights for the freedom of the wives and children of his workers...Ben Kingsley plays the role of Itzhak Stern, the timid gifted accountant, and the silent partner wary of his employer and the enemy... Stern (spared from the horrors of the holocaust) is also Schindler's good angel... He occasionally reminds the audacious man that he could get in a lot of trouble if his true motives are ever discovered... Kingley delivers history's judgment of Oskar Schindler in a touching moment: 'Whoever saves one life, saves the world entire.'Ralph Fiennes brilliantly portrays Amon Goethe, the complex study of a sadistic true monster... He is a heartless and cruel killer, with a complicated, twisted personality... Stripped to the waist and overlooking the prison yard, he leaves his mistress Ingrid (Beatrice Macola) in bed to shoot arbitrarily, with his scope rifle, slow-moving Jews from the veranda of his high villa...Goeth despises Jews, yet he inexplicably falls in love with a shy Jewish maid, Helen Hirsch (Embeth Davidtz). Rather than allowing himself to touch her, and nearly committing the capital crime of kissing her, he remembers that he is supposed to hate her, and beats her ruthlessly for seducing him...Goeth is a man to despise... But the full scope of his atrocities are not entirely shown... Spielberg shows carefully as much of the horror as the screen can bear...The savage scenes are difficult to watch... Spielberg's camera pans to the pillar of dark smoke rising from the chimney stack into the frightening sky of Auschwitz, and to the lines of Jews unknowingly lead toward the gas chambers...Spielberg captures the terror of the Nazi reign in the terrifying dramatic moments when stunned women and children are mistakenly sent to Auschwitz... The disturbing images of arbitrary murder are harshly realistic...'Schindler's List' assaults the viewer with lasting images of Jewish prisoners announcing their names as they are registered, given work assignments, or separated into "essential" and "non-essential."Spielberg focuses on children and uses them both as victimizers and victims... In a powerful way to personalize the slaughter without a single word, Spielberg colors the coat of a little girl as she is invisibly making her way, aimless and alone, through the chaotic destruction of the Krakow ghetto... (It's almost the same shade as the jacket worn by the young protagonist of Spielberg's 'Empire of the Sun', in a similar situation when he's alone in a mob and trying to find his way home).'Schindler's List' is a tribute to those who lost their lives in the Holocaust, a dramatic recreation of that dark, frightening period during World War II... The horror is alleviated, slightly, by Janusz Kaminski's stunning Black and White cinematography... The lack of color reminds us of German Expressionist films, and allows Spielberg to be explicit without becoming tastelessly graphic... John Williams' tragic and somber, almost unnoticed score adds to the melancholy tone...Spielberg's great visual moments - when, in a scene, Schindler joins the Nazis on the platform as they fire the cold water at the cars on the desperate, suffocating people inside... 'Schindler's List' is an outstanding movie... It has an important role in adding credibility to the Holocaust, and in Thomas Keneally's fact-based novel, Spielberg finds the right balance of redemption and sorrow.. He makes us watch and feel the extermination through the actions of Oskar Schindler...
The first (and last) time I viewed this masterpiece in a theater, I could not help but notice the reaction of the audience upon their leaving. Some were crying or trying to hold back tears, some were stunned, some had completely blank faces, some showed signs of anger; but the overall atmosphere was one of utter silence. Never in the history of motion pictures has a film had such an emotional impact upon its constituents.
PLOT SPOILERS AHEAD !!This movie survived the fact that me and my class mates saw it in a class room, bit by bit, as the classes weren't long enough to watch the entire thing in a stretch, and I didn't get to see the first half hour, but it has still moved me like no other movie.It's not that I usually watch Steven Seagal flicks or such, but normally I don't "get emotional", cry and so on. If I see a great scene or a great movie, I just sit there, totally stunned and remember it for a very long time. This was one of those movies.The great thing about this film, is that it, for me, builds up a very heavy mood, so every scene is affected by this mood and becomes even better. Take one of the last scenes, the one where Amon Goeth ( Ralph Fiennes ) is hung. Any other hanging scene with a ton of blood and eyes popping out, wouldn't have been as gripping, but because we "know" this guy, know that he's queasy, vain, malevolent and totally bungled, know that he is robbed of his uniform and swastika badge, standing alone on a scaffold in a creepily defiant attempt to smack his Hitler-hairdo back into place, we see that he is still as weak, ignorant, hypocritical and pathetic as always. He is basically the German Jeffrey Dahmer, and for me that moment is a marvel in editing, and it is first time that a scene has nearly made me retch.Schindler's List has been accused of playing too much on peoples emotions instead of telling a "true story". But Steven Spielberg doesn't overplay it, and Schindler's List is something everyone should see, because it's too important not to, and because we SHOULD be bloody astonished once in a while!!!!MAC-86
The most amazing thing about this film is that it was not made to be an epic or an acclaimed film. Spielberg made it as a personal film for himself and other Jews affected by the Holocaust. There is nothing flashy about the film except for Neeson's bravura performance. Spielberg's usual style is invisible, and the cinematography and editing, although excellent, are not shown off to make a spectacle of the film or give it an epic feel. Yet it is still a compulsive, involving, and utterly heart-wrenchingly moving filming of a part of history that should not be forgotten. The screenplay is one of the best ever written: it captures the stories of so many Holocaust survivors but without distracting from the main story at hand. The black and white photography and editing is perfect, and John Williams provides a perfectly subtle but nice music score. The acting is simply brilliant, with Liam Neeson towering as Oskar Schindler, and Ralph Fiennes bringing out the Nazi character Amon Goeth into full flesh. And Ben Kingsley and Embeth Davidtz give off excellent performances too. The film also has a lot to say about absolute power corrupting and spiraling out of control, and such a message of the film can be applied to any time and crisis, not just the Holocaust. This is not just one of the the ten best films ever produced, but it shall remain so for years to come, because its messages in terms of power and racism are applicable in any age.


                
Spoilers herein.For some strange reason I find it difficult to talk about `Schindler's List', which is strange as I could talk for hours about any other Spielberg film. Stranger still considering the immense acclaim and debate surrounding the film. Perhaps it's because `Schindler's List' is a film that reaches beyond the limitations of its celluloid to become a cultural and historical institution. Perhaps it's because the film is so perfectly mounted that it is hard to zoom in on a select number of topics. Or perhaps it is simply because I can not fathom the impact `Schindler's List' had on me.
I disdain the aura surrounding this film. I disdained watching my parents viewing this film simply because they heard it was `important' to do so. Yes, the film is important and yes, everyone should see it. But no one should view this film based in the mindset that they are doing so only because of its subject matter. It destroys the cinematic experience. It destroys objective thought. And it blinds people from what Spielberg is trying to say with this film. `Schindler's List' has been labelled a Holocaust film. However, I do not see it this way. I see the Holocaust as merely a backdrop for a morality play <U+0096> which `Schindler's List' is.
Spielberg films have often been criticised for their supposed black/white characters. The good guys and the bad guys. In `Schindler's List' Spielberg has blurred the lines more than he ever has done. Our title hero is a womanising adulterer whose prime goal is to make money <U+0096> exploiting his workers to do so. He doesn't hire Jews because of sympathy. He hires them because they are cheap and expendable. There is a scene between Schindler and Goeth <U+0096> it's one of their first meetings. They sit and drink, they casually talk about business and the war like one would talk about sport or the weather. In this scene we see how alike our hero and villain are. We see that Schindler is only a step left to Goeth's path and Goeth a step right to Schindler's. Later on in the film we see two pivotal scenes that keep each on their own path. After flaunting his new found sympathising routine, Goeth looks in the mirror and sees the man he really is. He then shoots the boy he pardoned mere moments before. Similarly, Schindler looks out a window before deciding how his fortune should be spent. Both have `power' as Schindler defines it, both use it in different ways. The film itself is an awe-inspiring goliath of cinematic perfection. It seems Spielberg has studied the master of the epic <U+0096> David Lean <U+0096> well. The film is over three hours, yet it is never boring. The film is as absorbing as any you care to mention. Not one frame is wasted. The film is shot in black and white by Janusz Kaminski and is proof, if nothing else that black and white films should still be consistently made. The film is beautiful. No matter how harrowing the subject matter may be, it seems impossible for Spielberg to frame an ugly shot. Backlights, shadows and smoke are all used magnificently to create atmosphere. One of the most controversial aspects of the film has been the use of colour <U+0096> specifically the red coat used to highlight a girl Schindler watches during the Liquidation of Krakow. This is not Spielberg being pretentious. This is not Spielberg trying to pull the heartstrings. This is Spielberg's spin on the old saying, `One death is a tragedy. One thousand is a statistic'. During the most horrific of genocides, the individual must not be forgotten. The acting is phenomenal. Neeson, Fiennes and Kingsley give career bests. Neeson is able to evoke the multiple facets of Schindler with merely a smile, a laugh or a wink. We are never certain what is on Schindler's mind nor his motives or reasons for his actions until their affects have taken place. His performance is similar to Kevin Spacey's in `The Usual Suspects' which both require repeated viewings to fully appreciate. Fiennes is his direct opposite. What you see is what you get. His performance is in-your-face and visceral. Yet, despite his evil, Fiennes is able to evoke a certain likeability about Goeth and when he is executed at the end I actually felt some sympathy for him. Kingsley again shows that he can perfect any ethnicity by playing Schindler's Jewish accountant Stern. He is the voice of reason and solemn dignity in the film. They are all so brilliant it is impossible to pick a best actor from this film. In fact the strongest compliment I can pay to any of them is that no one attempts to steal the show. It is clear that everyone involved in the film are working uniformly to make it as good as possible. John Williams is also on top of his game <U+0096> the violin and piano solos of the main theme are both hauntingly beautifully and heartbreaking. Many have criticised the film for bowing to Spielberg sentimentality when Schindler breaks down at the end. People say it would have been uncharacteristic for Schindler to do so. I consider this to be tripe. Schindler has completed his arc. He has gone from a shameless money grabber to a man who would give anything to save another life. He has learned the price of human life and so have we. It is neither the price of a car nor the price of a gold badge. It is priceless. At the end of the film we learn there are 6,000 descendants of Schindler Jews. This means that for every life Schindler saved, five more lived.  "Whoever saves one life, saves the world entire." `Schindler's List' is not a film about the horror of war. It is a film about the beauty of the human spirit. The film is timeless. It is a masterpiece of cinema.
Steven Spielberg has his best masterpiece here with Schindler's list.  It is also his most personal work to say the least.  And what he brings to the screen is like nothing the world has ever seen before- a true to life depiction of the horror known as the holocaust.The story brings us Oskar Schindler, a German munitions chief who brings thousands of Polish Jews from the death camps to his factory and saves them. The acting is spectacular with Liam Neeson as Schindler, the man who changes throughout the film, Ben Kigsley as Schindler's Jewish accountant (and conscience), and Ralph Fiennes in his best performance yet as the frightening German commander.  Along with a frighteningly haunting score by John Williams and great Photography by Janusz Kaminski, Spielberg has created a film that will remain with us forever.  Haunting, dramatic and true in the art form, this is one of the best masterpieces of cinema ever made.


                
Often listed among the greatest films ever made, i was also a box office success, earning $321.2 million worldwide on a $22 million budget. It was the recipient of seven Academy Awards (out of twelve nominations), including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Original Score, as well as numerous other awards (including seven BAFTAs and three Golden Globes). In 2007, the American Film Institute ranked the film 8th on its list of the 100 best American films of all time. The Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2004.Schindler's List is a 1993 American epic historical period drama film, directed and co- produced by Steven Spielberg and scripted by Steven Zaillian. It is based on the novel Schindler's Ark by Thomas Keneally, an Australian novelist. The film is based on the life of Oskar Schindler, an ethnic German businessman who saved the lives of more than a thousand mostly Polish-Jewish refugees during the Holocaust by employing them in his factories. It stars Liam Neeson as Schindler, Ralph Fiennes as Schutzstaffel (SS) officer Amon Göth, and Ben Kingsley as Schindler's Jewish accountant Itzhak Stern.
Schindler's List is one of Spielberg's finest works. He captures the horror of of the Holocaust the way no one else had before him and after. The decision to shoot the movie in black-white made it even more emotional and made if feel like it was actually shot during the dark times of the war. On top of all that is John Williams score. Theme from Schindler's List is one of the most recognized contemporary film scores, particularly the violin solo, of all time. The score itself adds a layer of emotion and acts like a character in the movie.The acting is phenomenal, Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes and Ben Kingsley all give their best performances of their careers (especially Neeson)They transform into their characters making you forget who they really are. This movie is one of the few movies to win best picture that deserved it and still today lives up to its prestige. This is why Steven Spielberg is one of the greatest movie directors the film industry has ever seen.


                
I have read the book of this movie and believe Spielberg's adaption (although it does deviate slightly) is very true to the purpose of that book.I first saw this in the cinema and some parts of it were very confronting (as they rightly should be) and were hard to watch.The score is still one of my all time favourites, just heart wrenching. Still makes me cry when I hear it.Liam Neeson is amazing as is Ben Kingsley.The cinematography is great and I am so glad they stuck to black and white. The little girl in red was beautiful and is a key feature in the book too.Hard to watch in places but a great movie.
