This is an awful movie. It has an awful story. It is very slow and boring. It is not fun to watch at all. I do not know why it got an 8.9. Just because people like sad boring movie. I do not like sad boring movie. If I want to be sad and bored I will just live my life. I do not need a movie to remind me how sad and boring life is. This is 4. It is not a 8.9 that is just hype. Do not wast your time. Do not wast your money. Do not see this movie. It a long movie and life is to short. If was a long movie and it was something good to see like Lord of the rings then it would worth the time. This is not. Good actors wasted there time being in this awful movie.


                
Schindler's List is really Spielberg's first movie that deals in the genre of Drama. Up until then, he had done the Indiana Jones trilogy, ET, Jurassic Park and so on.Schindler's List is simply the tale of a wealthy German businessman named Oskar Schindler who begins to save the lives of Jews as World War II continues. The premise to the movie is that simple and so, its wonderful The pacing of the movie can be a little slow and I did find myself bored at the start of the movie. The movie does feel long, clocking in at over 3 hours long. Some parts of the film seem quicker and better than others but by the end of the film, everything turns out well.The acting by Liam Neeson, Ben Kingsley and Ralph Fiennes is just brilliant. The music in the movie is brilliant, nothing less than John Williams' expected standard and the directing and writing of the film is superb.The characters in the movie are relatively good though I feel some characters could be fleshed out more The movie, however, is very emotional in the last half hour which really changed the movie. Had it not been for the way the last 30 minutes was, I would've probably given this a 7.Schindler's List is a well told emotional drama of Oskar Schindler, with brilliant acting and directing, solid writing and superb music as well as good characters. Do I think its one of the best? No, not really but I certainly think this is a very good movie. Definitely a movie that is worth to see for any movie fan
a tremendous achievement. heartwrenching and powerful beyond words. acting is first rate. Spieldberg's best. whoever dislikes this masterpiece is either dead or knows nothing about what an amazing motion picture is all about. if you are not moved to tears watching this "film of the '90's", then rush out and get a heart transplant!


                
I have no trouble agreeing that this is Spielberg's best film. That's not as much of a compliment as you might think, because the majority of them have been embarrassingly awful.Stevie learned a long time ago that there is big money in mawkish sentimentality and set out to capitalize on it. There is a substantial, guaranteed segment of the cinema-going public that will accept schmaltz as art. They simply do not know the difference.So, while I will accept that this is a good movie, there is no way it belongs in the top 250. Or even in the top 2500. There are too many historical inaccuracies, too many factual liberties, too many scenes overdone for deliberate shock value. The whole thing is fake. It is only vaguely based on what actually happened. Yet it is presented as a factual historical drama and has been widely accepted as such.The excesses of Hitler's Germany can never be forgotten or swept under the rug, but embellishing them and making gaudy parodies of the real thing does not well serve the memory of those who suffered through it."The Pianist" was not a perfect film, either, but it is a lot better than this one.


                
Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan share similar questions: in the former, how much money is a life worth; in the latter, how many lives is a life worth? Very good questions, and Spielberg ham-handedly beats a response out of us in each film. He employs two story-telling techniques, both to the utmost extreme: visceral sensationalism and morbid sentimentality.To turn the focus on the movie being reviewed - Schindler's List uses a horror film approach to movie-making to keep us properly frightened and cowering in the corner. At some point it stops being about somber remembrance and turns into a gruesome series of predictions: he'll be shot - he's too overly sympathetic; he'll make it - he had too much screen time to be executed; she'll die - the violin telegraphs it... and so on.Spielberg's greatest sin is that he underestimates his audience. We don't need to be bludgeoned into three minutes of silence. The atrocity was great, and sixty years later the wounds are still painful. All we need is to be simply ushered into a fresh realization of the holocaust - and Schindler's story is a particularly poignant way to accomplish this.At some point during the movie Schindler speaks of true power - the ability to pardon. Yet Spielberg drags this movie past the three hour mark, emotionally executing each and every viewer. My edit of this movie would have excised the sloppy and insincere sentimentality, and spared (pardoned) the audience so many streams of blood that the scenes lost any impact the victims' deaths might have contained. (not to mention, my edit wouldn't try so hard to convince that all women in WWII slept topless!)I also fault the movie for setting Schindler up as Jesus Christ (we're bought with a price!). I'm still trying to decide if Spielberg wants to insult or convert the Jews he is sympathizing with. After Schindler dropped his cross... er, ring in the sand I half expected him to be crucified for war crimes.I give the film credit for a tremendously impacting ending. We see, and can truly honor for enduring hell, the Jews whom Schindler saved. For a properly restrained and truly honoring treatment of the topic of the Jews during WWII, watch Episode 9 of Band of Brothers. Thanks for that anyways, Steven.
I know that the IMDb rating is 8.8, that this film won academy award for best picture (which means very little), that it was one of the earliest features to take an in depth, insider look at the Holocaust, that this film is nearly critic-proof because of its sensitive subject matter, but, if you take a look at who directed it and how the film comes across, wouldn't a person feel just a little offended? 1. Steven Spielberg made no attempt at separating his "serious", "grown up" film from this "entertainments." The Nazis in 'Schindler's List' are like the Nazis in the Indiana Jones movies 2. For such a harrowing subject, he uses some fantastic showmanship. The cinematography is a wonder, a joy to look at. There's even a tantalizing nipple shot, seriously, in a movie that's supposed to seriously look at the Holocaust? 3. The cruel joke/ thriller element to the old man who is nearly executed but is saved by the sheer chance that a gun jams twice! The scene had the same potential to keep an audience on its seat as say, an actual thriller!4. The overly simplistic view of the Nazis as completely evil. This one I can understand. I wouldn't expect any Jewish person to even attempt to see Nazis as nothing more than aberrations of humanity.5. An incredibly manipulative collection of closing scenes; first the "I could have done more" speech that Schindler gives as he's inundated by those he saved is tailor made for emotional assault, as he's praised like a strangely Christ-like figure.6. Final shot of the actual Schindler Jews paying tribute to his grave. What about the other six million? 7. And finally, the worst of the worst - the girl in the red coat. In order to fully grasp that the Holocaust is bad, really bad - because otherwise Jews and gentile alike would not be able to grasp this - he displays a girl in a washed out red coat and then shows her red coat on a cart of dead bodies. If that isn't cheap, exploitation, then honestly tell me what is.In the end the movie is typically well made - excellent cinematography, seamless editing, strong acting, entertainingly fast paced - in other words a Hollywood movie. Should that be the definitive way to represent the Hollocaust?


                
OK, first the good. The acting is excellent. So is the casting. The movie-making is good. The choice of stories was phenomenal. The last scene (the one in color) was exceptionally powerful, deserving to be on the greatest scenes list of all time. Now for the bad. Schindler's List is a holocaust movie made without a fundamental understanding of the Holocaust. Yes, they get the bare bones facts right enough, but the movie is two dimensional at best. Everyone in the movie fits into a different category, with very little variation in characters within a given category. Either they are Jewish or they are non Jewish, and if they are non Jewish, they are either evil anti Semites or reformed heroes. If they are Jewish, they all act the same. Their reaction is uniformly "if only I could do something, I would, but I can't, so the only thing left is to live and die honorably, which means being silent when things happen." There is one Jew who can do something, but other than that, they are all like cardboard cutouts. For me, the impact of a movie comes from seeing people react to different situations, even painful ones, but from seeing REALISTIC and THREE DIMENSIONAL people reacting to situations. Schindler's List totally lacked that, so, to me, even though the movie is about something I am very interested in, the movie was exceptionally dull and uninteresting. It was not powerful at all. In addition, the historical accuracy was marginal.


                
Steven Spielberg is a master at picking up the theme. He knows that holocaust is the best theme to sell in USA, just as Indo-Pak war seems to be the best theme in India.Poorly made and edited, this movie is just an ordinary piece of work good only in patches. At a few instances, brilliant acting from the lead actors does overshadow shoddy direction, but even that cannot make up for non-existent script.Effect are poorly executed and movie seems a partial representation of facts without allowing the viewer to form his own point of view by depicting a neutral stance. Watch without high expectations, else you might feel let down.


                
This is yet another example of how Spielberg can kill an otherwise passable movie.  The movie contains some genuinely good, subtle moments like the shooting of one hiding Jew fading into a phrenetic piano solo during a pogrom or a close-in shot of bodies being burned that fades out to a view of smouldering bodies that looks like a gigantic landfill.  But, in general, the movie contains far too many scenes meant to tug at our hearts that end up demeaning one of the greatest tragedies in the history of mankind. The sole use of color for the little girl in the pink jacket wandering through the streets is meant to be poignant.  Instead, it is cloying and heavy-handed at best.  The scene of Kingsley and Neeson typing up the list of people to be saved is classic Spielberg garbage.  Neeson emotes to his best to keep exhorting Kingsley that they can save "more."  Come on - going into the operation, they clearly would have known to a fairly good certainty how many could finally be saved.  This movie takes melodrama to exciting new heights.The ending scene showing real-life grievers of the now-dead Oskar Schindler is some of the most exploitive, unnecessary filmmaking you'll ever see.


                
The story is about the efforts that Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson), a World War II profiteer, put out in order to save the Jews from Plaszow concentration camp. Let us make it very clear: from the starting point, Schindler has no interest in saving the Jews. His sole interest, at first, was to make money. How was this man converted from being an opportunistic businessman into a courageous human soul who was willing to save thousands of lives? He even appeared initially unaffected when SS-Lieutenant Amon Goth (Ralph Fiennce) blissfully murdered innocent Jews. How, then, could this man break down at the end of the film because he could not save just one more life is baffling. Agreed that he was surrounded by good Jews, but the probable reason for his transition (encountering a dead Jews who thanked him) was utterly self-congratulatory. Was he even terrified by the murders that were going on (if he was, he never showed it on screen any way)? Perhaps, only the extraordinary Schindler himself could help Spielberg realize it. Or did Spielberg care about strong characterizations, at all? There was no complexity here. However, Liam Neeson's Schindler was given pretty decent treatment when you consider the other elements in Schindler's List. Particularly was, the vicious monster of the story, Lieutenant Amon Goth. Was he the only one who killed (or loved killing) Jews throughout this whole affair? I had this question on my mind when the film exclusively focused on him insanely shooting random Jews from his bedroom. Giving a mad figure the special treatment of being the leading culprit of this mass murder is a laughably simplistic way to make sense of the Holocaust. And it fits into the general audience's banal understanding of the event. The key to Holocaust is the diffusion of responsibility among the persecutors and the lack of moral convictions on the very part of the human race. Those complex concepts were given no treatment in Schindler's List. Instead, everything is reduced to insanity. The very possibility of the Holocaust, therefore, remains alien to a whole audience, who, perhaps, come to see the film just to feel a sense of grandness and liberal guilt. Raplh Fience was terrific in his performance. However, his role, sadly, served as a springboard for the audience to blindly put their blame on. How revealing!In short, the treatment of both Schindler and Goth shed no light on the ambiguity of human nature. Schindler suddenly became "good" while Goth was inherently "bad" (This only makes the visual comparisons between the two men all the more exploitative). Everything seems pretty common sense, and obviously very digestible. However, if there is a most deplorable injustice being done here, it was the presentation of the Jewish community. Perhaps, everyone who has watched this film can recall the scene of a little girl splashed in red that Schindler spotted during the liquidation of the concentration camp. Anyone could have been fooled by this imagery, whether a film amateur or a veteran film fan. However, if you sit back to think about it, the image is pretty fortuitous. What does this present exactly? Hope? Love? Future? Or even blood? This middle-browned attempt to convey some visual meanings does not succeed in any meaningful way. Worse still, it is an exploitation of the bathos of childhood innocence, which does not make sense in this circumstance. We are dealing with the Jewish community as a whole, not some selective individuals that were singled out from this whole in order for us to dwell on 'sophisticated' feelings of loss and hope. If there is a lesson that is unforgettable about the Holocaust, it is the unjustified prejudice and hatred inflicted upon the Jewish community as a race, not just the brutality and violence that any particular Jew experienced (if you want to know about brutality and trauma, you can ask the 20 million Russians who were dead also). Why not color every Jew red then? Any selective visual presentation in this case is misguiding; and manipulative. Even the sequence that precedes it, a moral struggle between mother, daughter and childhood friend during evacuation does not feel like a climax. It is so trite, so predictable that one might just allow himself to rumble with all the emotions that Spielberg has designed for him. It feels as if, the audience is told what they already know, and all they need to do is sit there, ruminating like an act.The saddest thing is that at the end, when the credit rolls "In memory of the 6 million Jews who died during the Holocaust", I wonder what the whole film has to do with those 6 million deaths. If you are inattentive and easy-going, you would freely accept it as an earnest tribute to them. But really? Telling the cliché story of a thousand who were alive is the tribute to the 6 million who were dead? What does this film have to do with the dead anyway? The desperation, the horror, the pain, the shame and the doubt of those who went dead were not adequately conveyed. Oh, just tell the marvelous story of saving lives to make the audience open their mouths and wonder. And we can forget about those who were dead. What a lovely tribute that Spielberg made!The real story is extraordinary. But there must be a way of telling it without this pretentious sense of self-importance that makes it so easily consumed by an uninformed audience. At no point in this film, do I feel a sense of desperation, that sense of "needing to get out of this horrible nightmare". It was just like watching a prodigious show that make you feel "wowed" (and admire, and cry?). But remember that grandness cannot replace substance. Indeed, Holocaust is a very difficult subject matter. It needs to be approached first with intelligence. But Spielberg evidently failed to do so.


                
There are two reasons that I didn't like Schindler's List: One was that even though Oskar Schindler saved the lives of so many Jews, and others that the Nazis were preparing for the gas chambers, he decided who lived and who died just like they did. The other reason, is that I personally have an aversion to movies about the holocaust, because it makes me so mad, that every time I see it, whether it's from genuine stock footage, or staged for movie sets, like this one, I feel like barging into the screen like John Rambo, and shooting every brownshirt in sight, which is the same feeling I get when I see TV news footage of the more recent Serbian Holocaust against non-Serbs in the former Yugoslavia. I know that wasn't the point of the film, but these facts still bother me.  After the world finally learned how bad Nazi Germany was, we all promised that we'd never let anything like this happen again. Unfortunately, it already has happened more than several times on six continents, and continues in some countries to this day.


                
This movie fails miserably to tell a decent story. In typical Spielberg fashion, the movie blatantly manipulates the viewer's emotions by relying on long camera shots holding on blatantly emotional moments, using "too cute" actors to elicit complete empathy and to push everything over the edge -- sappy music to punctuate the scene. I felt after what I could watch of this movie (I couldn't stomach a full viewing) that I was manipulated and coerced into my emotions about the content of the film. This movie is one of the least intelligent meant-to-be-intelligent movies. Insulting. One should view "The Pianist" for about as perfect a movie re-enacting a Holocaust experience. Not once do you feel as though your being 'forced' to empathize or sympathize with the character, that happens naturally in the context of the film. Any person of Jewish faith should be embarrassed and ashamed of this movie; it actually does a dis-service to the Holocaust. I think it's best summed up by an episode of Sienfield -- sleep worthy!


                
I have seen movies related to the Holocaust and Hitler and Germany, such as Boy and the Striped Pajamas and a few others, that were very entertaining and super crazy good. While this movie was definitely eye opening and very historical in a positive sense, the movie is very slow and utterly boring and while there are some scenes that are astonishing and horrifying, much of the movie is just boring and might actually put you to sleep


                
Spielberg's so intent on telling the whole history of the Jews of Poland after Germany's invasion that the story gets lost, and I find myself only watching with curiosity rather than empathy.The characters of Schindler and Goethe I enjoyed they're portrayal and think the actors did a good job but on a whole I felt like the film was trying to tell me something rather than make me feel something.I don't mean any offense to Spielberg but I've seen European holocaust films that are less than half the length of this film and they are ten times more powerful than this one. This film is over hyped. If you really believe this is the best holocaust film there is, then you haven't seen enough of them.


                
I must confess that when I first saw this film in theater, and the followin' few times I saw it on TV, I became a passionate defender of it and so I tried 2 tell everybody who asked me Y I liked it. But, in time, I became disappointed: the film is good, compared with the trash we're accustomed 2 watch these days (& almost all last decade), but it doesn't deserve the consideration of an "All-Time Classic", because it isn't. It's a subjective story told from a personal & subjective point of view (Steven Spielberg is Jew), & it tries 2 emphasize the violent side of it, but payin' few attention 2 anything else. Some scenes R disconnected from the rest of the plot, it contains nudity & sex scenes that don't fit 2 the tale (sexual relationships among Mr. & Ms. Schindler, between Amon Göth & her lover) & make the movie become rather vulgar instead of true classic. It's got sometimes the taste of a documentary, but the connection between the general scenes & the fictional (particular) ones is not very well made. The violent scenes (especially shootin') R too explicit (there's no need 2 place a camera & stop it above a dead body bleedin' 4 showin' us the crimes that were committed). The idea of shootin' the film in B&W, I think it's actually because that was very "in" those years & it only took a good excuse 2 do it. If Spielberg really wanted 2 make a rigor approach 2 the matter the same way it was told by those media, he would have also made the film with analog Mono sound, & with less explicit violence. Definitely, watch it if U want, but don't expect a timeless classic.


                
A beautifully crafted film which seems somewhat hollow at the center (as is true of many of Spielberg's films).  Though many have hailed "List" as being a great film, I felt that it soft-pedaled the horrors of the Holocaust. Kudos to actor Ralph Fiennes and cinematographer Janusz Kaminski, however...


                
Schindler's List is an awful movie: unstintingly sentimental and heavy-handedly manipulative. The only reason it's so loved is because of the subject matter. As presented in the book, Oskar Schindler was a complicated, not entirely admirable man. Too complex, in other words, to be the central character in one of Steven Spielberg's simple-minded morality tales. Practically the only good thing in it (apart from its intentions) is the acting.


                
This film is for those older than 16. It is not a chic flick nor a family film. It is a thought provoking film dealing with the Jewish oppression in WWII. The film captures your attention and holds it throughout the film. The actors Liam Neeson, Ben Kingley and Ralph Fiennes do give a stellar performance. However, it is the supporting cast which makes the film work. I would have rated it higher if the film could have stayed within my 2 hour bottom limit. Although a memorable film and a film which deals with such a politically charged subject, I feel that I was not so entertained as I was educated, even though it is a work of fiction. Not a film for those wanting entertainment. It is a thought provoking film that all should watch at some time.


                
