An incredible movie.  One thing that stands out in my mind about this classic film is the great characterization of all the players due to superb acting, directing, and scripting.  Ralph Fiennes character is especially vile but at the same time human.  He may be 95% evil but to not present a stereotypical and archetypical 100% bad character makes him infinately more realistic.  Filmed in black and white, this story certainly shows the shades of gray that is the duality of man.  This is further exemplified by Schindler's own declaration of being a bad person because he could have done more good and saved more lives.


                
Too bad you can not give a ten because I think nothing is perfect, if I would not give it without hesitation. Spielberg shows again that directing is the best. Narrates like no one and as always uses the camera to make the best shots of the story in every way. With the plans, with the camera tells the story.He tells us a film, in which, although he changes the real story and retouches it to make it more human, since Oskar Schindler used the Jews, as he tells in a sequence, the price of each nationality, which causes us all kinds of feelings.The design of production as always great, he can do it, of course, but there are some who can and do it very badly.All the actors, supported by the magnificent costumes and makeup are great, they seem to be real. Liam's presentation is great, fast and simple.What a way to use ellipses, which are sometimes even fun, like when a woman goes on the train.No matter how much you see it, it will surprise you again.The photography is great, even when we see the girl in red, it may seem simple but I think it is not.The direction, is the own one of someone who dominates to the perfection, the visual narrative. He knows where to put the camera at every moment to tell a story. You do not have time to get bored. He knows when to make a slow plane. Know how to compose so that everything is where it should be and you can have everything in sight. Neither camera movement, nor the plane, nor the short between planes is free.I know it will be noticed that it is my favorite director but I can not help but surrender to someone who, apart from being commercial, is very good, I compare it to a Mercedes or a BMW, they will be commercial but they are good.Spoiler:
It is impressive to see how the sequence in which the architect dies, with a slight movement of camera, characters and staging, is putting everything in place to make you look where you should look. That if it is not going to prohibit you from looking anywhere, everything to focus and everything telling you at once, bring the woman on camera so you can see who is going to be killed while a German drinks a coffee, total symbol of tranquility, for enhance the moment more. What a great genius, moments like that there are many in the movie.
You might not have heard about Oscar Schindler but you will definitely want to know more about him after watching the movie. He is credited with saving the lives of more than a thousand Jews during the Holocaust. He was named Righteous among the Nations by the Israeli Government a few years after the end of the Second World War. Righteous among the Nations is awarded to those non-Jews who helped Jews during the Holocaust in various ways such as providing them food or shelter, arranging escape out of Germany and German- occupied territories, etc.Schindler's List is based on a 1983 novel, Schindler's Ark. It tells the story of the efforts of Oscar Schindler, a German, to help Jews during the Holocaust. Played by Liam Neeson, Oscar is not an easy character to comprehend. It takes you time to fully understand who he is. He is a person who might come across selfish to you at first. He is an opportunistic businessman. He comes across as one who, even during the wartime, is trying to find opportunities to make money rather than worrying about people's lives. But deep inside, he has a heart bigger than the most and at a time when Jews were struggling to find a helping hand, he helped more than a thousand Jews. He is not a person who will give you sympathy for you are going to lose someone close, but he is one who would take actions to save your closed one and not tell you when he does. You can see this in the movie when a Jewish lady approaches him begging to get her parents out of the concentration camp and into his factory. At first, he not only denies her help but also lashes out at his assistant showing frustration how his for-profit factory has come to be known to people outside as a charitable harbor for Jews. But you can hear the pain he feels for that lady and all the other Jews in his frustrated voice. Later in the scene, the lady's parents are shown being escorted out of the concentration camp into his factory.The movie starts with how Oscar Schindler, in the midst of the Second World War, sets up a factory manufacturing pots and pans to supply to the German army. Oscar hires a Jewish accountant to manage the factory. While the account runs the factory enormously profitably for Schindler, he hires many Jews who would have otherwise ended up in concentration camps. By getting German SS guards to believe that they have the important skill sets required for the factory, he cleverly sneaks many Jews out of the concentration camps.As Oscar is setting up his factory, the German SS is brutally evicting all the Jews out of their houses and moving them to ghettos and later to labor camps. As Oscar and his wife helplessly watch eviction of a ghetto from a hill overlooking it, he realizes the dreadfulness of the war and that he needs to look beyond the factory profits and help the Jews. The atrocities that the Jews face will touch your heart. In a scene of a labor camp, as little children are being taken away by German SS guards from their mothers, a child runs away to hide. He tries a few places including outhouses but finding them occupied by other children, he dives through a toilet seat in a toilet pit to hide. The fear of life on the face of the little child as he settles in the toilet pit will bleed your heart.As the war progresses, the state of the Jews worsens. The SS plans to exterminate all the Jews and hence gradually starts moving them from labor camps to concentration camps. Oscar's pots and pans factory are not considered important enough for the war effort to continue employing the Jews anymore but he is determined to keep the Jews in his factory, by now called Schindler Jews, from the concentration camps as he devises a new plan.Despite the dark and sad story-line, the movie has many snippets of humour. As Oscar's manager is cleverly hiring Jews in the factory by keeping the SS in dark, he also hires an old man without a left arm as a metal polisher. The state of the old man is sad and the act of the manager is kind. But the subtle humour in the situation is difficult to miss when Oscar comes to know about the old man and frustratingly asks his manager how the old man is useful for the factory.Overall, Schindler's list is a heart-touching and a powerful movie that will force even a cold heart to warm for a moment. The movie is engaging and will keep you engaged for the entire three hours. It is a must-watch. I give it a rating of 9 out of 10.
Fantastic screening of the bloody history. Watching Schindler's List gives rise to know what means the 'TOP CLASS FILM', it's impossible to make better film in this subject matter. Steven Spielberg is a genius. Liam Neelson and Ralph Fiennes are showing us how talented and great actors are they. Well done to the cast and crew of this film.


                
When I first saw that Spielberg was behind the movie, I had my doubts since his earlier work doesn't really fall into this category, but I held faith and I have not been disappointed! From the beginning it is such a powerful and moving film and it brought tears to my eyes more then once. It is completely set in Black & White, except for the Red Coat Girl which is pure genius, since it really helps develop the time period it was portrayed in.The Actors too were completely fantastic! Every single actor and extra seemed to be doing their very best and really lived their roles, especially Ralph Fiennes, who was brilliant as the twisted Nazi Amon Goeth. Not just anyone could make that character real and get away with it. All of the characters in the film have depth and substance and the best thing was that you actually see a few of the Jewish people throughout the entire film so we can sympathize with their tale more.It's a film to watch if you enjoy depth and meaning. 9 Stars, Excellent Film!


                
First I have to say that being born in Poland, I knew about holocaust since before I was 10. I guess only in Israel people are more aware of it. It is a very sensitive topic, and making a movie about how millions of people were exterminated in death camps seems like trivialising the topic. On the other hand criticizing the movie for it's factual faults is even more slippery nontheless. The movie itself is very good indeed, with great acting, memorable scenes, and overall very impressive. I remember that when the end credits started rolling people in the theater were very quiet, and didn't move. Many were shocked by the realism of this movie. It surely is one of the greatest movies ever, but Steven Spielberg intended it to be much more than just a movie. This is where I stop admiring his work.Many will take this film's version of history as a fact. I'm talking about the way Poles were shown in SL. Mr. Spielberg presents us as hateful antisemitic creatures, and he does it so convincingly that if I didn't know any better I would surely believe it. The second issue is the gas chamber scene - in reality, none of the people who would enter the so called "shower room" would survive. And as for Oskar Schindler - he didn't consider himself as a man on the mission, not concerned about his profits at all. To sum it off - If you didn't see this movie, go see it.But don't stop there, find some real live accounts of holocaust survivors.


                
This isn't much I can add to what hasn't been said or written some dozen years after this was released. It's still one of the most powerful stories ever put on film, mainly because it's based on fact. Since it's Hollywood, you don't know how much of this is true but the Holocaust certainly is and that's enough. The little details don't matter.This movie features extremely good acting by the three leads: Liam Neson, Ralph Fiennes and Ben Kingsley. Fiennes is particularly good as the Nazi villain. He's downright scary and one of the most rotten, despicable human beings ever put on film....but that was the intent. I don't know if his character (or lack of it) was exaggerated since this was made by a famous Jewish filmmaker (Steven Spielberg) who has made the Nazis look as bad as possible in a number of his movie (not that they don't deserve it!). Nonetheless, Fiennes' portrayal of "Amon Goeth" is one you'll remember. You'll want to punch this idiot right in the nose.Neeson, in the title role as "Oskar Schlinder," is intriguing as the industrialist who slowly sees immoral things happening that the become too repulsive for him to support. For much of the film, he still isn't a "good guy" but he certainly comes around and becomes a hero in the end. Neeson's scene near the conclusion when "Schindler" parts with "his" Jews at the end of the war is extremely moving. It brings tears to my eyes every time. When he agonizes that "I could have done more," it is something all of us could say and probably will some day. That sentence by him haunted me after each viewing.In addition to the moving story, the black-and-white cinematography in here is magnificent. Not many movies today are made in black-and-white and that's too bad because with today's cameras and knowledge, it can look tremendous. (i.e. "The Man Who Wasn't There," "Ed Wood," etc.) The camera-work helped draw me back to several viewings.A lot of people would not watch this movie a second time and I can't blame them. It's tough to watch. There are some brutal, harrowing, scenes in here with executions, naked people being led to the gas chambers....just some very disturbing scenes. It should be seen at least once, though, by everyone.
If you're looking for a movie that can really touch your heart...yes it is a movie that will touch your heart guaranteed.. This is not just a movie ,it's a piece of art Every scene was beautiful and perfect Although it was a great 3 hour journey . Thanks to the director and the cast members for gifting us such a wonderful movie


                
this movie was so moving. the scene where Liam Neeson sees the little girls pink coat in color was so well shot. the movie could've been shorter though. I felt as though many scenes where unnecessary and not well related to the story line. the use of "shot reverse shot" was so well engineered and really showed how well Steven Spielberg can make a conversation flow.


                
Even though this may not be my favorite film, it has to be the best made movie I have ever seen, in terms of cinematography. Liam Neeson and Ralph Fiennes did an impeccable acting job, and Steven Spielberg triumphed.


                
Spielberg's masterpiece.  Even the framing device which some did not like worked well for me. The girl in the red dress may have been an obvious film device but it worked extremely well. It wasn't a controversial film in any sense, but it is nearly perfect.I think Ben Kingsley quiet performance is some of the most subtle and brilliant acting I have ever seen. Neeson and Fiennes have been lauded many times and so should Kingsley.


                
This is one of the greatest films ever made. It will stand the test of time and ensure that one of the greatest tragedies in human history will never be forgotten.Schindler's List is crafted with care and precision. The cinematography is subtle and haunting and the film is beautifully shot in black and white, symbolising the duality of tyranny and hope. The acting is utterly flawless, especially Ralph Fiennes as the embodiment of Nazi oppression. However Liam Neeson is also fantastic as Schindler himself, bringing a dominant screen presence and an emotional strength.One of the most powerful aspects of the film is the realism that is consistent throughout. It is as if the audience have been propelled back in time to witness the horror. The 3 hour running time allows the viewer to reflect on the 6 years, which leads to an incredibly powerful emotional climax. But as the film unfolds it's Schindler's transformation from self-serving Nazi to compassionate protector which bears the most emotional resonance. For me, this was the most striking aspect of the film, that despite the scale of the monumental atrocities, the capacity for human goodness remained.


                
In my opinion everyone should watch this movie at least once. It might be depressing but you'll be taught a lesson: NEVER AGAIN. And this movie describes the holocaust quite realistic. Thats why the impact on the viewer is so immense in my opinion.I've never seen a movie where shooting a person was so realistic. The blood, the falling, the sound...It's really disturbing. (Does anybody know another movie where this is so realistic?)Despite the age of the movie already it's not even close to be old production wise (in 2014) for me. It doesn't look bad or old. It's just well made and still has some great effects. The actors are all great and I can't point out some bad things.


                
This is the best movie about war I've ever seen! I think the best thing about it is the dark atmosphere, which is created by the deliberate use of no colours (except the ending when it fits). So this movie nearly feels like the original recordings, except with a higher quality and of course less brutal (especially when you think about the LEAN Jews in this time).It's a very tragedy movie, which produces one important question: How much is a human worth? When you don't like this movie you seem to be impatient, unemotional or nearly a neo-Nazi...Schindler's List is a classic, which has many very positive reviews, so I think I have nothing else to add.9/10


                
Excellent film that reflects the controversial situation with the Jewish race during the Holocaust. Highly recommended. It is amazing the way in which the protagonist changes its thinking throughout the film, until end transformed your business in a salvation for members of the breed. All aspects are positive in this film. Actors camera script, etc.. I hesitate to rate it the highest rating because surely I let go of the feelings that I produce my viewing of the film, and try to be as objective as possible.But i recommend it for all the people!Very beautiful in all the scenes and thingsI mean, the OST is excellent, actors too...It's very difficult to say something bad about this film, ins't it?


                
Astounded by the facts, grueling scenes & short scripts between the sequences, I find myself in an awkward situation where instead of thinking about which movie to watch next, I am introspecting about the purpose of my life. Seriously, this film makes it a point that you get emotionally inspired.Steven Spielberg, as always, takes up a sensitive topic and carves it to perfection. Not taking in account the long running time (which is actually pretty fair) & the imbalance of narration, the story of Oskar Schindler saving a bunch of innocent Jews from the clutches of callous German Kommandants strikes a visual chord mentally, emotionally. The heart-aching depiction of cruelty on Jews, rampant corruption during World War, slavery & the magnanimity of Schindler, his friendship, his aura is all well filmed. The music almost backs it up, with wonderful screenplay & cinematography.Liam Neeson is terrific. I have always loved his performances; this one makes me respect him more & more. Ben Kingsley is very very good, especially with his demeanor. Supporting cast is amazing. In fact, the whole crew should get a standing ovation for the hard-work of digging up the facts. The final sequences made me cry.BOTTOM LINE: A 9.3/10 for this must-watch, characteristic film. One of the most emotionally touching films.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOProfanity: No | Vulgarity: No | Nudity: Infinity | Sex: Mild | Foreplay: Strong | Smoking: Strong | Alcohol: Strong | Drugs: No | Traumatizing Factor: Very Critical


                
As Nazi Germany invaded Poland, profit-driven businessman Oskar Schindler seized the opportunity to open enamelware factory using Jews as labor for the army. Schindler has progressively transformed into a complex character, from a man of greed and egoism to a humanized man with compassion.Throughout the entire film, shots of the massacre abruptly kicked in. Without any music to go along with it, nor any sort of cinematic effects has amplified the effect of horror and grieve. Spielberg was simply just let the event speaks for itself when the genocide occurred right in front of the eye of the audience. The picture was utterly disturbing which also vividly portray the shockingly cold scenes of the history. People being executed like a stack of meat like they were inanimate objects.One of the conversation between the protagonist Liam Neeson and the antagonist Amon Goeth played by Ralph Fiennes was particularly impressive. It's left us questions regard to the differentiation between justice and power. In the film, Schindler said "Power is when we have every justification to kill, and we don't." He then proposed hypothetically what power truly means, when a man who has committed a crime was brought and interrogated by the emperor for his crime, then begged for mercy. The emperor had power over the criminal for the act and this is what Schindler thought was the true meaning of power. Conversely, the concentration camp commandant Amon Goeth was merely executing Jews under the cause of justice.Towards the ending of the film was immensely moving.When Schindler told the cold-blooded officers to return their home and their family after they had been following their orders to carried out such dehumanized acts.It's delivered us a message that people have multiple roles and behave differently under different circumstances. The change has occurred to Neeson's role is not something that I envisaged. After the war was finally called to an end, he thought he could have salvaged more refugee undercover by his factory. The remorse of Neeson was sentimentally executed and delivered a tremendous finishing to the movie.It is a film with historic significance with the highest regard and undeniably Steven Spielberg's best and truly earned the best picture prize.
This movie was ugly and grotesque, in other words, perfect for what the film was trying to achieve.The movie depicted vividly and well the dehumanization of the Jews at the hands of Nazis during World War 2. The ugly scenes, massacres, and killings helped at least give you a feel of the terror and fear these people must have felt at the time.Usually, I don't find movies based on true events to be as interesting, but this was an exception. The final scenes where they show the real life Schindler Jews visiting his grave was touching and helps solidify the realities of what happened.One issue I had was the movie being in black in white - I felt it was unnecessary and the same feelings could have been achieved with a color movie. Related to this, I felt the red dress girl was overkill and also unnecessary. Finally, the final scene of him crying didn't seem to be that realistic - perhaps a bit overdone to me.Other than those issues, I felt the movie was great and done well.
Schindler's List is the kind of once-in-a-generation film that comes along and earns truly universal acclaim. The tale of Oskar Schindler, a member of the Nazi Party who saves well over one thousand Jews during the Holocaust through his cunning and selflessness, is a timeless exhibition of exactly why the very medium of filmmaking was invented. Approaching its 20th anniversary, Universal Sony has converted the original film into high-definition, allowing a new generation to experience its soaring story and visceral intensity.Schindler (Liam Neeson) is a man who considers himself a businessman first and a Nazi second. In the throes of WWII, he sees opportunity in hiring Jewish POWs to work in his enamel factory. With the help of trustworthy accountant Itzhak Stern (Ben Kingsley), he develops a godly reputation among the Jews despite originally being apathetic to their struggles. Naturally, his actions raise the curiosity of some high-ranking German officers, including the sadistic Amon Goeth (Ralph Fiennes).The legacy of Schindler's List stands tall two decades after its theatrical release. The film took home seven Oscars at the 1994 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Director and Adapted Screenplay, while Neeson and Fiennes were bested in the Acting categories by Tom Hanks (Philadelphia) and Tommy Lee Jones (The Fugitive) respectively. Today, Schindler and Goeth are considered arguably the finest moments of either man's distinguished career. The Blu-ray conversion is virtually faultless at every turn. It is one thing to infuse a visual sense of wonder to a screen already populated by giant sharks, prehistoric beasts or cuddly other-worlders; it is quite another to invoke that same awe to a sombre tale filmed in monochrome, but that is precisely what has been achieved with this restoration. The update beautifully renders some of the most harrowing shots ever put to celluloid, including the massacre set to Bach and the first glimpse of Auschwitz; its steaming, monstrous pillars resembling a most ironic monolith of human evolution. The famous Girl in Red- for many, the emotive highlight of the film- is given new and ironic life through touched-up footage keeping her dress from fading into its surroundings, as was the case with the original negative.For such a powerful piece of cinema, the mastery of Spielberg's direction is his ability to peel back as opposed to going for the jugular too early or too often. The film expertly traverses a near-impossible pitfall of melodrama. As he did with more contemporary histo-drama Lincoln, Spielberg's ability to blend the emotionally challenging and the humanistic is unmatched, in what remains not only his most personal project, but perhaps the most personal film of any A-list director ever.The end result is still a depressing and, at times, highly disturbing piece of art, but one that concurrently remains an absorbing character study of the highest order. Schindler is not a wholeheartedly compassionate man; for him, it's all about the Benjamins- or in this case, the Reichsmarks- and he is offended- nay, enraged- that his workers would have the audacity to call his factory a 'haven', until his perspective on the war is forever changed. Likewise, Goeth, the man who kills Jews from his balcony with the same indifference as a man reading the morning paper, is the same one that secretly lusts after his Jewish maid. Kingsley's Stern, then, just may be the most emotionally integral character, acting as the catalyst for Schindler's eventual change of heart while playing the role of the unshakeable moral compass and most accessible window for the audience into the lives of those persecuted. It is this story of flawed good versus flawed evil that humanises these once mythical creatures. Appropriately, it isn't until the final half-hour that the immensity of their actions are realised in one of the most memorable, heartfelt endings of all time, in which Spielberg breaks every rule of conventional narrative filmmaking at once in order to pay his final respects. The Blu-ray comes complete with a series of special features, including Voices from the List, a documentary featuring testimonies from some of the 'Schindler Jews' who survived the Holocaust, as well as a story on Spielberg's USC Shoah Foundation. The intentions of Universal are salient here, as their features keep in line with the director's original intent to minimise publicity or self-servitude, to the point where he even refused payment for his work, citing 'blood money' as the deterrent. However, trivia buffs interested in some of the more allegorical tidbits of production (including the alleviation of on-set depression through Spielberg's screenings of Seinfeld and Robin Williams sketches, and the time a survivor trembled with terror at her first sight of Fiennes because he reminded her too much of the real Goeth) may be satiated by a 16-page companion booklet, featuring behind- the-scenes information on the incredible stories around an incredible composition.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review. If you're looking for a writer for your movie website or other publication, I'd also love to hear from you.*


                
Although there are a lot of harrowing images in this excellent movie, I have a feeling no film has ever really shown the true graphic horrors of the death camps. I am sure that movie...will be made someday. There so many Jewish people being murdered in this fine motion picture, but,...in the end it is about a brave man being totally psychologically transformed. Months of seeing human beings being brutalized and getting to know them (his factory used the Jews as cheap labor) as individuals, made Nazi Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson) change dramatically. This is not the usual Steven Spielberg fare. He directs this with a deft touch. The holocaust should NEVER be forgotten...and man should have learned from it. Unfortunately since this catastrophic human disaster there have been more cases of "ethnic cleansing". "When will we ever learn ?"


                
I really adore how this film can makes you have an idea, a good one, about the misery, treatments, and the horrendous things that the jewish people gone through in the 30's and 40's, and specially the black and white enviroment that gives some classic air.


                
When looking at a black and white movie since the beginning till you see that there is a little girl out there in the chaotic cold miserable wartime wearing a Red Dress, the movie turns into perfectness. I think the movie is brilliant. The military tyrant character is amazingly played. The role of the main character -Schindler- was somewhat weak at the end yet it was well-played too.Generally, the movie succeeded in driving me through imagining the horrors of WWII, specially those unspeakable sufferings caused by the holocaust. A very good watch that could capture these moments when the war reveals how chaotic and deadly it is, how less it cares about the weak, and how random death can be. The main line was about a young ambitious businessman, Schindler (Liam Neeson), who tries to make use of Jewish victims of war, those who were fleeing from the holocaust just to fall under the control of greedy Schindler. Then at some point, Schindler changes dramatically, when he witnesses the real suffer of Jewish under Hitler's war, from an ideal natzy narcissist, into a human being. Schindler's change process is lengthy, shaped by death camps controlled by a military tyrant,Commander Goeth (Ralph Fiennes) . So he creates a list of names of Jewish workers to be saved, and pays off everyone he could to do so. Sometimes he risks his own life for that purpose. Finally he succeeds in saving hundreds of innocent people. Shortly after then, the war ends, and those who were saved by Schindler return the favor, and save Schindler from being killed by allies forces. Although the movie looks filled with sad, dark ideas, yet I'd watch the movie again because it made me think a lot about those real people who had suffered the holocaust and the consequences of WWII, deep thoughts developed by the brilliancy of acting, directing and writing.
The first time I've seen it, Schindler's list didn't give me much of an impression. It was horrific, black and white, and I was 15. Now, after I got myself quite a cinematographic culture, feeling the urge to identify Spieblerg's masterpiece, I came back to this movie. I knew it was rated as one of the best films generally, ever, but when I took a look at the reviews, I became really worried. Most of the 1/10 ratings bring reasonless motivations for this film's criticism. The main points of criticism that I saw are the following: 1) it manipulates facts; 2) presents a too distinct line between good jews and evil Nazis; 3) too emotional; 4) money grab; 5) "Holocaust is bad, we already knew it" (and this is an almost exact quote);1) the claims for this point of criticism are that it portrays a positive figure of Oskar Schindler, exaggerates several aspects of the holocaust, and portrays essentially bad Nazis (we to this latter point in 2)); Let's get this straight: unlike some reviewers claim, Oskar Schindler didn't end up as an enriched Industrialist, as some reviewers wrongly claim. In other words, he didn't earn off the holocaust anything. On the contrary, he spent his entire fortune on bribes and corruption acts in order to aid his Jewish workers. He even had to escape to Argentina, as many Nazi officers did after WWII. As for the claims of overly dramatisation, that is certainly an aspect of the film. There are a few scenes which are not accurate (e.g. the shower scene - in real life, jews didn't fear the gas chamber as they where purposely misinformed). Generally, though, I didn't see that much of an overly dramatization. Most of the times, the film presented simply factual events. Jews were in fact killed and persecuted, there's nothing overly dramatized. Concentration camps where truly such bloody places as seen in the film. Instead, maybe it even downgraded violence quite a lot., still being incredibly bloody as a film.2) Good jews vs. bad Nazis; I remember Hans Landa's monologue from the beginning of Inglorious Basterds, which centered on jews being rats in the sense that they're generally a population that could figure out a solution easily. Do not get me wrong here (obviously Landa stereotypes this immensely), but this is portrayed often, mainly in the first portion of the film. Jews going to the Synagogue to buy and sell instead of praying, some jews that join the police force and essentially collaborate with the Nazis, and some jews fight each other when hiding away during the ghetto persecution scene. I clearly would not say that all jews are good nor that all German soldiers are bad, but that shouldn't be a matter to be portrayed in a holocaust film. To see an avid jew, go watch "A Christmas Carol". As for "bad Nazis", I'd like to clear out again what is Nazional-Socialism. It was an extremist, right-wing movement that enhanced, in this case, Germany's national identity and superiority on the base of racial distinction, and urged violence on anyone that would not be member of the "superior" race. This movement, along with fascism, attracted a great deal of fanatics. I'd like to suggest the view of "Novecento", which similarly depicts the rise of fascism in Italy and its ruthless cruelty, carried on by it he insane and violent individuals which joined the party in the early twenties. I know that one movie depicted a Nazi soldier's moral division during WWII, called "Onore e Lealtà", which has low reviews for the same reason that prevents this film from portraying "good" Nazis: it is kind of dangerous, and can easily turn in a glorification of Nazis. Nonetheless, most of the cruelty is carried through a notorious war criminal, Amon Goeth. 3) Spielberg is of Jewish origins. As a filmmaker, he's considered this story very personal. Moreover, he is notorious for being emotional in his serious films. 4) It is well known that Spielberg chose to renounce for his fee as he considered it "blood money". Of course studios have to do a profit of their movies, but film is still a form of art. Movie makers of Spielberg's caliber do films without a simple capitalistic view of making money, but with the purpose of making an art work. Schindler's list is not a fancy action blockbuster, if nothing else, its black and white colouring identifies it as an art film. Add the fact the Spielberg felt personal about this story, and you'll realise how empty this claim is.5) This film was released in 1993; I personally don't know many outstanding holocaust films from before 1993 (certainly a lot from after 1993), or if there were, they certainly weren't as bold as this one. A black and white film about a crude subject that keeps the viewer's attention for 3 hours and 15 minutes. Think about it. I personally believe that, unlike other films (this includes my favourite holocaust film, Son of Saul), gives a such wide view on the holocaust. This film shows most of the aspects of the holocaust, some overrdramatised, but nonetheless represented. It is really stupid to see this movie as unnecessary. Conclusively, I'd like to point out that 6 million jews died due to the Holocaust. The only bigger genocide I know of is that of the native Americans, 18 million only in northen America. Seeing so many 1/10 reviews that base their claims on this being basically Jewish propaganda is worrying, especially considering the rise of right-wing ideologies that happened in the latter years. Are we forgetting history? I hope not. And, in case that's the truth, it's films like Schindler's list that remind us of that.


                
Schindler's List is one of the finest movie I have seen ever. Story sits in inner of heart. When ever i see this film, I get lot of positive energy. I get fighting spirit, way to go forward and energy to stand up. Grandness of this film gives a lot to learn for a film maker. Minute detailing and it's execution is nice which attracts us to watch again and again. The concept and treatment of the film is amazing.Film creates impact and convey the importance of humanity. Every man is good or bad. Situation explores different shades of life.


                
"Schindler's List" is the kind of movie that, because of its historical accuracy, could be used as a documentary. But it also gives us a deep story, and a performance by Liam Neeson, that is among the best of all time.The movie tells the story of Oskar Schindler (Neeson), a vain, glorious and greedy German businessman who becomes unlikely humanitarian amid the barbaric Nazi reign when he feels compelled to turn his factory into a refuge for Jews. Based on the true story of Oskar Schindler who managed to save about 1100 Jews from being gassed at the Auschwitz concentration camp.Steven Spielberg has a technical talent like no one else has. His frames are so elegant and objective, that you know what is going on, and where (in the last battle of "Saving Private Ryan" you can notice this qualities better), which makes us feel that we are living the movie. The massacres and killing scenes are distressing, because it looks like it's happening to you. And the idea of making this movie black and white gives a tone of reality, that looks like the movie was shot during WWII.The plot, beyond giving us a history lesson, shows the amazing story of Orkar Schindler, whose personality and turns are probably the best thing in the movie, and powered by Liam Neeson's incredible and contained performance, that is just one of the best. And other great characters, Ben Kingsley as Stern, as the smart, but quiet Jew, Fiennes as Goeth, the obsessed with power German (Although I thought it was exaggerated sometimes, like when he wakes up, and shoot Jews with a rifle, just for fun). And the construction of the characters is very well made, which makes the ending even more powerful, being one of the most moving scenes in the history of cinema.Verdict: Probably Spieberg's best work, with a moving and accurate story, and a mesmerizing performance by Liam Neeson, this movie is simply, one of the best.


                
