First of all my problem with this movie may be I am not an American. It may be it won a lot of Oscars. But the movie have been made before just better by the same director.Story: Same story as Mr. Deeds goes to town. Just removed of the parts where you get to like the protagonist. Seriously Smith arrives to Washington and disappears for 5 hours without anyone knowing where he is. Then you do not think he is a guy from the countryside like Deeds was but just a plain idiot. Then the conflict arrives. They have planned the same land for a Dam and a boy scout camp. The camp could have been moved easily without anyones protest the rich backer could even have bought some other land for him and be standing as the hero. This just destroyed the premise of the movie that the conflict is based on nothing plausible.Actors: Jean Arthur was lovely and played very well. Jimmy Stewart had better been replaced by Gary Cooper as in Deeds. Stewart of course did not have a lot to work with in this movie.Conclusion: It may have made a large impact when it was made. But not in any way subtle about anything. You pretty fast get hammered into your head how good Smith is and how corrupt the rest of the politicians are. Funny thing is the movie ignores politics completely. Had they wanted to show how it works then they had just found a solution about moving the camp. A bogus conflict flush out all the corruption. There are loads of better movies and less preachy about corruption. See Mr. Deeds go to town instead as that is a real gem even though topic is not politics.


                
I cannot believe that this movie is considered a "classic". The situations are ridiculous to the extreme. The black hats and white hats are way, WAY over the top. And the dewy sentimentality is so saccharine as to give one a sugar hangover. Stewart's performance has to rank as the worst of his career. I found it completely irrational that simply stating to the press that Sen. Smith "owned" the property in question would cause such a furor. Didn't they have real estate records in 1939??? While I LOVE "It's a Wonderful Life" and try to watch it at least once a year, I cannot understand why this dreadful effort is considered one of Capra's best. Don't waste your time or your money. There are far superior movie directed by Capra out there. And much, MUCH better work by Jimmy Stewart.


                
