This film is a study of a Good Guy, who wants funding to start a national boys' camp for the "Boy Rangers", going against the Bad Guys, who want to build a dam on the same land only for their own selfish interests (not hydro-electricity or anything, you fool). You may ask why taxpayers would want to pay for a camp only a few of the nation's boys could live near; you may ask why the camp couldn't be built on a different piece of land; you may ask why a private organization should get federal funds; you may ask if there were any issues that constituents would have found more pressing. Well, apparently that's because you're one of the Bad Guys too.


                
Maybe its because I'm a Brit, Maybe its because I'm a cynic, Oh hell,maybe its because I'm an out and out miserable bugger who doesn't like the political process being idealised. I found this film to be very very insulting. I watched it as part of my politics course at university and I found myself thinking why was this brought out? Then I realised, I hate patriotism. I hate this sentimental love of a nation. I hate the fact that this film appeals to the soppy American ideal, of the boy done good, gets framed and then decides to have his big moment. In fact I'll admit, I didn't watch it all. I walked out of the lecture, simply because I felt insulted. Granted you Americans will more than likely love this "masterpiece", but I wonder, had that been Mr Smith Goes To London would you have reacted the same, I know I would have...
I don't get why so many people like this movie.  I'm not some generation X kid who hates old movies, I like a lot of old B&W movies, but this is too boring!  It has the most unrealistic characters I have ever seen!  I was a boy scout, and I never had a scout leader that nice.  No one in this world is that nice and good.  Not even Jimmy Stewart is that nice in real life. Some of you might say, "Well, that's the way people should be."  Well, too bad.  This guy isn't a role model.  There is no way in hell this guy would ever exist.  I laughed throughout the entire movie at its absurbness.  Yes, the gov't is corrupt, but no one, NO ONE is that damn nice.  Now some of you may e-mail me and say, "you don't appreciate anything". Well, deal with it. This MOVIE IS TOO BORING!


                
