Director Frank Capra is maybe the greatest patriot in American film. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington shows plainly that he cares about national values and that he wants to help consolidate the communitarian spirit.For Frank Capra parliamentary democracy, enacted in a monument-studded capital, is a cornerstone of the structure of American values. For him it is, as this movie plainly shows, a matter of the heart. In my opinion, that is bad. Parliamentary democracy spells COMPROMISE. It is a matter of reason. Or else it would not work. That's what is wrong with this movie, it muddles the issue in a dangerous way.The protagonists are a young inexperienced Senator (James Stewart) and the big meddler and, so to speak, unofficial King of the Senator's state (Edward Arnold). The King has a pet project, a dam which - if I got that right - he wants to have financed by the Federal Government and from which he will eventually earn a huge profit. If others, not least the population of the concerned state, will also profit in one way or the other from the dam, does not interest anybody. Least the Senator. Because he has his own pet project, a camp for Boy Scouts which he envisions - what a coincidence! - on the very spot on which the aforementioned dam is planned. No wonder he is dead set against it.So, is it all about that goddamn dam? I'm afraid it is. For the sake of the two pet projects the legislative process of a whole nation is brought to a complete standstill while the Senator is filibustering - apparently the greatest achievement of American parliamentary democracy. Not the best propaganda for the system, if you think about it. It is hard not to see this as the Senator's selfish fight for an isolated issue, with an absolute disregard for the general whole. That his fight leads to a veritable and truly uncanny <U+0084>children's crusade" is frightening, not rousing.I know, I am probably too harsh on this movie. After all, it is only a movie, and its intentions are unquestionably good. James Stewart is at his stumbling cutest, and Jean Arthur, a truly wonderful actress who holds a special place in my heart, is at moments beautiful beyond belief. But it really worries me that messages which should be addressed to man's intelligence are reduced to an emotional impact.


                
The story is essential for a democracy: some of our representants are not that worthy thus corrupted and saying it is a healthy and moral duty and not a crime against homeland! However here this simple reality is lost in a slow, passive 2 hours speech and i finished it like Stewart, totally exhausted and tired! This dam project is not that gripping but the deal, is like in early Tintin, easily understood: Tycoons pays politicians to be allowed to do what they want and they hold medias to tell their lies! So i suppose an enlightened citizen doesn't believe any of them! There a few good moments, especially when Stewart visits historical places of Washingtown and the Senate chamber is well done. But Capra has not the same inspiration and energy from Wonderful Life, it's for sure. The last thing i noticed is that black people are just for singing and taking care of luggages, like once again in the old Tintin! So the idea that just confederate states were racist is once more time just a myth: this Wasp democracy was played all over the country from Washingtown to Hollywood!


                
