In "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," a U.S. senator suddenly passes away, and Mr. Smith is tapped to fill the position. Unbeknownst to the honest, decent Smith, he is intended merely to be a puppet of the powerful forces that already control the state's governor and its other Congressmen. Smith collides head-on with these forces and must fight to save himself and his values from destruction in the public arena."Mr. Smith," directed by Frank Capra, is not meant to be very realistic. The basic plot and characters of Mr. Smith are borderline ridiculous. Smith goes beyond naive, to the point of appearing ignorant and lacking in common sense at times. He seems to have the civics education of a 2nd-grader. Everything in the movie is exaggerated to the extremes.Capra's D.C. is likewise a caricature. The U.S. Senate is a united front of entrenched cronyism. They move as one nonpartisan mass, always supporting each other in their mutual corruption. The media is easily herded into line, an interpretation that probably strikes closer to truth, although that system today has been undermined by the Internet.Still, if the true Washington is not quite as fraudulent as Copra's version, there's no doubt that it is probably perceived that way by many Americans today. The film touches upon real issues that affect modern politics. It's amazing how relevant certain lines and scenes remain after all these years, perhaps more so today.What did bug me about the film was its shamelessly idealistic view of small-town American heroes like Mr. Smith. Like a Bruckenheimer movie where Billy boy and Jim Bob from the ranch save the planet, "Mr. Smith" sometimes comes off as a self-congratulatory pat on the back to the common man. It rails against the elitism and special interest of Washington, a popular sentiment today.This might not bother me so much except that this country is just coming off an extended experiment of putting a "commoner" in a government seat of critical importance and things didn't turn out so hot. As nasty, cold, and dirty as it may seem to place a compromising politician into DC, that may be preferable to putting an "oh shucks, well, golly gee, I dunno" kinda guy into a position of major responsibility.This country has a low tolerance for corruption. It has an even lower tolerance of incompetence.
Well, this is like any other political film oozing patriotism, where the small guy gets the big guy. The underdog wins. All American. Better yet, it is Frank Capra, with James Stewart. Can we get any more cliché? Oh, wait. The main character is a Jefferson Smith. Bribery, corruption, conspiracy, lies and deceit. It is all here. Shady deals, ulterior motives. In other words, politics. In case it was not already obvious, I am not very political. But guess what? In all the above ways, yes, this is like all those other films. But it the most important ways, it is not. What makes it different? In one word, Stewart. Sure, the clever writing, the directing, the supporting cast are all assets to the film. But he makes this film. His character's name is in the title, after all. Through his heartfelt performance as Jefferson Smith, the audience is inspired; even the most cynical of us might find ourselves beginning to really like this country, appreciate what we have today that our ancestors did not, and maybe even believe that we can make a difference by getting involved in politics. His naiveté is practically excruciating at times. His first glance at the White House can be compared to a little kid in a candy store. His first evening exploring all the monuments along and around the National Mall is shown in montage form with patriotic backgrounds music. Cheesy, yes. But somehow it was not as bad as it sounds. As he, an everyday man, tries to acclimate himself in the world of politics, each blunder brings new laughs. His awkwardness in palpable and his character lovable. Eventually, of course, he must learn the truth- that it does not really exist in the government. We all cheer for this everyday Smith as he tries to pave the way for all the little guys. As far as high school or even grade school education goes, this should be on a list of required viewings. Along with School House Rock's classic "How a Bill Becomes a Law", of course. I would have loved to learn about government, the Senate, bills, and filibusters this way. **** Spoilers **** Sadly, it was the ending that brought the greatest disappointment. It was extremely sudden and cheap. After all that determination and rallying from Smith; after how far Paine was willing to go to condemn the man he supposedly felt was "like a son" to him, after all his stubbornness to do the right thing, he gives up and confesses everything on the Senate floor? Highly unlikely. Even worse, it cheapens all that Smith has done.


                
After a vacancy opens, Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) is appointed to be the junior senator of some western state (Montana in the book). He does not know much about the procedures of the Senate, but quickly gets a crash course on how politics works. His one and only project he wants to push through, a boys camp, turns out to be a very contentious issues.This film has been nominated for and won a number of awards. And why not? It's an interesting tale of an ordinary man who goes to the government to get something fairly normal done. It's a film many people could identify with. I think it is also a strength of the film that no one is ever identified as a Republican or Democrat, essentially making it a story about civics and not about politics.I was not impressed with the cinematography, including the "hat shot" where the camera follows Smith's hat to show how awkward he is, or the use of the "soft lens", which just strikes me as blurry and ineffective. A face and music can be more powerful than a fuzzy frame.All in all a great film, though perhaps a bit long for some people's tastes. James Stewart is great as always (though I prefer the more mature Stewart), Jean Arthur is a decent female lead, and Jean Arthur's hats really do a fine job in the supporting actor role.


                
As Gore Vidal put it once: "'Politics' is made up of two words. 'Poli,' which is Greek for 'many,' and 'tics,' which are bloodsucking insects." Mr Smith Goes to Washinton is such a movie that satirizes how politics work far cry from how it should really work for the benefit of people who elect those who run this system.It's the story of Jefferson Smith, the honest and right-minded leader of the Boy Rangers, who is appointed on a senatorship by the weak-kneed governor of his state when a senator dies before he completes his term of office.When he is sent to Washington he is taken under the protective care of a corrupt and miscreant senator whom he naively idolizes because he was his late father's best and oldest friend. As time goes on however Mr Smith doesn't turn out to be a yes man as would be expected from those who run the political machine. He becomes progressively dismayed at how politics works for interests not people's good will.And with the help of Saunders who is supposed to take care of this naive guy at first he starts an honest fight.This plot is a really good and inspiring one.I am not surprised to learn that "When it was first released, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington was attacked as an anti-American pro-Communist film for its portrayal of corruption in American Government.The film was banned in Nazi Germany, and in other Fascist countries such as Italy and Spain, dubbing was used to alter the message of the film to conform with official ideology, according to Capra. " Because the movie blisters the mechanism of realpolitik,political corruption within any state's political machine, and guards the ethical values that any nation has.Such a movie may have been made by another nation I could say as a non-American viewer but it seems American had the guts to do it back then.I agree with people who claim the movie was dewy sentimental and overboard at some points like a longest filibuster or seeing almost every monument in one day and become over-patriotic under the effect of a dome.So I can say this one is not as good as "It's a Wonderful Life" but it is still a culturally and universally important movie.You see politics will always stay the same but still there will be always books,movies,journals,directors etc..who will fight against this juggernaut.


                
"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" is a drama movie in which we watch a man who is set to be a senator by the spineless governor of his state. He is a naive and idealistic and he wants to change everything starting from the building of a camp for children but his plans promptly collide with political corruption and there the true fight starts.I liked this movie because unfortunately shows us the truth that we all know but never want to believe or talk about it, political corruption and how this influence all of us and our lives. Also this movie also shows us the corruption of th press which is just a small part in the whole political corruption and has as a result the influence of people with lies in order for the companies or politicians to have bigger profit. I really liked the plot of this movie because it represents and shows all of the above. The interpretation of James Stewart who played as Jefferson Smith was simply outstanding and also good interpretation made by Jean Arthur who played as Saunders. Another one interpretation that has to be mentioned is Claude Rains who played as Senator Joseph Paine.Finally I have to say that "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" shows the truth about most of the politicians in many countries of the world who just want to earn more and more money. They do not care about anything else except that and have help from the press and media to succeed their goals. Although this movie also shows us also the other part of it, a decent man who believes in something that everyone forgot and fights for his believes until the end and never surrender, that's the true meaning of this movie and this we have to have as an example for our lives. So as you can understand I strongly recommend this movie to everyone.


                
Directed by Oscar nominated Frank Capra (The Bitter Tea of General Yen, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, It's a Wonderful Life), I had seen a few clips of this film with the leading actor, and I was definitely going to watch it because it appeared in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically U.S. Senator Sam Foley, of an unnamed western state, has died, governor Hubert "Happy" Hopper (Guy Kibbee) has to find a replacement, his corrupt political boss, media magnate Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold), wants a man appointed who will appeal to the people, and will be easy to manipulate. It is after a suggestion from his children that Hopper appoints the head of the Boy Rangers, naive and idealistic Jefferson Smith (Oscar nominated James Stewart), he displays a positive demeanour and does everything possible to gain a good reputation, but the newspapers portray and brand him as a bumpkin. Senator Joseph Paine (Oscar nominated Claude Rains) has a public esteem, but is secretly a crook, he wants Smith to propose a bill, with the help of his secretary Clarissa Saunders (Shane's Jean Arthur), who worked for his predecessor, Smith suggests a bill to authorise a federal government loan to buy land for the national boys' camp, to be paid back by youngsters across America, donations pour in immediately. It is when Smith goes to Washington he realises all the manipulation he has been drawn into, the situation gets worse when he realises he has been tricked into a political scandal, and he must appear before the Senate chamber. Smith exhausts himself to probe his innocence, proving himself actually knowledgeable about many subjects others thought he was naive towards, talking non-stop for about 24 hours, reaffirming the American ideals of freedom and disclosing the true motives of the dam scheme, until in the end he collapses, and Paine loudly confesses the scheme intentions, proving Smith's innocence. Also starring It's a Wonderful Life's Thomas Mitchell as Diz Moore, Eugene Palette as Chick McGann, It's a Wonderful Life's Beulah Bondi as Ma Smith, H.B. Warner as Senate Majority Leader, Oscar nominated Harry Carey as President of the Senate, Astrid Allwyn as Susan Paine, Ruth Donnelly as Mrs. Hopper, Grant Mitchell as Senator MacPherson, Porter Hall as Senator Monroe, Charles Lane as Nosey, William Demarest as Bill Griffith, Dick Elliott as Carl Cook and A Star Is Born's Jack Carson as Sweeney Farrell - Newsman. Stewart won his actor for The Philadelphia Story, he lost out in this film to Robert Donat in Goodbye, Mr. Chips, I agree he could have perhaps won this film, he is an endearing character, the only problem I have is that the politics is a little hard to keep up with, but the plotting by politicians using the leading character as their puppet is interesting, the best scenes are him defending himself in a courtroom style chamber, there were the small amusing moments as well, I can sort of agree with critics giving this film five stars out of five, it is a worthwhile political comedy drama. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Original Story, and it was nominated for Best Picture, Best Writing, Screenplay, Best Art Direction, Best Sound, Best Film Editing and Best Music for Dimitri Tiomkin. Jefferson Smith was number 11 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, and the film was number 29 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, 100 Years, it was number 26 on 100 Years, 100 Greatest Movies, and it was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Very good!
Mr. Smith Goes to WashingtonBeing elected to Senate is like winning the lottery because everyone in town now knows that you have millions of dollars to dole out.Hence, the effort that the newly elected Senator in this drama is putting into the formation of a boys' camp in his state.Appointed a US Senator through providence, head ranger scout Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) finds himself in Washington under the tutelage of Senator Paine (Claude Rains).Pegged as a patsy, Smith's subtle stubbornness shines through when his proposed wilderness sanctuary impedes on a dam construction bill helmed by his mentor, Paine.To prevent its construction, Smith stonewalls proceedings by prompting a filibuster.While the patriotic pageantry does get laborious, at its core, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is a hard-nosed account of dirty politics in action.As for making the right decision in politics, whichever choice covers up the strangled intern is the right one. (Green Light)


                
During the time of WWII in order to keep their actors, writors, and any other person envolved in the movie making process from being sent to war,Hollywoods finest agreed to produce movies to improve American morale. Mr. Smith goes to Washington is one of those movies. This movie has all of the red, white, and blue, and anything inbetween that could make all people proud of America. Jefferson Smith a leader in a small town is suddenly put in the position of state senator. He is very naive and this is the only reason he was given the job. Soon he is able to make his own project which with out his knowing goes againsn't the political machine of his state. Smith finds out that one man is running his state and corrupting its politions with money. He fights againsn't it with all of his might and with the constitution keeps the senate floor running for over 24 hours! This movie of Frank Capra's is certainly idealistic and perfect for America during the time of war. But today can seem almost cheesy, When Smith goes to Washington he a common tourist times 10. He insists on seeing almost every monument in one day and worries his fellow politions! Now this is a little over board, he should have more priorities than that. Although certainly very American this movie is a little over patriotic and not the best of Frank Capras work. The reunion of Capra and Stewart is wonderful in this movie, Stewart is wonderful playing his role as the naive senator.This choice for Stewart is superb he is a role model for all Americans and enhances the movies morale to the nth degree! Overall I would rate this movie a 7 out of 10.


                
Senator Jefferson Smith heroically stands up to financial corruption while simultaneously shredding much more important Constitutional principles.It's a reasonably well-made movie, though marred by excessive length, enormous plot holes, and Capra's usual ham-handed schmaltz, but mightn't it have been a good idea for Mr. Capra to actually read the Constitution and learn something about the American principles he goes on about? For the life of me, I can't find the part of the Constitution that empowers the federal government to loan money to build a boys' camp.Call me a crazed reactionary, but I'm far more concerned about assaults on the fabric of the Constitution--even seemingly minor ones--than I am about ordinary human turpitude.


                
A few things about this Frank Capra-directed classic bother me. First, we have to watch Jimmy Stewart getting schooled by Jean Arthur about the ways our government works. It's hard to believe that even the most naive simpleton did not get some basic civics course in high school, or that he could not go to the local library and look up a few things when he was appointed to fill a vacancy in the U.S. Senate. The fact of the matter is that Arthur's character, a woman, knows more about the government and its processes than Stewart, a man. Clearly, she is ten times more qualified than him, yet he is the one who gets to be Senator? I know, I know, the goons (played by Edward Arnold, Guy Kibbee and Claude Rains) want an idiot in the seat so they can manipulate him. But why doesn't Arthur or the other women like her fight for the job themselves?As if that is not enough, Capra and screenwriter Robert Riskin keep hammering the point that Stewart can get a bill passed for a law that would benefit a boys scout-type group. This is repeated several times, and we even see a throng of clean cut all-American boys in the Senate chamber on the day that Stewart is trying to introduce the bill. They, of course, applaud him enthusiastically. Never mind the fact that there are no girls in attendance-- they simply were overlooked or not invited. And why couldn't Stewart introduce a bill that would benefit both boys and girls in America? There are long speeches where he talks about how boys need to know the way our government works. Again, aren't girls allowed to know that, too?The sexism of this movie becomes increasingly apparent when you realize that there are no women on the Senate floor. And none are seen even as extras in crowd scenes involving politicians. Surely Arthur's character cannot be the only woman in the nation's capital. The filmmakers give the impression that a boys club is running Washington while the female sex is back at home preparing dinner.Did you know that the first woman senator was appointed to fill a vacancy just like Stewart's character, back in 1922? And by 1931 a woman from Arkansas named Hattie Caraway became the first fully elected lady senator, a position she held until 1945. Ms. Caraway was not the only female elected to the Senate in the 1930s. The year Columbia Pictures made MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, there were three other women in the Senate. So that's four women who should have been seen in the Senate chamber scenes of this film. But they are not there, not even on the sidelines or in the background. I am not saying this film necessarily had to be called MISS SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, but there is way too much gender bias in this film. And I don't see the purpose of it, unless the goal is to show that women do not have any say in our way of life in America. Doesn't that seem wrong to you?
James Stewart gives a classic performance as Senator Jefferson Smith in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. It's the type of performance which makes an actor a star and, sure enough, after making this film Stewart was on his way to becoming an American acting icon. But while Stewart's performance is an undeniable timeless classic there is the nagging sense that the film as a whole isn't quite on par with the performance of its leading man. It's a good film but perhaps it falls just a touch short of excellence.Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is another of those uplifting, inspiring stories which director Frank Capra seemed to specialize in. In this case the story revolves around a simple man, Jefferson Smith, thrust into a situation which is anything but simple. Smith's a good, honest, sincere fellow. A typical Capra hero. He is the head of a youth group, the Boy Rangers, and has a real passion for improving the lives of children. And he will take that passion to Washington when, completely out of the blue, he is appointed to the United States Senate to replace a deceased senator. It becomes apparent very quickly that this naive young man, armed only with the best of intentions, is in over his head. But that's part of what makes the character of Jefferson Smith so appealing. His home state's corrupt political machine figures his inexperience will make him easy to control. Boy are they ever in for a surprise.As we watch Jefferson Smith make his way in the seamy world of Washington politics it's very easy to embrace the character. But it is at times somewhat less easy to embrace the film. Everyone remembers the famous final scene. It's powerful and inspiring and brilliantly done. In that scene we get to see both a character, Jefferson Smith, and an actor, James Stewart, really come into their own. It's magnificent. But much of what precedes that scene comes across as rather mundane. The story proceeds at a leisurely pace, at times much too leisurely. Too often there just is not much going on to move the story forward. Stewart is terrific and his two main co-stars, Jean Arthur as Smith's initially jaded assistant and Claude Rains as the less than honest senior senator from Smith's state, are very good as well. So the performances aren't the problem. It's the story, which turns out to be a little too simple to really sustain itself for over two hours. And if the story had a little better pace to it perhaps the film wouldn't have in the end been in such a hurry to finish which, after Stewart's big scene, leaves us with an ending which is jarringly abrupt. Losing some scenes in the middle of the film to leave some more time to better wrap things up at the end would have been a good trade-off. But for whatever little disappointments there may be this still is a very good film, one which features one of Hollywood's most classic performances. James Stewart alone would be enough to make this film worth watching. And there are enough good things around him to ultimately make the film very satisfying.


                
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington B+/C 3.31.00 1.33:1/1.0 First ViewingNot as powerful as It<U+0092>s A Wonderful Life, but still a great combination of script and Mr. Stewart.  The many shots of Washington must have really been a blast for early movie goers, and still look good today.  As Capra<U+0092>s son states in an interview on the disc, this movie is timeless: it could take place today just as easily as the late <U+0091>30s.


                
Essentially, this is the same story as MR. DEEDS GOES TO TOWN, an earlier, better, Capra film. Stewart is good as the altruistic young senator, but not as good as he was in movies like THE PHILADELPHIA STORY, or even ROPE, where his characters have much more meat. Jean Arthur is wonderful, playing the same kind of role she played in DEEDS, but with more maturity and confidence. Claude Rains is terrific as the duplicitous senior senator from the same unnamed state as Smith.The movie itself is a good lesson in Washington politics, relevant even now with its cynical mentality about money and corruption. But the story doesn't quite hold up. At some points it's like watching an infomercial for AMERICA! The Constitutional propaganda gets a bit much even for a Capra movie. I loved the filibuster sequence to a point - and then you get to that point and it's over the top. The ending is particularly unsatisfying, especially given Capra's normal emphasis on conclusions.I don't want to give the impression that I didn't like it, it's an excellent movie. I just wouldn't put it into an elite classic category.


                
