Frank Capra and James Stewart were nearly unsurpassed at the task of taking the kind of story that is optimistic but that borders on being trite, and making it into a satisfying, worthwhile movie. In "Mr. Smith Goes To Washington", they accomplish this with a little help from Jean Arthur, Claude Rains, and Edward Arnold. It's not quite on the level of "It's a Wonderful Life", but it is as good as almost anything else of its kind.Stewart's performance is important right from the beginning - hardly anyone else could have been believable as the earnest unknown who suddenly becomes an important political figure. Even his wide-eyed appreciation for what he sees in Washington comes across believably. As the story gets more complicated and his character is developed further, Stewart is even better.The secondary characters are also important, because the story itself is a rather stylized, though still worthwhile, statement about politics. The characters are more believable than are many of the plot developments. Rains contributes a lot as Stewart's troubled colleague, and Jean Arthur is a natural for this kind of role. Arnold plays his devious character well. Capra holds it all together with his craftsmanship, keeping the story on track and getting the most out of the situation.


                
When I started seriously collecting films in the mid '90s and discovered classic movies, this was one of the first famous classic films I watched. I found it a good movie, a very powerful one, but yet one I have not watched again, for some reason. I guess it wasn't that attractive to me to see multiple times.Yet, I can't criticize it. Jimmy Stewart is interesting as always, in the lead as "Jefferson Smith." Jean Arthur is the most fun of all the actors to watch in here and actually her "Clarissa Saunders" might be the lead character, not Stewart's. Claude Rains is so good that you want to punch his character, "Sen. Joseph Paine" right in the nose!I will say it's very dated, but some of that corny stuff adds to the enjoyment of the story. Some of it is refreshing, too, like the unashamed overt promotion of solid values, for instance - something Liberal viewers watching this must hate. You don't see that much patriotism or values-first themes in movies anymore.A good movie, but at 130 minutes a bit long and one that I would advise to rent first instead of purchasing blind because of its high reputation.


                
If there is a better film about America and American ideals, I have yet to see it, or even hear of it. Frank Capra is the quintessential American director. He was obsessed with optimism and an unequaled faith in the American spirit, and it really shows in this film. I personally don't care if the story is a bit far-fetched or if the characters are a bit exaggerated. This is not so much a film about Washington politics as it is about the power of right ideas. I feel he adroitly accomplishes his goal, which is to show that good can prevail. James Stewart is one of America's greatest actors. He was as hard-working and talented as anyone else. The role of Jefferson Smith could have easily been a caricature. A typical actor could have overplayed his bunglingness. Stewart, however, gives him a humanity and a naive sincerity that makes you really sympathize with him. This is one great performance. All of the supporting roles are very good. Claude Rains is perfect as the corrupted senior senator. He gives his character a interior goodness. I never really believed that he was totally evil. Jean Athur is witty and cynical as Saunders. She is one of the many innocents caught in the machinery of Washington. This is a really good movie. As a history teacher, I would like all my students to see this movie. This is more than fantasy. It is a positive view of America. It is a belief that the good should fight for the good until the end.
Corrupt political boss Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold) has a land scheme on a dam building project. When the US Senator dies, he wants the governor to put his man in the job. The governor gets overwhelmed and picks the head of the Boy Rangers Jefferson Smith (James Stewart). The junior Senator Smith is guided by the crooked Senator Joseph Paine (Claude Rains) who was his father's friend. Smith is utterly naive and unfamiliar with Washington. He falls head over heals with Senator Paine's daughter Susan (Astrid Allwyn). Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur) is the dead senator's secretary. She has lost her idealism and faith in the system. Smith proposes a national boys camp. Saunders starts to believe. Donations pour in but the campsite turns out to be part of the dam project and threaten the political graft scheme.There is such overwhelming sincerity from Frank Capra that any cynicism is driven out. That's the beauty of this movie. It taps into the quintessential little guy against the big guys. Stewart is utterly believable as the completely naive common man. Arthur is a great broad with a heart of gold. The start is a bit of a chore until James Stewart and then Jean Arthur get on the screen. However it doesn't get much better in cinema than the Senate filibuster scene.


                
Yes, "Mr. Smith" is a terrific example of classic Hollywood writing, and one of Capra's best movies, but this film was made to me by Jimmy Stewart.  He was that sort dumb man charm that makes you like him right away, to root for him, for his character.  And there a lot of actors he can do that.  But unlike most of the likable Hollywood stars, Jimmy Stewart is also an amazing actor.  Vocal patterns, facial expressions, whatever, Jimmy Stewart can use them to transcend any kind of a powerful, or subtle, emotion .  And this performance was the highlight of his career.  it defined everything that was great about Jimmy Stewart.   Not to mention a great supporting cast featuring Claude Raines.I would have liked to give the film a higher rating, but as always, Capra's sentimentality got to me.  Some of the stuff in the film is so happy it feels fake.  Capra is the master of sentimentality, but it is still not the greatest of film styles.  This film is still classic.   It is best both Capra and Stewart had too offer, and the combination provides mostly joy, though sometimes it can be piled on a little too thick.7.5/10* * * 1/2  / * * * *


                
You have to appreciate a movie that manages to be both hopelessly naive and bitingly cynical at the same time, and that still manages to make everything work. The great strength of this movie is James Stewart in the role of the newly appointed (much to his surprise) Senator Jefferson Smith, sent to Washington by his unnamed state's governor to fill a vacancy created by the death of the incumbent. Of course, Smith wasn't really appointed by the Governor. The Governor (and Smith's senior Senator) were just tools of the state political machine - a role Smith is expected to fulfil. But he's ill suited to the job. Jefferson was the leader of the Boy Rangers, who's spent his adulthood instilling into the boys pride in America and democracy and who isn't about to give in when he stumbles across corruption being planned by the machine, which then sets out to destroy him as quickly as it made him.Stewart was great in this role. His wide-eyed wonder at seeing Washington for the first time; his social awkwardness and shyness; his genuine humility (not believing that he belongs in the Senate); and finally his growing contempt for the corrupt system he discovers - these are all portrayed absolutely perfectly by Stewart. The movie is his, backed by a strong supporting cast - but it's his.The mix of naivete and cynicism might seem an awkward fit, but it worked surprisingly well. The portrayal of life on the floor of the Senate was also interestingly shown. The "scandal" Smith gets embroiled in (as he's framed by the machine) plays out far too quickly to be believable, and yet you feel his anguish and despair over his reputation being attacked and his honesty called into question. In an age in which attack-style politics is now the accepted norm, it was nice to see the decent, honest guy who just wants to do what's right triumph against the corrupt mud-slingers. This is a very enjoyable movie.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" (1939) is a very solid movie that could have been great if not for a kinda cheezee ending. I liked the performances in this movie as well as great directing and a truly good (for the time) and kinda inspiring script and story. Overall, "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" is a movie surely not to be missed one. Its a pure classic, and a very good movie overall.


                
A senator suddenly dies and a replacement needs to be named. The other senator for the state, Joseph Paine (Claude Rains), along with Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold), his corrupt businessman backer, decide to name a truly surprising candidate, one Jefferson Smith (James Stewart). He's meant to be nothing more than a seat warmer so that Paine and Taylor can push through a new piece of legislation concerning a dam, meant to make them filthy rich. Unfortunately Mr. Smith is something they've rarely seen and are utterly incapable of understanding: a good and honest man. And a boy scout to boot.The film is corny and filled with pathos. Phrases like "the American dream", "truth and honesty", "reliability", and so many like those, get thrown around all the time. Politicians are nothing more than hungry jackal fat cats, aiming to filch the hard-earned pennies of the good American people. True way of life is to be found outside, on the prairies where grass leans on the wind. On the mountains reflected against the noon sun. I could feel my spleen turning red, white and blue as I watched this film.And yet, despite all that, the film is magnificent. Perhaps it's because 'It's a Wonderful Life', another film from director Frank Capra, also stars Stewart, but for some reason or other this film reminds me of Christmas. Because Christmas is also corny and filled with pathos. It is. But it's also the best time of the year. When it's okay to be a bit sentimental. Or a lot sentimental. When it's okay to remind ourselves of the values we all hold dear, but which we usually don't talk about because it's seen as embarrassing.Hopefully people still watch this film. Because even though it's old, and corny, and sentimental, and even a bit silly, it's values, themes and lessons are as relevant today as they were back then. Perhaps even more so.


                
Politics has, and always will be, the art of compromise. If it wasn't hardly any of the business of the nation would ever get done. Even a boy ranger has to do that every now and then. Compromise is not a word heard in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. Frank Capra's heroes and villains are starkly contrasted in his populist films. This film with its powerful performance by James Stewart as Jefferson Smith, interim appointee to the United States Senate from an unnamed western state, is now such a part of Americana that criticism of it is almost sacrilegious. The performance is great, but the premise behind the film needs some examination.Having a national boy's camp seems like a fine idea, who could be against it. But having it be at Willett Creek in his state, was that truly necessary? Granted that the proposed dam is piece of pork barrel legislation that a few are going to make a killing on. Quite realistically the dam is a rider on an appropriations bill that Capra names the "deficiency bill" which is a bill for further relief to the citizens of 1939 USA which was still in the Depression. Stewart is by his filibuster, holding up relief for a whole nation. Here's where compromise comes in. The seasoned politician or even a novice trying to learn would ask himself, just what are my priorities? Isn't getting that boy's camp my goal, how do I achieve that goal? In the end Stewart might get that boy's camp, but I certainly hope if he did stay in the Senate he didn't develop any other goals that halted the nation's business.Give and take, that's what it's all about folks.Jean Arthur is a fine Capra heroine. Women in Capra films can certainly be independent and have careers, but their main function is to support the hero, especially when he's down. Her best moments in this film and in Mr. Deeds Goes to Town is when the hero seems beaten and all is lost, she provides the spark that gets him up before the bell counts him out.Capra rounds the cast out with a whole crew of familiar players who you look to as old friends whenever you see one of his films. One of Capra's great attributes was an intuitive sense of casting, just like John Ford. Whenever you see Edward Arnold, Guy Kibbee, Thomas Mitchell, you know immediately the kind of part they will be playing and you welcome them as old friends.Claude Rains plays the other Senator from Stewart's state, a well respected man who's being talked of for the White House. It's Rains's only Capra film and as always he gives a great performance. He's the mouthpiece of Edward Arnold's political machine in the Senate and has been there a few terms. He's also an old friend of Stewart's late father. It's only an appeal to Rains by Stewart on a personal basis that breaks things open during that famous filibuster scene. Capra had to have that in the story because other than that, Stewart would have been dealt with by his colleagues summarily despite his last stand heroics.Ego is something that has to be put aside occasionally. I do wonder what happens to Stewart and Arthur in the future because it doesn't look like he's learned that.


                
Produced and directed by Frank Capra, with a story by Lewis R. Foster and a screenplay by Sidney Buchman, this essential political comedy drama features James Stewart in the title role, as Jefferson Smith (AFI's #11 hero), who's appointed to the Senate by his state's Governor Hubert 'Happy' Hopper (Guy Kibbee), on the advice of his children (the Watson brothers), when one of their Senators dies. The state's senior Senator Joseph Harrison Paine is played by Claude Rains.Stewart's character is a young, idealistic boys' club (like the Boy Scouts) leader and a patriot, who's far too naive to fair very well among the alligators in Washington, D.C.. This fact is quickly recognized by everyone, especially the former Senator's streetwise secretary Clarissa Saunders (Jean Arthur), who helps Smith navigate the treacherous waters of our nation's capital (and capitol building) and eventually (and obviously) falls in love with him.Edward Arnold plays media magnate Jim Taylor, who controls the state's political party and "owns" several (if not all) of its politicians. At the time of Smith's appointment, Taylor is in the midst of having his civil servants put through some pork barrel legislation (a dam project) for his own financial real estate benefit. Once the junior Senator catches wind of what's going on, Taylor utilizes Paine et al against Smith, who famously incorporates a one man filibuster, in a symbolic fight against the other politicians' corruption.Thomas Mitchell, Eugene Palette, Beulah Bondi as Ma Smith, H.B. Warner as the Senate Majority Leader, Harry Carey as the Vice President, Grant Mitchell and Porter Hall as senators, Charles Lane as a newsman named Nosey, William Demarest, and Dick Elliott are among those also in the cast.Capra earned two Academy Award nominations, Best Picture and Best Director; Foster won the film's only statuette for his original story, and Buchman's screenplay was Oscar nominated. Stewart received his first Best Actor nomination; supporting actors Rains (his first) and Carey (his only) were also nominated, as was Lionel Banks' Art Direction, Dimitri Tiomkin's Score, John Livadary's Sound, and its Editing (Gene Havlick's last nomination, Al Clark's second). The film was added to the National Film Registry in 1989. #29 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movies list. #5 on AFI's 100 Most Inspiring Movies list.


                
IF only we had a Mr. Smith now to uncover the corrupt Bush administration. Jimmy Stewart would do so much good. He was excellent in this movie that I saw today (fourth of July). This was my second time to see it!! The cast was great. Jimmy Stewart played Jeff Smith, an HONEST MAN (unlike Bush) and was appointed to the Senate. He wanted to overturn the corrupt POLITICAL MACHINE!!! He hated this Jim Taylor guy and so did I. Harry Carey was great as the Senate president. I liked the way he always SMIRKED and smiled. I hated some of the senators. Thank god Claude Raines's character came to his senses. The FILIBUSTER was great. Jimmy Stewart, in real life, stayed up 38 hours to add an element of realism. Howard Stern thinks James Stewart was kind of gay in real life and that his agents made him be with prostitutes to prove he was indeed NOT GAY! Any way, if you hate Bush you will love this movie. We need Mr. Smith in the WHITE HOUSE. Where are you Mr. Smith? The USA needs you in 2006!


                
"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" (1939) is a professionally produced comedic drama about a naïve man, Jefferson Smith played by James Stewart, thrown into a vacant senate seat to allow corruption to unknowingly pass through the Senate. Through accidental discover, Jefferson identifies the corruption and refuses to take it sitting down. I traditionally am not a fan of political or older movies, but this film is an exception. The strong storyline in this film made me upset to watch because the message is still relevant 80 years later. For the year it was produced, it is an extremely sound film from a visual and sound perspective, and I like it.Director Frank Capra did an amazing job with timing and pacing in this film. Anyone who can captivate an audience during a filibuster is a wizard and he proved it in this film. It is hard to identify with the acting because I am not from that era, but one thing I did notice was there wasn't as much of the traditional over acting common with that time. These are the type of performances I would have love to see in all the old films. I believe this level of acting may have drastically changed my opinion of older movies. This film is a must see especially for anyone who truly believes politics is a completely honest profession.


                
A senator dies and the corrupt politicians try to put their guy in - but the governor puts Mr. Smith instead, thinking he'll be such a newb that he won't understand what's going on. Jimmy Stewart takes the oath and vows to 'do nothing to disgrace the office of United States Senate'. The system tries its best to chew him up and spit him out but Mr. Smith perseveres.The leading lady, played by Jean Arthur, works for the office of the senate as a sort of personal assistant. But she understands everything that's going on and naturally ends up helping and falling for Jimmy Stewart. Claude Raines plays the two-faced man-of-the-establishment. He chokes a bit on his lines but overall is a believable villain.Frank Capra directs this classic film that falls at #26 on AFI's list of top 100 films. I wholeheartedly agree with the value of this film. In the usual Capra style, the film is a bit long but its message resounds 80 years later.'Malice toward none and charity toward all.'
It's interesting how Mr. Smith Goes to Washington feels so dated and yet so relevant at the same time. This movie itself feels like Jefferson Smith, naively striding into the homes of the cynical and skeptical modern public, only to prove that it does, indeed have something important to offer. This movie still packs an emotional punch almost 80 years after it was made and it's easy to see why it's a classic.


                
When Mr. Smith enters United States Senate his honesty collides with the corrupted world of politics, but once he's in he refuses to give up on his righteousness. The movie is somewhat naive and utopian, but it's very well done and very entertaining. Eleven nominations for Academy Award and Oscar for the Best Original Story are well deserved.8,5/10


                
Definitely not a great, timeless classic as many people imagine. However, it makes essential viewing if you're a fan of any of these - Jimmy Stewart, Frank Capra, 30s comedies. And yes, I'm a fan of all three. No wonder I fell for it.It is rather difficult to critically evaluate Capra's populist parables. Criticizing them is a bit like taking a spade to a soufflé! The movie works so compellingly on first viewing that one doesn't mind the numerous problems in its screenplay. The flaws become more apparent on multiple viewings.I don't think it ranks among the very best movies of the thirties. The first half which plays like a screwball comedy is positively brilliant. However Capra turns serious in the second half when there is no basis for seriousness.Nevertheless it makes wholesome family viewing. The performances, I must say, are exceptional without any exception.


                
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is the classic story of an American Hero.  After the death of the senate, they strive to search for a new candidate, yet not an honest one.  Who's ever heard of an honest government official?  They're looking for a guy that is a puppet.  A puppet in the puppet master's show<U+0085>they search for a coward that will do anything to be in and stay in the senate.  Ironically, they find quite possibly the only man with true morals, Jeff Smith (Jimmy Stewart). 	Without going into too much detail about the movie, it must be said that the cast was brilliantly chosen.  Jimmy Stewart is such a spectacular actor and can light even the darkest of a character.  The fact that he's portraying an honest, caring man does him even better.  Every line is sincere, full, and alive.  He has such talent and grace on the set.  He was born to be an actor, and this movie was lucky to have him.  Jean Arthur put on a magnificent show.  She was sheik but tough, distressed, but strong.  In addition to the acting, the plot was solid<U+0085>flawless and catching.  It got very slow and drawn out at times, but nonetheless, it was amazing.  Frank Capra didn't go wrong in making this film. 	All in all, this film is definitely a keeper and very recommended.  Having an overall score of 8.4/10 stars, this viewer doesn't disagree.  A solid 8 for an astonishing movie.


                
In Mr. Smith Goes To Washington, Jimmy Stewart's character (Jeff Smith, natch) is a dangerously ignorant rube. For a short while, his awe of Washington D.C. is charming. After a few scenes of his ADHD "look at that" sight-seeing, you have to wonder if he's going to get mugged by somebody while he's staring up at the Lincoln Memorial. Even his associates lose patience with the enthusiastic hayseedery. Jeff is just lucky that Saunders (Jean Arthur) doesn't have the same amount of contempt for him that Arthur had for Stewart's performance.Still, there's something special in the final 30 minutes of this picture as Jeff filibusters on the Senate floor. It's cornball and as unsubtle as punches to reporter's faces, but Jeff's fight for his political life represents all the little people out there who feel steamrolled by The Man. You know, 99% of us. And the movie has endured. The American Film Institute ranked it 29th and 26th, respectively, on their 1998 and 2007 Top 100 lists and they made it their 5th Most-Inspiring movie. Ol' Jeff Smith was their 11th best hero. Men who won't shut up and then faint at critical moments are cheer-worthy!At least the excellent Claude Rains is around to give the flick gravitas, even if his change of heart at the end is staggeringly unbelievable. Thomas Mitchell's hard-drinking reporter is fine too and Harry Carey (as the Vice President) is a sneaky delight. As for Jimmy Stewart, something must be cleared up once and for all. It's not that he led a one-man filibuster. It's just that his slow-talking stammer made his speech take all night. Hi-yo! Thanks, you're a beautiful audience. I'll be here all week. Probably filibustering.If you dug this snapshot review, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 42-minute Mr. Smith Goes To Washington 'cast<U+0085>and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "Top 100 Project".
Splendid performances from James Stewart and Claude Rains in this famous political comedy (and to my shame not seen by me until December 2014). There is much to enjoy in this classic story of a small town honest guy standing up against mighty political corruption in the big city. I didn't really see where this was going in terms of how the powers that be were going to destroy the James Stewart character – and then it hit like a sledgehammer! Really great stuff and just as pertinent today as it was 75 years ago when this film was made. it's a long film by the standards of 1939 Hollywood – but certainly does not outstay it's welcome. Beautiful quality black and white photography with some nice tourist scenic shots of Washington DC. There's an amusing sequence when Stewart fidgets with his hat and a nice montage of hot metal and letterpress printing presses (which perform a sort of 'duel' in the context of the film).
Infused with patriotism, exhibiting excellent use of humour & starring James Stewart in the role that instantly propelled the then-young actor into the spotlight, Frank Capra's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is another quality product from the notable filmmaker that skilfully presents its support of democracy & is now counted amongst the great American films of its era.Mr. Smith Goes to Washington follows the political adventures of Jefferson Smith; leader of The Boy Rangers who is appointed by the State Governor to fill a vacancy in the US Senate after the untimely death of the previous Senator. Young, naive & idealistic, Smith discovers an entirely different world on his arrival to Washington & soon decides to stand up against corruption.Directed by Frank Capra, the film was controversial at its time of release for daring to show corruption within the American government which infuriated many back then but with time, that part of its premise has only become more significant. Capra's direction is impressive for the most part, script keeps the plot moving with enthusiastic energy & the entertainment is top-notch.The technical aspects are all finely executed, leaving nothing to complain but it's the acting department which further elevates this brilliant cinema to a higher level for the lead as well as the supporting performances are high-calibre stuff here. James Stewart steals the show as the naive Senator who stages a thrilling battle on the Senate floor but the input by Jean Arthur & Claude Rains is equally commendable.On an overall scale, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington hits the right balance between comedy & political drama to succeed as an intelligently crafted, highly entertaining & mostly satisfying cinema. While the overly-stretched finale coming to an abrupt conclusion wasn't something I was looking forward to, this often hilarious but mostly uplifting take on how one man can affect the politics of a nation is definitely worth your time & money. Don't miss it.


                
A poignant and powerful American film that is extremely patriotic.James Stewart played an iconic character of Jefferson Smith, a juvenile senator. He played with a rare naive and innocence that set the role on a whole high. It is easily a charming and lovely performance by him. Indeed, there is nothing charming about the character coz its neither stylish nor flamboyant, but its supremely honest and that is what is charming about Senator Smith.This film is certainly one of the finest Capra's film and probably next only to his It's a Wonderful Life. It tells the story of how an upright straightforward juvenile boy is trapped in the conundrums of corruption that is there in 1930s America. And how he fights to overcome that. Now this is a simple line that is made extravagant by imbibing many political details in the realms of the script. From elaborating the meaning of Liberty to referring many clauses of USA constitution, this film is wonderfully insightful and politically detailed. The dare of the director to take on a corrupt and flawed state of the political system in America is worth appreciating. This indeed stands out as a very first and prominent film to take on the role of nexus between politicians and local business people. Every technical department from light to sound to writing is perfect. Above all, I loved the writing by Rob Riskin and Frank Capra. This is a fine film and has many great moments. Thanks to Capra for this and admiration for his work grows. A 4/5 for this.


                
When "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" was released in 1939, Frank Capra already had a trio of Best Director Oscars sitting on his mantle. His latest film was met with wide acclaim and at Oscar time it was rewarded with an impressive eleven nominations (winning one). Today, over seventy years later the film is rightly recognized as a classic.The story concerns idealistic senator Jefferson Smith (James Stewart) who is appointed to his position by superiors looking for someone who'll be seen and not heard. However, when Smith attempts to utilize his position for the good of his state's citizens he quickly finds that his proposed bill conflicts with an existing bill that was drafted with less than honourable intentions.The cast is, in a word, excellent. James Stewart's Oscar-nominated performance is the bedrock upon which the film is built. He brings a sense of nobility to the character that could have seemed phony in the hands of another actor. Jean Arthur's world-weary character is similar to the one she played in Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town" and she once again does a fine job. The supporting cast also contains some noteworthy individuals. Claude Rains deservedly landed an Oscar nomination for his standout performance while Thomas Mitchell and Edward Arnold could easily have been similarly honoured. Harry Carey also scooped up an Oscar nomination for his performance though I don't think that it was really that extraordinary.The film's only Oscar win was for the original story. The fact that the plot has the usual Capraesque elements would seem to suggest predictability but the screenwriters do a fine job of getting us invested in what's transpiring on screen. Capra landed an Oscar nomination for his deft direction while the editing, sound and art direction were also awarded nominations. These were all important elements in the film's overall technical appeal, as was Dimitri Tiomkin's stirring score, which was also Oscar nominated.In the end, my only complaint about the film is that it seemed to drag slightly in the latter stages. This is perhaps unsurprising given the fact that the climax takes the form of a contest of endurance. Nevertheless, this amounts to the latter stages being merely good while the rest of the film is exceptional.


                
I'd not seen this Frank Capra film before, so I was very happy to sit down recently to see it. A long time coming, but it was well worth the wait.The year 1939 saw some of the greatest of the classic Hollywood period: Gone with the Wind, Wuthering Heights, The Wizard of Oz, The Grapes of Wrath <U+0096> and of course, Mr Smith. Now, having seen this one, I have to say I like it better than the others.And that's strange for me because I don't much like fantasies <U+0096> because this story is a fantasy dressed up to look like a believable story. What makes this movie for me is, apart from Capra's directorial skill, the acting: all of the main actors <U+0096> James Stewart, Jean Arthur, Claude Rains, Edward Arnold, Thomas Mitchell, Harry Carey, and H. B. Warner <U+0096> give flawless performances aided by a scintillating script from Sidney Buchanan.The story, as most know, revolves around a young man, Jefferson Smith (Stewart) who's pulled from obscurity to appointment to the US Senate, after the incumbent dies in office. Smith goes to Washington, sets up his office, engages a very engaging Clarissa Saunders (Arthur) as his PA, and sets about settling in. In doing so, he unsettles much of the sitting Senate when introducing a Bill for a Boy's Camp, to be built smack dab in the middle of an area where crooked senators had been finagling land sales prior to the construction of a new dam. Damn! They think<U+0085>especially one Senator Paine (Rains), a real pain in the posterior for Smith as he sets about initiating a filibuster in the Senate to gain approval for the passage of his Boy's Camp Bill.Got all that? It's not so complicated, really, and it's a lot of fun watching the players as they jockey for position, to get the upper hand on the other. There's pathos as Smith staggers about, exhausted, dispirited, almost at wit's end. There's high drama, as Paine denounces Smith as a liar and charlatan. And, there's love, sweet love, as Saunders - chaste Saunders - comes back to help Smith with his filibuster.Today's audience would probably regard the story as so dated. In many ways, it is of course. There is, however, an overarching theme to this narrative that's contained in the US Constitution <U+0096> and in other democracies <U+0096> having something to do with government of the people, and so on...Some might even argue that it's over the top, and I suppose it is: how can you expect any new senator not to become corrupted by Washington, given the excesses of the last forty years or so? So, that's why Mr Smith is a fantasy: such a story exists only in your wildest dreams. It could never happen in real life. Could it? Well, this is 2008, and look around at what's happening...This is a film for all Capra fans. It's perhaps his best. And, I recommend it for all to see at least once.I also think it's a film that's still as relevant today as it was in 1939. In fact, I think it's one of those rare films like Casablanca (1942): it's timeless.


                
James Stewart was perhaps the forefather of good old fashioned 'aw shucks' likability in American cinema. He represented the common man, so what better way to get the masses on his side than to show him railing against corporate greed and yet still emerging from the murky swamp with his sense of idealism unblemished? Here is a character to throw your support behind and root for like the noble prizefighter who just won't lay down. It may be emotion in the rah-rah and flag waving sense, but his commitment and integrity gets the blood pumping. Hopefully it gets people thinking that if Jefferson Smith were a real man then they'd vote for him. It would be a vote for decency - a quality which we tend to find is sadly lacking amongst politicians in general.If he were a fool then he wouldn't have my sympathy, but there's more to this guy than the simple patsy the top brass think they're recruiting... He has a few allies to help stiffen his resolve in the lions den, and one of the great pleasures beside the pure ethics of the tale is the canny way a gradual affection develops between Smith and his strong-willed secretary (Jean Arthur). It's traditional in virtually any setting to have a dash of romance that may well blossom, but don't let the earnest nature of Jefferson fool you into thinking it will be sappy. As the man becomes more confident in his new environment, he begins to get an education in all sorts of other ways, too - tastefully dealt with, of course. We as the audience learn along with him. Remarkably for a document of 1939, even as a basic civics lesson much of it hasn't dated and is disguised in an entertaining manner.It's cleverly set up from the beginning that Jefferson Smith is a reverent and respectful man, so for me the misty-eyed sentimentality that underpins the story never grated in the slightest. Part of his appeal is that his core values manage not to change, so it would have been a shame to see his character grow hardened.Mr. Smith got his shot at going to Washington. I urge you to take the trip with him. For anyone who still holds a shred of optimism in their hearts, it will not be a wasted journey.


                
Perhaps Frank Capra's best directed film, if not necessarily his best overall film, Capra tells the story with an effective visual side, although praise should also be extended to the cinematography and the smart editing, which allows for speedy pacing without confusion, and which features informative montages as part of the editing design. In many ways, the film is similar to 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town', and it is not really better; instead of improving as it approaches the end, 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' is weakest towards the end. It seems to have a nice, feel-good air to it, so a "happy" conclusion is easily predicted, and if that is not enough, the conclusion itself is contrived. The final twenty minutes in fact are rather messy, and even if well paced to begin with, this over-sentimental tale does not stretch too well over more than two hours. There is a lot that makes this film worth watching though, even with its detractors. As well as the already mentioned visuals, Claude Rains and Harry Carey are excellent in their supporting roles, and the film does provide some insight into the workings of the United States senate and related politics.


                
