I can't remember the last movie I saw that was this full of crap. How did they convince that cast this story would be anything other than the "t-shirt"/"movie of the week" Brad Pitt's character said it was going to be? The performances were fine (particularly Freeman's and Spacey's). The script, however, was a travesty.First, the consistency of the killings is completely muddled. The first five murders were committed by Spacey's character ("John Doe"--how original) because of what he perceives to be the sins committed by those he's killed. OK so far. The 6th murder (of Paltrow's character) is also done by Doe, but not because of a sin she's committed, rather because of the sin Doe perceives HE has committed. Got that? And the 7th murder is done by Pitt's character to Doe because of the sin Mills (Pitt) carries with him (I guess?). But even if you link the "Envy" murder of Doe by Mills as one of the 7 sinners who "deserved" to be killed for their sin, why was Paltrow's character killed again? And along with that, why does Pitt's character get to live for the sin of Wrath? Another plot point that I don't think can be overlooked... If Doe was the religious lunatic he was presented to be, the murder of Paltrow's character and her unborn child would surely have been the 6th AND 7th murders. Doe was aware she's pregnant. Of course, how do you link an unborn child with a deadly sin? I see the writer's problem. His solution was a train wreck.I also didn't buy at all that Doe was actually envious of Pitt's character. It made for a quirky plot twist, but it seemed so inconsistent for that character. It also didn't make much sense from a plot perspective (see paragraph above).Have I got to 7 things yet? Did I mention the silly 7 in the title? How about the constant allusions to Somerset's knife, the knife tossing, etc... which turns out to be needed most in the film to open a box? I guess if you make the assumption that John Doe is insane, then this master plan might make sense to the audience: He's insane, his plan probably shouldn't make sense. But to think that his plan worked, succeeded, was effective or even consistent at all (as Somerset's character implies by telling Mills not to kill Doe and fulfill Doe's plan), is giving WAY to much credit to the writer, and almost no credit to the audience. I recently saw and reviewed Michael Haneke's "Funny Games" which would fall into the same psychological/horror/thriller genre as "Se7en". And as much as I was affected by "Funny Games" and impressed by Haneke's vision and direction, I said that I couldn't responsibly recommend it. After seeing "Se7en", however, I finally found Haneke's target audience. If "Se7en" is on your recommended must-see list, then "Funny Games" is really the must-see movie for you.
I finally saw this movie after seeing how highly regarded this was on IMDb. I have to say I was extremely disappointed. I thought the plot was interesting, but it quickly became see-through as the movie continued. This is certainly not as good as people believe it to be, and I found it to be dark and disturbing, and without any real "mission" to speak of. Usually, a great movie is the kind of movie you can view over and over again, and it consistently gets better with subsequent viewings. However, this movie can hardly stand with those. As I said before, it was fairly predictable from the start (I knew about 45 minutes early that his wife would be dying at the end) and it doesn't get any better every time you see it. For instance, check out 'Chinatown'; this is a legitimate film-noir thriller that does get better with age; it features outstanding performances and a dense plot, whereas this movie has a fairly methodical plot and some good but not great acting. I just don't see the appeal that this movie holds with people (similarly to Sixth Sense, which I figured out in about 25 minutes.) You may like it, but it just doesn't do it for me.
I'm surprised this film is even listed in the top 250 and that it got this much praise. It really wasn't that good a movie. I liked the concept and I love Morgan Freeman, but this movie just blew it.I didn't like some characters - mainly Mills -, the interaction between characters and especially the script.Mills was annoying and overrated, a worthless character and Pitt playing him only made it worse. During the movie I kept thinking that I might be OK with Mills if he had been played by anyone other/better than Pitt, but I'm guessing they wouldn't have wanted to play such a lame character. I can't take a crime movie seriously when it has an unprofessional moron as a detective. Bringing his wife in the scene made the movie made all the rest painfully obvious. Appears only one scene, what's the point of her role? Oh yes, she's going to die.Freeman and Spacey were great. The script is a puddle of vomit, and they still managed to act it out brilliantly. I think I hated the script more than I hate Mills. Excessive swearing (I don't twist my pants at foul language, but there are so many scenes that could've done without it so the viewer would take the guys more seriously. Also, the words lose their impact when you say it a million freaking times.) and weak interaction. The ending was the worst of all. The conversation in the police car was so horribly dumb that it made me want to shake the writer. It would've been so much better if Mills wasn't such a weak character. If he had just shut his damn mouth. The ending was predictable. You'd have to be really thick to not have seen that one of our main characters would eventually be one of the "victims". Especially after getting to see the wife. The build up was for nothing. I had a tiny hope for something grand and grimy, since Spacey convinced me with his "what I've done is going to be puzzled over, studied and followed" talk but he just disappointed me in the end. The ending scene was one big anticlimax.And again, it made me dislike Mills' character that much more, because I was hoping he wouldn't shoot him. That I might get a reason to respect him as a character. I don't care if a movie ends good or not, but the movie would've ended on a strong note if he hadn't killed Doe. It's been nothing but a bit of gore and knowing what would happen next. A waste of time basically.1/10 because I want to even out the balance a bit. I'd give a 5, but I really don't think this movie deserves the praise it got.
I always take the trouble to write an IMDb review when I think a movie is too horrible to watch - the good ones, I am sure people can find them without me.This movie is rotten to the core. It does not entertain a sensible mind. It does not uplift. It has not humor, no fun, no moral. It is morbid, depressing, meaningless. But it is not meaningless like, say, life. Life's meaninglessness has a depth, it is somber. The meaninglessness of this movie is like a small child killing a white rabbit - wanton, senseless, rabid.What did you learn from this movie? What did you enjoy? What moved you? Nothing unless you admire gore and violence per se. Yes, the acting, especially of KS, was superb. But I do not see any glamor in superbly acting the part of a mad killer. The mad killer can do it himself.Anyways, I am rambling; but after a movie like this, you are at a loss for words. You wonder what kind of people spend a million dollar on a movie like this. You wonder what kind of people go to watch it. You wonder, most of all, how someone can enjoy spending money on this rather than giving some money to, whoever.


                
I can't understand what the critics saw in this film.  It's basically a standard serial killer film full of cliches (old cop on verge of retiring and young eager cop full of new ideas -yawn) but with two main differences - the ending, and the sheer grossness of the murders.I've watched many horror and crime movies and I'm not squeamish but I found the murders so unpleasant that I became detached from the movie and started wondering.  .  The disgusting crimes combined with the general darkness and mumbled dialogue made the whole film depressing and hard to care about.As for the ending, it only served to remove any suspense that had been building up.  I didn't find the last few scenes shocking or surprising - I realised what was coming and just wanted it to be over.Well made - maybe.  Well acted - perhaps (if you could make out all the dialogue).  Innovative - yes, but not in a good way.  Imaginative - yes, but not the kind of imagination you want to dwell on.  Watch only if you actively enjoy being made to feel miserable.


                
I'm sorry I can't give this film a negative rating, but I can say that I wish most sincerely that I'd never seen it. If I could pay to have it expunged from my memory, I would do so eagerly. If it's not too late for you, I strongly recommend that you give it a wide berth.(Spoiler ahead.)Se7en (a pretentiously dyslexic title) is nasty, violent, unpleasant and, worst of all, utterly futile. While being regaled by sadistically repellent scenes of torture, you're stuck following a protagonist who hasn't the brains to figure out an utterly transparent trap, which a moron could see coming a mile down the avenue. This makes the experience of watching Se7en a nightmare, all right, but not the sort the director intended. Jonathan Miller once said that his own worst nightmare was "being tortured for information I don't possess." Se7en is like that. You pay for bad decisions you had no part in making. Except one: the foolish decision to watch this repulsive mess of a movie rather than, say, going to have your teeth drilled.The "twist ending" is a dangerous form, and rarely has it been more abysmally, ham-fistedly mis-handled than in this film. Some people seem to think that dark, dismal, depressing... and don't forget futile... is the same as "deep." This film is as deep as a puddle of vomit. I strongly recommend you benefit from my error, and avoid stepping in it.
Wow. There are a lot of bad films out there, but even with the worst of the worst there is some redeeming quality, like that neato big wave in the Perfect Storm. But Se7en? The acting is flat (Brad Pitt's opening lines seem like they're coming from someone acting for the first time, his moaning at the end, when he gets his special gift, just seemed pathetic); the script is not at all inventive and unsuccessfully covered up by hyperbolic special effects and redundant gore. The "twist" at the end is hardly disturbing because the writer/ director have been shoving gimmicky horror effects down the our throats for the entire movie. People who like this film- the dark, urban atmosphere, the pseudo-noir elements: please watch some David Lynch films and see how this should be created, i.e. not by using video game titles, not by relying heavily on special effects, make-up, and yet ANOTHER plot with biblical references, but instead by a careful selection of actors, beautiful cinematography, and incredibly original stories.Stop funding this director so that he will go back to making TV commercials instead of two hour long theater commercials.


                
I don't really get this movie, it is met with such high acclaim,yet it doesn't really have anything to show for it.From the start i didn't like it,the tone is incessantly bland,the visuals are dull,they never even attempt to give any excitement to the audience,as if the story alone was enough to keep us entertained. The entire movie is a good concept with a disappointing realization, the series of murders influenced by the seven deadly sins and even though one or two cases do tend to shock and entertain us,altogether it's not as thrilling as it should be. As for the characters,Brad Pitt is horrible in this movie,it's like he forgot how to act,he never acts out the appropriate emotion and the last scene where he finds his wife's head in the box looked more like annoyance and disgust than shock,fear and trauma; of course,nihilism might have been the direction they were going to,another question pops in mind: "Should a death of a loved one be a nihilistic reaction?". Kevin Spacey's character would have been amazing if it weren't for his lack of motivation, his role was supposed to be that of an insane mastermind,but wouldn't he then have a better motive than an "I wanna be famous" attitude? In conclusion it's a bad movie,I see why people do tend do enjoy it for it has some noteworthy scenes,but the fact is that it mostly relies on build-up and shock,while the outcome is predictable,the atmosphere is boring and the ending is too rushed.
Seven is the sort of film that takes several formulaic concepts,  dresses them up with something trendy (title screens beginning and end,  making me wonder if the guy from Homicide got paid), uses stock  characterisations, piles on the repulsiveness on the excuse of realism,  and then watches the money come in.  What we have here is the age-old veteran approaching retirement teamed  with a young, aggressive rookie. The parts played somewhat predictably  by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt.  The killer in this movie plans to murder six people (seven dead in  total) according to the seven deadly sins, hence the title.  The ways in which this is accomplished in five of these seems to be  calculated to be incredibly disgusting, repulsive and downright  offensive. The scriptwriters here certainly are no fan of Hitchcock,  but rather King. The result of which was to basically make me feel  slightly ill and disinterested in the film as a whole.  Now if they had bothered to put as much effort into the  characterisation of messrs Freeman and Pitt, this would have been a far  better movie. As it stands, you care very little for either of them as  they just do not seem like real people at all. (I get to put a second  reference to Homicide:LOTS as a reference point as to how it should be  done)  Cinematographally speaking, the majority of the film seems intent on  portraying the city as a "Bladerunner by day", muting most things in  dull, washed out colours together with lots and lots of Rain. Gritty?  Yes. Depressing? Yes. Boring? Eventually.  Two good things about this film. 1) The titles are pretty groovy, like,  man. 2) Kevin Spacey finally gets a shot at making big movies, not  before time.  But that is it.
The film is for children, needing to be spoon feed every ten seconds the next step, victim. Like most crime films the writer/director feeds the view just enough information to avoid giving away the story even when such restrictions are illogical and unrealistic. The film is utterly disconnected from the realities of a major criminal investigation. We're expected to believe that NYPD would assign only two homicide detectives to what is clearly a serial killer. In the real world dozens of detectives would be assigned. The FBI bought in. Crime scenes would have their lights turned on (instead of the melodramatic and never ending use of torches), and instead of following like hansel and gretal the crumbs the killers has left them they would be following real leads.Canvesing, obtaining the CCTV's surrounding each victims house for several blocks. Establishing a when the killer was there and working out where he came and went to. Like another review mentioned we are asked to believe that this killer makes absolutely not a single mistake and that no one has ever seen him. However the films great crime is the belief, even after his home base and money is found, that killer continued to kill and work with nay a concern for being caught. Its utterly ridiculous and anyone who can watch this film without realising its utter crap is utterly deluded. Even most of the I hate it Reviews on IMDb complaints are banal and vexatious. Subjective things like tone, narrative and photography are well personal choice you either like em or you don't but they in themselves don't make the film good or bad. A good intelligent film treats the viewer with respect. Lastly the constant ripping on Silence of the Lambs (there are several comments in the film that refer to SOTL) when this film is far more of a marketing puff piece is an utter joke. I've deleted this film, and refused to even watch the much vaunted "twist". That in itself so utterly illogical and stupid part of the plot that its not even worth discussing.


                
This movie is almost unwatchable because of the pornographic use of violence. There are filmmakers who use violence sparingly when necessary and then there are the ones who wallow in it like porn. This is an example of the gratuitous use of violence. The studios know that Americans and lots of foreign markets like southeast Asia LOVE violence for its own sake and so they dish it up because it sells. It sells better than sex. Religious zealots will let their kids watch violence while insisting that they avoid sex. So these kinds of movies get elevated to Academy stature. It's symptomatic of the American psyche. We would rather let our kids kill someone than have too much sex. Okay, that's overstated but you get the point. Quentin Tarantino is one of the most famous violence porn producers. David Finscher is talented but I can just imagine him and Quentin masturbating to graphic violence. They need it to get off.


                
A film designed to appeal to those who have a fascination with graphic cruelty and sadism. The film telegraphs it's ending from the moment in the middle of the film when Pitt, the detective, shouts after the killer: "My name is Mills. That's spelled, M-I-L-L-S !" It's a wonder he didn't add: "And I live with my much loved wife at 18 Ceder Street, Apartment 3b". (In how many of these films does the killer eventually wind up going after the hero's beloved wife or child as part of the movie's climax? It's so much of a cliche of the genre that it's become a standard closing plot element.) The most depressing part of this film experience is not that the good guys' lose and that the Jeffrey Dahlmer wannabe triumphs, it is that Hollywood will do anything for a buck - and that has to be another catagory of deadly sin not originally contemplated by Dante. I don't care how good the special effects are. If the movie sets out to use them to deliberately sicken the viewer; then it is an unimaginative misuse of the technology. A 1 out of 10, with 9 points lost for depravity and the cynical exploitation of the viewing public.
I only ever take the trouble to review movies that I truly despise, and Se7en is one of them. The film is a trite, cliché and asinine piece - whilst possessing some virtues, is composed primarily of sins. A quick note - other reviews seem to be criticising the "excessive" violence and gore in this film - what do you expect from a film about a serial killer? Firstly - the acting is good, for the most part. Freeman is good as the Dashiell Hammet/Raymond Chandler inspired cynical old cop. Brad Pitt overacts every time he is on screen, making his unbearable character even more unbearable. Kevin Spacey does a suitably creepy (albeit cliché) job of portraying a sadistic, masochistic serial killer.However, my main beefs with the film lies not in the acting, but in the plot. There are plot holes abound (I encourage you to read the review "se7en problems with se7en") but this isn't the only place where the film falls short. The entire story is predictable - as soon as we are introduced to Paltrow's character we know that she's going to be the subject of some nasty work. The final scene has to be one of the biggest anti-climaxes in film history...The religious fundamentalist angle. Not that I'm overtly sensitive to negative portrayals of religion, but it's getting a bit trite, don't you think? John Doe (And yes, that's the name of the antagonist in this film...) killing so-and-so because the Big Man Upstairs told him so. I mean, why can't we have a serial killer inspired by Nietszche or Stephen Hawkings or Isaac Newton? Why does it always have to be religion? The "tributes" to film noir include the colour palette used (yup, you guessed it, if you were to compress the film into a single frame, then that frame would be mostly black and white), the fashion, the typewriter that Freeman's character uses, the taxis, the rain, the smog, the is-it-New-York-or-Chicago-nameless-city, the well-spoken and well-read central protagonist & antagonist, the endless references (atypical to noir and pulp) to literature such as "Dante's Inferno" But this doesn't come across as some new and profound take on it - as say Tarantino (Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs) or the Coenn Brothers (The Big Lebowski, Fargo) managed to do at a similar time, but it just comes across as a constant rehash of lamentable pulp and noir tropes that we've all seen before. It doesn't come across as engaging, entertaining, though provoking or cool - it's boring.Seek out films such as "The Missing Person" or "Brick" for a much more engaging take on neo-noir.
I know there are many reasons to like or dislike any movie, and that most people who rate a movie 1 or 0 simply don't 'get it'. I feel a great sympathy for those who cannot find anything to praise in a film. Se7en is not an especially bad movie; it creates and maintains a particular atmosphere most of the way through; it is deliberately grungy, nasty, and brutal. The extreme lack of lighting serves a purpose - Marlon Brando in Apocalypse Now seems bathed in floodlights by comparison - and the film achieves its ends efficiently enough.I am relatively OK with gore and violence (either on-screen or implied.) Many plots have holes, many movies get very clunky at the end, many actors share features with cardboard, and Se7en is no exception. If this film were in any way critical of the human capacity for the sheer unbridled brutality which it portrays, I might forgive it. If it had any redeeming qualities whatever, I like to think I would be prepared to try to acknowledge them, however grudgingly. Many dark movies manage to evince a knowing smile at some point, or succeed through technical brilliance or gripping acting.But I came out of this film wanting to throw myself under the nearest bus. It was as if everyone involved with the making of this film had spat (I think I spelled that correctly) in my seat. My experience of this film exactly matched that of another reviewer: it raped my soul. What worries me most is that there are quite so many positive reviews for this movie. I think this would have been one of H.P. Lovecraft's favourites, since the guiding hand behind it is most obviously that of Cthulu.


                
I hated this movie, if I wanted to see a movie with that much blood I would go to a war movie. And if I wanted to see something as gross as an, autopsy. The only good thing about this movie was the acting. I saw this movie at home, if I had gone to the movie in a theater I would have walked out in the middle and asked for my money back. That was my mom's opinion, on this horrific movie! For me I found it to be repulsive, I have seen some awful movies before. But this was a lot worse than awful , from beginning to end . It was demented and disturbing and if anyone thought that it was great needs help! We give it an F!


                
To be quite honest, i don't know what to give this movie. seldom has there been a movie i wished i could unwatch, and this is one. but never has there been a movie i wish i hadn't seen because of the degree of truth in it.The acting in this movie is phenomenal; Pitt and Freeman really make you believe in their characters, which is the reason this movie is so terrifying. This movie makes the viewer confront the evils of society through the acts of a proclaimed "mad man." As you watch this movie you are instantly assumed into it, up until the point where you feel the pain of the characters.This movie made me look at a world i didn't wan to see. It essentially sucked the joy out of my day, and i am forced to ponder who in their right mind could write a story with this degree of sickness. Yes it is a good movie, but i don't think it is necessary in a day and age where the pain in our world is already all too clear.


                
The so-called brilliant twist or surprise ending was not much of a twist or even a surprise in my opinion. (Spoiler warning) There is a moment towards the end of the film which refers to G.P.'s character . . . it slows down the scene that is happening at the time, it is horribly timed and out of place, and there is simply no reason for it . . . except for one thing : to hint that something is going to happen to G.P's character. Only, it is so out of place that it is not a hint, it is a misplaced scream, and considering everything that has already taken place and the sins that are left, you have a definite idea of what is going to happen. The movie would have been better by leaving this moment out. The only surprise for me (BIG Spoiler warning) was it seeming to be the head as opposed to the baby/fetus in the box. Personally, I think the idea of it being the baby is better than the head because it emphasizes both their deaths more so and it is sicker. And "sick" seems to be what they were going for for most of the film. Anyhow, overall, it's an okay movie. But the ending to me just doesn't come anywhere at all close to living up to the hype. It wasn't a twist or a surprise, it was just "the end" . . .
I can't believe so many people like this over-rated drivel. Just think about it for a moment. The junky still being alive and moving - saw that coming years in advance. The wife being in the film just to be killed - saw that coming. Let's be honest, her character was so thin, why else would she be in the film. The wife is pregnant. The nutter has loads of jars in his apartment... a foetus would have fitted nicely in a jar, and made so much more sense.And what happened to the ending? It was supposed to be a foetus in a jar in the box, not a head.So, they used cheap gags to make people jump, and had a lame ending.What was ol' Morgan thinking... At least Kiss The Girls didn't have Brad Pitt in it.
After just over an hour in the cinema, I decided I didn't care if ALL the main characters were killed and I was hoping Brad Pitt would be. I only saw the entire film on TV after a friend insisted it was good- all I can say is they lied to me. Too dark to see clearly, a rip-off of Theatre of Blood without the humour. Yet another unconvincing performance from Pitt who may be pretty but hasn't acted for years.
Quotations from Hemingway, "philosophy" about "the dark side of human nature," more yellowed lampshades than I could count, and a totally uninteresting and witless take on the genre. The relentless obviousness and unsubtly of Fincher's homages to film noir were almost insulting.Oh, as was an offensive scene where Gwyneth Paltrow's character winsomely demands to know Morgan Freeman's character's first name so that she can address him by it, although *he,* an older African American man and if I remember correctly her husband's superior, hasn't offered it. (Isn't perky over familiarity one of the seven deadlies?)Rent _Chinatown_ and see what a filmmaker can do who knows we're familiar with the genre and builds a devastatingly moving and complex plot around the very fact that his main character thinks he's in a film noir while we see something different going on.


                
This film, though well made and well acted, was popular because of its subject matter - extreme violence, torture and sadism.I can only say that the genere itself reflects the sick appetite for entertainment based on crime pain and death that has become a hallmark of western society.I can only wonder what less corrupted people think when they watch this and similar films, along with the inordinate amount of gruesome crime TV series.Perhaps, folks, it is time to reflect on this obsession and demand better. As if there is not enough violence in the real world...


                
The only good part of the movie is trying to find out the identity of the killer.  However, the rest of the film is just all about finding an excuse to put more blood and violence onto the screen.  They never explained why the killer is obsessed with the Seven sins.  And the way they found the killer was 100% laughable (going through a city's public library system and find who borrows a book.  first of all, wouldn't you buy the book instead of borrowing it from the stupid library? secondly, do they realize how many people use that library and borrow books of the same title?").  A pretty empty film, if you ask me.
Not on my scale. I choose "1" as a mark for this one. Why? Because it's sick and perverted, neither entertaining nor clever, neither beautiful nor comfortably ugly. Just oppressive. It's got very unpleasant atmosphere and imagery. Who are these movies made for? They are disgusting. When you watch this you feel as if you were bathing in manure. Is it supposed to be the development of cinema and taste of the audience since Chaplin movies? I'd rather keep with the old Chaplin ones.One disgusting occurrence goes into another, then - another, and so on until the list of the deadly sins is over. This flick deserves to be a piece of entertainment for bored hit men, who can later discuss "the head in the box" with their buddies (remember "Max Payne"?).If a movie is artistically weak and leaves an empty feeling - all because of some fiction created by somebody, what's the purpose of it all? I should also mention that many years ago I considered this movie to be wise. And of course I wouldn't bother to write a review, but, damn, it's on the top 250 list, which is depressing.Watch our "Stalker", "Ostrov", or "Solyaris" if you want a clever film dealing with sins. That's all I've got to say.1 out of 10. Thanks for attention.


                
A demented killer is stalked by the police after a series of bizarre murders occurred. The cops rack their brains trying to figure out the killer's weird thinking, but finally take him in rather easily. Shrewd little killer that he is, he has a 'nice' surprise in store for one of the cops. This picture was too complex to be completely entertaining. I feel the writer was trying to show the twisted working of a warped mind, but it just came off confusing and boring. As usual, Brad Pitt performs unconvincingly. He needs to switch acting coaches as he has yet to give anything more than a lackluster, phoney performance. I was particularly offended by his use of the handgun. One can achieve zero accuracy while holding this weapon at arms length overhead and pointing the barrel in the general direction of the target. Thumbs down low.
Brad Pitt is not likable, completely uninteresting. Want him to die as quickly as possible so Morgan Freeman can get more screen time. Saw the ending coming miles away. And then the film just dragged along at 10 mph wanting to involve me in a drama about Pitts characters final decision regarding whet ever to kill in anger or control himself. Oh-ho! Guess what happens!This movie should have been done from the serial killers pov - with him as the hero and Freeman as the real anti-hero. And a different actor than Pitt- Has he ever played something that goes beyond 2D?It is a pseudo-artsy film with no real depth. A postulate. A mental exercise without any real drama. Bad script and bad script directing. Fincher don't know how to tell his story. He only got it right in Fight Club.


                
