I remember sitting down to watch se7en in a jam packed cinema on its release day, I eagerly anticipated the movie and left, some two hours later, in a rage that has not subsided to this day. I have just completed my second viewing, curious as to whether I would hold the same view numerous years later, the disappointment, nae utter astonishment, at how flawed the film is, has not subsided.I struggle to comprehend how viewers can hail the performances as stellar, sure Spacey turns in a classic spaceyesque performance, however Freeman and Pitt are simply playing Freeman and Pitt, we have seen it all before and since. The less said about Paltrow the better, she is wooden, insipid and utterly void of any attributes to which one could ever associate envy.This leads to the single biggest problem with the film, we are supposed to accept that a mastermind serial killer intent on making a biblical statement about sin and punishment, who has spent 12 months planning and carrying out his masterwork has built the entire years efforts around a finale which hinges, not only upon the investigating officer being married, but more importantly the investigating officer having a life that is worthy of envy.I cannot suspend disbelief sufficiently to accept this suggestion. Take either strand and you cannot disprove the other, maybe Pitts life is not the subject of envy but merely a vehicle for the envious act, fair enough ... are we supposed to believe that Spacey had a back up plan if the investigating officer had been a bachelor with no discerning qualities at all.I am afraid that se7en flatters to deceive, compared to Finchers recent works and in particular Zodiac, Se7en reeks of an ill conceived, poorly executed and fundamentally shallow work. I have no doubt that the average cinema goer thought the credits were stylish and "cool" and found the cluttered soundtrack interesting, I am sure that budding film students found the whole thing to be gritty and earthy, alas it fails to add up to anything other than a waste of 2 hours of your time.Do yourself a favour Don't Believe The Hype!
There are so many things wrong with this flick that I'm afraid I may use all my alloted space just enumerating them. What intrigues me the most, though, is the high ratings it gets here, which goes to show once again that all what some people need is a few flashy tricks, some lame thrills, random scares, and there you have them, jumping up & down screaming "masterpiece"!.For starters, the plot is so thin it hardly provides for a 90 min. flick. So, the need for padding was there. I can understand that but they shouldn't have made it so plain and obvious as to get us right into that just 5 min. into the movie. The tension building between both cops at the beginning comes out of thin air, as there's no plot, character, device justifying it, to the point that we are left asking why Somerset is acting so grumpy--all retiring geezers I've met in my life were rather happy campers, mind you. So, 35 min. go away "exploring" this contrived character incompatibility between both, only to see it magically disappear during an equally forced diner. But even more incredible is that the just arrived in town Tracy would look for a friend & confident--of all people--in the retiring partner of her husband, a grumpy bachelor twice her age! Did she ever go to the mall; did she ever say Hello to her female neighbors? True story: I was once in a immersion course, where there were about 20 men & 10 women from all over the world. After 1 week every woman knew everything about the others--family, kids, etc, while after months I hardly knew what most other guys did for a living. Point is, do the writers of this thing know anything about women? Paltrow looks lost and confused in her scenes with Freeman because she had been given the impossible task of living up an absurd situation. Freeman himself realizes that, which affects him too. And there goes the acting for both, out of the window.But the bad writing just doesn't stop there, it's all over the place. Specially concerning Pitt's cop, who not only comes out as an imbecile--sticking his nose into a bucket under the body of the dead fat guy?--but also as a motor mouth who will keep spitting out nonsense. But it gets even worse with Spacey. I loved his loser Lester in AB but here he's completely unconvincing as a psycho. He looks, acts, talks just too normal and his overall behavior doesn't make any sense either. I'm not shrink but one thing I'm certain of is that nuts are obsessive creatures. They got one craze and they won't let go. Now, this guy is fixated upon punishing the impish, so he has dedicated his life to it. But then, after having watching the marital bliss of the Mills, he suddenly shifts gears and starts dreaming of picket fences, of a nice house in the suburbs and of the proverbial little woman. Sorry but things don't happen that way in real life. Obsessions have a big momentum and at the point Doe is now, nothing could distracting from his life mission. The idea of him being envious of cop Mills is simply ludicrous. (BTW, Rorschach is a far better defined character in Watchmen--as a deeply obsessed man, straddling the fine line into madness--and you wouldn't imagine him envious of Dan & Laurie).Other flaws, a pacing unnecessary slow, with scenes that add nothing to the action--like the banter in the Library for ex.--and an editing that shouldn't make anyone proud, with random shots of GP, for ex., that are there for no clear reason--except maybe to give us a clue about the coming "twist", who knows. Some rave about the cinematography, but I don't see much difference here with that of the standard Asian horror flick--Ringu, The Eye, etc. One reviewer said that Se7en leaves you nothing and I agree with that. I can pick randomly any CSI episode (Peterson era) and I'm sure it will be better than this dog. 3/10.
(Some SPOILERS!) Here you get to see the most moronic individual ever to wear a detective's badge (well played by Brad Pitt, but it may come naturally to him) team up with the standard wise, fatherly old cop (Freeman) to trade cop talk lifted from some TV series for about an hour and a half. Interspersed with this insipid dialogue are (1) some gross scenes which are meant to be shocking; and (2) random scenes featuring Gwyneth Paltrow which have absolutely nothing to do with what passes for a plot up to that point, making it pretty clear that either (a) something's gonna happen to her in the end; (b) the script was written by a moron; or (c) both of the above. Nothing of any interest at all happens until Kevin Spacey finally shows up, but even he has trouble making anything out of this silly, predictable wanna-be thriller. While I'm at listing things, here are the top two most annoying things about this movie (apart from Brad Pitt's non-character): (1) almost every outdoor scene features pouring rain (how utterly noir!); (2) almost every indoor scene takes place in an apartment which for some inexplicable reason has no lights, or whose occupants use exclusively 5-watt lightbulbs (so noir, it hurts).
Seven has become a huge public success all over the world. That I can understand. What I find more surprising is that it also got well received by the critics. Most praised it as well made, exciting and original thriller. Some even thought it was a masterpiece. But in my opinion, Seven doesn't provide the genre of police thriller noting new than dim lighting and copious amount of rain.Because Seven has much more in common with other films in this genre than most people realized. A couple of clichés are that there's a team of two cops who investigates the case consists of an old black man who is tired of his job and look forward to his retirement. The other one is his opposite; a young white man who wants up.The murders that Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and Mills (Brad Pitt) are investigating has been done with the seven deadly sins as source of inspiration. The killer also leaves short literature quotes. Mainly Dante, something that makes  Somerset (of course the intellectual of the two cops) take Mills (who only seems to read Guns and Ammo) to the library.Director David Fincher - whose only feature film before this was Alien 3, but loads of music videos behind - reasoned "I don't feel at home in libraries either... What music should I pick? It has to be something cultural. At least we take something that everybody recognizes - Air by Bach.Seven doesn't have any other intentions than being the two hour thriller with some disgusting corpses, an odd police couple and a crazy killer it actually is. Then it should be regarded as such and nothing more.


                
I haven't seen this film in years. But I still remember two scenes very clearly. Why? Because they were such frustratingly bad scenes. The worst part is that the movie actually revolves around these scenes (am I wrong? Maybe I don't remember it well).The following is a SPOILER. Do NOT READ this until after you have seen the movie.1. There is a scene in which a woman (GP?) has a conversation with a man (was it MF?). It is clearly designed to make you feel an attachment to GP. It was very badly done. So badly, that I immediately knew that she was getting snuffed before the end of the movie. She was obviously just like one of those "Red Shirts" that occasionally show up in Star Trek: Destined to bite the dust. As one other reviewer put it, GP was a mere "plot point". It was painful to watch, frankly. Here, "Painful to watch" means "an embarrassment to creative people everywhere." There are just too many movies that contain a wealth of talent in every way except for the writing. Se7en epitomizes this Hollywood problem.2. The final Scene! "Shocking"? Hardly. Don't read this if you haven't seen the movie. As I recall, we were waiting for a package. I KNEW what that box contained. It was obvious! That was really frustrating because I also knew that entire film was working up to this point in the plot... only to fizzle because it was just so unbelievably clumsy. The suspense was drawn out way too long. If it had been sprung on us a little quicker, I might have been taken by surprise. I was so annoyed by the experience that Se7en has stuck in my head as much or more than any other movie I've seen.
What can I say.  The movie was soooo dark,  so depressing that I just wanted to turn it off and throw it in the trash.  Thank goodness I only rented this.  I continuously wanted for something good,  something exciting and It was just words and a picture of a dead man with police wandering around.  The movie was sooo bad that it made my other rental film Urban Legend look like an exciting horror classic---and that was only an OK film. Seven is a horrible experience,   little gore,   little action,  mild absurdities,   basically a very gloomy unentertaining tone.  Even Gweneth Paltrow was stupid and frankly had--no interesting lines and they didn't even show the way she looked at the end--so upsetting.  Just like the Baby with Rosemary's baby,   the director denied a crucial element,  it is just that unlike Rosemary's Baby,  I didn't care an inch about the way Seven looked at that point. Thrillers like Fatal Attraction,  The Hand That Rocks the Cradle,  and The Tie That Binds are movies that at least have an entertaining and lighter deranged glow.  Seven is just dark,  boring,  and so uninvolving.  The actors good but the story stunk.


                
So, here we have another one of those "suspense" movies...Where is the suspense? Where is the thrill? A film of this genre should have an atmosphere, make you excited, cause you to try to guess what the next move is going to be, and most of all - provide a surprising end. None of those exist in this creation of Hollywood movie industry. If the only way to keep the viewer focused and somewhat interested is by presenting more and more gruesome ways of murder - something is very wrong here. Any R-rated movie from the shelves marked "Horrow" in your local video-store can provide such an entertaiment. Yet there are much more expectations from the cast involved in this project. Conclusion: bigger is not always better. This movie is supposed to be "Silence of the lambs" times 7, but it is not even close to the brilliant original.


                
"Se7en" ... do I really need to go over the plot? Seven deadly sins: each murder victim a perpetrator of one of the sins.I guess this is a clever plot device but really ... why not go after pedophiles and rapists? Let's murder someone for being a little lazy but go forth and be free evil pedo. Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt; detectives picking over each crime scene and chasing the serial killer (Kevin Spacey). Gwyneth Paltrow is the meek and dependent wife of Brad Pitt's character unhappy with the move to the city she and her husband have made.I remember this back in 1995; setting new standards for on-screen goriness but to me it crossed a line into being gratuitous. The Gwyneth Paltrow character in my opinion was so obvious she may as well have been wearing a target the whole time. I remember thinking this early on as I saw it in the cinema back in '95.Okay so enough has been said about this one over the years. I'll get to my point.Six of the victims were gruesomely murdered by the serial killer based on a sin he saw them perpetrate. Greedy guy is made to eat to death, slothful guy is rendered immobile, etcetera, etcetera.*SPOILER*So the killer rigs things up so that he is killed for the sin of envy, having harassed and killed the obvious target (Paltrow). So target lady's husband kills the murderer (envy ticked off the list).However at the same time in shooting the serial killer Pitt's character becomes wrath. Just a simple observation but every other sin was punishable by death except this one?And isn't "wrath" more of a seething anger spanning a great amount of time? Here it was an instant knee-jerk reaction. It was instant retribution, not "wrath" as far as I'm concerned.He probably should have shot him in the balls or something to foil the plot. Instead the serial killer is given satisfaction.And Target - sorry - Paltrow was murdered ... what was her sin? See, major plot holes. It doesn't stand up.It is okay, just illogical and dreary and overrated.
Se7en was an interesting concept, i loved the idea. Too bad David Fincher occasionally leaves out a little thing called logic. Too many plot holes, unanswered questions and preposterous character choices all around. This could have been a masterpiece, instead, it's just another movie you've seen before and it wasn't that good the first time.


                
I can point to se7en as an indicator as to what is wrong with American Film today. It is ultimately the work of cynics who, despite possessing a remarkble skill for handling the technological wonders that make up film craft, have absolutely no respect or affection for the audience.Se7en celebrates the destructive power of evil in its purest form.  Although the film contains fantastic cinematography and expert performances from the cast (especially Freeman), I sincerely wonder at the motivations behind Fincher and the rest of the creators of this ugly, pretentious and abusive picture. It absolutely wallows in filth, grime and blood. To director Fincher's credit, he has probably come the closest to capturing Bosch on film. If they (the filmmakers) are out to expose the sinful nature of the human being well guess what, most of us already know that- Fincher has us at hello if that is his focus. Much has been written about the twist at the ending. I'm sorry, this ending shows no respect for the audience and their sensiblities what so ever. It makes the two hours one has spent watching this film utterly wasted. Because the most articulate character in the film is the hidden killer (played by an absolutly incredible actor), I wonder if the film makers see themselves as spiritual blood brothers with the pyschopath. The film is dark, unrelenting and completely devoid of any joy, hope or resurrection. Pessimistic films can be extremely effective note The Seven Samurai, The Sergio Leone films, Dr. Strangelove and others, but those films had senses of  humour and balance to their pessimism. Again, I ask the motivations of the makers of this film: If you want me to feel dirty, raped and corrupted by the "real" world, I already am, I don't need to raped in the "reel" world by cynical opportunists wanting to make a buck off of the audience's already jaded spirits.


                
Before watching this movie I am expecting to be entertained and getting mindblown by the scenes that I am going to watch. But after watching this movie, I literally got out of my room, went to the bathroom and shouted for about 10 seconds. This movie is one of the most overrated movies that I have ever seen in my whole life. Even if I am a big fan of detective movies, this is one movie that I will never watch again for the rest of my life. The dark and suspenseful environment was supposed to be thrilling and entertaining. I was so disappointed on how the movie flowed. It just never reeled me in. I was planning to give this movie a 5, but the atrocious and worst ending in the genre of detective movies showed up. So cheers for that great ending, you just received 2 more stars down. The only upside for this movie is the amazing cast that it has. Avoid this movie at all costs!! If you had happen to watch it, just leave before it gets to the ending!


                
Watching how the two detectives (a beginner and an experienced one) are pursuing a very intelligent serial killer is extremely well played and directed. Alone their interactions during the investigation is worth seeing the movie. The whole film is very much a male-type story except the character of the wife of the young detective. The appearance of the feminine character gives a human flavor to the work of the detectives transforming their male-like competition into elderly-young cooperation. Why I rate only 3 out of 10? Because the authors do not seem to understand the fundamental concept of the film, the 7 cardinal sins. The 7 cardinal sins are not actually sins themselves but are the source of other sins. Example: a married man seeing a pretty woman can feel desire to have her, but this is because men are biologically designed like this. If he acts to have the woman despite being married then he commits sins, but this sin is called adultery. So, in fact, there is one voluntary sinner in the film: the serial killer. The others - as the senior detective explains - just fail to work towards a balanced life, towards being able to love. The conclusion, that "life is ugly but let's work to make it better" is therefore flawed and makes the film a technically excellent work without the spirit that distinguishes craft work from true art.


                
It had a very promising start. Opening credits were interesting and the photography was wonderful. All was going well until we were introduced to the main characters (Freeman and Pitt).Basically these characters are overly simplistic and rather cliched.Freeman the extremely well learned and rational cop and Pitt the gung-ho non-intellectual (anti) are about as believable as munchkins.Unfortunately this movie seems to have been made to gratuitous ly use hollywoods most popular actors (at the time) rather than a good movie.Sorry, watch Silence of the Lambs if you want a good movie of this genre.mho


                
To be honest, I don't understand what's so great about the movie. I've never seen the whole movie. I don't know why. I always give up watching it during the movie 'cause it bores me. I don't find it exciting at all. Just two policemen chasing a guy. I've seen similar movies that are way thrilling than this. And the reason why the guy is killing are stupid. It's just not inspiring enough for me to make me sit down and watch the whole thing. I always end up zapping on another channel or pick up a book to read. Morgan Freeman is a wonderful actor. He's the reason why I'm trying to see the movie every time it goes on TV. But not even him can make me interested to make it through to the end. And Brad Pitt. I can't stand that guy. He's not that good as he think he is.


                
Se7en confirms my first rule of movies: If the movie is bad, chose stupid typography in the title or the opening credits to confuse the audience.This movie is replete with plot holes and the preaching about a break down of moralities is heavy handed and distracting.


                
What is the fuss about this film? Yes it has good acting (at times), atmospheric scenes and well done dead bodies. But I would not understand someone wanting to view this more than once.Basically it is a mystery story of a generic serial killer that eventually owes up to his killings (well that was easy mystery to solve) then kills the wife of a detective who shoots and kills him in anger. Am I missing something? Morgan retires, serial killer dead, Brad lives on depressed without a wife. OK.The serial killer, killed people he thought were disgusting so he thought in his mind he was doing a good thing (yeah that is just like any serial killer, not original) then he ended up dying and the detective lost his wife who was pregnant. BIG WOOP.Yeah its well told story but I just don't see it being so clever that it is a best movie of all time and certainly doesn't warrant any more viewings in my eyes.I don't know I just didn't find myself caring much for Brad Pitts character or his wife. So I didn't really care at the end when you find out she was killed.It felt out of place when they randomly started laughing round the dinner table, I was looking around thinking "Really?" why are they laughing hysterically?Cringeworthy stuff in the cafe when the wife tells morgan she is pregnant, morgan says "I got to go" she says "Morgan................... thankyou" AHHH thankyou, I just rolled my eyes seriously. (forgotten Freemans character name sorry)Overrated actually boring/predictable.Off the top of my head I mean this isn't even my favourite film I have just watched it recently is all, something like "Shutter Island" leaves you thinking and is just overall a better film hands down in my opinion. This film you get to the end, bored thinking OK. Fight Club another GOOD film with twists, clever and real top film. Se7en not in my eyes.
mild spoilers here regarding this movie and "Strangers on a train" and "Psycho"It alway bothers me when things in movies get too complicated and unrealistic. Maybe that's not the point if you are doing a "comment on our society" as someone stated here, but to me it matters when you are trying to do a crime mystery / thriller. I didn't get thrilled, so I did not like that movie. As Chandler wrote it in an essay, if you want to kill somebody, you don't train a snake to sneak into a closed chamber to bite the victim, you don't dress up in a costume (see Edgar Wallace), you don't invite ten people to a remote castle just to kill 'em one by one (Christie). No you simple ambush the victim and kill him in a dark back road or like Hitch did it in "Strangers on a train" on that island or the killing of Arbogast in Psycho (yes I know there was a dress involved).This movie was clearly made before C.S.I. hit the screen. Heck, this movie was made before they invented witnesses or anything else which would be a challenge to the killer, like being seen when he stalks his victims by a neighbor or something... He just enters the apartments of these people like he owns their places and then kills 'em in the most complicated way just to create the effect. And he gets away every time. He's a genius, he's better than Arsène Lupin, better even than Keyser Soze, better than the Joker, you name it. Make your comments on society and do a movie like "American History X". Make a thriller - do it Hitchcock-Chandler-style. But is it just me and old Raymond who prefer it that way??4/10 Macaulay J. Connor


                
***Spoilers included****Great.  Just what the world needs.  Another dark, disturbing, gratuitously violent movie that has delusions of achieving the dizzy heights of a modern classic.  Sure- I recognise that the movie has good points.  The performances are pretty good, the camera techniques and photography employed effectively enhance the subject matter and hey- there is always Gwyneth losing her head - something that should have happened a long time ago (if you think I'm probably not a Gwyneth fan..well- you'd be right).  But my objection lies in the completely depraved scenes that accompany each of the seven (sorry about that - I meant, of course, Se7en) sins.  This is torturous violence at it's most debased.  And if the movie is about how desensitised we all are to the problems of the world we live in, then why did this movie make me leave the cinema feeling violated?Don't get me wrong.  I'm wouldn't consider myself prudish or oversensitive when it comes to violence on the screen- after all, I am a classic Gen X, who grew up watching violence and sex of some form or another manifest before me.   I can usually watch serial killer movies without too many problems (apart from the entirely involuntary hands over the eyes during the critical moments).  But this was different. This was disturbing.  Maybe I just can't stand the suffering and torture of the human condition that was evident in this movie.  Or maybe it was because the good guys definitely don't win out in the end and I've been so Hollywoodised (yeah- I know it's not a word, but it was the best I could come up with) that I can't handle this fact.Seriously, don't bother with this movie.
I don't know what the hype was about, I think its one of those films that just because it has those faces we love in it, then we take for granted as good. I did not feel that sense of mystery I was promised, no new chords were struck. Those last scenes which were supposed to be the climax, was the worst part. I mean did Brad Pitt only have the choice to shoot or not shoot Spacey? Could he not have just about hurt him real bad?....which in my opinion is a far more exciting form of vengeance and makes a hell of a lot more sense than killing, because death is the end to pain. And Spacey's character demanded that of him, so he triumphed. Morgan Freeman had warned him that he he was not fit for the job. Anyway finally I would like to know why we don't see Paltrow's head in the box in the end, its not like that would be any more gory than what we had already witnessed.


                
I am really surprised by all the positive comments by IMDb users, especially the ones saying how great the acting is.I found the acting from the three main characters (Freeman, Pitt and Paltrow) to be each shallow at best; particularly annoying were Paltrow's wispy-ness, Pitt's lame attempt at expressing emotions, and Freeman's overdone weariness. All three actors have had excellent performances in other films, so I blame the written dialog.The Plot is vaguely interesting, and the editing acceptable, but ultimately I found the character's stereotypes and interactions disappointing.


                
i just posted this as a reply on the boards, but thought i might post it here as well:when this came out theatrically, i had the choice between se7en and copycat as current procedural crime thrillers-- i chose se7en, and once i had finally seen copycat on cable, regretted my choice-- don't everybody yell at me at once, please take turns! the thing about se7en which got me into the movie house was its potential for needing the big screen in order to be appreciated-- its art direction quotient-- on that score, i probably made the right choice, but the dramatic effect of the film was depressing and desensitizing, so much so, that by the end i didn't care who lived or died. on the other hand, copycat had interesting well-fleshed out characters and a fundamental understanding of good story craft; it is infinitely re-watchable for these reasons.looking back on se7en, i have fuzzy memories of bad brad pitt acting in an over-long nine inch nails video, nothing more.


                
That's how I record that movie.. it would be considered a B movie if it was made with a low budget and not so famous actors.. the plot is pure non-sense.. it is one of those super serial killer kind of movie.. which I simply hate with all my soul.. really stupid and annoying plot.. it is really a hard task to watch to the end.. and what a stupid end. I'd like to say something good about this movie.. it is the first time I saw Gwineowlh Patrowl (I spelled her name correctly?? hehehe). When you have a good budget you can find those mega beautiful actress out of nothing :)What else to say? Unfortunately the super serial killer kind of movie got a really success in the 90's.. B movies such as The silence of the lambs got a really wagon full of retards wanting to praise it.. I know one day it will end.. but unfortunately it isn't over yet..


                
I remember seeing this film not long after it came out and being very disappointed, It starts off well and builds, the acting is top notch and Pitt/Freeman suit their characters well, it's well directed and appears at first to be well written however despite being great and building building the ending is very very sub par, as I tagged this as a spoiler I can be honest, it's not a happy ending, it's the type of unhappy ending that makes you go away feeling unresolved, incomplete, unfinished, etc. I just ended up feeling I had wasted two hours of my life, maybe I am just a good little Hollywood drone who expects his happy ending, but that's not the case, if the bad guy had been the type you root for I wouldn't have minded or if they hadn't senselessly killed off a character then maybe but the film just doesn't sit right with me, the bad guy gets what he want's, the good guys get their life ruined, it's just a total depressing mess of an ending that makes me want to punch the writer.
That ending was no good, leaving me in a "huh, eeeh?" mode.


                
This is really worst movie i ever watched because you will just get sick from it and you wont be surprised or even happy because you watched it . Trust me i don't even know how these people wrote so much good reviews. Only explanation is that they like bad movies, but hey you don't argue about someones taste but really... This is ... I don't know. Basically you follow the story and you expect something to happen but. Little action, little detective knowledge and that's it . At the end of the movie i was sure that can't be the end and so, when i saw credits i was so sad. Ending is so simple and so bad, so lets be honest, what is movie with bad end ? It should leave you with some impressions, not to go in bad with empty head. When i watched movie "Inception" it was pure masterpiece and the end was so head blowing that i could not stop thinking about it for two more days. Now that's movie. Cheers.


                
