Spoilers herein.What a great boon these DVDs are! -- where we get to view and review with comments from the creators.Sometimes the creative artist is a poor authority for the depth of their own art. So it is with some interest that I check if what I have seen was what the director thought he put there. Often, I find them simply working on intuition. But the better performing artists are different. They must always intend -- if they do not intend a specific feel or effect then it simply is not there. That's why when a DVD commentary involves an actor it is of particular interest.In this DVD, we hear Pitt, who really commits to delivering, who worries, who prepares, who sublimates self in order to create an image of himself in your mind. And we hear Freeman who is arrogant, demanding of you and not of him, offering a here-I-am take-it-or-leave-it style of acting, which he calls `intuitive.' This really explains a lot for me. It's why Freeman is a negative attractor for any film I consider, and Pitt the other way around.Either way, Spacey is the only one that connects with his character, and he's given a relatively simple job. I admit that this story moved well, engaging by shock and unexpected moves when I first saw it. But on repeated viewings, substantial sloppiness gets in the way. What remains is the very fine lighting. I think `Fight Club,' was much the superior film. This one hardly rates any celebration.
This movie was just awesome.A thriller that really leaves you on the edge of your seat the whole time your watching. It starts morgan freeman who always does a superb job, accompanied by brad pitt who always did an outstanding job. And to top it all off it was directed by David Fincher who has made some great movies.This movie is about two detectives (Freeman,Pitt) who are sent to invesitage a weird string of murders. There is a murderer killing people using the seven deadly sins as justification.Overall this movie was really good. Great actors, great story line and a lot of twists and turns to keep you interested. I really liked it.


                
Two cops - one young, one old - chase a serial killer that is leaving a paper trail.This is actually one of the best films that I have seen that I have only wanted to watch one. The reason being that while it has an interesting plot, plenty of action and a great twist it also has a horrible aftertaste. Like spending too long trying to clear a blocked drain. Hollywood has, for far too long, glamorised crime and the chasing criminal so it is surprising to see a film maker going the other way. This is a dark, decrepit and cold world where everything is falling apart and unkept. This seems a deliberate policy move that features in many of David Fincher's films. Interesting - in that is different - but strangely alienating and depressing - and these are emotions I don't want to wish upon myself.The serial killer and the criminal that leaves clues are nothing new, but the way the plot develops is. If you know the twist the movie will be cut in half and thank god I saw it without knowing the pay-off- although I knew there was going to be one. This is a movie after all.Brad Pitt never convinces as a professional of any type. Here he seems to have become a cop overnight and without much training. Morgan Freeman does his usual quiet-but-logical act that has bought him fame so late in life. He is nearing retirement (in the film), but I thought all cops were about to retire in movies - I took that as read!This is very involving stuff and we are drawn to grandstand finish that we will remember forever - but what is Se7en in longterm reflection? A horrible world in which horrible people carry out horrible acts for reasons of self-gratification?Serial killers have existed since the dawn of time, but America is home to half of the world's population of them. Why is this? Maybe it is the last chance to make a mark on a society where being in the media and being in the spotlight are prized? When you have killed someone you are interesting, when you haven't you are not. Simple.


                
Se7en is an undoubtful masterpiece concerning suspense, locations and camera. The actors are also brilliant and the story is one of the most thrilling and intelligent of our time. Really great: none of the killings are shown and are left to the mind of the viewer. So, why should someone like me who has just written so nicely about this movie rate it with just se7en stars? It is because of its ending. Surprisingly indeed, but... I think, a little too surprising. In the ending this movie seems to lack in logic. The characters Pitt and Freeman are playing make some progress in the story and they get to know each other better and better. Freeman's role is the one of a very intelligent cop who often has to calm down the hot-headed character Pitt is playing. But in the last minutes of the movie - I cannot imagine why - he doesn't calm him down and absolutely underestimates the danger. It seems to me that this movie just wanted to have a surprising, shocking ending (it really doesn't need to have!!!) and spoiled it a little bit to me. But anyway, this is a brilliant movie everyone should have watched. Once again, se7en out of ten!


                
"Se7en" was the serial killer movie of the week at the time of its release. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt--apparently representing Reason and Passion, respectively--are cops on the trail of a serial killer. Kevin Spacey plays the killer as a Hannibal Lecter wannabe with a vengeful-angry-God complex: he bumps his victims off in ways that reflect the Seven Deadly Sins.  Not a new idea; Vincent Price made two similarly-constructed movies in the '70s: "The Abominable Dr. Phibes," in which the inspiration is the ten curses of Pharaoh in the book of Exodus; and "Theater of Blood," in which Shakespeare's plays provide the motifs.  ("Se7en" makes a nod in the direction of its predecessors by mentioning the "pound of flesh" associated with one of the murders.)  The difference is that the Price movies were jet-black comedies, while "Se7en" is a straightforward suspense thriller, and a relentlessly grim, gray, dark, rain-soaked one at that.  It's technically well-made and unusually literate, drawing themes from Dante, Milton, Shakespeare, and medieval theology.  And there's a strong echo of Dostoevsky's "Notes from the Underground": when the killer's lair is located, it's found to contain 2000 handwritten notebook journals of 250 pages each.  (Quibbles: if he writes that much, when does he find time to do anything else... such as plan and execute fiendishly clever crimes?  Also, we're told that none of the journals or entries are dated.  As one who has kept a daily journal for ten years, I find that unlikely, especially since the killer is ultimately revealed to be even more, shall we say, detail-oriented than I am.)The movie's ending (which I won't reveal here) is distressingly downbeat--and surprisingly so, as well.  It leaves a nasty aftertaste.  It could be argued that anything less would've been a cop-out, but it still was about as entertaining as a sucker punch.  "The Silence of the Lambs" left us with Lecter on the loose, but at least there was salvation (the girl was rescued), redemption (the lambs were silenced), and retribution (the killer was dispatched without the incidental destruction of anyone else).  By contrast, "Se7en," which offers none of the above, is easy to admire, but hard to enjoy.


                
I thought this movie was a pretty remarkable exercise in style and an incredibly controlled performance by Morgan Freeman.  Most of it is kinda cliched <U+0096> the retiring cop breaks-in a rookie (by-the-book vs. the loose cannon working on a hunch), the clever serial killer, the soulless city, the standard noir ending where the searcher realizes that he is what he's been searching for and so on. The art direction is wonderful, with a real attention to detail. The movie makes for riveting viewing the first time around.  I find myself skipping chapters though when I try to watch it again.To make the last act measure up to the first hour of the movie, I think the writing should have emphasized the idea that the wrath/envy set up was an example of John Doe improvising after the detectives found his apartment. The wrath/envy scene doesn't have nearly the convoluted menace of the Sloth or Gluttony scenes.  It's a noir thriller and Gwen is unaccounted for - the end seemed pretty obvious to me compared to the craziness of "HELP ME" in fingerprints.


                
Throughout history the Bible and its wisdom have been used as an excuse for murder. The director in "Seven" cleverly makes use the seven sins as Kevin Spacey's Divine permission to commit the biggest biblical sin of them all; murder! While Spacey is sacrificing his victims in the name of religion and punishing them in graphical behavior for their weaknesses; Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt appear as the prophets defending and protecting all that is good by trying to catch him. The director David Fincher keeps you on the edge of your seat as you watch each brutal murder appear across the screen and as you watch Freeman and Pitt getting closer to their killer. Freeman always appears the wiser while Pitt gets more and more engulfed with rage as the killer taunts his pursuers while punishing his victims. We the viewers, are filled with anger and wrath (one of the sins themselves), as we want the killer to be caught but we realize at the end that he wants more than that! At the end the shocking revelation takes over our minds and fills us with even greater anger as we want Spacey punished! We also want him dead for his last brutal act! We also want Pitt to kill him! The question to be asked, is the unborn child saved from been born in a world full of religious contradiction or should those who wrong us be punished without question?


                
I really liked the movie's direction and atmosphere. Acting was great. Characters were real with sufficient motives. Cinematography was perfect. Over all was a good work of art in many aspects of filmmaking. The film's score helped to create the tone of the film. Very good camera work and Art direction was very good. I will give This movie A.


                
In 2004, the movie "Saw" vaulted to the top of many "psychological thriller" lists via its gritty depiction of violence and insights into the criminal mind. Nearly ten years earlier, "Se7en" covered similar material and, barring one slip-up, could have stolen Saw's thunder.For a basic plot summary, "Se7en" focuses on a series of brutal crimes revolving around the seven deadly sins of religious lore. Investigators Mills (Brad Pitt) & Somerset (Morgan Freeman) are assigned to the case, each bringing a unique perspective (in keeping with their general film personas) to the strange murders. As they near the end of the case, the detectives discover that the man they are pursuing has ideas about human nature that, while sadistic, might just cut to the core of what makes us all fallible.There are two reasons why this movie works as well as it does...First, the overall storyline is just very well-crafted. Director David Fincher has proved time and time again that he knows how to construct a solid motion picture, and this one is no different. By the end of the movie, you'll be questioning your very beliefs on what you just saw, making this a very cerebral experience.Also, Fincher does not shy away from portraying the re-enactments of the seven deadly sins in their graphic detail. Some people would probably view this as overkill or gross-out film-making, but Fincher realized that it HAD to be this way for such a dark, gritty film to work.In terms of acting, Pitt & Freeman turn in their usual solid performances. The character arcs seemed a bit forced (Pitt as the "eager rookie", Freeman as the "grizzled vet"), but the physical acting itself (as well as the way it all comes together in the end) more than makes up for that.The only reason I can't give this film a full five stars (and also the same reason why I can't say it is as good as Saw)? To me, the real "meat" of the story is when the two detectives finally confront the villain (played to perfection by Kevin Spacey). Whereas in Saw, the "Jigsaw" killer is given as much backstory & screen time as the protagonists, "Se7en" only focuses on Spacey's character for the last portion of the film. Everything leading up the that is a procedural cop story (albeit a graphic & disturbing one).Thus, I consider "Se7en" to be a groundbreaking effort in the psychological thriller department, paving the way for later efforts like "Saw". It isn't perfect, but it did (at least at the time) tread new ground. Unless you are overly squeamish, this movie will keep you engaged from its shocking beginning to its even more shocking finale!
Why is Se7en so good? Well, one of the reasons is because it was directed by none other than David Fincher who is well known for his perfectionism. Other reasons include amazing cast and interesting concept with religious main premise. Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, Brad Pitt and one I won't mention because Fincher decided to kip him as a surprise all delivered amazing performance. How can you not like Freeman's relaxed and gentlemanly attitude (he loves books) as opposed to Pitt's sort of angry and action type character (he loves chase)? Do you think that people who commit deadly sins deserve to live? Of course you do, but this serial killer doesn't. He thinks that the world is better without them. Theologically speaking, deadly sins are called deadly because they have been identified as a root cause to other sins and separateness from God. As a result, one who commits one of those, shall find nothing but darkness in his life and will eventually loose capacity to be happy. If one doesn't want to end like that (spiritual death) one has to firstly turn away from his sin, ask God for forgiveness and then expiate his sin. This serial killer is not merciful. He positions himself as a god who doesn't forgive or give chances to turn away from them. Since spiritual death is a final result from consistently committing deadly sins, this serial killer delivers physical death by murdering his victims in a way that particular sin harms them. He had given himself a right to deliver justice; but justice without love becomes cruel.After this short theological reflection let me now turn my attention to detectives Somerset (Freeman) and Mills (Pitt). As I mentioned earlier, they stand opposed but somehow complement each other. Together they discover frightening and bizarre murders and react in a way specific to them. This is important when you consider the ending. Everybody knows Se7en has one the most shocking ending ever made (other being Requiem For a Dream). Since committing deadly sins influences character as well (not only spirit), carefully watching both detectives actions ads to your understanding of Se7en. This movie is not about chase or little evidences analyzed by technology; it's about seeing people behind the mask, the way we truly are. That's at least what I think.So why did I give Se7en a symbolic seven? I don't have any particular reason. Se7en just lacks that something some other movies have. Apart from being shocking, it didn't stick with me. It's predictable as well, but it seems to me that Fincher decided to make it that way on purpose. We know what is going to happen and that gives us more "space" to focus our attention on characters and the way they'll react and not on story itself. Soundtrack could be somewhat better as well. Se7en also lacks that noir feeling that would've made it better.So to conclude: Se7en is a shocking and cleverly made movie with great cast. Underneath the hub is a lot of material for reflection about human nature. Those of you more philosophically oriented are surely going to enjoy this one or should I say seven.


                
First off let me say that the direction and acting is very good. I don't recall having any major complaints and can't recall many minor complaints. To me this film just didn't have a 10 out of 10 script which is why I give it 8 stars. For me, the story is the most important part of just about every film. This movie's story was very good for the most part. However I had 2 big complaints. 1: for the first murder, they mention receipts for the food he bought. They mention that there was food bought twice the same day. Why didn't the cops investigate the store on the receipt and see if there was any video footage from either/both purchases? 2: I was able to predict the end right before it happened, which really is less than ideal when it was clearly meant to be a shock. I might have ranked the film higher if I hadn't just watched: Witness for the Prosecution. And that film pulls off the surprise ending better and more dramatically than just about any other film. So I had a high bar of expectation prior to seeing the film and I had really high hopes for 7, seeing how it has an 8.6 ranking. I think following my viewing i won't leave as a fan or hater of the film. I managed to see a lot of impressive components in the piece, and it's still well worth a viewing if you can handle the disturbing content. And maybe I was a rare case in predicting the end.


                
In America, one day, a dead man is found in an unusual style. He is surely obesity, and the reason for his death is that he is forced to keep eating food. Near the dead body, there is a message from him, saying "GLUTTONY". Then, two detectives stand to solve the incident, but it doesn't end. Similar murders happens repeatedly, and the victims always tell them some messages by writing. It has seven crimes according to the title, but how will it go to the end? I thought it is very shocking, and has a lot of scenes that makes us surprising. For me, I can watch, because I like that kind of mystery, but some people might be struggle watching it. Anyway, I am surprised by its end!


                
Seven is an extremely good crime thriller. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are really good in this movie. The movie is really dark with many effective scenes in the movie. It is like the director is going out of his way to make the viewer queasy. All in all it is a good movie if a bit dark for my liking but the characters are good and the narrative is also worthy of respect. It is a blend of crime, horror and Thriller movies and shows and in some respects it is a foreshadow to the CSI series that now are all over TV.Great performance from Brad Pitt in this movie. The gritty feel of the movie is also very realistic.


                
Introduction Eleven years after it's release I finally got around to seeing se7en. The movie started of well. The characters are believable, the story is intriguing and thought provoking. But then I wonder. Why is the FBI able to find that one killer amidst all the thousands upon thousands who borrow books in the library, even if the selection of books is rather exotic? Why does the killer not buy the books? He has money enough to spare and the books are easy to buy in any store? And thus he is better to erase his steps. And why does the killer name himself John Doe, which is an obvious fake name, but then is silly enough to also register his real address with the library with the obvious result that the police will find him?The library records are actually a key element in the story. The police is able to track down the killer because the FBI is able to find the address of the killer in the library register. Indeed there isn't even a list: they get the address and go straight to the killers house.There is more of this in the movie, but nothing is more far fetched than the end. The entire ending rest on the assumption that Mills does not once check upon his wife. During the many hours in which the process of justice grinds, not once does Mills call his wife. Maybe to say hello or to tell her he might be late. And thus at the end the delivery man at exact seven o'clock delivers the gruesome box in the middle of nowhere that causes Mills to shoot the killers and thus making it seven kills in all. There is no way the killer could have known the box had to be there at seven o'clock as he had no control over Mills being there. It is to much of a coincidence.My conclusion It's a nice movie and might have been a good film if the story elements had been stronger. The movie is too much based on coincidences and contrived elements and this is a pity.
Nicely plotted and well-written script, suitably ominous score, good performances all around.I think the seven deadly sins were codified in the sixth century by Pope Gregory I. Keven Spacey, as the serial killer (there seems to be no end of them), takes them seriously enough to track down good examples of each and execute them according to their cardinal traits. For instance, he ties an obese man into a chair and force feeds him until he is the size of the puking man in "Monty Python's Meaning of Life," and then kicks him until he explodes. The older I get and the more the flesh sags, the less amusing I find this concept.The murders, by the way, are pretty disgusting, what with the darkness lighted by tiny candles, the flies buzzing around, the mutilated and decomposing corpses, the severed body parts, and all that.Particularly horrifying are the last two of the seven killings. One involves an excess of envy and the other of anger. I don't want to give much more away, but they involve Spacey himself and one of the two detectives (Freeman and Pitt). The incident is a most unexpected twist, and a plausible one. That's what I meant in describing this as well written. As an unintended bonus there is an exchange between the detectives, in 1995. Freeman has just bribed an FBI man for a list of library records. Certain books are flagged and when someone checks them out, the users records are fed into the Bureau's data base. Pitt: "Wait a minute now. How is this legal?" Freeman: "Legal, illegal, these terms don't apply here."Freeman and Pitt are the usual mismatched cops at the beginning, but this is not a mismatched buddy movie by any means. Half-way through and their few differences are resolved in a reasonable manner.Pitt doesn't do a bad job, and Morgan Freeman is outstanding as usual. What a fine actor he is. Ordinarily he's rock solid but then watch him as a murderous pimp in "Street Smart" to get an idea of his range. And the movie simply would not be all that it is without Gwyneth Paltrow. She is a gangly blond with features so delicate that a viewer gets the impression that the slightest kiss on her cheek might leave a memorial bruise. That's important, for reasons I won't go into. The scene in the cafe in which she helplessly asks a helpless Freeman for advice about her secret pregnancy could have been either cloying or unnecessary if it had been written clumsily, but it was not. We can feel the actors meshing like gear wheels during the conversation.If I had a problem it was with the lights. I wish someone had bothered to turn them on. Okay, a murder scene in a shabby apartment could be dark. But why is the PRECINCT STATION as gloomy as a Bohemian bar? I realize this underlighting is fashionable -- damn "The X Files" -- but it's getting tiresome to see people running around during action scenes carrying flashlights. While I'm complaining I might as well mention that the score, though brooding, is loud, obtrusive, and generic. Under the opening credits it passes through the obtrusive barrier into irritating, as are the credits themselves, which are shaky and resemble the deliberate but sloppy scrawl of a kindergardener. Every scene is underlined by edgy music except one in which Freeman pokes around in the library, when the composer uses the rapturous Air on a G String, the most accessible piece Bach ever wrote. The very well done library scene reminded me of college one hundred years ago when students had ideals. During exam week the student radio station would play nothing but suitable classical music. You could walk across the quad and hear Bach coming from two dozen open windows, a 24.0 sound system.That's a minor carp though. The is a genuinely good example of the genre. Another thriller about a serial murderer, but a good example still.
"All this, and he still has Hell to look forward too...." Oh, man. Whoever wrote this movie is one sick puppy! A BRILLIANT plot where the murderer takes out his victims by way of each of the seven deadly sins. This movie makes you want to crack open a bible and hop the God forgives you for taking part in this EXCELLENT spooky movie. Textbook definition of a psychological thriller from start to finish.


                
Se7en is a very excellent movie. The cinematography is outstanding, and combined with the production design it creates an extremely dark and bleak village (I don't believe they identified it). The screenplay is intelligently written, the direction is well done also. Though Brad Pitt, who to this date I have seen him act well only once (12 Monkeys), is not very convincing as detective David Mills, it doesn't really matter. Morgan Freeman is incredible as always, playing his calm, cool and wise character he has mastered in every way. Kevin Spacey is breathtaking in his small but pivotal role. He does his best supporting work ever here, he was only better in The Usual Suspects, and possibly L.A. Confidential.       The film starts out on a crime scene, where we are introduced to detective Mills (Pitt) and Somerset (Freeman). They talk, and we learn that Mills is new in the force, and that Somerset is a veteran that is retiring within the week. They don't get along well, and when they find a mysterious murder (an overweight man was forced to eat spaghetti until he burst, and the word gluttony is found written in grease on the wall) Somerset suggests he be moved to a different case as well as Mills. This is denied, of course. The 2 find a couple other murders with words written bizzarely on the walls or the floor, and they deduce that the murders are linked to a serial killer who kills according to the seven deadly sins.        Though I saw the censored version on ABC and probably didn't get the full effect of the movie, I still think I have a pretty good idea of the movie's quality. It's brilliant.        So then why is this movie only a 3 out of 4? There are missing links to the story, and sometimes there is too much relying on suspension of belief. However, you must see this movie, if not just for the last 20 minutes where we finally meet John Doe, the man behind the killings who to the amazement of Mills and Somerset hands himself in and volunteers to give a full signed confession to all of the crimes. The catch? To take Mills and Somerset, alone, to the scenes of the last 2 "killings".......


                
My approach to Seven was one of low expectations.  Based on the stylistic opening credits, I was expecting to be assaulted with low-angle extreme closeup murky cinematography designed to capitalize on human reflex. American film has been thwarted with bad technique in the suspense/mystery genre.  Instead of style and creativity, many directors have opted for the ole standby of loud unexpected noises/music followed by the alerting appearance of the villain.  Snore...However, such is not the case with David Fincher's Seven.  The style of Seven is fairly straightforward for the first seventy minutes of the film:  What you see is what you get. Unapologetically grotesque images from the crime scenes of a serial murder and a flood of rain in a dingy, dirty-textured metropolitan city.  The plot is nothing we haven't seen before, but it was plenty enough to keep you interested in learning about the murderer.  However, the main characters could not have been more contrived.  Morgan Freeman's character, Detective Summerset, was catatonic to the point of being convincingly dull.  The writer went for the starkest contrast with the character Detective Mills (Brad Pitt) by giving him the playground mentality of hockey player turned homicide detective.  The results were destructive to the film's effect. In the end, Mills and Summerset do their best to ruin the audience's interest in their involvement.  Gwynneth Paltrow would receive mention if her character weren't a mere fixture within a plot.  The characters just didn't help this film at all.  It was one of those all too often cases where the actors look the part but the part is badly written =(  However, much to the credit of the production designer and cinematographer, the mood of this film was still very effective.  There was however one other regrettable inconsistency:  For the first seventy minutes or so of the film, the audience forcably endures the foul, wet and lonely darkness of the city environment only to have the rug pulled out in the closing moments when the setting changes to a sun-bleached desert scape.  Hmmm...7 out of 10?


                
It's an interesting mysterious movie that makes you freeze on the screen. One of the best parts is the final part of the film which you come to conclusion that who the seventh victim is going to be. The murderer of the movie is characterized very well. He shows that he has a special ideal society in his mind and is trying to help to make the world better... The world is a good place and worth fighting for. I agree with the second part. Nice dialogue. And also: "I've been trying to figure something in my head, and maybe you can help me out, yeah? When a person is insane, as you clearly are, do you know that you're insane?" it was some funny interesting dialogue! ... Anyway it was a nice movie to watch.


                
There is no crazier movie in the 90s that can cause to feel uneasy like the way Se7en did. Seven used imagery and your ability to imagine the insanity level of the perpetuator, to thrill you. The whole idea of using a gore scene to take majority of the movie's screen time and then satisfy the weird nature of some viewers was totally eliminated and the movie just focused mostly on character development which many may see as boring but it (the movie) still carried on to be a masterpiece. When you see the way the co-stars interact you will just bow in respect to their mastery of acting. Morgan Freeman played the old father figure and a detective who has seen too much of the streets and is so eager to retire and leave it all behind, while Brad Pitt played the younger cop, who is full of energy and is ready to jump off roof tops and chase down bad guys. The movie also made use of an array of supporting actors that are very good on their own to star in a film, actors like Gwyneth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey, and Kevin Spacey, were also onboard in this thriller.Seven features the newly transferred David Mills (Brad Pitt) and the soon to retire William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) as homicide detectives who become deeply involved in a case about a sadistic serial killer whose accurately planned murders corresponding to the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, wrath, pride, lust, and envy.The movie's name is seven but it is mostly characterized by Se7en and it is a most see in many levels. The thrill that the movie brings and the chemistry of the co-stars is one that you will not just find lying around in any movie. Seven became the first of 3 films that director David Fincher and actor Brad Pitt did together (that is as of now 2013) the others were The Fight Club (1999) and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008).The movie was a massive hit in the 90s and it was a both a critical and a commercial success as the 30 million budget brought in over 327 million in the box office. Andrew Kevin Walker received a BAFTA Award nomination for Best Original Screenplay and the editor Richard Francis-Bruce was nominated for an Academy Award for Film Editing. Seven won the MTV movie award as the best film in its year.If you haven't seen Seven before or you are in the mood of another fun thrilling ride as we chase down Kevin Spacey, then make time to see this movie again.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Brad Pitt shines in Seven, which is about detectives solving a case about a serial killer who kills in accordance to the seven deadly sins.This movie has an eeiry mystery to it that only David Fincher can pull off. It's dark, cold and atmospheric. You are consistently waiting for what comes next, and you know it's going to be good.The final scene is a lesson for mankind, or however you take it. The final scenes are among the greatest in a horror/thriller genre.7 stars


                
This is a really good film filled with suspence and a bit of gore. Kevin spacey only has around 10 moments of screen time but is brilliant


                
A well written film that is very hard to watch due to the emotional and gruesome story elements. A great and dissapointing plot twist.
I'm going to keep this review short because, as it might surprise you, there is absolutely nothing special about this film worth mentioning.It's your usual, run-of-the-mill block-buster with great (even amazing) actors, and maybe some role-defining performances. However, that is a matter of budget, and does not make a good film.With all the hype surrounding this movie and the build-up (which takes about 1 hour 55 minutes out of a total of about 2 hours), watching it is incredibly disappointing. The story makes no sense to any sensible human being, and it has so many holes that it's barely enjoyable.Shocking for the sake of it, 7/10


                
THis movie has perfect script, perfect editing, directing...
In my opinion, there's only 1 problem with this movie: Why John Doe decided to choose Mills and her wife- those who's just come to this city for a few weeks, for the final victim (wrath) or his BIG plan, the plan he 's come with for a whole year???
This is not make sense if this man John Doe like we imagine, he has remarkable mind, intelligent acts, he can't end his plan (long term) by his envy of Mills's life (short term)
